Several movies in a blender . . .	. . . was how Crow described " The Wild World of Batwoman " when he , Mike and Servo were forced to watch it . The lame excuse for a plot involves a woman and her bikini-clad minions fighting a bevy of bad guys . HOW MANY MOVIES HAVE USED THAT PLOT ? ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! That it made such great " Mystery Science Theater 3000 " fodder is the movie's ONLY redeeming aspect ; otherwise , it's beyond worthless . But , what can you say about a movie that Dr . Forrester and TV's Frank force Mike , Servo and Crow to watch ? Anyway , avoid this junk in it's own form . If you want to enjoy it , watch the " MST3K " version . They've got plenty of great comments , as they always do .
Why study them ? So that Mike , Servo and Crow can make fun of them !	How in the name of anything holy can " Why Study Industrial Arts ? " claim to be an educational film ? ! If this is education , then I'd rather be an idiot ! Actually , this movie could have only been created by an idiot . The only reason that it's even worth talking about is because " MST3K " once showed this drudgery . As you might imagine , Mike , Servo and Crow had plenty of funny comments . If I ever make an educational film , it will be a promotion of vegetarianism . Here's the plot : in 1950s suburban America , mom and dad are trying to feed little Jimmy meat . Jimmy breaks out into a song ( to the tune of " U Can't Touch This " ) about why he chooses to be a vegetarian . Yeah , that's my kind of educational film .
This actually got made ?	Sometimes , you get the feeling that there are only so many movies that " MST3K " can show . " Space Mutiny " disproves that . Using the words " swill " , " garbage " , " flotsam " , etc . , to describe this movie is woefully insufficient . " Space Mutiny " quite literally makes " Plan 9 from Outer Space " look like a cross between " Gone with the Wind " and " Citizen Kane " . Nothing more than a " Star Wars " ripoff , the movie shows a buff good guy and his buxom girlfriend fighting rebels in a spaceship . There's a lot of gunfights and blowing things up . Naturally , the good guy takes out several people with each shot , while not one bad guy can even graze the good guy ( in the " MST3K " version , Servo even notes that the bad guys would do a little better if they would just aim ) . Downright awful .
the Skipper and Mr . Howell are probably wishing that they'd never gotten off of the island	" Angels ' Brigade " is about as angelic as a root canal . Seemingly produced for a bunch of men whose hormones outweigh their body mass , the movie follows a bunch of big-breasted women who set out to bring down a drug kingpin's empire . Since there's not really any plot , the movie is mainly noticeable because it stars two " Gilligan's Island " cast members : Alan Hale and Jim Backus ( and wouldn't you know it , they don't even get to share any scenes ) . Although I gave the movie one star , it gets five out of four stars when shown on " MST3K " , and that's only because it gives Mike , Servo and Crow an incentive to come up with some great comments . I'd say that that episode was their most " Gilligan's Island " - related , not just because " Angels ' Brigade " stars the Skipper and Mr . Howell , but also because certain scenes prompt Mike and the ' bots to mention Bob Denver , Natalie Schaefer and Tina Louise ( what , no Russell Johnson or Dawn Wells ? ) .
The only movie that I ever found offensive	So let me get this straight : the only people who can get into heaven are Christians who take every word in the Bible literally ? According to this view , no Jews , Muslims , Hindus , Buddhists , Shintoists , Taoists , Confucians or Sikhs can get into heaven . They're all doomed to stay on Earth when the " Rapture " happens and be forced to live in eternal Hell . Yes , it sounds more like some idea from the Spanish Inquisition , but what I just described is the whole premise of " Left Behind " . This movie is truly the bane of anyone who believes in science . To actually like this movie , you would have to have the Jerry Falwell / Pat Robertson view of the world . Not to mention that the acting resembles the acting in Ed Wood's movies . No , let me rephrase that : in Ed Wood's movies , the acting was so bad that it was funny ; in " Left Behind " , the acting is so bad , that you feel as though someone is drilling a hole in your head . Actually , a head drilling would probably be preferable to watching this movie . So the " virtuous " people who believe in creationism are going to heaven , while the " vicious " people who are either gay or like to watch " Gilligan's Island " ( or both ) are going to hell . If this is Kirk Cameron's view , then he is certainly not one of my idols , and the people who wrote the " Left Behind " books belong in a zoo .
hired to get mocked by Joel , Servo and Crow	" Hired ! " is another so-called educational film where we don't learn anything . As far as I could tell , the plot involved someone looking for a job ; in my opinion , the people behind this drudge of a movie don't deserve jobs . This one is only noticeable because on " Mystery Science Theater 3000 " , Dr . Forrester made Joel , Servo and Crow watch it before he made them watch " Manos the Hands of Fate " ; if you ask me , " Manos the Hands of Fate " was more interesting . If I made an educational film , it would feature a 1950s suburban boy explaining to his parents - to the tune of " U Can't Touch This - why he won't eat meat .
this once appeared on " MST3K " , which is where it belongs	Rather than numb your mind trying to watch this half-formed tripe , rent the " Mystery Science Theater 3000 " episode where they make fun of it . The plot , if there really was one , involved a warrior trying to free his teacher from a bad guy . That could have made something good , but " The Cavedwellers " is beyond god-awful . If this movie had only one redeeming quality , it's that it was hilarious fodder for " MST3K " . Overall , the movie had nothing new or creative , just a bunch of buff good guys fighting ugly bad guys . The fact that someone actually put up the money for this makes us question some peoples ' judgment . Absolutely dreadful .
the boots were golden , the plot line was not	This movie doesn't know whether it wants to show go-go dancers and their big breasts , or whether it wants to be about the sleazy world of organized crime . The " plot " centers on a waitress who hitches a ride with some man to LA to become a go-go dancer and gets mixed up with what appears to be the mafia ( especially since the main bad guy has an oily mustache ) . That's about as complex as the whole thing gets . It's one of those movies which is supposed to be easy to follow , but it's so bad that you can't follow it . However , you will be able to follow it if you watch the " MST3K " version . Personally , I think that these sorts of movies would be much more interesting if they would forget about subplots and focus only on the go-go dancers . For that matter , there were more silver boots than gold boots .
I'm assuming that the original series wasn't like this .	The only reason to watch the god-awful " Wild Wild West " is to see Kevin Kline as a neat foil to Will Smith . Otherwise , the whole movie's a mess . The " plot " has agents Jim West ( Smith ) and Artemus Gordon ( Kline ) trying to stop nefarious Dr . Arliss Loveless ( Kenneth Branagh ) from dismantling the United States . Yes , this does sound like a potentially great idea , especially given the cast ( which also includes Salma Hayek and M . Emmet Walsh ) . Unfortunately , the whole movie makes you feel like you just got your head banged against a brick wall . There are a few good scenes , but only a few ; the rest of the movie is just a rehash of better movies . Relying way too much on special effects , this movie makes one feel great that 1999 remains best known for movies like " The Blair Witch Project " and " American Beauty " .
A moronic masterpiece	In " Ed Wood " , the title character ( Johnny Depp ) says of " Plan 9 from Outer Space " : " This is the one I'll be remembered for . " If only he had known ! This is his most famous movie all right , but only because it's got everything wrong with it possible , to the extent that it's hilarious . The space ships look strangely like paper plates , the set looks like a set ( mainly because the actors often bump into it ) and the acting creates a paradigm of non-acting ( " Was it a hot blast of air or a cold blast ? " " I don't know . It was just a blast of air . " ) . Because of this idiocy , " Plan 9 from Outer Space " is a piece of cinematic history that you can't afford to miss . It is quite literally so bad that it's good . It's not even a B-movie , but essentially a C-movie . To be precise , the " Citizen Kane " of C-movies . So just what were the previous eight plans ?
unnecessary . . . VERY unnecessary	I saw " Caddyshack II " when I was ten and I mostly laughed because of the horse scene . I should have realized that the movie was as empty as . . . I can't come up with a good comparison . It's stupid and not even really funny . The cast members from the original who chose not to star in this made probably the best choices that they ever made in rejecting this ; why , oh why , did Chevy Chase return ? ! And how on earth did Jackie Mason , Robert Stack , Dyan Cannon and Dan Aykroyd get involved in this swill ? ! I bet that every person who had his / her name even remotely attached to this junk ( e . g . , the caterer ) is ashamed beyond redemption . So , all in all , it's beyond dreadful , terrible , and everything such . Avoid it like you would the Ebola virus .
" Pod People " and " Bio-Dome " are like peas in a pod	They say that no good deed goes unpunished . This movie - or should I say " this swill " - shows that to be 100 % true . Spielberg made " E . T . " and someone made " Los nuevos extraterrestres " ( called " Pod People " in the United States ) in response . The movie has a boy befriending an alien who looks sort of like an anteater , and some weird things result . WHY CAN'T ALIENS KIDNAP THE PEOPLE WHO MAKE THESE KINDS OF MOVIES ? ! There are plenty of good stories out there and they have to go and make this ? ! That said , the movie was not a complete waste . Quite the opposite : " MST3K " once showed it . As you might imagine , Joel , Servo and Crow have lots of fun with it .
A rebuttal to " Roger and Me " . . .	. . . was how Crow defined " Design for Dreaming " when he , Servo and Mike had to watch it . It portrays a happy-go-lucky woman living a fantasy in which a jolly man buys her any car that she wants , and a kitchen has all the appliances that a 1950s housewife could ask for . Very much a product of the 1950s . A previous reviewer called this short " I Dream of Jeannie " on LSD . I thought that it looked like the Broadway sequence in " Singin ' in the Rain " on LSD . But either way , the movie is beyond pathetic , just the sort of schlock that Dr . Forrester would cruelly beam aboard the Satellite of Love to torture Mike , Servo and Crow . In conclusion , the movie itself is , but the " MST3K " is .
The story you are about to see is not true ; no names ever got changed to protect the idiotic .	A previous reviewer said that this movie had a good point because Communism was ( and remains ) a real threat . FOR CRYIN ' OUT LOUD MISTER , WHICH ERA ARE YOU LIVING IN ? I should identify that I don't doubt that the USSR had missiles pointed at us , but we also had missiles pointed at them . As for spies , all countries spy on each other . The point is that anyone who takes this movie seriously must have his / her brain warped . " The Commies Are Coming , the Commies Are Coming " is unintentionally one of the most laughable movies ever . It portrays a wholesome American small town getting taken over by the Soviet Union , and one man gets accused of " deviationism " and subsequently gets executed . If nothing else , this movie could be used to show what the McCarthyites did to the Rosenbergs . As for host Jack Webb , aside from having this to his credit , he also had " Dragnet " - which apparently was nothing more than pro-police propaganda . So that's that : Jack Webb was a loser .
Considering that in summer , 1998 , there were two movies about things on a collision course with earth , COULDN'T WE HAVE JUST STUCK WITH THE INTERESTING ONE ?	One of the most ironic scenes in " Armageddon " is when a dog starts tearing at a " Godzilla " doll . True , everyone hated the American version of " Godzilla " ( released a month and a half before " Armageddon " ) , but that scene almost implied that " Armageddon " was going to be totally different from the former . Well , guess what ? IT WASN'T ANY DIFFERENT ! ! ! ! ! ! ! It was just another " Independence Day " : kick-ass Americans risk their own lives to save the world , with the help of excessive CGI . " Deep Impact " , released two months before " Armageddon " and also about a space object on a collision course with earth , actually had a plot - but let's face it : considering that this movie starred Bruce Willis , should we have really expected a plot ? At the end of summer , 1998 , Rolling Stone magazine declared this movie the " dumbest scum-sucking corporate product " ; I couldn't have said it better myself . As for the rest of the cast , they're all doing their best , but there's nothing to work with . Steve Buscemi is actually the coolest person in the movie ( well , duh ) . They could have done without that whole thing between Ben Affleck and Liv Tyler . If the movie has any redeeming qualities , it's that it gave Owen Wilson and Michael Clarke Duncan early roles . Also starring Billy Bob Thornton and Peter Stormare . Yes , it was depressing that this awfulness had to appear on the silver screen , but hope is not lost : director Michael Bay followed it up with " Pearl Harbor " , which proved to be a real embarrassment for him and everyone involved in it . Sometimes , I wish that an asteroid would crash down on the people who make these kinds of movies .
beach blah blink blank	I think that we can all agree that the beach movies from the mid ' 60s were at the bottom of the cinematic barrel ( " Catalina Caper " even got shown on " Mystery Science Theater 3000 " ) . " Beach Blanket Bingo " is an eye roll-inducing piece of swill about a gaggle of sexually inactive teenagers trying to protect a mermaid from a biker gang . How tragic that they wasted a potentially hilarious plot on something so stupid . If nothing else , couldn't they have waited a few years so that they could have thrown in some sex ? ! I mean , THEY HAD A MERMAID AND THEY COULDN'T DO IT WITH HER ? ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! WHY ? ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! And isn't it more chic to portray biker gangs as cool ? Anyway , the fact that Buster Keaton appears in this just goes to show how far he had gotten reduced . I don't doubt that the two people from " Bewitched " ( director William Asher and co-star Paul Lynde ) probably prefer to be associated with that show and not with this . It's no accident that Frankie Avalon and Annette Funicello never became A-list stars ( unless you count his appearance in " Grease " ) . Nowadays , I think that we only know her because she has multiple sclerosis , the same thing that afflicted Richard Pryor . " MST3K " really should have shown this flick ; Mike , Servo and Crow could have made some great comments .
My mind would have gotten x'd from the world had this not appeared on " MST3K " .	After a man classified by Mike , Servo and Crow as " Elmer Fudd " makes a long , boring speech , we get treated to a preachy look at the dangers of the road as a guardian angel defends his recently deceased client before a judge who looks like Boris Karloff on depressants . If you just watch " X Marks the Spot " in its original form , you'll wish that a car could run you over . But the " MST3K " version is perfectly enjoyable . When the people who made this drudgery first made it , they probably never imagined that a certain robot would relate it to Mick Jagger . All in all , how cruel of Dr . Forrester to make Mike , Servo and Crow watch this swill .
they didn't know what they were getting into	Errol Flynn , beloved as Robin Hood , Capt . Blood , etc , ended his career with this hilariously pathetic excuse for a movie . " Cuban Rebel Girls " portrays an American girl ( Beverly Aadland , who's got nothing except her looks ) going to Cuba to help her boyfriend fight for Fidel Castro's army in their revolution against Fulgencio Batista . It warps the mind not that they went to Cuba and made a pro-Castro movie - although I find that neat - but that Flynn dropped down to this . I wouldn't be surprised if knowing that he was part of it is what caused Flynn's death soon after . Worth seeing as an example of film-making gone terribly wrong . I wonder whether or not Castro remembers that he participated with Errol Flynn in making this movie . If he does , he probably tries to hide it .
the book wasn't exactly worth adapting	Poorly acted and poorly directed , " Congo " unsuccessfully tries to recreate the feeling of " Jurassic Park " . But the truth is , the book wasn't all that great either . Still , the movie's first problem is that Tim Curry's character was added ; the second problem is that the talking arm was added ; the main problem , though , is that the cast members don't create realistic characters . I guarantee that this movie will not make you think that there are killer gorillas anywhere on earth . Also starring Laura Linney ( happy birthday , Laura ! ) , Dylan Walsh , Ernie Hudson , Grant Heslov , Joe Don Baker , James Karen and Bruce Campbell ; I'm guessing that they don't wish to emphasize this movie in their resumes .
WAY too slow	A story of a corporation's links to Nazi Germany sounds like it would make one good movie . Unfortunately , " La question humaine " doesn't . If anything , it's boring . I was having trouble keeping my head up while watching it . The English title ( " Heartbeat Detector " ) makes sense , since the viewer's heart might not be beating at the end of the movie . Look , just avoid this one . A really good recent movie dealing with the Third Reich is the Austrian movie " Die Falscher " ( " The Counterfeiters " in English ) , so there's no reason to waste your time on this . The French film industry should be ashamed of itself for this poor excuse for a movie . Seriously , NOTHING happens in it . Total zero .
still , you gotta admit : better than the 1998 American version	The only way that you'll really want to watch " Gojira tai Megaro " ( called " Godzilla vs . Megalon " in English ) is on " Mystery Science Theater 3000 " . I remember whether it was Servo or Crow who described Megalon as " the Christmas tree monster with Chrysler buildings for arms " , but they sure said it ! This movie is your typical ultra-cheesy Japanese monster movie guaranteed to elicit lots of laughs due to its blatant stupidity . In fact , when the scientists get surrounded by flames , one of the Satellite of Love viewers affirms : " Johnny Cash is gonna write a song about this . " However , there is one issue that these sorts of movies bring up . From Japan there have come movies by Akira Kurosawa and his ilk , but also the Godzilla movies . From Italy there have come movies by Federico Fellini and his ilk , but also some of the most violent horror flicks that I've ever seen . From the United States have come movies as different as " Five Easy Pieces " and " Friday the Thirteenth " . I guess that just about any country is likely to release a varied list of films . Anyway , this one is totally ridiculous . Only worth seeing on " MST3K " .
all flaws with practically no redeeming qualities	You know how comedies are supposed to make you laugh ? Well , " Flawless " makes you laugh , but you're not laughing at what happens in the movie ; you're laughing at the fact that the movie didn't come out very good . Certainly the idea of a homophobic cop having to make amends with a drag queen seems like it could make an interesting movie , but they didn't do it here . The whole thing just drags . The movie doesn't even really have any clever lines . Robert DeNiro should have known better than to star in this , and I think that we can all agree that Philip Seymour Hoffman did a much better job playing a gay person in " Capote " . All in all , pathetic .
" Johnny Smith and Poker-Huntas " was the only interesting portrayal that I've seen	It was one thing for Disney to make animated features of self-proclaimed fictional stories ( " Cinderella " , " Aladdin " , etc . ) . But it's going too far to make a fantasy story and try to pass it off as history . That's just what they do with " Pocahontas " . While they prided themselves on treating Indians more respectfully , the Indians come across as noble savages ( meaning how white people prefer to view them , even if it is a positive portrayal ) . The images are very modern : Pocahontas is a princess with giant breasts and a skinny waist ( a Barbie doll , if you will ) , while John Smith is a hunky dude . Around the time that the movie came out , I participated in a review of it on a local radio station . Having recently studied the history of Jamestown , I could see that the movie got little if anything right , and so I challenged almost everything that the other reviewers said . The fact is that Disney - a corporation with kiddie entertainment as its main purpose - is not ready to tell the real story of what happened , and may never be ready to . As I understand it , when the English people first saw Pocahontas , she was naked and bald . The English , meanwhile , lacked any hygiene . All in all , if you want a realistic portrayal of the events surrounding the Jamestown settlement , this is the last version that you'll want to watch . But Terrence Malick's " The New World " isn't much better , lasting way too long and plodding the whole way through . The best version that I've seen is unfortunately one of the more racist ones : the Merrie Melodies 1938 cartoon " Johnny Smith and Poker-Huntas " , starring Elmer Fudd's prototype Egghead as John Smith . As this cartoon was directed by Tex Avery , it was naturally chock-full of sight gags , the sort of stuff that one would expect to find in a Marx Brothers movie or a Leslie Nielsen movie . While it did contain the average stereotypical portrayals of Indians , it was one of the cleverest cartoons that I've seen . Now , I understand that some people might assert that " Pocahontas " doesn't have to be totally realistic . Maybe so , but the problem is that it claims to be based on historical events . I , for one , do not consider a fantasy pretending to be history very appropriate . In summer , 1995 , Mel Gibson starred in - and directed - another less than totally accurate historical movie : " Braveheart " ; well , that one was much more accurate than this one . Just avoid this one , OK ? John Smith eventually had to return to England after getting injured in a gunpowder explosion . Without him , the rest of the colonists decided that they no longer had to do any work . Come winter , the settlement totally collapsed
Earth to M . Night Shyamalan : you should have quit while you were ahead !	Following the masterpiece that was " The Sixth Sense " , M . Night Shyamalan directed the still worthwhile " Unbreakable " . . . and has pretty much gone downhill from there . " Lady in the Water " was tolerable , but " Signs " ? It could have at least used some scientific continuity ! I haven't seen " The Village " , but having watched " The Happening " , I have doubts . Even though this movie offers a possible explanation of some events in the world , nothing makes it worthwhile . I'll give Shyamalan just one more chance to make a good movie ; if his next one sucks , then I am totally shutting Shyamalan out of my memory . Maybe he was a one trick pony . Long story short : avoid this one . Mark Wahlberg , Zooey Deschanel and John Leguizamo are not helping their careers by appearing in such flicks . PS : Betty Buckley played the gym teacher in " Carrie " .
having seen this movie , I feel lost	I've never seen the old " Lost in Space " TV series . But if this movie is any indication , there's little reason to check the series out . The movie is at best silly , and at worst embarrassing . Little more than another story about battles and adventures in outer space , the whole thing wastes several great actors and actresses . And was that robot supposed to be obnoxious ? If so , then they succeeded . I can't believe that I actually spent money to watch this . But what can you say ? Movies based on classic TV shows usually suck ( think " The Flinstones " , " The Avengers " , " I Spy " and apparently " Bewitched " ) . Oh well . We can take comfort in the fact that most people didn't see this movie .
How low can one go ?	Another example of how Chevy Chase suffered after his TV show failed , this one has some losers opening a revenge-for-hire business . I think that there's a reason that Norm MacDonald and Artie Lange have no reputation in movies . If " Dirty Work " was the best that they could do , then they deserve no reputation . The only excuse that great actors like Jack Warden and Don Rickles could have for appearing in this swill would be needing money . All in all , there's no real excuse for this movie even existing . I can't think of anything good to say about it . I'm surprised that it didn't go straight to video . I still can't quite figure out why it is that Chevy Chase , one of Bill Clinton's best friends in entertainment , spent practically all of Clinton's presidency with his career in the toilet .
Franz Liszt must be spinning in his grave ( and we need to talk some about escapism )	My mom often tells me about how , growing up in Galena Park , Texas , the local cinema was the hot place . Among her favorite flicks there were Vincent Price's stuff ( deliberate camp ) ; among her least favorite flicks were Doris Day's stuff ( the wholesome girl next door ) . Watching " My Dream Is Yours " , I can see why she had no respect for these sorts of movies . This one is an infantilizing story of a cute-and-nothing-else woman getting her break into show biz . I only knew about the movie because one of the Looney Tunes DVDs showed a scene from it in which Bugs Bunny , Doris Day and Jack Carson tell a boy to wake up to the tune of Franz Liszt's " Second Hungarian Rhapsody " . The truth is , Liszt must be spinning in his grave knowing how they misused his song here . And the people behind the Looney Tunes cartoons should have known better than to let their greatest creation get used in this swill . But as it is , the Bugs Bunny scene is really the only scene worth watching ; in fact , if you watch only that scene , you just might come away with a good impression of the movie . As for me , I watched the movie only to heckle it like Mike , Servo and Crow do to the crummy movies sent them by Dr . Forrester on " Mystery Science Theater 3000 " ( the truth is , " MST3K " would have a field day with " MDIY " ) . Among my jeers were : ( as Jack Carson picks up a phone ) : " Do you have Prince Albert in a can ? " ( as Jack Carson and Doris Day are about to board the plane ) : " Hey , I bet Mohammed Atta is one of your fellow passengers ! " " My dream is yours . . . " " Yeah ? Well , my nightmare is this movie ! " OK , so I think that I've done as much as I can to describe how stupid this movie was , so I'll now look at it from another angle . I watched this hunk o'junk a few hours after I went to see " Grindhouse " . The only similarity between the two movies is that they're both escapism . But the Robert Rodriguez-Quentin Tarantino double feature was blatantly absurd , and quite proud of being as gross as possible ; it comes out very honorable as a result . This one , on the other hand , believes itself to be as much a masterpiece as " Citizen Kane " . I would just like to say that this movie reaches that one's quality about to the extent that " Ishtar " does . In fact , it makes you feel like you're turning into one of the zombies from " Grindhouse " . In fact , while Doris Day's character was supposed to be cute , I just prefer to believe that she was uglier than any of those zombies . In conclusion , unless you're one of those people who thinks that any hokey movie turns into a masterpiece just because a bunch of people start singing , you'll definitely want to avoid this movie . In fact , one thing that you could do is rent the movie but go straight to the special features and watch the Looney Tunes cartoon " A Ham in a Role " , in which the Goofy Gophers torment a Shakespearean actor . Stick with that one and avoid " My Dream Is Yours " ( except maybe the Bugs Bunny scene ) . In case you've forgotten , Mohammed Atta was one of the hijackers . If you consider it illogical to mention him and " Grindhouse " while reviewing this movie . . . well , I consider this movie as much a piece of crap as any of the hijackers , and I think that I speak for at least most of my generation when I say that we far prefer gross-out exploitation movies to anything starring Doris Day .
most of us will probably agree that " The Shining " significantly improved on the idea	Family moves into house , strange things start happening . Yeah , we've seen that story about a million times now , so " The Amityville Horror " unfortunately has little to offer us . Although they self-righteously declare that the movie is based on a true story , the real story couldn't have been like what the movie portrays . The movie is essentially two hours of people shouting scared comments , and it uses special effects where they could have character development . Most people will probably agree that " The Shining " significantly improved on this idea . I wouldn't be surprised if James Brolin , Margot Kidder and Rod Steiger chose not to emphasize this movie when discussing their careers . No , it's not a terrible movie . The whole thing just seems trashy .
Boris Karloff got reduced to THIS ?	First , I should clear up any confusion that may have arisen from the title : not only is the ghost's bikini invisible , but what's underneath her bikini is also invisible . Now , I must ask : how was Boris Karloff reduced to starring in a " beach party " movie ? " The Ghost in the Invisible Bikini " is basically a cross between beach party movies and the old-style horror movies . Karloff plays Hiram Stokely , a corpse who must accomplish a good deed within 24 hours . Fortunately for him , the title character ( Susan Hart ) has the answer : he can protect a bevy of teens who are descending on his estate for a party . Tommy Kirk plays the main youngster . Overall , the movie is pretty much an excuse for everyone to party as they would on the beach , except that they're doing it in what appears to be an English castle . I couldn't tell whether the movie was supposed to happen in California or England . I guess that this movie is better than most beach movies , just because it stars Boris Karloff . Oh , and the title character is pretty hot . But other than that , it's just another beach party movie .
forgive them for this one ( no , really )	In the black and white days before Bugs Bunny , Daffy Duck , and the rest of the gang , Leon Schlesinger Studios divided its time between its Looney Tunes and Merrie Melodies series . The former would feature the stars - first Bosko , next Buddy , then Porky Pig and everyone who followed him - while the latter would feature miscellaneous characters ( MM started filming in color in 1934 ) . Specifically , the cartoons in the latter series would bear the names of songs owned by Warner Bros . - such as " Lady , Play Your Mandolin ! " , " I Love to Singa " and " Now That Summer Is Gone " - and the characters would sing the song . Well , " How Do I Know It's Sunday " was one of the lamest attempts . We know that it's Sunday because we see people going to church . Inside a general store , the products all come to life and happily sing the title song . An Eskimo falls for a cookie and has to come to the rescue when a swarm of flies invades . Along the way , some of the characters did things that in reality would have probably burnt the store down . It seems that for their first few years , Leon Schlesinger Studios felt as though they had to be like Disney , and so they attempted the same excessively cute stuff . All in all , we can forgive Friz Freleng for this one . After all , he was just getting started . His real vindication came the next year with " I Haven't Got a Hat " , in which he debuted Porky . Within a few years after that , the Warner Bros . animation department had totally eschewed the Disney approach to animation , and went on to create some of the greatest cartoons in history . All in all , this one is at most worth watching as a historical reference .
O Canada . . .	Another horror flick in which a goof-ball teenager battles a madman and his supernatural sidekick who want to take over ? ! Yes , but the fact that this one was from Canada gives it a slightly different feel . " The Brain " has troublesome teenager Jim Majelewski getting put into a treatment whose leader turns out to be a cult leader aided by a big ugly " brain " . Can Jim stop him ? I guess that since our northern neighbor has accomplished all that they have accomplished , they're entitled to make at least one ridiculous horror movie . But still , they'll probably want to be known for having national health care and all . The bad guy had a brain . Why didn't the people who made this movie ?
If the people behind this movie believed that it equalled the original " Swept Away " , they must be stupider than we realize .	In one of Harrison Ford's real low points , he plays a gruff pilot who gets stranded on an uncharted island with stuffy reporter Anne Heche . While Lina Wertmuller's " Swept Away " did a really good job with this sort of situation ( and " Gilligan's Island " made it really funny ) , " Six Days Seven Nights " totally bungles it . It's got to be one of the most predictable movies ever . Overall , the movie brings up two questions : why can't Harrison Ford just stick with what he's good at , and why was Anne Heche getting so many roles in the late ' 90s ? I assume that Ford probably wants to downplay his role in this movie ( although his recent roles haven't been much better : " K-19 " , " Hollywood Homicide " and " Firewall " ) . Ditto Heche . Also starring - and embarrassing themselves - are David Schwimmer , Allison Janney , Cliff Curtis and Danny Trejo . And above all , it showed that director Ivan Reitman was truly declining , to the point that he most recently backed Arnold Schwarzenegger for California governor . All in all , avoid this one .
Bosko looks like a minstrel character	Aside from the fact that " Bosko the Talk-Ink Kid " has little plot - other than cartoonist Rudolf Ising creating the title character - it should make us cringe in the 21st century , as Bosko looks and sounds like a black-face character . This cartoon is worth watching as a reference point ( and I guess that it gets justified by the fact that it indirectly led to the creation of Bugs , Daffy , Porky , etc . ) , but it's not worth much otherwise . There's a reason that Bosko didn't become as prominent as the most famous Looney Tunes ; producer Leon Schlesinger knew the better ideas when he saw them later . Available on Disc 4 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 1 .
Now that George Clooney has won an Oscar , it's amazing that he once starred in this garbage .	You know how George Clooney is one of the most well regarded actors in Hollywood ? You know , that he just recently won an Oscar for " Syriana " and received a Best Director nomination for " Good Night , and Good Luck . " ? And he went on a fact-finding mission to Darfur ? Well , nine years ago , all this would have seemed unfathomable . In 1997 , Clooney starred in two of the most pathetic movies imaginable . Everyone knows how bad " Batman and Robin " was , but probably not as many people know about " The Peacemaker " . This one casts him as a man out to stop a terrorist from using a loose nuke from Russia . Yes , they could make such a plot into something interesting , but they didn't . Nicole Kidman's character is the ultimate cliché : she's beautiful and smart , and totally melts in Clooney's presence . It's almost incredible that director Mimi Leder also directed the very good " Deep Impact " . Look , just avoid this worthless movie . George Clooney and Nicole Kidman have both starred in plenty of good movies , so there's no reason to waste your time on this .
Al Pacino and Robert DeNiro have never starred in a gross movie . . . until now	Anyone who has read any of my reviews of most of Al Pacino's and Robert DeNiro's movies will know that I think very highly of both actors . These men have shown themselves to be very capable in almost every role . This includes the times that they co-starred ( " The Godfather Part II " and " Heat " ) . So by all accounts , " Righteous Kill " should be a good one . Wrong . This has to be one of the most pointlessly violent movies that I've ever seen . As far as I can tell , the movie has no purpose other than to show Pacino and DeNiro being completely nasty characters . It isn't a predictable movie ; not even the kind that turns your stomach . Just two hours of the stars being mean . I can't understand what led either star into this . Also starring 50 Cent , Carla Gugino and Brian Dennehy .
Huggy Bear gone weird	Typical story of an evil kid going after people . I suspect that Antonio Fargas ( Huggy Bear on " Starsky and Hutch " ) and Vincent Schiavelli didn't want to stress this junk on their resumes ( actually , Schiavelli left this life with a mostly good resume ) . Sometimes I wish that the killers in these movies would just go after the idiots who decide that we need a new one of these movies every other month ( note : that comment is not to be taken seriously ; I just think that slashers have lost their touch ) . Anyway , this is one movie that you'll do best to avoid . It's ninety minutes to two hours that I'll never get back .
Too bad that Donald Pleasance had to end like this .	I know that at the end of his life , Donald Pleasance was pretty much only known for the " Halloween " movies , but did he really need to get involved in " Halloween : The Curse of Michael Myers " for his final movie role ? This entry in the series didn't add anything . It's just more of Michael going around butchering people . The reason that the next entry was so neat was because they brought back Jamie Lee Curtis . So skip this one ; entries 1 , 2 and 7 are the only ones that you need to see to get the feeling for the series . And Mr . Pleasance , wherever you are , we'll always remember you , if only as Sam Loomis .
typical of this genre	I pretty much have no respect for movies like " The Mighty Ducks " . OK , so it's basically a harmless movie . But stories of the underdog figuring out a way to win against all odds has long since turned into a cliché ( " Rocky " was the original , and it had a purpose ) . Emilio Estevez has starred in much better movies ( e . g . , " The Outsiders " ) . To this movie's credit , I will say that the more-like-a-circumcision scene was pretty entertaining . This is far from the worst movie ever . But seriously , there are too many movies like this . As it is , Stephen Herek hasn't made much of a name for himself as a director . His only good movies were " Critters " and " Mr . Holland's Opus " . Otherwise , aside from this movie , he's directed stuff like " Don't Tell Mom the Babysitter's Dead " and " Life or Something Like It " . Basically , he competes with Michael Bay and Renny Harlin for the position of Worst Director in the World . So my recommendation is to avoid this movie .
nothing new , but fun nevertheless	" Ghost of Dragstrip Hollow " was one of the many ' 50s movies about hot-rodding teens encountering the supernatural . In this case , the teens can't pay the rent for their hangout and get evicted . With nowhere else to go , they decide on an apparently haunted house . As you may have guessed , once they arrive , some weird things start happening . And there's a twist at the end . There's nothing in this movie that you haven't seen in other movies , but it's nice entertainment nonetheless . My favorite character was the foul-mouthed parrot . Well , let me rephrase that : he didn't talk like a character in a Quentin Tarantino movie , but he said things that we don't expect out of a bird . The movie's pure hokum , but harmless .
Arthur voiced Elmer	As a Portlander , I always get suspicious if a movie gets filmed in Oregon : " The Postman " was probably the worst example , but there have been others . By this logic , " Untraceable " should suck . It turns out that the movie's main problem isn't acting or continuity goofs or anything like that ( although I should affirm that I believe that there are a few too many movies about people looking for killers ) . It appears to be the possibility that the movie glorifies spying . Could it be that someone is trying to give the government some good PR in the wake of the NSA scandal ? The right wing always says that it wants to get " big government " out of people's lives , but always turns around and spies on everyone . Anyway , I don't recommend this movie . Starring Diane Lane and Colin Hanks . PS : what I mean by " Arthur voiced Elmer " is that there's a character named Arthur James Elmer . We Looney Tunes fans know that Elmer Fudd's voice was provided by Arthur Q . Bryan . Yes , I know that it's totally unrelated , but just something that I notice .
We don't need these kinds of movies .	Another movie in which some guys have to improbably save the day , in this case some NYC cops and the subway . Not only could I easily predict everything that was going to happen , they of course pad the whole movie with hokey one-liners . Neither Wesley Snipes nor Woody Harrelson has much excuse for appearing in this litany of stupidity ( except needing money ) . The movie might have actually come out interesting without the whole end scene , but they just had to insert it . So , there are far better movies out there , including action movies . Still , I can't help but wonder what Robert Blake would have thought back in his Little Rascal days had he known that he would one day star in this ( or about that whole thing with his wife a few years back ) . Also starring Jennifer Lopez and Chris Cooper .
Was it supposed to be saying anything ?	" The Love Letter " is one of those movies that could have been really clever , but they wasted it . Focusing on a letter wreaking havoc in a small town , the movie has an all-star cast with nothing to do . Tom Selleck and Alice Drummond had so recently co-starred in the super-hilarious " In & Out " ( also about an upset in a small town ) , in which they were both great , but here they look as though they're getting drug all over the place . I can't tell what the people behind the camera are trying to do here ( if anything ) , but they sure didn't accomplish anything . How tragic , that a potential laugh riot got so sorrowfully wasted .
" Those horror movies really make your hemoglobin congeal , eh ? " " Make your blood freeze , Sister Sixto . "	" Devil Times Five " wouldn't really be worth noticing except for a most unusual aspect : it stars Shelley Morrison , aka Sister Sixto on " The Flying Nun " ( she apparently also starred on " Will & Grace " , but I've never seen that ) ; in fact , one of the characters in this movie is a novice nun ( like Sister Bertrille was ) . Otherwise , the movie is little that we haven't seen before , as some psycho children escape a crashed van in the mountains and make their way to a cabin where they proceed to make mincemeat of the adults . Pretty much all the cast members are so obnoxious - stupid adults and boring children - that I couldn't really tell which side to root for . There's some sex to keep things going , but such scenes can only do so much . So , Shelley Morrison is really the only reason to watch this movie . You keep expecting her to blurt out some mangled phrase as Sister Sixto did , but no , she spends most of the movie staring . Mostly not worth the time .
They should have just made it a Robin Williams movie .	Okay , so HOW MANY TIMES has pregnancy been the basis for a comedy ? ! Well , they mostly didn't add anything in " Nine Months " . The scene with the dinosaur was actually quite funny , but there was little else that we haven't seen before . Robin Williams was actually the best character , as a manic Russian gynecologist ( yeah , like an immigrant's really going to get to be a gynecologist in this country ) . If Hugh Grant's little fiasco right before this movie's release changed anything , it only affirmed that he's little more than a playboy . But considering that the movie stars him and Tom " what other memorable things have I done " Arnold , what can one expect ? Julianne Moore , Joan Cusack and Jeff Goldblum also star , but I think that everyone can agree that they've done much better than this , as has director Chris Columbus . Still , that scene with the dinosaur was pretty funny . Just imagine how cool it would have been if Robin Williams had done it .
How snakelike can you get ?	One of the things that I've always liked about Brian DePalma's movies is how he keeps everything going and then tricks you ; think " Phantom of the Paradise " , " Carrie " , " Dressed to Kill " and " Carlito's Way " ( with " Mission : Impossible " , it was clear that he was starting to go more Hollywood ) . " Snake Eyes " lacks any clever tricks . It seems more like an excuse to show off Nicolas Cage . It wasn't terrible - I will say that the movie had an interesting plot - just not worth seeing in the theaters ; it's worth seeing if there's absolutely nothing else to rent in the video / DVD store . You see , a movie as predictable as this one just doesn't merit the kind of recognition that DePalma's other movies deserve ( I haven't yet seen " The Black Dahlia " , so I can't comment on that one ) . Anyway , you'll most likely want to avoid this one . Also starring Gary Sinise , John Heard , Carla Gugino , Stan Shaw , Kevin Dunn and Luis Guzman .
I must be one of the only people who prefers the 1967 version .	I have always said that the James Bond franchise died after Sean Connery left . " Casino Royale " affirms that . Like every installment after Connery left , this one consists of overwrought gimmicks and a less than obvious story . Twenty minutes into the movie , we had already had enough of the action ( that whole chase scene in Madagascar would have been cool with Jackie Chan , but it's boring with anyone else ) . True , there are a few hot babes to move things along , but they can't equal the quality set up by the first three movies . Daniel Craig did far better in " Munich " . And another thing : why does it seem like so many people hate John Huston's 1967 version of " Casino Royale " ? True , that one was totally silly , but it wasn't pretending to be anything else . And besides , how can you not admire a cast of David Niven , Peter Sellers , Woody Allen and Ursula Andress ( hubba hubba ! ) ? My point is that this version is not worth your while . I recommend avoiding it .
just can't equal " The Outsiders "	I'm sorry , but " Rumble Fish " just made no sense to me . True , it's about a young man ( Matt Dillon ) who has the stigma of being related to a gang member , but after the previous S . E . Hinton adaption " The Outsiders " was a true masterpiece , this one just came out lacking any real logic . It's not a terrible movie ( I don't think that Coppola has ever made one of those ) , but I couldn't really see the point of it . So , check it out if you want to , but I don't really recommend it . Also starring Mickey Rourke , Diane Lane , Dennis Hopper , Diana Scarwid , Vincent Spano , Nicolas Cage , Chris Penn , Laurence Fishburne and Tom Waits . A very strange flick .
An action movie from Australia ?	OK , so now that we know Mel Gibson as the guy from " Braveheart " , the " Lethal Weapon " series , and as the director of a certain movie about Jesus , what more can we say about " Mad Max " ? People know that it casts him as a cop in post-apocalyptic Australia out to get a biker gang who murdered his family . It's not a bad movie , but how many movies can there be about someone going after the people who murdered his family ( granted , that's what I would do ) ? And anyway , aren't Australian movies supposed to be a little more serious than that ? Most of the Australian movies that I've seen certainly were . I guess that this movie is OK as a reference ( a before-they-were-famous situation for Mel Gibson ) , but there's not much to it otherwise . On another note , Mel Gibson seems to have had his face done since then ( and Jodie Foster called him " to the right of Attila the Hun " ) . What a world .
An even colder aspect of the Cold War .	Before James Arness became Sheriff Matt Dillon , he played The Thing , an alien who crashes in the Arctic . Then of course , some people at a research facility thaw it out ( stupid people ! ) and it goes on a rampage . Yadda yadda . . . " The Thing " was mostly just another Cold War movie . I guess that it's worth seeing for what it is . But overall , it's nothing that you haven't seen before . The scene with the dogs may disturb some people , but the movie is otherwise pretty hokey . As for Arness ' assertion that the costume made him look like a carrot , it kinda did .
This time , they may have overdone it .	The " Vacation " movies are mainly good to see Chevy Chase do his stuff , but the earlier ones were at least clever . This one was sort of lame , namely the scene where they use the radioactive rock as a stove . But as for Las Vegas itself , just how many movies can Hollywood set there ? Oh well , at least the Hoover Dam sequence was funny . " Vegas Vacation " is mainly a way to pass time . Hopefully , there won't be another one of these movies ( they've had different kids in every movie ) . As for other things , Beverly D'Angelo of course plays Ellen , Randy Quaid reprises his role as cousin Eddie , and Wallace Shawn , Sid Caesar , Wayne Newton , and Siegfried and Roy also appear . You won't gamble away your dignity by watching this movie , but the earlier ones are better .
so much hokey for so little time ; no one predicted the current state of health care	When we watch movies and cartoons from the ' 40s and ' 50s , we can often tell that they came from that era , as they promote a happy-go-lucky , perpetually optimistic attitude . But they're usually still OK to watch . " So Much for So Little " doesn't fit in this group . It's purpose is to remind us that if we give three cents a week to health care , we'll cut down on the infant mortality rate . It displays this by showing a wholesome , all-American boy growing up through the years . Well , we've seen the unfortunate reality . Almost 47 million Americans go each day without health care . Countless people live near toxic waste dumps to this day ; New Orleans was already like a cesspool before Hurricane Katrina exacerbated the pollution . As for the boy's adult years , now that we can look back on the baby boomers ' young adult life , it would have been more realistic to portray him as a hippie and then a disco pimp . But the main point is that Chuck Jones should have known better than this . Maybe it would have come out better had he cast Bugs , Daffy , Porky or one of those other guys . You can find it in the documentary " Toonheads : The Lost Toons " on the Looney Tunes Golden Collection , and its status as part of Looney Tunes history is about the only thing that makes it worth watching ( in fact , I wish that the documentary's narrator had poked fun at it rather than praising it ) .
not mercurial , just predictable	" Mercury Rising " has a potentially interesting plot : a 9-year-old boy cracks a government code , and they come after him . Unfortunately , the movie is not interesting . It's basically two hours of Bruce Willis being a tough guy . The final showdown between Bruce Willis and Alec Baldwin was totally predictable . I don't know why they keep making these kinds of dumb movies ( oh , right : they do it for money ) . But the point is that there are plenty of good movies out there , so don't waste your time on this . Even Bruce Willis , whom I usually don't like , his appeared in some good roles . But this is the sort of role that he usually does . Just avoid it .
Why did Stanley Kubrick have to end like this ? !	Before " Eyes Wide Shut " came out , there was a lot of hype about it , given that Stanley Kubrick had died before the release , and the possibility that stars Tom Cruise and Nicole Kidman might get EXTREMELY intimate in some scene or another . WHAT A LETDOWN ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! The movie was boring at best . So let's say for a minute that it was talking about sexual fantasies . If so , then they only focused on male sexual fantasies . Kubrick should have known better . It wasn't until a took a film class that I even figured out how to have a serious discussion about the movie : there's a lot of duality . There are two Eastern Europeans ( a Hungarian and a Serb ) , Tom Cruise twice goes to the Serb ( and the first time , he gets angry at his daughter for having sex , but later it looks like he's pimping her ) , Tom Cruise twice goes to the strange house , and some other things . Also , the Bugs Bunny cartoon that they watch in one scene functions in sort of the same way that the Road Runner cartoon in " The Shining " does . In an interview , Martin Scorsese said that this movie almost seems to be about New York in a dreamlike state . Either way , it still feels like it's dragging . A lousy end for the director who gave us " Dr . Strangelove " , " 2001 " , " A Clockwork Orange " and " The Shining " . Presumably , this could be a remnant of " Traumnovelle " , the novel on which the movie was based . The novel was written by an Austrian person in the 1920s . As the Austro-Hungarian Empire had just broken up , there may have been a number of people in Austria from throughout that empire , including Hungarians and Serbs .
along came a spider-rat	" The Angry Red Planet " will be a treat for anyone who admires sci-fi flicks from the ' 50s and early ' 60s . Basically , a group of astronauts travels to Mars looking for life . They find an over-sized being which appears to be a cross between a rat and a spider . And the Munchkin mayor from " The Wizard of Oz " . I guess that there's nothing particularly unique about this movie ; that era yielded many movies about people finding things in outer space . But like I said , if you have a special affinity for old-fashioned B-movies , then this is the movie for you . Watching the DVD with Spanish subtitles makes it even more interesting .
drip drip	" Happiness " will probably be one of those movies that goes down in history as one of the top five movies that splits the public . Focusing on several sexually screwed-up people in New Jersey , the movie tries to be as gross as possible ( and succeeds ) . Unfortunately , director Todd Solondz could have used these stories to show how the characters change over time , but the characters never change . They're all sexually screwed-up and they stay like that . I guess that in real life , some people do stay like that , but it seems to me that a movie should show people going through a change . Jane Adams , Jon Lovitz , Philip Seymour Hoffman , Lara Flynn Boyle , Dylan Baker , Louise Lasser , and Ben Gazzara all do the best that they can in their respective roles , but Solondz has a very weird grasp of everything .
D'you expect me to talk , Goldfinger , or d'you expect this movie to stereotype the Irish ?	In this day and age , it's no doubt a real shock for us to learn that Sean Connery once starred in a Disney movie . . . and even sang ! As " Darby O'Gill and the Little People " is a Disney movie set in Ireland , we have to admit that it basically makes a series of stereotypes about the Emerald Isle - namely all the leprechaun stuff - and can probably only appeal to little children . My favorite parts were actually the scenes of the Banshee ; Darby really could have used the Ghostbusters there . So , if we can understand what the movie's portraying , maybe we can appreciate it . But given the ever-present situation in Northern Ireland , it just seems inappropriate to happily depict that island as a bunch of jolly leprechauns . As for the wee people themselves , my two favorite representations of them were the Porky Pig cartoon " Wearing of the Grin " and the horror movie " Leprechaun " ( starring Jennifer Aniston ) . I know , you probably find it a little weird that I reviewed a Disney movie and mentioned stereotypes , the Ghostbusters , England's continued occupation of Northern Ireland , Porky Pig and Jennifer Aniston . Sorry folks , but the 21st century judges all previous history . Therefore , I judge " DOATLP " based on what I know about , and based on what has happened since the movie's release . Yeah , when this movie came out , who would have guessed that the young man would go on to play a hunky British agent who goes around bedding the world's hottest babes ? And what if someone extended the last name to " O'Gilligan " ? Now that would make some three-hour tour !
Do we remember anything except the chariot race ?	Everyone remembers the blades on the bad guy's chariot , and how he whips the title character ( Charlton Heston ) . But overall , " Ben-Hur " is basically a soap opera ( well , how could a biblical epic not be ? ) . And of course , there's a few things nowadays that change how we view the movie . Given how Charlton Heston's character wants revenge , wouldn't it make more sense for him to just get a gun ? I mean , we're talking about the NRA president here ! Also , there's that one character who it turns out was supposed to be gay ( Heston thought that they were just friends ) . All in all , considering that 1959 produced movies like " Some Like It Hot " , " The 400 Blows " and " Anatomy of a Murder " , was this really the one to give Best Picture ? Not in my opinion . It's a classic mainly because of the chariot race . I remember a comic strip where Hollywood decides to do dumb remakes of classic epics , resulting in " Gone with the Wit " and " Ben-Huh ? " . Also , Roberto Benigni said in an interview that this was the first movie that he ever saw in the theater , but his family didn't have enough money for a ticket , so they watched it from behind the screen . So , the first movie that he ever saw in the theaters was " Ruh-Neb " !
Picking up from # 2 . . .	Those psycho killers just won't stay dead , will they ? ! ! ! ! ! ! ! After it looked like Michael Myers got killed in # 2 ( # 3 - although interesting - wasn't really part of the series ) , he comes back to kill his niece ( Jamie Lee Curtis's character was allegedly killed in a car wreck ) . Needless to say , Dr . Sam Loomis ( Donald Pleasance ) is instantly on his tail . Also needless to say , Michael kills as many people as possible throughout the movie . Anyway , " Halloween 4 : The Return of Michael Myers " is nothing that you wouldn't expect . Except maybe for the end . And personally , I'd like Michael , Freddy , and Jason to all duke it out one day . That would truly be THE battle royale .
so strange to when we realize certain things	Seeing the racially offensive content in Bob Clampett's " Coal Black and de Sebben Dwarfs " , one of the most surprising things to learn is that Clampett made the cartoon with nary an iota of hostility towards African-Americans . Of course , racism doesn't have to involve hatred of a different race ; it can just refer to stereotypes . I agree that it would be inappropriate to show this cartoon as straight-forward entertainment , but we should show it as a look at how Hollywood portrayed African-Americans over the years . I have to admit that it had some pretty clever dialog , and did offer a look into some of the music of that era . Worth seeing as long as you understand what it portrays .
Detached from parts 1 and 3	First , I should identify that I don't hate any of the Indiana Jones movies . Each one has its merits , and if absolutely nothing else , Indy is one cool guy . Now I have to explain the problem with " Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom " : it hardly seems like part of the trilogy . Parts 1 and 3 had Indy ( Harrison Ford ) battling the Nazis trying to find a Biblical relic . This one has him accompanied by nightclub singer Willie Scott ( Kate Capshaw ) and homeless boy Short Round ( Jonathan Ke Quan ) , battling East Indian cultists who have stolen a sacred stone . As far as I could tell , Willie did nothing but complain about everything ( was that supposed to be funny ? ) , and Short Round was . . . well , you know how some kids are . Everyone does their best , but it's hard to take the movie seriously .
the things Vin Diesel's gonna do for his country : act in silly movies	" xXx " is basically another " Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles " . Xander Cage ( Vin Diesel ) is a muscle man hired by the government to be a secret agent . He goes around kicking booty and falls for Russian agent Yelena ( Asia Argento ) . I guess that there's nothing wrong with the movie , per se . It's pretty fun , albeit improbable . It's just that I wouldn't recommend it to you as your first choice . I gotta ask : is Vin Diesel ever going to act in anything other than movies that have him flexing his muscles ? Actually , he did star in " Saving Private Ryan " . And of course , Asia Argento's father Dario is a famous horror movie director .
one pill makes you larger and one pill makes you small . . .	Obviously , our perception of Lewis Carroll's classic novel has been slightly altered by the quintessential ' 60s song " White Rabbit " . Being the Disney movie that it is , " Alice in Wonderland " now looks kinda hokey , but it does sort of maintain Carroll's wry humor . Still , after everything that's happened in the world since this movie came out - in fact , maybe all of world history - a Disney movie doesn't quite seem the same as it once might have . I know that this was during the heyday of Disney's animated features ( think " Cinderella " and " Peter Pan " ) , but I wish to assert that their computer-animated movies from the past few years have actually been more clever ( " Monsters Inc . " , " Finding Nemo " ) . So overall , there's nothing particularly bad about this movie ( the Mad Hatter has some neat lines ) . It's just that things have changed . No matter , I think that we can all agree that , to play off of a movie title , Alice still does live here after all .
By this time , the franchise had overstayed its welcome mat .	If you ask me , they should have just stopped making the " James Bond " movies after Sean Connery left . None of the other people who played Bond were ever able to equal Connery's appeal . Pierce Brosnan has done many good roles ( namely " Mars Attacks ! " ) , and he's clearly a good guy in real life , but in my opinion , he's just not the right person to play Bond ; no one except Sean Connery ever was . Anyway , the plot - or whatever it is - in " GoldenEye " involves Bond trying to stop a renegade Russian general from using nukes to attack England . That's the official story , but it's really an excuse for a series of gimmicks . There's the whole opening sequence , plus the whole end sequence . These sorts of things would work in a Jackie Chan movie , but here they look ridiculous . Are there any redeeming qualities ? Well , the women are pretty hot ( as the Bond girls always are ) . Here , there's Natalya Semyonova ( Izabella Scorupco ) and Xenia Onatopp ( Famke Janssen , aka Jean Grey in " X Men " ) . Judi Dench gets her first spin as M , and she's really the most interesting character in the whole movie . Desmond Llewellyn returns as Q . As for the rest of the cast , they're what we expect : the Russians are suspicion-inducing , the Brits are hoity-toity , and the Americans are dimwits . I guess that the world is always going to believe that . Anyway , my advice is to avoid this abomination and stick with the early Bond flicks . I can't understand why they're now remaking " Casino Royale " ; John Huston's version was very well done . But avoid " GoldenEye " . Also starring Sean Bean , Joe Don Baker , Robbie Coltrane ( aka Hagrid in the " Harry Potter " movies ) , Alan Cumming and Tcheky Karyo .
Where " ghost " thou ?	" Thir13en Ghosts " does have a certain charm , if only for its silliness . Maybe there's nothing particularly special about a visual effects-laden movie in which a family inherits a haunted house , but the movie definitely has its moments , namely when the lawyer " splits " . Tony Shalhoub , Embeth Davidtz , Matthew Lillard , Shannon Elizabeth , Alec Roberts , Rah Digga and F . Murray Abraham are all able to turn in neat performances , even if the whole movie is pretty outlandish . I would recommend the original version more , but this one isn't bad . Perhaps its little more than a way to pass time , but a cool one at that . Acceptable for what it is .
Accept it as silly , and you won't feel offended .	Pretty much the same as the first one , " Return of the Living Dead Part II " is acceptable for what it is . James Karen actually returns for the sequel , in virtually the same sort of mealy-mouthed role . Still , this movie makes one long for the scene in the original where Linnea Quigley . . . well , you know . I gotta wonder what the people in the Caribbean who first told stories of zombies would have thought if they'd known that their stories would one day make for entire movie franchises , especially a movie this silly . I should remind you that " ROTLDP2 " is not meant to be taken seriously . It's totally corny , and it's proud of that . Just accept it as such .
I'll say a word or two about how predictable this movie was	How tragic that " Don't Say a Word " was one of the first , maybe THE first , movies to show New York City right after September 11 , 2001 . While we would have hoped that they would have elevated the Big Apple to its fullest in the aftermath of the terrorist attack , they waste it here . The movie casts Michael Douglas as psychiatrist Nathan Conrad , trying to communicate with a girl so that he can find his kidnapped daughter . I should identify that the movie doesn't suck - hey , it's infinitely better than " Bio-Dome " ; it's just that it should have come out much better given the talent involved . So this flick is little more than a way to pass time .
Obviously , someone's not eating their vegetables . . .	OK , we all know that when a book gets turned into a movie , they're bound - to play off of a movie title - to lose something in translation . I've never read Stephen King's story " Children of the Corn " , but the movie comes out silly at best . Portraying couple Burt ( Peter Horton ) and Vicky ( Linda Hamilton ) stopping in a Nebraska town where the children have murdered the adults , the movie makes you wonder if it's trying to be tongue-in-cheek . If not , it's just plain weak . The only other cast member whom I recognized was Courtney Gains , who later appeared in Joe Dante's underrated movie " The ' Burbs " . All in all , if we just accept this movie as a ridiculous ' 80s movie , it's not all that bad ; otherwise , it makes our eyes roll .
probably the lowest of all their movies	In March , 2002 , after my parents and I had seen the disturbing - but very well done - " In the Bedroom " , we felt like we needed something really light , so we rented " Cheech & Chong's The Corsican Brothers " ; I mean , what could be more easygoing than a movie starring filmdom's favorite goof-ball stoners ? This one turned out to be probably their lowest movie ever . For starters , no drug humor . It features them as siblings in pre-revolutionary France ( despite the fact that they talk like 20th century Americans ) making a mess of the status quo . Much of the little humor that the movie provides derives from the fact that if one of them gets injured , the other feels it . So , this is definitely not the Cheech & Chong movie that I recommend . Their other movies are far better . Also starring Edie McClurg and Rae Dawn Chong , and they probably prefer to omit this from their filmographies .
no matter what , we can still talk about moral nihilism	While it seems fairly common for book-to-film adaptations to change things in the process , I've heard that " The Adventures of Huck Finn " went so far as to change what happened at the end . But I've never read the novel , so maybe I shouldn't comment on that . The truth is , Mark Twain intended for his work to be serious ( not to get adapted by Disney ) . But one point that they certainly kept was something that we talked about in an ethics class that I took two years ago . In one scene , some people ask Huck ( Elijah Wood ) whether Jim ( Courtney B . Vance ) is black or white , and Huck says white . You must understand that Huck was raised to believe that slavery was correct and that he should return escaped slaves . According to that , it was immoral for him to lie about Jim . But since slavery has now been mostly - unfortunately , not totally - discredited , it looks perfectly moral for Huck to lie about Jim . Therefore , Huck is a moral nihilist , subscribing to neither approach . But otherwise , the movie's OK as a simple adventure story . Just not the sort of thing that I necessarily recommend as a history lesson . Also starring Robbie Coltrane ( Hagrid from the Harry Potter movies ) , Jason Robards , Ron Perlman , Anne Heche , Curtis Armstrong ( Booger from " The Revenge of the Nerds " ) and Frances Conroy ( Ruth on " Six Feet Under " ) .
A total ' 80s movie . And how did Martin Brest degenerate into " Gigli " ?	" Beverly Hills Cop " is the sort of movie that I would usually give , but there unfortunately is a major problem with it . The movie presents no challenge to the status quo , portraying the police as the good guys . But other than that , the movie is pretty funny . With Eddie Murphy in as Axel Foley , one gets the feeling that they must have had fun making it . Which of course brings up a few questions : How did director Martin Brest go from this to a piece of dreckola like " Gigli " ? Why is Eddie Murphy currently doing movies like " Daddy Day Care " ? What ever became of Judge Reinhold ? Oh well . The point is that you're sure to enjoy this movie , even if it is a total ' 80s movie . Neat .
humanize everything , if you can	In one of his serious roles sans beard , Robin Williams stars in this somewhat confusing movie about a man portrayed in five different stories , always trying to find meaning in life . . . or something . Maybe the movie was trying to make a point about something , but I couldn't really tell . In a way , it almost seems like they made the movie for fun and just stacked the whole thing with a giant cast . Director Bill Forsyth , who had a very clear goal in making " Local Hero " , seems somewhat confused himself here . I should identify that I didn't hate " Being Human " . It's an interesting look at world history . It's just hard to get a grip on the movie . An OK way to pass time , but I wouldn't recommend making it your first choice . Also starring Theresa Russell , Robert Carlyle , John Turturro , Vincent D'Onofrio , Jonathan Hyde , Hector Elizondo , Ewan McGregor ( in his debut ) and William H . Macy .
the year of living derange-erously	First , I should say that " Deranged " is the sort of movie in which you should take interest ONLY if you're an absolute fan of ' 70s cult horror flicks ; otherwise , it will be downright awful . A fictionalized account of Ed Gein , it portrays humble farmer Ezra Cobb ( Roberts Blossom ) caring for his mother , who dies one day . Depressed about this , he begins killing women and using their skin to try and recreate his mother . And he can be REALLY nasty in trying to find some skin . Most people probably would consider this a terrible movie . That is , gross at best . I will admit that it's not any kind of high quality piece of filmdom . But , if you're into ' 70s camp , then this is the movie for you ! Interestingly , there's not much gore , unless you count a certain scene ( you'll know it when you see it ) . And anyway , now that I've seen this movie , I've decided that I'll hold it in higher regard than I hold Disney's version of " Cinderella " . So , in conclusion , it's home , home on the derange . . .
Oh ack	" Me , Myself & Irene " is the sort of movie at which you die laughing the first time , but after that you're not sure whether you want to laugh . I wouldn't know whether or not it makes fun of mentally unstable people . Basically two hours of Jim Carrey pulling off various and sundry gross stunts as a schizophrenic cop , it's not a bad movie , but not one of his best either ( for gross-out humor with the Farrelly brothers , he reached his peak in " Dumb & Dumber " ) . Renee Zellweger had only recently come into my conscience when I saw this , but she's done better since . All in all , this movie is harmless , but not one that I'd recommend above others .
USSR's " Carnal Knowledge "	I only in the last few months learned of Natalya Andreychenko . I first saw her in " Meri Poppins , do svidaniya " , a Soviet version of " Mary Poppins " ; it was one of the most whacked-out movies that I've ever seen . Now comes " Voenno-polevoy roman " . I would call it the Soviet Union's " Carnal Knowledge " . A convoluted story of lost love in the midst of WWII , and screwed-up relationships after the war , I don't know whether or not they were trying to say anything with the movie . I spent the whole time heckling it a la " Mystery Science Theater 3000 " ( I've done that with a lot of Soviet movies ; seriously , they're so full of themselves that they're practically begging for it ) . Anyway , it's not a bad movie . Just weird . The only movie that I've seen that ends with a guy using gutters as musical instruments .
Homer : " D'oh ! " Marge : " A deer ! " Lisa : " A female deer ! " ( note : this will probably be the only review of this movie ever written that mentions Ben & Jerry's Ice Crea	Wholesome woman leaves Austrian convent and goes to be governess for a captain's children right before the Nazis take over Austria . Go figure ! As it was , I spent most of " The Sound of Music " throwing out the sort of comments that Mike , Servo and Crow hurl at the grade-Z movies that Dr . Forrester sends them on " Mystery Science Theater 3000 " . Seeing Christopher Plummer - who apparently called the movie " The Sound of Mucus " - I thought to myself : " So that's the guy from ' The Return of the Pink Panther ' , ' Dragnet ' , ' Dolores Claiborne ' , ' The Insider ' and ' Syriana ' ? " As for Julie Andrews , she basically reprises her " Mary Poppins " role . And considering that it was Austria , we now probably will think that someone could have just gotten Arnold Schwarzenegger to come in and kick Nazi booty . For the record , one of the " Simpsons " comic books had Sideshow Bob and his brother Cecil spoofing famous musicals ( including this one ) with songs about killing Bart Simpson . And I read that after the Von Trapps fled Europe , they eventually settled in Vermont . I wonder , could Maria have gotten to know Ben & Jerry ? Anyway , " TSOM " isn't terrible ; it just seems so hokey in the 21st century . I personally prefer to remember Robert Wise ( RIP ) for " West Side Story " .
Sorry , but at this point , the franchise was pretty much spent ( that is , they were boldly going where they'd gone before )	I will say that pretty much any Star Trek flick is an entertaining one , but I didn't derive that " Star Trek : Insurrection " offered anything new . It seems that by this point , they'd gone on just about every adventure possible , so what more could they do ? Truth is , I always considered " The Voyage Home " their most cerebral movie and got the feeling that there couldn't be anything better in their franchise . Still , I can't deny that there are some neat scenes ( especially the Gilbert and Sullivan stuff ) . Reprising their roles are Patrick Stewart , Brent Spiner , Jonathan Frakes and LeVar Burton , while the new character here is F . Murray Abraham . Worth seeing maybe once .
contrary to many reviews , this is not the anti - " Saving Private Ryan "	When " Saving Private Ryan " came out , some critics complained that it glamorized war , and so " The Thin Red Line " would be the opposite : you get killed and that's it . As far as I could tell , that wasn't the case . While the movie focused on a contingent of soldiers fighting in the Pacific in WWII , it didn't look at the idea and ramifications of war in general - there was certainly no focus on the insanity of war . In a way , much of the movie seemed to consist of conversations between the cadets . I know that it's probably a good idea to show how individuals experience something as important as a world war , but I didn't find the movie particularly memorable . It was long and slow , if you will ( Terrence Malick's next movie , " The New World " , also was ) . Starring Sean Penn , Adrien Brody , Nick Nolte , John Travolta and George Clooney .
If you sleep and perchance dream , then . . .	In the over-the-top but still watchable " Schlafes Bruder " ( called " Brother of Sleep " in English ) , young Elias in a 19th century Austrian mountain village has a great musical talent , leading the townspeople to consider him weird ( those ingrates , he could have made the village famous ) . When the woman whom he admires marries another man , Elias decides to commit suicide by never sleeping . Whoa . I know that European - and especially German - movies want to be serious ( unlike Hollywood movies ) , do they have to be so exaggerated ? Here , it seems that every scene has to be spirituality overload . Don't get me wrong ; it's still a good movie . We get a feeling of what a hard life it was in those remote villages back then , particularly since everyone in this one is inbred . It's just that they go a little overboard in trying to stress everything . Why must everything be a tragedy ? So check it out if possible , but this probably won't become your favorite movie .
Moonlight Sonata's ego game	Prior to " Revolver " , Guy Ritchie had directed two really great movies ( " Lock , Stock . . . " and " Snatch " ) and one ultra-crummy one ( I never saw his " Swept Away " remake , but everything that I heard about it said that it sucked ) . Now , his latest one is somewhat confusing . Portraying a man ( Jason Statham ) getting out of jail and involving himself in the deadly world of gambling , I remained befuddled as to what the overall point was . True , the quotes are always likely to provide some help in life . Otherwise , it seems as if he shows this stuff only because he can . Not a bad movie , but I couldn't tell that it really went anywhere . I wouldn't mind it if Ritchie made a movie about his childhood and his memories of what happened in the world during it . Also starring Ray Liotta and Vincent Pastore .
Why Hulk's director make boring movie about rich English people ?	Several years before Ang Lee make Hulk movie , he make " Sense and Sensibility " . It show rich British women wondering who they marry . That make Hulk bored ! England have class system , and this movie not show that ! Hulk have to suspend reality to watch it . Charles Dickens always show class system , but Jane Austen never do that . Hulk know that his own movie kind of silly , but in a way , his own movie more intellectual than " Sense and Sensibility " ( Bruce Banner not want to turn into Hulk , but he like feeling of power ) . Hulk want to talk about cast members . Kate Winslet great actress . Hulk see " Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind " and " Finding Neverland " , and like her better in those movies than in " Titanic " . When her next movie come out ? ! Hulk want to see it ! Hulk not like Hugh Grant . Hugh Grant playboy , and his antics distract media from important issues in world . Hulk never see " Four Weddings and a Funeral " , hear mixed things about it . But Hulk see " Nine Months " and think that Robin Williams ' character only good one in movie . Hulk think that Alan Rickman great actor . Hulk like him in Harry Potter movies , and glad that he come out against invasion of Iraq . Maybe if he get bigger role in this movie , movie come out better . Why Alan Rickman not get bigger role ? ! In conclusion , Hulk not think highly of " Sense and Sensibility " . Hulk never read novel , but movie go nowhere . It not awful movie , but it not amount to much . Ang Lee do better with " The Joy Luck Club " , " The Ice Storm " , " Crouching Tiger , Hidden Dragon " and " Hulk " . Hulk hear he have new movie coming out soon and Hulk want to see it .
no criticism of Batista here	Fidel Castro's current hospitalization brings up the memory of his rise to power . Knowing that Andy Garcia is one of the most anti-Castro people of all , it may seem that " The Lost City " would be staunchly anti-revolution . The truth is that the movie does look at conditions in Cuba leading up to the revolution , but it never directly criticizes Fulgencio Batista . " The Lost City " seems more intent on showing how the revolutionary government confiscated people's watches and stuff when they fled the country . Andy Garcia , also the director , plays the scion of a landowning Cuban family caught up in the revolution . Some family members oppose the revolution , others support it , but everyone wonders how the family will stay together . In a way , it seems like the best part of the movie is actually the music . It's mambo to the best extent . You may just feel like dancing to it while watching the movie . But still , they could have done more to show Batista's brutality . Otherwise , the movie is worth seeing . Also starring are Dustin Hoffman as Meyer Lansky , Bill Murray as a comedian , Elizabeth Pena as a revolutionary soldier , and Ines Sastre and Millie Perkins ( who played Anne Frank in " The Diary of Anne Frank " ) as family members .
early instance of inanimate objects coming to life	There were a few instances during the 1930-35 Warner Bros . cartoons when inanimate objects came to life , but the Termite Terrace perfected the genre in the late ' 30s . " We're in the Money " has a gaggle of toys dancing to the title song in a department store . Frank Tashlin's cartoons " Speaking of the Weather " ( about magazines ) , " Have You Got Any Castles ? " ( about books ) and " You're an Education " ( about travel brochures ) were the first really clever cartoons in which azoic things animate themselves . Later there was Bob Clampett's " Goofy Groceries " ( about various objects in a supermarket ) , and finally , the crowning achievement , Clampett's " Book Revue " ( books again ) . I saw the latter several times when I was a little boy and naively laughed at it , but didn't really understand it until I saw it when I was twenty-two . Anyway , this one is good as a historical reference .
I didn't understand the plot until I heard " Weird " Al Yankovic's song .	OK , so " Star Wars : Episode I - The Phantom Menace " was a big letdown for us all . Apparently , most people even understood the plot when it came out . It wasn't until I listened to " Weird " Al Yankovic's song " The Saga Begins " - the " American Pie " spoof - on his album " Running with Scissors " that I understood the plot . But overall , it seems that if this happens before the original trilogy , then the technology should be less sophisticated , not more . Oh well . C'est la vie . It was interesting seeing people like Liam Neeson , Samuel L . Jackson , and Christopher Lee co-starring in a movie after all these years . This may sound weird to everyone , but my favorite character was Jar Jar Binks ; why did everyone think that he sounded Jamaican ? I thought that he sounded Cajun . So that's my take on everything here .
about as offensive as one can expect	" Bugs Bunny Nips the Nips " is one of the many cartoons that you would have to watch not as straight-forward entertainment , but rather so as to see the sorts of stereotypes that pervaded during WWII . In this case , the world's most famous rabbit washes up on a Pacific island and has to battle a whole slew of stereotyped Japanese people ( and at one point even goes so far as to use the derogatory term for a Japanese person ) . He goes to some rather ugly extremes . Yes , it's totally racist , but definitely worth seeing as a reference . I wonder whether or not the Axis governments commissioned propaganda movies portraying Americans as ignoramuses ; I know that the Japanese government showed its troops Abbott & Costello movies and claimed that all Americans were like that .
Mamie Eisenhower joins the ACLU	I wish to say that " Teen-Age Strangler " was slightly better than most of the movies shown on " Mystery Science Theater 3000 " , just because of that song " Yipe Stripes " ; you gotta admit , it was a cool song . But other than that , every scene with the sniveling younger brother drags the movie down ; I mean , what was that guy's problem ? ! So , as a mildly different take on the leather jacket genre , it deserves to get seen on " MST3K " to get the optimal experience . Aside from Mamie Eisenhower , other famous people cited by Mike ( or was it Joel ? ) and the ' bots are Vivian Vance and Danny Thomas . And I will say that some of those girls are quite hot !
this skull obviously didn't have a brain inside it	" The Screaming Skull " is your typical 1950s horror flick : some newlyweds move into the husband's house , where his deceased wife's skull may or may be not be ready to terrorize the new wife . I assume that when it first came out , the teenage boys really liked the scene where . . . well , you'll recognize it when you see it . If anything , this movie's most interesting aspect is that cinematographer Floyd Crosby is David Crosby's father . Back in 1958 when the movie got released , who ever would have guessed that the cinematographer's son would perform at Woodstock eleven years later ? The trailer reminds you that if you die of fright while watching the movie , they'll pay for your funeral . As you can see , I didn't die while watching it . Director Alex Nicol plays the gardener ; or , as I wish to call him ( playing off of a recent Oscar winner ) , the non-constant gardener .
another racist one	Yes , it's another long-lost Looney Tunes cartoon chock full of racial stereotypes . This one portrays an African-American boy sent to drown a cat , but the feline gets away , encourages the boy to toss the bag into the harbor , and then pretends to be its own ghost . Most people will probably agree that we should only watch these cartoons to see what kinds of images pervaded popular media during certain eras . " Angel Puss " would be a prime example . Most of the humor comes when the boy keeps getting scared by the cat pretending to be an apparition . But mostly , I find it hard to laugh at black-face images .
not quite good enough or smart enough , but kind of likable	" Stuart Saves His Family " came out before I had heard of Al Franken , so I took no notice . After I read Franken's book " Rush Limbaugh is a Big , Fat Idiot and Other Observations " , I decided to check it out . It turns out that there's not really very much here . Franken plays Stuart Smalley , a character from " Saturday Night Live " , and the movie portrays him having a crazy family . Why do movies and TV shows always seem to portray families as nearly mental ? I actually giggled when he resorts to name-calling ( " You are a big . . . ! ) , but it seemed like the movie didn't have much of a point beyond that . Then again , few " SNL " skits make good movies . Of course , I might just be too tough on Al Franken ; having read his political satires , I expect the highest quality from him . So I don't recommend it . I do think that Al Franken would make a really good senator ( in case you haven't heard , he's running for senate in Minnesota ) , but for entertainment , he should stick to mocking the Bush administration and right-wing commentators .
my big fat spaced-out wedding	When Marge Bradley ( Gloria Talbott ) marries Bill Farrell ( Tom Tryon ) , she gets a surprise when she finds out that he's been possessed by an alien , and that aliens are possessing the other men in town . There's not much here that you haven't seen in other such movies . I guess it's just eye-opening that the star is the guy who wrote " The Other " . Still , the idea of aliens wanting to impregnate earth women is an interesting idea ( Mike Nichols visited this idea with " What Planet Are You From ? " ) . Anyway , there's the ubiquitous ' 50s stuff : men wearing gray flannel suits and women wearing pointy bras , plus spiffy cars . I wonder if there's ever going to be a movie where the aliens win .
Aye chihuahua ( or is that " lobo " ? ) !	For the most part , " El hombre y el monstruo " ( called " The Man and the Monster " in English ) is your average run-of-the-mill horror flick . This one portrays a pianist who sells his soul to the devil to become the greatest pianist in the world . However , when he plays , he turns into what appears to be a werewolf ! And he gets really nasty if someone plays better than him . I guess that Mexico caught the horror movie bug spread by the US , complete with a rather crummy monster mask . This movie probably won't really add anything to the cinematic landscape , but it's an OK , fun way to pass time . And that woman looked really hot in that dress ! Hubba hubba . . .
ordinary	I could say that " It ! The Terror from Beyond Space " is your typical 1950s B-movie , but it's not . It was the inspiration for " Alien " almost twenty years later ( naturally , the latter was more polished ) . But otherwise , the former has everything that one would expect in such a movie : political incorrectness and continuity errors . Don't get me wrong ; it's by no means a bad movie ( although " MST3K " could show it ) . I guess that one thing that I found interesting is that one of the cast members is Dabbs Greer , who played Tom Hanks ' older self in " The Green Mile " . When you think about it , if you combine all the titles of 1950s and early 60s B-movies , it would probably come out as something like " The Dead Blood from Outer Space that Married a Teenager " . Well . . .
So I'm the first person reviewing this . . .	There's nothing particularly special here . " Yogi's Great Escape " has Yogi , Bobo , and three baby bears fleeing Yellowstone in a crazy car after the Ranger announces that the park has to close . Over the course of the movie , they have a series of wacky adventures , namely because the Ranger hires a bounty hunter to help him catch them . In the process , they meet several other characters from Hanna-Barbera cartoons ( such as Wally Alligator and Quick-Draw McGraw ) . Like I said , there's nothing really special here . Although I will admit that that whole sequence on the Mississippi River was kinda neat , as was the scene in the boys ' hideout - and what resulted .
Why is it . . .	. . . that some of the cleverest cartoons were also some of the most racially offensive ? Among the examples are Bob Clampett's " Coal Black and de Sebben Dwarfs " and " Tin Pan Alley Cats " . This one portrays a Fats Walker-resembling feline who gets blasted outta this world into a setting lifted out of Clampett's earlier " Porky in Wackyland " . Yes , it seems like every time that they came up with a particularly novel idea , it came out like this . Well , maybe not every time . I would advise not watching this for straight-forward entertainment , but rather as a look at Hollywood's portrayal of African-Americans over the years . Available on YouTube .
as racist AND as much worth seeing as can be	OK , so " Tokio Jokio " is probably one of the most racist cartoons of all time , portraying the Japanese as incompetent buffoons with giant teeth . Personally , I believe that Warner Bros . needs to release this cartoon on DVD ; heck they should release all their WWII-era racist cartoons on DVD , just to show the zeitgeist from that time . As it is , I notice that there's been a lot of hypocrisy about racist entertainment . While cartoons such as this one are practically unavailable - I watched it on YouTube - there remain in circulation movies such as Disney's " Three Caballeros " , which consisted of some of the most stereotypical images of Latin America that I've ever seen . Not to mention all the old westerns portraying Indians as bloodthirsty savages . Are we to believe that it's OK to be racist towards some people but not others ? So I definitely recommend this cartoon , just as long as you understand the context .
no more sequels , please	Every time that there's a cool new movie , they just have to make a sequel . " I Still Know What You Did Last Summer " pretty much repeats everything from the original , minus and plus some cast members . I just hope that they don't make another " know what you did " movie . Not only is there nothing that they can add to the concept , the title is inaccurate : it should be " two summers ago " . So , stick with the original and you won't be disappointed . At least " Scary Movie " spoofed these sorts of movies . Starring Jennifer Love Hewitt , Brandy Norwood , Freddy Prinze Jr . , Muse Watson , Mekhi Phifer and Jeffrey Combs .
random lungs	For years it had seemed - to me , at least - that Sydney Pollack and Harrison Ford might have to collaborate on a movie . It resulted that they collaborated on the somewhat weird " Random Hearts " . In the movie , Sgt . Dutch Van Den Broeck's ( Ford ) wife and Kay Chandler's ( Kristin Scott Thomas ) husband are having an affair and get killed in a plane crash . From there , Ford and Thomas hook up to try and figure out what was going on . Maybe it's just that I don't find anything particularly significant about this sort of idea , or maybe I find it a little jarring to cast men with women half their age , but this is not a movie that I would really recommend . Not a bad movie - " bad " is the word that I apply to junk like " Baryshnya-Krestyanka " and " Everone Says I Love You " ; " Plan 9 from Outer Space " is so bad that it's good - but I think that the movie didn't go anywhere . Pollack ( who has a supporting role ) , Ford and Thomas have all done much better than this . Also starring Charles S . Dutton , Bonnie Hunt , Dennis Haysbert , Richard Jenkins ( Nate Sr . on " Six Feet Under " ) , Paul Guilfoyle , Susanna Thompson , Peter Coyote , Kate Mara , Dylan Baker , Lynne Thigpen , Reiko Aylesworth , Edie Falco , and even Alex Trebek in a brief appearance .
I don't know anything about football . And why do we call it football if we don't play it with our feet ?	While staying with a family in Queretaro , Mexico , in summer 1999 , I saw " Varsity Blues " in the local cinema . Since I'm totally numb to anything sports-related , I only half absorbed the movie ( I spent most of the time reading the subtitles ) . Teenage boys are likely to only take interest in the whipped cream bikini scene . But I do know that in Texas , football is king ; my mom had unpleasant experiences with that growing up in Galena Park , Texas . Obviously , the problem with calling it football is that we don't play it with our feet ; that's why most of the world calls " football " what we incomprehensibly call " soccer " . All in all , I'll mainly remember James Van Der Beek and Ali Larter for co-starring in " Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back " .
Learn to accept it as a near porno flick , and it's quite fun	While " Species " has as its actual plot a group of scientists looking for an escaped alien specimen - did somebody say " Alien " ripoff ? - I derived that the whole movie was really an excuse to show off Natasha Henstridge's breasts . If in fact that was the film's purpose , then they did a pretty good job with it ( seriously , not many movies get sexier than this ) . If the flick was supposed to have any real purpose beyond that , then I don't know what they were thinking . Just accept that the movie probably got made with the aim of sexually arousing teenage boys , and it'll be perfectly easy to enjoy the flick . Personally , I wouldn't mind getting slinky with that alien babe ! Also starring Ben Kingsley , Michael Madsen , Marg Helgenberger and Forest Whitaker . I don't know whether or not they want to stress this film when discussing their careers .
" I Dream of Jeannie " . . . the horror version	After so many years of genies being funny , cute , and maybe even wacky ( thanks , Robin Williams ! ) , here's a malevolent one . The overall concept in " Wishmaster " - modern person unleashes ancient evil force - is pretty routine , but there are some really neat scenes . I think that we all have to agree that the coolest part is the party towards the end , especially with the statues . So , although Wes Craven produced this in between the first and second " Scream " , it didn't quite reach the standards set by those two . Still , it's a pretty fun romp , featuring a bevy of filmdom's horror stars ( among them Robert Englund , Tony Todd and Kane Hodder ) . You just might want to think twice about making a wish after seeing this . Just imagine what might have happened had Maj . Nelson released this genie instead of Jeannie .
vacations work better when you take a map	OK , pretty much all great artists have to start somewhere . Chuck Jones's first star was the cute-by-any-measure mouse Sniffles . I can see why Sniffles eventually disappeared to make way for other mice in the in Looney Tunes / Merrie Melodies cartoons ( namely the fastest one in Mexico ) . In " Sniffles Takes a Trip " , the little guy tries to take a relaxing vacation but ends up in the middle of the forest where everything disturbs him ; why do vacations always seem to end up like this ? My favorite scene is the POV shot looking at the duck ( well , was it a duck or goose or swan ? I couldn't tell ) . But either way , this cartoon was more of a place holder between better ones ( 1940 also saw the release of " You Ought to Be in Pictures " and " A Wild Hare " , featuring the first true Bugs Bunny ) . In the off chance that you want to watch it , you can find it on YouTube .
Even if we let there be Lyte , can there be another kind ?	Ah , we Americans patriotically remember when we were in elementary school learning about how the people in the thirteen original colonies gallantly fought the British and founded the great nation that we know today . And " Johnny Tremain " is supposed to represent this . Of course , given that it comes from Disney , this isn't really something to use as a historical reference . For example , they don't look at slavery or the colonists ' treatment of the Indians . Oh well , if it's meant as pure entertainment , it's pretty harmless . The highlight is the Boston Tea Party , but most of the movie is kinda hokey . The only cast member whom I recognize is Richard Beymer , who played Tony in " West Side Story " ( although I've heard of Sebastian Cabot ) . All in all , " Johnny Tremain " very much has the feeling of Disney . When George Washington , Benjamin Franklin , etc , were doing their stuff , they probably never envisioned George W . Bush , Tom DeLay , etc .
movies like this lead to low parodies	Usually , I like silly parodies in the vein of " Blazing Saddles " and " Airplane ! " . But some parodies just come out really low , such as " Scary Movie 2 " . However , it's worth noting that these low parodies often resulted from even lower movies . Stephen Hopkins's " The Reaping " , while not terrible , is a prime example . It's one of the many religious-themed horror flicks that neither consists of authentic horror nor interested me in religion . The plot - if that's what it is - goes like this . Katharine Winter ( Hilary Swank ) is a Louisiana State University professor whose work has involved giving scientific explanations for alleged miracles ever since she lost her faith after a personal tragedy in Sudan . When Katharine receives news that a small town has gotten struck by events resembling the plagues visited on Egypt in the story of Passover , she goes out to the town . Most of the town's inhabitants are about as gullible as movies usually portray such individuals . While I didn't predict who was doing what , I now realize that I should have ; these sorts of movies tend to have that happen . Now , I should identify that it's not an awful movie ( then again , after you've seen crap like " Baryshnya-Krestyanka " and " Everyone Says I Love You " , almost anything seems good ) . Katharine's scientific explanation of the plagues makes perfect sense . Sorry if I seem like I can't take a leap of faith , but I just think that there have to be scientific explanations for these various weird phenomena that have happened throughout history ; I find it hard to believe that a big , invisible man caused them all . But seriously , the fact that Hilary Swank filmed this a mere few months after winning an Oscar for " Million Dollar Baby " is just more proof of something : actors and actresses win Oscars and then get embarrassing roles ( think Kevin Spacey after " American Beauty " and Halle Berry after " Monster's Ball " ) . It's almost an incentive not to win an Oscar . I'm sure that Hilary Swank won't want to emphasize this movie , nor will a terribly wasted Stephen Rea . Only rent it if there's absolutely nothing else .
combining " The Birds " and Wagner's music of course doesn't equal quite what I predicted	During his first few years as director , Chuck Jones actually veered more away from the zany comedy that had come to characterize Warner Bros . animation ( although he did direct a few wacky cartoons , it seems like his work only turned to the totally crazy once he started directing Bugs Bunny ) . Two of his cartoons from this era - both stripped of their opening credits in the Blue Ribbon reissue - were so bereft of zaniness that it's a surprise that they even came from Termite Terrace : " Old Glory " and " Tom Thumb in Trouble " . The latter portrays a woodsman and his minuscule son Tom ( would so tiny a boy actually use the mature form instead of the diminutive Tommy ? ) living alone in a log cabin . When the dad goes out and Tom nearly drowns , a bird flies in and saves the tyke . And then the dad arrives home and assumes that the bird attacked little Tom ! Has the world run completely amok ? ! Here's what I mean by calling this cartoon a combination of Wagner's music and Alfred Hitchcock's " The Birds " . In the scene where Tom walks through the snow-laden forest in search of the bird , we hear " Ride of the Valkyries " ( which Chuck Jones later used in " What's Opera , Doc ? " when Elmer sings " Kill the wabbit ! Kill the wabbit ! Kill the wabbit ! " ) . The Hitchcock connection arises in the scene where the dad finds the bird with Tom . It's clear that the bird crashed through the window - you may recall the scene where Jessica Tandy's character finds the man with his eye pecked out - and it looks as though the avian has turned violent . OK , so I'm probably the only person who interpreted this cartoon like that . It's just that with the more saccharine cartoons , I like to maintain full sanity by coming up with weird interpretations . Overall , this one's okay in a pinch .
racist material can still function as a time capsule	While it's true that " Sunday Go To Meetin ' Time " contains very stereotypical portrayals of African-Americans , it appears that the people behind the cartoon were actually taking some interest in African-American culture . The cartoon has a man skipping church , but then getting knocked out and dreaming that Satan sentences him to eternal damnation for his misdeeds . Personally , I'd rather go out and entertain myself than spend all day in any religious institution . Maybe I'd go out and watch a movie ( in religious people's minds , it would easily get me sent to Hell if the movie starred someone like Elke Sommer ; if so , then Hell here I come ! ) . But I digress . This cartoon is worth seeing , just as long as you understand the offensive content .
You can always torture the squeamish with this .	For the most part , " The Watcher " is another serial killer movie : there's a psychopath killing people and a detective has to stop him . But the three-way relationships between the killer ( Keanu Reeves ) , the detective ( James Spader ) and his psychiatrist ( Marisa Tomei ) add an extra , more interesting dimension to it . I probably should remind you that this is NOT a movie for the squeamish . Maybe movies about serial killers never are , but the way that they play everything out creates another feeling altogether - then again , you can always torture a mealy-mouthed wimp with this movie . You may be uncertain about whom you can trust after watching this . So are YOU ready to go home alone ?
In Spanish class , I wrote a story portraying the famous movies of 1997 aboard the Titanic while it was sinking .	Okay , everyone knows what happens in " Titanic " , so I'll discuss a few other points . While the movie was in the theaters , one of my friends went to see it 13 times , just so that he could find goofs ; the one that he picked up on was when someone opens a door , turns his head , and you see that it's the wrong color . When I took a sailing class in summer , 2005 , the teacher explained why specifically the Titanic sank : it was traveling way too fast for something that size ( so they couldn't turn in time ) , and the metal on the ship's sides was rather shoddy ; that is to say , they endangered everyone's lives so as to save money for themselves ( well , that's one of many times when those at the top have put profits ahead of safety ) . And I have a question : considering how many people died on the Titanic , was it appropriate to use this event to further Leonardo DiCaprio's career ? As for that story that I wrote , it portrayed Kevin Kline and Tom Selleck ( from " In & Out " ) believing themselves to resemble Leo and Kate ; Al Pacino ( from " Donnie Brasco ) realizing that he was going to sleep with the fishes ; Jim Carrey ( from " Liar Liar " ) admitting : " I can't lie : I wasn't watching for icebergs while I was steering ! " ; Kim Basinger ( from " LA Confidential " ) wondering whether or not she would look like Veronica Lake at the bottom of the ocean ; and Jack Nicholson ( from " As Good as It Gets " ) still inside his cabin and saying " Don't knock on my door ! Even if the ship is sinking , don't knock on my door ! " . Oh , I forgot to say my opinion of the movie . When everyone at school asked me what I thought , I always said " Well , I . . . " That's what I'm going to say here . I consider " Titanic " right down the middle . I think that " In & Out " was the best movie of 1997 . End of story .
" Rethinking Columbus " offered some good insight	In 1992 , when most of the country was celebrating the quincentenary of Columbus landing in the Americas , the educational organization Rethinking Schools published a study guide called " Rethinking Columbus " , looking at the real effects that his legacy had . One of the things that it mentioned was portrayals of certain groups in popular media , and it mentioned Disney movies , including " The Little Mermaid " . The three women in the movie are Ariel , Ursula and the maid . One exists only to be beautiful , one exists only to be evil , and the other exists only to get chores done . In short , not good role models for little girls . I guess that as long as we understand that , the movie is probably OK . I actually think that it sounds funny that religious wackos have found what they claim are sexual perversions in the movie . What's really interesting is when one sees the cast : Rene Auberjonois , Nancy Cartwright , Gerrit Graham , Buddy Hackett , Mark Hamill , Kenneth Mars and Edie McClurg . To rephrase that : the " MASH " priest , Bart Simpson , a cult flick star , Benji from " It's a Mad , Mad , Mad , Mad World " , Luke Skywalker , the " Young Frankenstein " cop , and the woman who got cursed at by Steve Martin in " Planes , Trains and Automobiles " . Whoa .
Remember what they said in " Scream " ?	In " Scream " they said that the original " Nightmare on Elm Street " was neat but the sequels sucked . Of course , it's practically a given that sequels will suck . Still , Robert Englund in his most famous role is always good for a laugh . " A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 2 : Freddy's Revenge " features pretty much the same things as the original , except that it's now getting played more for laughs . I can't help but wonder why they made so many sequels , right up to " Freddy vs . Jason " . Oh well , they're all cool for what they are , but the first one was definitely the best . Robert Englund may be the coolest horror actor alive today , and Wes Craven may be the coolest horror director alive today .
( caveman's ) valentine	Mostly , this is your average horror flick : a person abused as a kid takes revenge on the tormentors . . . or is it the same person ? What I thought was really interesting about " Valentine " was that its release preceded by about a month the release of another valentine-titled suspense movie : " The Caveman's Valentine " starring Samuel L . Jackson . While the two movies really have no relation , I just found it interesting that two fairly similar films with similar titles came out around the same time . A similarly-titled , similarly-themed movie was 1981's " My Bloody Valentine " . So , there's nothing special about this one , although I liked the scene of the woman walking around wearing nothing but a towel ( every horror movie must include something like that , apparently ) . Starring Denise Richards , Marley Shelton ( most recently of " Grindhouse " ) and Katherine Heigl .
no comparisons with " Life is Beautiful " , please	First , I want to say that Robin Williams is one of my favorite actors , and one of the funniest people alive today . Which makes it all the more disappointing that he doesn't get to do anything in " Jakob the Liar " . A lot of people compared this movie to " Life is Beautiful " ; if anything , it just ripped that one off . This story of a Jewish man in Nazi-occupied Poland trying to give everyone hope just can't create a believable presence . It's not terrible , just nothing creative . And I'm probably not the only person who thinks that Williams's career hit an all time low in 1999 , as he starred in this and the apparently dreadful " Bicentennial Man " . Fortunately , he's made a comeback since then ( I expect a cool performance from him in " Night at the Museum " ) . Also starring Alan Arkin , Bob Balaban , Michael Jeter , Armin Mueller-Stahl and Liev Schreiber ; they probably and Williams want to downplay this movie when describing their careers .
What exactly do we know about Kurt Cobain ?	Gus Van Sant went to incomprehensible extremes with the go-nowhere " Gerry " and rebounded with " Elephant " . I couldn't tell whether or not he was trying to do anything with " Last Days " . Portraying Kurt Cobain-esquire drugged-out singer Blake ( Michael Pitt ) mindlessly wondering around , the movie almost seems like it's trying to be a Sergei Paradjanov tribute , but I can't verify anything for certain . It almost seems like someone just turned a camera on " record " and filmed whatever happens . Certainly Blake apparently leads an empty life , but what's it all supposed to mean ? Oh well . I guess that someone could always use " Last Days " in a film class , if absolutely nothing else . The only cast members whose names I recognized were Lukas Haas ( you may remember him as the Amish boy in " Witness " and as Richie in " Mars Attacks ! " ) and Asia Argento ( Italian horror director Dario Argento's daughter who starred in " XxX " ) . That's about all that I think that I can say here .
Nobody's getting me into the army	In this semi-sequel to " From A to Z-z-z-z-z " , daydreamer Ralph Phillips dreams - at night , that is - of being various things , until a figure named Willie N . List appears and shows him the benefits of joining the army ( rather than waiting to get drafted ) . I assume that in 1957 , an army life seemed more honorable than it does nowadays . Since " Drafty , Isn't It ? " came out , we've had the Vietnam War and the Iraq War . So while Chuck Jones probably had good intentions in making this cartoon , the tragic reality has proved to be quite different from what it shows . So , this short is pretty funny if you just accept it as a silly cartoon ( it turns out that Wile E . Coyote isn't the only one who receives stuff from the ACME Corporation ) . But I , for one , would never want to join the army . Even if you survive the next military escapade - even if you don't lose any limbs - there's the risk of being homeless after the service . So it's best not to obey this cartoon .
" Boogey " nights	I guess that the good thing about " Boogeyman " is that it never takes itself too seriously . It's a pretty much silly movie about a guy traumatized by a childhood incident and wondering whether or not the boogeyman still exists , and it doesn't pretend to be anything else . Still , the idea itself was fairly interesting . Although it seems that they could have explained things a little further . If they were going to make it as they made it , they might as well have thrown in some sex to spice it up . The boogeyman himself seemed a little silly . But still , I do think that " Boogeyman " is worth seeing , as long as you're willing to suspend reality .
hard to tell whether or not it has Wim Wenders written all over it	Maybe I've been too cruel to Wim Wenders ever since I saw " Until the End of the World " ( which is a movie that I wholeheartedly recommend ) ; ever since that movie , I expect top-notch work from him . Which isn't to say that " The Million Dollar Hotel " is a bad movie . The lack of health insurance is certainly an important topic to look at . It's just that the movie's a little too far out to follow clearly . Whodunits always seem to be an inconsistent genre , and this one comes across as more confusing than anything . Maybe Wim Wenders and Mel Gibson just aren't the right people to work together . Anyway , it's worth seeing , but don't make it your first choice . Also starring Jeremy Davies , Milla Jovovich , Jimmy Smits , Peter Stormare , Bud Cort , Amanda Plummer , Gloria Stuart , Donal Logue and Harris Yulin .
Well , they did it .	Hunter S . Thompson's recent suicide brings " Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas " to mind again . Many people considered it unfilmable , so Terry Gilliam decided to make a movie . The result ? Well , it's not a bad movie , but it's almost too weird too understand . Reporter Raoul Duke ( Johnny Depp ) and lawyer Dr . Gonzo ( Benicio Del Toro ) go to Las Vegas - aka the domain of Frank Sinatra , Henry Kissinger and Debbie Reynolds - to cover a convention . The only thing is , they're doing polypharmacy ( many drugs at once ) and they get SO-O-O-O-O-O-O MESSED UP ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! You can't even begin to imagine what they get like ; you have to see the movie to understand , although squeamish people would do best to avoid this movie . My favorite scene was the whole sequence about the " dope fiend " . This is gonzo journalism at it's best . . . and weirdest .
they should have just stuck with " Ishmael "	I have read Daniel Quinn's very interesting novel " Ishmael " ( in which a gorilla explains to a human the problems that humans have created in the world ) , and I would like to assert that " Instinct " didn't do the fullest job adapting it . Anthony Hopkins , Cuba Gooding Jr , Donald Sutherland and George Dzundza all turn in fine performances , but due to excessive moralizing , the movie comes out kinda silly . I really recommend just reading " Ishmael " and only seeing this movie if there's absolutely nothing else to see . So , in conclusion , I will play off of a movie title to give my summation : this " Instinct " is not basic .
Is a hard rain gonna fall ? Maybe , but this one's not pathetically awful .	First off , I should identify that there's nothing special about " Hard Rain " . It's an action movie in which a bunch of people shout out their lines at various intervals . However , unlike so many action movies , this one isn't idiotic . Granted , the whole thing about a small Indiana town flooding was obviously an excuse for a bunch of action . But " Hard Rain " involves intrigue and questions about who is intertwined with whom . Morgan Freeman , Christian Slater , Randy Quaid , Minnie Driver , and the other cast members do as well as they can , given the material . Maybe nowadays it seems inappropriate to use floods for entertainment , given the tsunami last year and Hurricane Katrina this year , but there's nothing particularly bad about this movie .
a puppet of better movies	OK , how many movies have there been about aliens coming to earth and possessing people ? " The Puppet Masters " doesn't seem like much that we haven't seen before ; specifically , it looks like a remake of " Invasion of the Body Snatchers " . Still , Donald Sutherland makes the most of his role as a really creepy weirdo . It's just that the movie as a whole doesn't offer anything new . Sutherland , plus Eric Thal , Julie Warner , Keith David , Will Patton , Richard Belzer and Yaphet Kotto all pass in a middling movie . In the thick of everything , you gotta admit that those slugs were pretty nasty-looking .
strange to think that Mike Nichols directed this	Knowing that Mike Nichols directed greats like " The Graduate " , " Catch-22 " , " Carnal Knowledge " and " Silkwood " , it's a real shock that he directed something as silly as " What Planet Are You From ? " . The movie has space alien Garry Shandling coming to Earth to impregnate a woman after the men on his planet lose the ability to reproduce , and a bunch of goofy things happen . How many times have we seen this sort of story ? It's not a bad movie , but not any kind of masterpiece . A way to pass time at best . Maybe we're too cruel to Mike Nichols , expecting some great every time . An OK movie . Also starring Annette Bening , John Goodman , Ben Kingsley , Greg Kinnear , Richard Jenkins ( aka Nate Sr . on " Six Feet Under " ) , Linda Fiorentino and Caroline Aaron .
So was " Naked Lunch " impossible to film ?	Most of you probably know that " Naked Lunch " is not about unclothed people eating a midday meal . It's an understatement to say that the movie is about drug addiction . Based on William S . Burroughs ' autobiographical novel , exterminator Bill Lee ( Peter Weller ) gets addicted to the substance that he uses to kill bugs . After accidentally killing his wife , Bill ventures to Tangiers , Morocco , where he gets involved with a group of people in the international zone ( or " Interzone " ) . In the process , of course , there are many over-sized bugs with whom he carries on conversations . The movie gets progressively weirder and weirder . So , I guess it was possible to film " Naked Lunch " , but still , why ? Sure , it's about drug addiction , but like " Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas " , it's almost too weird to even follow the point .
it's all in the timing	There is often debate about whether or not a person should see a movie without having read the novel first . That said , I will admit that I never read the novel " Primary Colors " ; I only saw the movie . It was of course loosely based on Bill Clinton's 1992 presidential campaign and the various vicissitudes therein . John Travolta plays the Clinton-like Gov . Jack Stanton . Then arises the problem . When I took an ethics class , one of the issues that we discussed was " what if so-and-so happens ? " . Well , guess what ? " So-and-so " happened right before this movie came out . I'm talking of course about the whole Lewinsky thing . Since " Primary Colors " focuses a little bit on Stanton's possible marital infidelity , that might have doomed it , as we were already tired of hearing about it on the news ( " Wag the Dog " did a neat job looking at these sorts of things ) . And if we were going to talk about it , people were more interested in the apparent stain on the dress . All in all , stories of politicians ' sexual mishaps just don't make for interesting movies ; Mike Nichols should know better than to do this . The best scene in the movie is when Libby Holden ( Kathy Bates ) threatens to deprive a man of his manhood ( you know what I'm talking about ) . Also starring Emma Thompson , Billy Bob Thornton , Adrian Lester , Maura Tierney , Larry Hagman and Diane Ladd . And one more thing about the whole Lewinsky thing . It should only show what the whole thing involved , that the drive to impeach Clinton was led by the now-discredited Tom DeLay . Moreover , they had about $52 million to spend investigating a stain on a dress - by comparison , the commission investigating the September 11 attacks only had $13 million . Like I said , it just goes to show what all we're dealing with .
these children ain't nice	Another movie about a seemingly cute child with a not-so-cute side ; Portland's video / DVD store Movie Madness has in the horror section a whole shelf devoted to Killer Kids . In this case , a typical English family one day picks up a woman who gives birth in their house and then disappears without a trace , leaving her infant daughter with them . Sure enough , their children start getting killed . Basically a rehash of " The Bad Seed " , " Rosemary's Baby " and " The Omen " . Still , " The Godsend " has a neat side , as the vicious little girl makes some faces that no one would ever associate with a little girl ; she did look kind of scary . But in the grand scheme of things , there's nothing new or important about this movie . Not to mention that it ends rather abruptly . Menahem Golan and Yoram Globus produced much better movies over the years . This is the sort of flick that you rent if there's absolutely nothing else available .
Fu fighter	Although the thought of a white person playing an Asian sort of makes us cringe , I wouldn't call Peter Sellers's final film ( also David Tomlinson's final film ) awful . Granted , this was probably less than they would have wanted to end with . But Sellers brings a certain charm to the double role of the 168-year-old titular character , trying to carry out a heist in 1930s England , and a British police officer hired to look for him . Admittedly , " The Fiendish Plot of Dr . Fu Manchu " isn't any kind of masterpiece . It's kind of choppy and drags at times . But there are some funny scenes , and Sid Caesar's character has a name that makes you think " Uh-oh " . I guess that at most , it's a way to pass time . Pretty much all the cast members have done much better than this . But it does elicit a few laughs . Also starring Helen Mirren , and even Burt Kwouk ( better known as Cato in the " Pink Panther " movies ) in a small role .
Starring Bing Crosby's son !	There have now been nine " Friday the 13th " sequels - plus " Freddy vs . Jason " - so the original one seems pretty sedate . Since you most likely know the plot , I'll just talk about a few aspects . Kevin Bacon appears in an early role ( and watch what happens to him ) . Bing Crosby's son Harry plays one of the counselors . And of course , there's Jason . . . but there's a surprise there ( they identified it in " Scream " ) . I still like to think about the fact that Bing Crosby's son starred in this . Just imagine what America's crooner would have thought if he'd known that his son would star in a slasher movie ( actually , I've heard a lot of bad things about Bing Crosby , so I wish that that creep could have known ) . All in all , you can respect this movie for what it is .
actors directing do occasionally seem to have trouble	I'm not sure whether to describe " Nothing But Trouble " as funny or gross . Portraying yuppie motorist Chevy Chase and hubby Demi Moore getting stopped for speeding and getting taken to the weirdest courtroom ever conceived of , director Dan Aykroyd really makes it look like he has a messed-up mind . Playing the nasty judge , Aykroyd looks like the older version of Jack Crabbe in " Little Big Man " . . . as painted by Salvador Dali . John Candy , as the cop , is really the most interesting person in the movie , how he calmly says " You're under arrest . " As for the issue of gross or funny , there are some scenes that probably will make you at least giggle , but considering that so many scenes literally resemble vomit , I wonder why Dan Aykroyd chose this as his directorial debut . I would say that they went a little overboard with the Bonestripper . No , it's not a terrible movie ( it easily beats any Jean-Claude Van Damme movie for quality ) . Some of the gadgets in the house were actually pretty neat . But really folks , the cast members have all done much better than this .
Hopefully , it ends here .	" Duck Dodgers and the Return of the 24 Century " isn't really terrible , but I don't understand why they thought that the original needed a sequel . Whereas the original was clever every step of the way - namely the conveniently alphabetical planets - there's just too much dialog here , something that director Chuck Jones didn't like . The main salvation is that Mel Blanc is still providing the voices ( without him , the current stuff is basically worth nothing ) . But overall , this cartoon doesn't add anything new . The near consensus that sequels suck should also apply to cartoons . Daffy , Porky and Marvin didn't deserve to get used like this .
It's hard to tell whether or not " Diamonds " is forever .	Kirk Douglas , in a role probably reflecting on what happened to him in real life , plays a stroke-afflicted ex-boxer about to go on a journey of self-discovery with his son ( Dan Aykroyd ) . It's good to see that even after his stroke , Douglas hasn't lost any of his acting skills , but the movie doesn't really seem like much that we haven't seen before . Aykroyd and Lauren Bacall also did quite well in the movie , but I personally felt that Jenny McCarthy was sort of unnecessary . Still , it is worth seeing , if only for consideration of what we have to look forward to in our older years . So are you or have you ever been . . . ?
not all classical music comes out the same in cartoons	After the Termite Terrace crowd had used classical music to great effect in " A Corny Concerto " , " Rhapsody Rabbit " , " Back Alley Oproar " , " Long-Haired Hare " , " Rabbit of Seville " and " What's Opera , Doc ? " , it came out a little flat in " Baton Bunny " . This short has Bugs Bunny conducting an orchestra while his suit keeps going awry and a fly keeps getting in his way . The cartoon's not terrible , but it seems like they should have had accomplished more ; then again , maybe they'd done everything that they could with classical music by this point . OK in a pinch . Available on Disc 3 of the Golden Collection , where it's placed among far better cartoons . So who exactly is this Suppe guy ?
Maybe you can only sink your teeth into this once , but it's still OK .	Oh not another vampire comedy ! Actually , this one isn't half bad . Robert Sean Leonard plays a Houston high school student who one night has a fling with a sexy babe . The only thing is , this sexy babe just happens to be a creature of the night , and she turns him into one . At first , he refuses to accept his new status as a vampire , but a kindly old man ( Rene Auberjonois ) helps him . But there remains the question of how to deal with two vampire hunters . " My Best Friend Is a Vampire " isn't really anything special , but it's good for a few laughs . And the idea of a vampire in Houston . . . well , we know that there are certain vampiric people from there !
Would you see it in a box ( ing ) ?	OK , so we all agree that Robert DeNiro and Jessica Lange are among the greatest stars of their generations . Well , even they can play mildly confusing roles . " Night and the City " is an example . DeNiro plays a lawyer who seeks to get into boxing . . . but what might this lead to ? This is one of those movies whose plot might become a blur after you see it . I actually thought that the movie's most interesting aspect was the contrast between Jessica Lange and Jack Warden , and maybe I'm the only one who even saw that . I mean , he's got the look of an acerbic old man , and she still has an aura of her " King Kong " role . But otherwise , I didn't see too much else . I guess that the movie's worth seeing , if only once . Also starring Cliff Gorman , Alan King and Eli Wallach .
this movie shouldn't " bug " anyone	I have to admit that " Phenomena / Creepers " is the only Dario Argento movie that I've ever seen , but if this is any example , then his other movies must be pretty cool . Jennifer Corvino ( Jennifer Connelly ) is a student at a Swiss school where some bizarre murders have been happening . Jennifer may be the only person who can solve the murders . You see , she can communicate with insects telepathically . And the answers may lie closer than anyone suspects . I thought that the movie got a little silly towards the end , but it was mostly good . Jennifer Connelly is hot as always , and Donald Pleasance provides good support as Prof . John McGregor . But the real stars are the bugs . You want to fear them , but feel more tempted to root for them . And another aspect of " Phenomena / Creepers " is that it took place in Switzerland . Usually we think of that country as possibly the most peaceful , habitable place on Earth . This movie forces us to reconsider that stereotype .
and other gigantic things	There were so many movies about radioactive fallout turning ordinary animals into skulking monsters that it sometimes gets hard to remember which is which . " Behemoth , the Sea Monster " is passable . True , it's hokey ( particularly the early scene where the guy says what killed him ) and nothing that we haven't seen before , but it's pretty fun to watch . Personally , I'd like to see a movie where a human gets turned into a giant and goes to the ocean floor , thereby wreaking havoc on everything ( which would be more realistic ) . So anyway , this flick's mostly a way to pass time . The big guy is a pretty neat monster .
Was the monster that guy in the Diane Arbus photo ?	We might call " The Brain That Wouldn't Die " a B-movie , but it actually wasn't too bad . Granted , the concept was pretty outlandish , but the movie is worth seeing ( if only for sci-fi fetishists ) . The plot of course has Dr . Bill Cortner ( Herb Evers ) keeping lover Jan Compton's ( Virginia Leith ) decapitated head alive . The head befriends a monster ( Eddie Carmel ) in the closet . Sound far-fetched ? It is , but the movie's pretty cool . And I remember that Diane Arbus titled one of her photos " Jewish Giant Visiting His Parents in Brooklyn " , and I think that it was Eddie Carmel in that photo . The things that we see in life . . .
Just how many times can one do this ?	This time , Jerry Lewis plays reporter Gerald Clamson , who just happens to be a dead ringer for Sid Valentine , wanted by a crime syndicate . The only thing is , Valentine is supposed to be dead , so when the thugs see Clamson , you can imagine what sorts of things they do ! Mistaken identity seems to be a frequent source of comedy ( or drama ; see " North by Northwest " ) . So even though " The Big Mouth " is nothing special , it's good for a few laughs . Most of the laughs come from what happens with the thugs when they see Clamson . But one also gets the feeling that Lewis was sort of losing his ability to come up with anything new after this . And now that we know what sort of a person he is in real life , that weakens it . But overall , this one's pretty funny .
how to " cell " an idea	Sort of expanding on " The Silence of the Lambs " , " The Cell " portrays a woman ( Jennifer Lopez ) entering a comatose killer's ( Vincent D'Onofrio ) mind so that he can help her find his latest victim . I guess that this movie is really all about the visuals as she drifts through his subconscious . If the movie has any problem , it's the casting of Jennifer Lopez . She actually does a good job here , but given that she's only starred in idiotic movies since , it's almost hard to take her seriously ( and at times , it seems like they're just trying to show off her underwear ) . Fortunately , D'Onofrio makes a really creepy killer , and Vince Vaughn is also passable as Lopez's cohort . All in all , I wouldn't recommend this movie above all others . It's more of a way to pass time . Still , it is a pretty original idea with some impressive scenes . Also starring Marianne Jean-Baptiste .
now this one was just ridiculous	Sometimes , I wonder why Stephen King allows Hollywood to make certain movies from his books . For instance , " Sleepwalkers " features a scene where a woman stabs a man to death with an ear of corn ! I admit that I haven't read King's novel so I don't know whether or not it included that scene , but was that really supposed to look anything other than completely silly ? ! Not to mention some fairly stupid lines ( Cop kebab ! ) . Other than that , the movie's pretty fun . While some may wonder how a potentially great actress like Alice Krige ended up in something so absurd , I actually found her role quite fascinating ( I consider " Chariots of Fire " a perfidious movie , so I refuse to recognize her role from that one ) . Also starring Cindy Pickett , Lyman Ward and Ron Perlman , plus small appearances by Stephen King , Mark Hamill , Joe Dante , John Landis and Clive Barker .
Hello to " The Long Goodbye "	Elliott Gould probably wouldn't usually seem like the choice to play a detective made famous by Humphrey Bogart , but he does a reasonable job with the role . Phillip Marlowe ( Gould ) tries to help friend Roger Wade ( Sterling Hayden ) accused of murdering his wife . Needless to say , things aren't as they seem . The obvious change is that this version of a Raymond Chandler story is updated to the 1970s , a far cry from the noir-ish world of the 1940s . And , as always , director Robert Altman lets the actors make their own characters . Maybe this wasn't Altman's best movie ever , but he does a respectable job with it . Watch for a very young Arnold Schwarzenegger in a small role .
Aykroyd and Candy : a great combo	" The Great Outdoors " is what anyone would expect of a John Candy movie : completely goofy , but funny nonetheless . He plays Chet Ripley , taking his family on vacation in the wilderness . Unfortunately , Chet's unpleasant brother-in-law Roman Craig ( Dan Aykroyd ) is also there , and he just has to make everything miserable for Chet . In some ways , this movie seems to be rehashing " Summer Rental " , but with a different tone . My favorite parts were the raccoons , the bear , and The Old ' 96er ( I don't recommend that scene for squeamish people ) . All in all , it just goes to show what the world lost when John Candy died . He was really great . P . S . : Annette Bening , in her debut , plays Roman's wife Kate .
gambling is the opposite today	" Early to Bet " starts off somewhat lame - as a warning not to gamble - before they start showing the usual crazy stuff ( the cat's increasingly nasty punishments ) and have a pretty humorous ending . This is of course a product of the days when people considered gambling a sin and moral failure . They probably had no idea that gambling would one day be a major part of the economy . So more than anything , this cartoon comes across as a period piece . Not as much as we usually expect from a Looney Tunes cartoon ( maybe there would have been more with the presence of Bugs Bunny or Daffy Duck or one of those guys ) .
dangerously silly	" Johnny Dangerously " is one of those movies that exists for the sole purpose of being silly , much like " Airplane ! " . Michael Keaton plays Johnny Kelly , who once became a gangster under the name Johnny Dangerously , to pay his mother's ( Maureen Stapleton ) bills . His nemesis is Danny Vermin ( Joe Piscopo ) . After a series of mix-ups , Johnny's brother Tommy ( Griffin Dunne ) becomes a marked man . That's the plot , but you don't even need to pay attention to the plot . The whole movie is an excuse for a bunch of goofy occurrences , such as when the year is shown in the opening scene , and a car runs over the numbers , or when someone lights a cigarette and Johnny turns to the camera and reminds the children in the audience never to start smoking . My favorite character was Roman Moronie , just because of how he tried to curse and ended up saying things like " fargin ' iceholes " . Oh , and Alan Hale appears in one of his non-Skipper roles . In my opinion , one of the neatest lines was , after Lil ( Marilu Henner ) hears Johnny's name , she says : " I've never met a man whose last name was an adverb . "
Who would have ever guessed that it's the same place ?	For the most part , " Grumpier Old Men " is pretty silly . Max Goldman ( Walter Matthau ) and John Gustafson ( Jack Lemmon ) are still at each other's throats when Italian immigrant Maria Ragetti ( Sophia Loren ) arrives in town and throws everything into flux . What actually struck me most about the movie was how different the town looked in this one from the original . Obviously , it was a different time of year , but maybe the different look was meant to show how everything might be changing in the town . Other than that , Ann-Margret returns as Ariel , and she's still as free-spirited and vivacious as she was in the original . Burgess Meredith - in his final role - is still the grandfather who can exercise absolute authority over the youngsters , although he now has the hots for Maria's mother ( Ann Morgan Guilbert , aka Millie on " The Dick Van Dyke Show " ) . Kevin Pollak and Daryl Hannah also reprise their roles from the original . . . ah , and there's that fish . All in all , a fairly interesting movie . Not any kind of masterpiece , but it showed that Lemmon and Matthau still had it .
Is this the same one that I saw ?	I've seen a few movies from Tintin books , including " The Crab with Golden Claws " . I'm assuming that this one that I'm reviewing is the same one that I saw when I was really young . Since only Tintin fans are even going to look up this movie , then I don't have to explain the story . But the one that I saw was in color , I read that this one was black and white , and that it came from Belgium ( although I guess that they could have dubbed it ) . Oh well . I guess that I can only assume that it's the same movie . And I liked it even though it didn't follow the book exactly , as none of the Tintin movies did . If nothing else , it's still nice entertainment for children , with some stuff about geopolitics .
How far can one go in ripping off Kubrick ?	When I picked up " Una gota de sangre para morir amando " ( called " Murder in a Blue World " in English ) , I think that the box loosely said something about it being a Spanish " Clockwork Orange " . It turns out that the movie is a total rip-off of " A Clockwork Orange " ( to the point where they even mention " ACO " in a scene right before a motorcycle gang attacks ) . The main plot has young nurse Sue Lyon luring men to their dooms . . . just for the hell of it , apparently . What makes this world so blue ? ! Aside from the plot , the other Kubrick connection is " Lolita " . There's of course the ex-nymphet Sue Lyon , but one scene even shows a person holding Vladimir Nabokov's novel ! For the most part , it wouldn't be fair to compare this movie to any of Kubrick's movies . It's an OK way to pass time . The only real downside is that Sue Lyon doesn't do any full frontal nude scenes ( in this sort of movie , she should have ) . Also starring Chris Mitchum ( Robert's son ) .
a queen of a movie	Okay , so I admit that " The African Queen " is pure escapism , but you gotta love it . Katharine Hepburn plays Rose Sayer , a prim and proper missionary in German East Africa with her brother ( Robert Morley ) in 1914 . Suddenly , right after they receive news that war has broken out in Europe , the German army comes in and demolishes their settlement . After the brother dies , hard-drinking stubbly sailor Charlie Allnut ( Humphrey Bogart ) comes in and agrees to take Rose down the river . Along the way , they bicker about various things ( she's disgusted by his drinking , he finds her too pious ) , but they grow to respect each other . Bogart and Hepburn pretty much play their usual roles , and the movie also stars a few crocodiles ( most of the movie was filmed on location in Africa ) . The portrayal of the German army certainly seems to be an allusion to the Nazis . But overall , the movie is quite admirable , with Rose's and Charlie's personalities bouncing off of each other . It's like an early buddy comedy , even though it's serious .
keep the ending ( and for that matter , the whole plot ) hidden	" Hide and Seek " is one of those movies where you can only enjoy it if you know absolutely nothing about it ahead of time . I couldn't have predicted what would happen . David Callaway ( Robert DeNiro ) and his daughter Emily ( Dakota Fanning ) move to a small town after his wife Allison ( Amy Irving ) commits suicide . But when David and Emily move into their new house , strange things begin to happen , all of which apparently relate to Emily's imaginary friend Charlie . Okay , so the people - move - into - house - and - abnormal - occurrences - follow idea has been used more times than anyone can count , but the performances keep this movie afloat . DeNiro naturally does a good job , as do Famke Janssen and Elisabeth Shue . And Fanning , despite her " cute " reputation , actually looks pretty creepy . So come out , come out , wherever you are , and see what you think of " Hide and Seek " .
Agatha Christie meets " The Twilight Zone "	Until I saw " Agatha " , I had never even heard of the story of Agatha Christie disappearing - or hiding - in 1926 . The movie offers a possibility of what might have happened , portraying the author ( Vanessa Redgrave ) secretly checking into a health spa under a false name , while detective Wally Stanton ( Dustin Hoffman ) investigates . I will admit that this movie is nothing special . If anything , it's sort of just a way to pass time . But it is interesting not only learning about this part of history , but seeing this speculation of what might have happened ( the movie reminds us that this is only speculation ) . The only other cast member whom I recognized was Timothy Dalton as Agatha's husband Archibald . Not a masterpiece by any stretch , but worth seeing nevertheless .
David Cronenberg should know better than to use a cliché	I have always liked David Cronenberg as a director . " Scanners " , " The Fly " , " Naked Lunch " , " Crash " and " A History of Violence " are truly one of a kind . So although " Eastern Promises " has a good premise and pulls no punches , the movie has a problem : it has long since become a cliché to portray Russians as gangsters . I know that we had the Cold War , but seriously . I've twice been to Russia and stayed in people's homes there , so I find it hard to view the place negatively . In fact , I secretly had a crush on my St . Petersburg host sister Marina ( OK , I'll be totally candid : I still fantasize about her , and it arouses me to even think about her as I write about her ) . Why can't they just have American gangsters ? I mean , we've had the mafia for years . Otherwise , it's worth seeing , although squeamish people should avoid it . Starring Viggo Mortensen , Naomi Watts and Armin Mueller-Stahl .
time capsules forever	On the one hand , " Gidget " looks like an intelligence-challenged flick , as the cute teenage girl goes to the beach to possibly meet boys . But I think that there's more to it than just that . As far as I could tell , the movie also looked at her burgeoning sexuality and her uncertainty thereof . Plus , the girls wear pants ; wouldn't that have looked a little tomboyish in the ' 50s ? What I'm saying is that people need to watch this movie again . While it remains a 1950s time capsule , I got the sense that something - I don't know what exactly - hinted at the changes coming over the next decade . In case anybody chooses to call this movie stupid , I totally reject that . " Stupid " is the description that I would apply to Eddie Murphy's movies from the past few years , or any Steven Seagal movie . As for Sandra Dee herself , from what I've read about her it sounds as though she was a pretty intelligent person , having far more substance than her movie roles implied . Anyway , I recommend this movie . Also starring James Darren and Cliff Robertson . That means that Cliff Robertson is the only actor who has worked with Sandra Dee and Tobey Maguire ( in " Spiderman " ) .
I can find yet another loose connection to 23 .	OK , " The Number 23 " features Jim Carrey in another dark role . This time , he plays dog catcher Walter Sparrow , feeling sort of uncomfortable with his job . His wife Agatha ( Virginia Madsen ) gives him a book with the same title as the movie . It not only tells a story which seems eerily similar to Walter's life , but also identifies various things relating to 23 . As Walter reads further , he begins to sink into madness , worrying that the number might be more than a number . The movie has an interesting plot - I must admit , I never knew that all those things related to 23 - although it seems silly at times ( now that I think about it , the ending was a little predictable ) . I mean , anyone can find numeric patterns if s / he searches hard enough , and it could just as easily be a complete delusion . But more than anything , I like the sinister setting and Carrey's nearly deadpan expression throughout the movie . It does make you wonder whether or not 23 might hold the answer to anything in your own life . Worth seeing , if only once . Oh , and the other loose connection to 23 ? The movie was filmed in Cocoa Beach , Florida . Cocoa Beach was the setting for " I Dream of Jeannie " . " IDOJ " star Barbara Eden's birthday is August 23 .
marijuana flick	While the plot involves a man getting blasted off into space , running into a meteor shower , and getting turned into something resembling a golem carved out of rock and having a strong desire for blood , I notice something else here . There seem to be some references to marijuana . Aside from the fact that they talk about the astronaut being very " high " , he says that he'll bring back the " dope " . If only they knew what they were saying ! As for the movie itself , " First Man Into Space " was mostly like any ' 50s sci-fi flick . Although what the Italian woman said seems more relevant than ever : " Sometimes you have to understand that people are more important than science . " As it is , if I'd had a hubby like that babe , you couldn't have paid me to go into space ! All in all , nothing special , but worth seeing .
nothing particularly significant , but OK	In the somewhat confusing " Harper " , Paul Newman plays the title detective who gets hired to find a kidnapped man . As this was back in Newman's heyday , we might all think that we want to check this out as a historical reference at the very least . The truth is , " Harper " doesn't seem to be much else . It's not any kind of masterpiece the way that " Hud " or " Cool Hand Luke " were . It seems like a way to pass time more than anything , but just how many detective movies can there be ? An OK movie , I guess . Also starring Lauren Bacall , Julie Harris , Arthur Hill , Janet Leigh , Pamela Tiffin , Robert Wagner , Shelley Winters , Harold Gould and Strother Martin
But they don't answer the overarching question : why remake this movie ?	I still can't quite understand why Gus Van Sant followed up " Good Will Hunting " with a " Psycho " remake . Just because he could ? Granted , it was a worthy effort . But they don't really make use of the techniques that made the original so great ( such as shadows and facial expressions ) . And besides , everyone knows what happens . As for the cast , it's got Vince Vaughn as Norman , Anne Heche as Marion , Julianne Moore as Lila , Viggo Mortensen as Sam , William H . Macy as Arbogast , James LeGros as Charlie , Robert Forster as Dr . Simon , Philip Baker Hall as Sheriff Chambers , Chad Everett as Tom , Rance Howard as Mr . Lowery , and Rita Wilson as Caroline . As a joke , I'll translate that with respect to their famous personas : one of the Wedding Crashers , Ellen DeGeneres's ex , the world's most serious actress , Aragorn , Jerry Lundegaard , a character actor , the " Jackie Brown " guy , the old guy from Paul Thomas Anderson's movies , the ' 50s heartthrob , Opie's dad , and Tom Hanks's wife . All in all , nothing special , but worth seeing .
Beaky needs some SERIOUS counseling	Braindead avian Beaky Buzzard debuted in Bob Clampett's " Bugs Bunny Gets the Boid " in 1942 . Clampett brought him back in " The Bashful Buzzard " in 1945 . After a five year absence , Beaky reappeared in " The Lion's Busy " and " Strife with Father " , after which he never appeared in another theatrical short . This one portrays Beaky getting left at the doorstep of husband and wife owls Monte and Gwendlyn . They try to raise him to be a gentleman , but . . . well , let's just say that Beaky belongs with his own kind ! Long story short , never try to integrate a loopy oaf into decent society . Maybe Beaky should see a shrink . It's hard to say what I really think of Beaky Buzzard . He proved to be an interesting character in his few appearances . I don't know whether or not his shtick would have gotten tiresome had he starred in more cartoons . I guess that just his four roles created enough of a personality to last , even if he is only a second-tier character . This one's worth seeing , if only once . Included as an extra feature on the " Flame and the Arrow " DVD , so I wonder if it preceded that movie in the theater .
Benign	The 1994 big screen version of " The Flintstones " was undeniably atrocious , so if you want a decent " Flintstones " movie , then " The Man Called Flintstone " works ( if only marginally ) . The plot has secret agent Rock Slang , who just happens to be Fred Flinstone's doppelganger , getting injured and replaced with Fred . This not only complicates Fred's vacation plans , but makes him the target of spies Ali and Bobo ( fortunately for Fred , these guys are beyond incompetent ) . In the end , Fred's big mission is to stop master criminal Green Goose from destroying the world . Okay , so this movie won't challenge your mind or anything ( and I guess that it does go overboard at times ) , but at least it's not a travesty of the show ( I can't say the same for the 1994 movie ) . This one passes .
suddenly , RR gets kind of mean and senses danger	In the mid to late ' 60s , Warner Bros . animation was slowly but surely coming to a close . " Clippety Clobbered " is a prime example , as Wile E . Coyote receives in the mail a non-Acme product to help him catch Road Runner . Naturally , this one fails , as do his subsequent attempts . However , I notice something different about this cartoon . Whereas in most of the WEC-RR pairings , RR usually doesn't even seem to notice that WEC exists , here he does . In fact , RR plays some rather cruel tricks on WEC , and even runs away at the sight of WEC ( does he finally realize the potential danger ? ) . So , it's an OK cartoon , but the formula was pretty much spent by this point , so nothing looks particularly new .
Freddy Krueger behind the camera .	Robert Englund finally steps behind the camera , directing " 976-EVIL " , about a phone number that gives people satanic powers . As you may expect , it's not any kind of great movie ; but don't worry , it doesn't pretend to be . This movie is all about nice , fun entertainment , and it gives us just that ( plus at least one hot scene ) . In the lead role is Stephen Geoffreys , whom you may recognize as Evil Edward from " Fright Night " ; he sure gets some evil roles . Also starring are Sandy Dennis as the fundamentalist Christian aunt ( by " fundamentalist Christian " , I mean that watching the movie , she's so obnoxious that you just hope that something nasty happens to her ) and Robert Picardo ( who frequently appears in Joe Dante's movies ) . A pretty neat movie .
" I can't breathe ! " . . . nor can she act . . . but the movie's still pretty cool	Richard Fleischer's death yesterday brings to mind his movies , including this one . You have to forgive " Fantastic Voyage " for it's dated qualities and less-than-credible acting . I would imagine that it seemed really cool when it first came out , and I found it really cool when I first saw it . It's just that this story of some people traveling through an injured man's body - aside from being totally improbable - is clearly all about quantity and not quality . Still , it does have some neat scenes . Of course , when the antibodies attack Raquel Welch , you can tell that she doesn't really know how to act . Worth watching as a cultural reference . Joe Dante used the idea for " Innerspace " ( although he expanded on the idea ) , and a " Simpsons " comic book also used the idea once . Also starring Stephen Boyd , Edmond O'Brien , and Donald Pleasance .
Persian black fungus ? They really got it from present-day Iran ?	I have to admit that I haven't seen Zhang Yimou's early movies , only his works from the 21st century . And it seems that he tries to outdo himself each successive time : " Hero " , " House of Flying Daggers " , and now " Curse of the Golden Flower " ( " Man cheng jin dai huang jin jia " in Mandarin ) . The plot is a little hard to follow , and I suspect that the battle scene is supposed to be the one that sticks in people's minds . To me at least , this mirrors George Lucas's most recent movies : they try so hard to be as big as possible , that it's too grandiose to even take in . As I understand it , this movie is supposed to be a metaphor for China's conversion from western domination to communism ; do we really want to idealize the Cultural Revolution ( or some of the things that have happened since ) ? Otherwise , it's a visual treat . The palace interior looks psychedelic . Starring Chow Yun-Fat , Gong Li , Liu Ye and Jay Chou . So the black fungus really came from Persia . I knew that China traded with other cultures , but I never guessed that Persia gave them anything .
" ed " iting the world for " tv "	In a way , it was sort strange that less than a year after " The Truman Show " came out , there was another movie about a man's life getting broadcast on TV . Moreover , it seemed like whereas " TTS " was more of a biting satire , " Edtv " was going soft - maybe trying to be cute - with cameras following a video store clerk ( Matthew McConaughey ) . However , years of reality shows have shown just how disgusting TV can get . And these two movies predicted it . Although I do prefer the former , the latter actually seems to be portraying what we now know as reality shows . So , I will say that this movie doesn't do as good a job as " The Truman Show " , it does have some funny scenes . I actually thought that Ellen Degeneres and Rob Reiner were the two best cast members . OK seeing once ; Ron Howard has done better . Also starring Woody Harrelson , Elizabeth Hurley , Jenna Elfman , Sally Kirkland , Martin Landau , Dennis Hopper and Clint Howard .
cute , but fun	I actually managed to see " The Out-of-Towners " in Mexico ( and the subtitles were occasionally out of place ) . Knowing that it stars Steve Martin and Goldie Hawn as a couple having various unpleasant adventures in New York City , we can safely assume that it mainly exists to be silly . And it doesn't disappoint . Still , it's good to see that Martin and Hawn haven't lost their comic abilities after all these years . In my opinion , though , John Cleese was actually the best character in the movie . So , just accept this movie as nice , goofy fun , and you won't be disappointed . Bad girls . Hah !
silly comedy doesn't need singing	I would like these sorts of movies a lot better if they didn't have the musical scenes . I watch these movies strictly to laugh . Certainly plenty of scenes made me laugh ( namely the snowball scene ) . One can imagine being a fairly intelligent guy like Abbott's character always having to deal with a brainless sap like Costello's character and how annoying it would be . So , even though the singing drags the movie down , I recommend it overall . Pretty entertaining . Tied up for a while indeed . . . PS : Sheldon Leonard , who played Silky , later produced " The Danny Thomas Show " and " The Dick Van Dyke Show " . He also provided his voice to Robert McKimson's cartoons " Kiddin ' the Kitten " and " A Peck o ' Trouble " as a lazy cat who tries to make a kitten do his work .
" Forrest Humps " might be a neat idea for a movie	I should say that " Senior Trip " is mostly one of the silly comedies that they released in the 1990s ( of course , it was intended as such ) . I guess that on one level , it has an important lesson about paying attention to what happens in the government . In my opinion , the best parts were some of the briefer things : the guy chasing the bus , J . Edgar Hoover's grave , the porno movie in the hotel room , and the epilogues . Otherwise , this isn't the sort of movie that you'd go out of your way to watch . Although I have to admit , Matt Frewer ( who turns 50 today ) and Tommy Chong play great characters . The student was right : J . Edgar Hoover was a fascist . You may have heard the news that just recently came out that Hoover wanted to round up large numbers of Americans in 1950 .
I can see that Anakin was becoming Darth .	OK , we all know that this is where Anakin Skywalker ( Hayden Christensen ) has become an adult and is starting to develop Darth-like qualities . What more to say ? I still assert that Jar Jar Binks was the coolest character . I know , everyone's going to hate me for saying that , but I don't care ( why do people think that he sounds Jamaican ? ; I thought that he sounded Cajun ) . As for the rest of the characters , they're all doing what they can , but given the epic scale of the story , there's not much that they can do except say their lines . Unlike " The Phantom Menace " , I did have a better sense of the plot in " Star Wars : Episode II - Attack of the Clones " . Worth seeing , even if it is sort of a video game .
even if the movie's dumb , it's good to see Paris Hilton mocked	Basically a big excuse to mock the Paris Hilton crowd , " White Chicks " is pretty dumb , but never dull . Shawn and Marlon Wayans play FBI agents Kevin and Marcus Copeland , who pose as a pair of Paris Hilton-like heiresses . Any goofy thing that you can imagine , this movie most likely has it . I guess that some scenes were a little unnecessary , but I overall liked the movie ( especially since I have probably the lowest opinion of Paris Hilton of any person on Earth ) . The Wayans brothers pull no punches in this movie . Even if " White Chicks " is a litany of idiocy , it is truly and undeniably da bomb !
some things made it worth seeing , but I am just not a fan of musicals	Before you read the rest of this review , you should know that I have never really liked musicals ( except for the Beatles ' movies and " West Side Story " ) . Therefore , if you really like musicals , you might as well just stop reading my review and find a review by a fan of musicals . But if you choose to learn what I think of " Dreamgirls " , then here's what I say . While the movie does a good job in looking at some of the things involving the music of the era - such as white people co-opting black music and sanitizing it - I just don't believe in telling true stories as musicals . It gets a little tiresome to have a song every couple of minutes , even if the songs express people's frustration . Granted , the movie is not a zero . Far from it . The cast members all do quite well . Probably best of all is Jennifer Hudson . Her character is the type with whom you don't want to mess ( and her Oscar win was the perfect spit in the face to " American Idol " ) . Beyonce Knowles , Jamie Foxx , Eddie Murphy and Danny Glover also do well , but this is really Jennifer Hudson's movie . Still , this is not one that I would recommend above most others . I just think that they should have told a more straight-forward story about the Supremes . John Lithgow also appears .
Peter Boyle , RIP	Peter Boyle's death yesterday brings to mind all his movies , including the rather silly " Yellowbeard " . The movie features Graham Chapman as the title character , an 18th-century pirate who gets released from jail to help the British government find his treasure . That's when he finds out that he has a son who has little desire to be a pirate . From there , much of the movie consists of sword fights , one-liners , and Cheech & Chong . Overall , I thought that it was a little bit lamer than it could have been , but I agree with a previous reviewer that it's just neat to see all these people together in a movie . The flick is little more than a way to pass time , but there's a few laughs along the way . Also starring John Cleese , Eric Idle , Marty Feldman ( in his final role ; the movie is dedicated to him ) , Peter Cook , Kenneth Mars , Spike Milligan , and David Bowie in a cameo . And remember : he has a big yellow beard .
no surprise that this isn't available	" Flop Goes the Weasel " is another one of the Warner Bros . cartoons not widely available due to its racially offensive content ( I saw it on YouTube ) . In this case , a hen - closely resembling a mammy - sees that her egg is about to hatch and runs off to get something for the chick , when a weasel steals the egg . The chick then mistakes the weasel for his mammy and wants to play hide and seek , thereby injuring the weasel in various and sundry ways . I actually hope that Warner Bros . eventually releases this one on DVD ( provided of course that they include a warning about the non-PC material ) . It is worth seeing as a historical and cultural reference , if absolutely nothing else .
I think I'm a clone now	When I was really young , part of what I always liked about the classic Looney Tunes cartoons was the beginning , when the Warner Bros . shield would zoom towards the audience through the concentric circles . For some reason , later on they made up a less creative intro , like the one seen in " A-Haunting We Will Go " . Oh well . I guess that it's not really fair to criticize the intro . I read that this cartoon was basically a clone of an earlier one with Bugs Bunny . This one has Daffy Duck's nephew scared of Witch Hazel , and so Daffy tries to prove that there's no such thing as witches . Meanwhile , Hazel turns Speedy Gonzalez into a witch , and Daffy meets him in that form . I could tell that some scenes were lifted out of " Duck Amuck " , so that weakened the cartoon somewhat . But otherwise , it's still good for a few laughs . Not bad , but not the best .
I guess that everyone had to meet someone sooner or later .	Okay , we know who Frankenstein's monster and the Wolf Man are , and we can safely assume that if they meet , then there's gonna be some real trouble . Yes , we pretty much know what's going to happen , but the movie does an acceptable job with the material . Lon Chaney continues his portrayal of the Wolf Man , while Bela Lugosi got the role of the monster this time . The plot basically has Larry Talbot trying to find a way to rid himself of the werewolf curse , finding the monster along the way , and . . . well , you can probably guess what happens from there . " Frankenstein Meets the Wolf Man " is nothing special , but it passes . It's good for what it is .
not as good as it could have been , but Oliver Stone was not a crook for making it	America's 37th president was most famous for Watergate , but there were other aspects of his life . Oliver Stone's " Nixon " goes into some of these . It shows not only Tricky Dick's presidency ( in particular , his escalation of the Vietnam War ) , but also his early years in Orange County . However , it seems like they could have shown more . The movie focused heavily on Nixon's alcoholism . True , President Pinocchio ( as I like to call him ) was often drunk , but I don't know whether or not he was to the extent that they portray in the movie . Moreover , while Stone did a good job looking at Watergate , he probably could have focused more on Nixon's " dirty tricks " campaign to spy on protesters , or his assassinations of Black Panthers and American Indian Movement activists , or his overthrow of Chile's government . Overall , the movie is worth seeing . Naturally , Nixon's family denounced the movie when it came out , but we know the truth about Tricky Dick : he was a crook , and the movie shows it .
Blue in the face .	I will admit that I'd never heard of Shakespeare's play " Titus Andronicus " until the movie " Titus " came out - it was one of ol ' Bill's lesser known works . This may be one of the harder Shakespeare plays to understand , but it basically has Emperor Titus ( Anthony Hopkins ) returning from battle only to find doom back home . The opening scene of the boy playing with things was a little confusing itself ( I'm assuming that the original play didn't feature that ) . A particularly interesting thing was that the movie got released in Portland around the same time that " Gladiator " came out , so there were two Rome-related flicks in theaters . Fairly interesting .
Keep it going when possible .	There was never anything particularly special about the Ernest movies : mostly they were excuses to have a series of nonsensical gags . But still , they were fun to watch . And believe you me , this one sure is . " Ernest Saves Christmas " has lovable hick Ernest P . Worrell ( Jim Varney ) trying to help Santa Claus find a new person to deliver toys . Yep , you read that right . Like I said , most of the movie is a bunch of silly gags ( particularly when Ernest is in Santa's sleigh ) , but they do it with heart . If it's sappy at times , the really funny parts make up for that ( you'll recognize them when you see the movie ) . Knowwhaddamean ?
these days , we make up words at an exponential rate	OK , so it was inevitable that after Keira Knightley made a splash in " Bend It Like Beckham " , she would go on to star in a series of Hollywood movies . The " Pirates of the Caribbean " trilogy is the most obvious , but there was also Tony Scott's somewhat jarring " Domino " , about Laurence Harvey's daughter who became a bounty hunter . While it presents some interesting commentary on the status quo in our society - a producer ( Christopher Walken ) decides to turn Domino's workaday job into a reality show - they film the whole thing like a music video , so it's a little hard to take seriously . However , there was one scene that I really liked : the Jerry Springer sequence . The thought of a mixed race woman proposing new words to describe mixed race people - such as " blacktino " and " chinegro " - shows the rate at which we make up new words these days . Just two years ago , Stephen Colbert added " truthiness " ( truth according to gut instinct ) to our lexicon , and just tonight on " Countdown " , Keith Olbermann said " loophole-ologists " . Anyway , " Domino " is a fairly interesting movie , but I wouldn't recommend it above most others . Also starring Mickey Rourke .
Do we debate on whether it's believable or achievable ?	OK , so we in the 21st century don't judge Sandra Dee's movies too kindly , as she usually played some nubile woman existing only to be cute , and we don't consider it particularly PC . The truth is , most of the teen flicks of the past 25 years haven't been much different , and I for one find " That Funny Feeling " more interesting than many of the teen flicks from my lifetime . True , much of the movie is pretty predictable , with Dee as a working class maid pretending to live in a young businessman's ( Bobby Darin ) apartment , while he goes along with it ; I actually didn't spend much of the movie laughing . But the movie definitely has its moments , namely the telephone booth and the party ( some people might even include the shot of Sandra Dee in the bathtub . . . meow meow ) . Obviously , given that during the ' 60s , we started seeing movies like " Dr . Strangelove " and " The Graduate " , this one might seem worthless at best . But , I will say that it does have a certain charm to it . It's not a masterpiece by any stretch , but doesn't pretend to be . Just nice , silly fun . And Sandra Dee is actually kinda hot . Also starring Donald O'Connor , Nina Talbot , Larry Storch , Leo G . Carroll , Robert Strauss , Kathleen Freeman and Arte Johnson . I bet that somewhere beyond that great sea in the sky , Sandra Dee and Bobby Darin can take comfort knowing that we still remember them , even if it is for something as silly as this .
Here they were starting to get gimmicky .	After " Dr . No " , " From Russia with Love " and " Goldfinger " were more oriented towards their plots , " Thunderball " was more gimmicky and focused more on gadgetry . That's not to say that it wasn't enjoyable . Here , SPECTRE steals some nukes , and James Bond ( Sean Connery ) has to stop them . Of course , part of the plot is that Bond is surrounded by hot babes - many of whom he beds . Still , one gets the feeling that at this point , Sean Connery may have been feeling disenchanted with the role ( he did in fact quit the role after a few more movies ) . Personally , I think that they should have stopped making the movies after he left ; none of the other actors have equalled his quality .
here's something interesting	Every once in a while , a movie comes along that makes us wonder about certain things that don't happen ; we wonder about how things would be if they COULD happen . " I Bury the Living " is one such movie . Robert Kraft ( Richard Boone ) becomes head of the Immortal Hills cemetery . Strangely , he has an ability that no previous owner has had : by sticking a black pin on the reserved plots on the map , he can kill the person who has reserved the plot . Naturally , no one believes that he really can do this , but then he goes too far in sticking the pins , and other people want him to stick the pins on the map , leading to disastrous consequences . This isn't just a horror movie . They use a camera trick to blur Kraft's vision in some scenes to show his descent into terror and madness . Not until " Heavenly Creatures " would a movie show a person's mental state so accurately . As it was , Herbert Anderson ( better known as Dennis the Menace's father on TV ) played a cop , so this movie had Paladin as the main character , and Henry Mitchell as a cop . It was also directed by the executive producer of " Honey , I Shrunk the Kids " and Gerald Fried did the music ( he later composed the " Gilligan's Island " music ) . Whoa .
At this point , it was starting to get gimmicky .	" Star Wars " was without a doubt a masterpiece , " The Empire Strikes Back " was still good but one has to wonder why they continued the story , and " Return of the Jedi " was sort of gimmicky . Granted , it's good that they wanted to show how everything would turn out , but it almost seemed more like a video game . The Ewoks were funny , but not much else . And why did they dress Carrie Fisher like they did early in the movie ? Oh well . Life goes on . Now that we've had episodes 1-3 , we see where this all originated . Or to put it in Yoda talk : where this all originated we seen have . Worth seeing , but don't interpret it as a masterpiece .
it sucks to be Porky	One thing that I always say about " Mister Ed " , " Bewitched " and " I Dream of Jeannie " , is that it sucks to be Wilbur , Darrin and Maj . Nelson , respectively . I say that because these things that they have to experience at the hands of Ed , Samantha and Jeannie , have got to be mind-numbing . In that respect , it sucks to be Porky Pig in " Yankee Doodle Daffy " . In this cartoon , Porky is a talent scout to whom Daffy tries to show the skills of his nephew , Sleepy McGoof . Most of the cartoon has Daffy putting on a series of wacky skits , while Sleepy sits there sucking on a lollipops . No matter what Porky does , he can't seem to get away from them . This one was a little bit more routine than some of the other Looney Tunes cartoons , but it's still worth seeing .
Why " Shakespeare in Love " ?	I still can't understand why they gave " Shakespeare in Love " Best Picture . I was rooting for " Life is Beautiful " . Even " Saving Private Ryan " and the conspicuously snubbed " Truman Show " were better . But at least they gave Roberto Benigni the two Oscars that he really deserved ; does anyone deny that his acceptance speech was the ceremony's highlight ? I know that some people deride Whoopi Goldberg as a host , but I really like her ( especially with that " 20th century fox " remark ) . Probably the funniest comment of the night was Robin Williams's " Guns and Moses : The Charlton Heston Story . But you can't say Moses ; you have to say The Artist Formerly Known as the Prince of Egypt ! " As for Elia Kazan , I say that honoring him for his movies would be like honoring Pol Pot for stamping out corruption . At least the cameras showed people not applauding ( among them Nick Nolte ) . Overall , a worthy ceremony .
the rabbit-proof fence didn't work	In summer , 2003 , I took a class about Australian cinema . We watched films like " Walkabout " , " Gallipoli " and " Rabbit-Proof Fence " ; it might have thrown a wrench in the works had we watched " Celia " . At the video / DVD store , I found it under the horror section , but it's only a horror flick in the loosest terms . The movie deals with a nine-year-old girl ( Rebecca Smart ) in 1950s Australia whose amorality and alienation from society drive her to complete madness ; I think that that was the plot . Certainly it's ugly what Celia does , but seeing what the adults around her are like , I felt that I had no choice except to root for Celia . The historical context involves the Cold War and the government's efforts to stop the rabbit infestation . As people tell Celia not to fraternize with children of communists , she grows more and more disenchanted with the world around her - after all , friends are supposed to be friends no matter what the parents ' political activity . But when a cop takes away her pet rabbit , she really gets nasty ( it also shows that the rabbit-proof fence that lent its name to the 2002 movie clearly didn't work in holding back the leporid plague ) . So how to interpret this movie ? It looks at face value like one of the many instances of a seemingly cute girl having a not so cute side ( think " The Bad Seed " ) . One might say that the rabbits play a role similar to the ones in " Night of the Lepus " and " Donnie Darko " , even though Celia's rabbit doesn't do anything . I guess that it's worth seeing , if only once .
The ending seemed a little inappropriate , but it was mostly OK .	Bugs Bunny was still in his relative infancy when they made " Tortoise Wins by a Hare " . It portrays Bugs Bunny angry that Cecil Turtle always wins and challenging him to a race . But this time , Bugs has a dirty trick up his sleeve : he finds out Cecil's secret - his " air flow chassis " shell - and makes himself one . However , this works against him , as the raceway is lined with rabbit thugs who mistake Bugs for Cecil , and keep impeding his performance . The ending seemed like a weird one for a cartoon : when the rabbit thugs realize their mistake , they all blow their brains out . I've always wondered why cartoons would show those sorts of things . But no matter ; this cartoon is mostly acceptable for everyone .
What Uruguay was thinking .	A day or two after " The 77th Annual Academy Awards " , I read an article in The Wall Street Journal about how Uruguay's new populist president Tabare Vazquez had just been sworn in . But it said that the thing on the minds of most Uruguayans was not their new president , but what happened at the Oscars : Uruguayan singer Jorge Drexler didn't get to perform his nominated song " Al otro lado del rio " , so he sang a few lines when he won . Aside from that , I wonder just what Martin Scorsese has to do to win an Oscar . I mean , " Million Dollar Baby " was good , but Clint Eastwood had already won an Oscar . As for the whole thing about cutting people off before they have a chance to finish their speeches , what are you gonna do ? And I do think that Chris Rock was a pretty good host ( but I liked Jon Stewart even better the next year ) . All in all , passable .
at least he's making fun of rich New Yorkers	In the late ' 90s , we began to find Woody Allen's work stale because he was focusing on neurotic rich New Yorkers and the various goings-on in their lives . Personally , most people could give a rip about that stuff . " Deconstructing Harry " was better since it showed these people as more vicious , and " Celebrity " goes so far as to make fun of them . Kenneth Branagh plays Allen-esquire magazine writer Lee Simon , who has to be surrounded by various and sundry celebrities . Leonardo DiCaprio has the best role , basically playing a parody of himself . Probably the best line is when they see Andre Gregory's character , and they say that he's one of those directors who's gotten into . . . well , I'll let you find out for yourself . But this one is worth seeing , unlike " Everyone Says I Love You " .
not a masterpiece , but worth seeing	Julian ( Richard Gere ) is an LA male prostitute who bounces around the city with his various clients . The sultry Michelle ( Lauren Hutton ) eventually redeems his existence , but a little too late , as Julian is charged with murder and can't give a credible alibi . I guess that there's nothing particularly important about " American Gigolo " , although it does look at the decadence that would become the cornerstone of the 1980's . Probably the main reason to see this movie would be to see Richard Gere right as he was becoming famous ( to be certain , this movie made him a star ) . Also , it's interesting to hear him speak Swedish in one scene . Not a masterpiece , but still worth seeing .
I actually didn't find it so bad .	When " North " came out , it got a scathing review in Portland's newspaper The Oregonian ( I found this out several years later , as I didn't know about the movie's release at the time ) , and Siskel & Ebert named it the worst movie of 1994 ( I knew about this at the time ) . Even the previous reviewer on IMDb . com called it the worst movie ever . When I saw it a few months after Siskel & Ebert named it the worst flick of 1994 , I couldn't understand why people blasted it so . Granted , it wasn't a masterpiece by any stretch - we expect really good movies from a director like Rob Reiner - but it was interesting if absolutely nothing else . Featuring the title character ( Elijah Wood ) getting a divorce from his parents and traveling the world looking for new ones , I guess that it was little more than a way to pass time . Perhaps " North " had little more to show for itself than a giant cast : Bruce Willis , Jason Alexander , Julia Louis-Dreyfus , Dan Aykroyd , Graham Greene , Kathy Bates , Alan Arkin , and even a very young Scarlett Johansson . But when you get right down to it , a giant cast isn't any kind of crime . Like I said , I found the movie interesting if nothing else . And to the reviewer who called this the worst movie ever , I say this : you don't know the worst movie ever until you've seen the dreadfully boring " Baryshnya-Krestyanka " , which I saw while in St . Petersburg , Russia , last semester . If in fact it's based on an Alexander Pushkin novel , then Pushkin must spin in his grave every time someone watches that movie . The only way that I kept sane while watching it was by throwing out comments like on " Mystery Science Theater 3000 " ( and then when I wrote a review to turn in , I dedicated the review to Bob Denver , who had died a few weeks earlier ) . My point is , even that last reviewer would have to agree that " North " looks like " Citizen Kane " compared to " Baryshnya-Krestyanka " . So that's my take on everything .
good thing that they ended here	And not just because of the whole imbroglio involving O . J . Simpson . One gets the feeling that they were running out of ideas here . In " Naked Gun 33 : The Final Insult " , Frank Drebin ( Leslie Nielsen ) has to stop a terrorist ( Fred Ward ) from setting off a bomb at the Academy Awards . Needless to say , the whole thing is an excuse for a series of gags . Still , the whole thing just seems lower than the previous two installments . No matter , Leslie Nielsen is always good for a few laughs . Probably the best scene in the movie is when he's supposed to have sex with Priscilla Presley . That would truly be an embarrassment ! I guess that it's good in that respect . But like I said , it's a good thing that they ended the series here . Also starring George Kennedy , Kathleen Freeman , and a whole slew of guest appearances by many people as themselves , including " Weird Al " Yankovic ( happy birthday , Al ! ) .
still , it's not quite his best	While I like pretty much all of Richard Pryor's work , I suspect that " Richard Pryor : Live and Smokin ' " probably embarrassed him a little bit . The humor is very dated , and Pryor looks somewhat uncomfortable here . But even so , he certainly tells some funny stuff . I think that my favorite of his material here is the stuff about the Nixons ( this was filmed in 1971 ) ; I get the feeling that Pryor's assertion about their sex life was an accurate one . So anyway , hard-core Pryor fans won't want to miss this one , but others might not feel so enthused . OK in a pinch .
So Little Joe Cartwright was a teenage werewolf . . .	Those rock ' n ' roll-loving teens in the ' 50s sure must have loved this movie . It tied old-style horror flicks with the modern youth culture . High school student Tony Rivers ( Michael Landon ) has a chip on his shoulder and seeks help from a psychiatrist . The only problem is , the therapy turns him into . . . well , the title explains it . " I Was a Teenage Werewolf " seems a little dated nowadays , but it's still a good way to pass the time . But I just have one question : why did the bell ringing turn him into a wolf in that one scene ? If he'd just gotten sexually aroused ( I sure did ) , it would have made a little more sense . Oh well , it's still worth seeing , if only as a cultural reference .
to make your brain swim	No doubt the fact that there were two movies about Jean Harlow in 1965 might surprise some people ; to add to that , apparently neither Carroll Baker nor Carol Lynley was the right woman to play her ( I have to admit that I've never seen any of Jean Harlow's movies - unless you count her appearance in " City Lights " - so I can't comment one way or the other ) . Either way , this " Harlow " seems to go in two directions . On the one hand , it shows how the Hollywood dream looked : the opening scene shows what many people coming to Tinseltown expected , and then Jean Harlow gets to live that dream . . . at least superficially . On the other hand , the portrayals of Harlow's public life and private life make it nearly impossible to determine which is to be best remembered . Here , her frustration with her mother ( Angela Lansbury ) and anger at her stepfather ( Raf Vallone ) get played to almost comic effect . Is every movie star doomed to have something in his / her personal life that has to get sensationalized in a biopic ? So , I would say that this movie takes the same approach to its subject that " Mommie Dearest " did : trashy , but something about the movie gives it an almost desirable feeling . Did I like the movie or hate it ? Well , it has its visuals ( I would call Carroll Baker a visual in and of herself ) , and it sure beats any Steven Seagal movie for smarts . In a way , that's about it . Since I don't really know much about Jean Harlow , I just have to accept what " Harlow " says . It's not outright worthless , but don't make it your first choice . Also starring Red Buttons , Martin Balsam and Leslie Nielsen .
destiny turns off the radio . . . but merrily we roll along	Friz Freleng's " Toy Town Hall " has the feel of one of the really early cartoons from Warner Bros . , before they figured out the really zany path that they wanted to take ( I believe that that started with Daffy Duck's debut ) . In this short , a boy wants to listen to the radio but has to go to bed . But in his bedroom , the toys put on their own radio show , often featuring celebrity caricatures . Toys just know no limits , do they ? For me , at least , one of the most eye-opening moments was when one of the characters - I think that he might have been an Eddie Cantor caricature - sings " Merrily We Roll Along " . For the uninitiated , that's the song played during the openings of Merrie Melodies cartoons while the Warner Bros . shield approaches ( Looney Tunes cartoons play " Merry-Go-Round Broke Down " ) . So in that respect , this cartoon was sort of a sign of things to come , if unwittingly . Anyway , it's an OK cartoon , a common representation of their pre-Bugs Bunny days .
good story , although the movie could have been better	Volker Schlondorff's " Palmetto " has a very interesting plot , although I think that the movie could be better . Woody Harrelson plays an ex-con who gets drawn into a supposedly fake kidnapping in Florida . The movie contains a series of plot twists ( I won't name them , lest I spoil the whole thing ) , but nothing gratuitous . You have to realize that this is not a bad movie ; it's just that Schlondorff could have done a better job with it ( especially towards the end ) . Overall , I do recommend it . You'll probably like it . Also starring Elisabeth Shue , Gina Gershon , Michael Rapaport , Chloe Sevigny and Tom Wright . Schlondorff also directed " The Tin Drum " and " Strajk - Die Heldin von Danzig " .
If it's Tuesday , this must be any Chevy Chase movie .	It's Chevy Chase up to his usual high jinx as the Griswolds travel across the Old Continent . In the process , they mangle Eric Idle , destroy Stonehenge , invade a German couple's apartment , upset a festival , and tie Rome in knots . You'll never forget Ellen's ( Beverly D'Angelo ) bizarre dance early in the movie - or what happens because of it later . I sort of wonder how many " embarrassing trip to Europe " movies there can be ; there was this , " If It's Tuesday , This Must Be Belgium " , and some unmemorable movie a few years ago . As for the " National Lampoon's Vacation " movies , they should have stopped after " Christmas Vacation " . But either way , this one is still good for a few laughs .
drug addiction	There have been many drug addiction movies : " A Panic in Needle Park " , " Scarface " , " Drugstore Cowboy " , " Naked Lunch " , " The Basketball Diaries " , " Trainspotting " , " Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas " and now " Permanent Midnight " . This last one features Ben Stiller as writer Jerry Stahl , who is battling heroin addiction . Throughout the movie , we follow Jerry around and see how the addiction is affecting his life and relationships . It was certainly worth seeing , but it didn't really show anything that we haven't seen before ( granted , it wasn't weird like " Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas " ) . It's sort of weird to think that Ben Stiller in the same year went from a totally silly role in " There's Something About Mary " to this grim role . Oh well . . .
nightmare on Bening street	I've liked pretty much all of Annette Bening's movies , although I did think that Neil Jordan's " In Dreams " should have come out as a little bit more given what all seems to have gone into it . As it is , I've seen lots of movies that portray people's dreams being more than just dreams and possibly showing something evil . This one isn't terrible , but I've seen this sort of thing so many times that there's nothing really new here . The movie's main strength is it's dreary , nearly Gothic setting . So , it's worth seeing maybe once . The movie just might give you a different impression of Annette Bening , plus co-stars Aidan Quinn and Robert Downey Jr . So just remember what Roy Orbison sang . . .
Harmless , if nothing else	The whole thing's pretty simple : Scooby-Doo , Scrappy and Shaggy go to be gym instructors in a girl's school . What they don't know is that in this particular school , the students are all monsters ( don't worry - they're good monsters ) . There's a werewolf , a vampire , a ghost , a Frankenstein and a mummy . To crown everything , the headmistress ( who's also the mummy's mother ) has a pet dragon who prefers to breathe fire at Scooby-Doo . Then , while they're all out on an excursion to a swamp , an evil witch kidnaps the girls , and Scooby , Scrappy , Shaggy and the pet dragon have to go save them . . . if they can . I don't think that I've seen most of the Scooby-Doo cartoons - and I deliberately avoided the 2002 movie - but " Scooby-Doo and the Ghoul School " wasn't bad . It's really something now that I realize that " Mary Poppins " matriarch Glynis Johns did the voice of headmistress Ms . Grimwood .
So that's Donald Sutherland . . .	Hammer Films just kept ' em coming in the ' 50s and ' 60s . If Christopher Lee and Peter Cushing were involved , then you could safely assume that they had something neat in store . In " Dr . Terror's House of Horrors " , enigmatic Dr . Sandor Schreck ( Peter Cushing ) is in a train with five other men . He proceeds to tell them their fortunes . There's nothing particularly scary here , but it's never pretentious either . This movie is what most of these movies were : nice , silly fun . A standout in the movie is a very young Donald Sutherland as one of the men ; I guess that it's sort of a before-they-were-famous situation for him . And finally , there's a delicious surprise at the end .
And ?	So Gregory Peck's final appearance was in a movie based on the same story as one of his best movies . However , this version of " Moby Dick " is a little hard to take seriously . You see , Ahab is played by Capt . Picard , and Ishmael is played by ET's friend . A previous reviewer noted that they took so much out of the story that no character seems to have any motivation . But still , it's a pretty fun romp seeing the men sailing around the world on the Pequod , looking for the whale who bit off Ahab's leg . Maybe there might be a better version of it one day . On second thought , just stick with the 1956 version .
even less-than-masterpiece cartoons focus on certain topics better than most movies do	From the time of Porky Pig's debut until about the time that we entered WWII , Warner Bros . mostly cast him roles that they figured represented every aspect of life . One of these was the captain of the Mayflower . Bob Clampett's " Pilgrim Porky " is basically a series of spot gags , the sort of stuff that one would expect in a Tex Avery cartoon ( except that Avery's stuff was cleverer ) . Also , there are some racial stereotypes . To this cartoon's credit , I like it's portrayal of the Mayflower and everything relating thereto better than the story that we've usually been taught . I find it cool to see a mangling of our national myth . Both " The Addams Family Values " and " The Ice Storm " talked about the true significance of the first Thanksgiving . Overall , this one's OK for some brief entertainment . I should admit that some of the gags made me laugh . Clampett directed better stuff over the next few years .
she wouldn't have noticed if he'd smelled bad	It's no surprise that for the role of one of history's most famous painters they cast the guy who played Moses and Ben-Hur ( who ever would have guessed that he would later be the NRA's president ? ) . Of course , Carol Reed's " The Agony and the Ecstasy " is basically a dramatization of Pope Julius II ( Rex Harrison ) hiring Michelangelo ( Charlton Heston , who turns 83 today ) to paint the Sistine Chapel , and does get just a overdone at times . Granted , I like focuses on historical events , and the movie does a good job with its subject . We see Michelangelo's inner conflicts while Julius keeps trying to get him to finish quicker . So , I recommend it as a look at this one part of history . Just understand that there is a slight soap opera feeling . And for the record , I don't think that Contessa de Medici ( Diane Cilento , who was Sean Connery's wife at the time ) would have noticed if Michelangelo had stunk , as most people in Europe didn't usually bathe back then .
I'm still ready to call them .	I guess that usually , we have to wonder why they make sequels . If nothing else , as long as the sequels aren't boring , obnoxious , pathetic , embarrassing , insulting , or otherwise bad , then they're acceptable . " Ghostbusters II " passes . Bill Murray , Dan Aykroyd , Harold Ramis , Ernie Hudson , Sigourney Weaver , Annie Potts and Rick Moranis reprise their roles from the original . This one has the title characters battling a river of hostility-based slime that's possessing a painting . Peter MacNicol plays the man who brought the painting to New York , and subsequently gets possessed by it . " Ghostbusters II " is pretty ridiculous , often gross , but never unpleasant . So who you gonna call ?
I know that the Coen brothers are supposed to be far out , but still . . .	I usually really like the Coen brothers ' work . Quirky without being incomprehensible , grotesque without being disgusting , they have some neat ideas . However , I had a hard time following " The Man Who Wasn't There " . This film noir about a barber ( Billy Bob Thornton ) in post-WWII Santa Rosa trying to get into another line of work with unpleasant consequences is a little too far out to figure out . Thornton , Frances McDormand , Michael Badalucco and James Gandolfini all turn in some interesting performances , but the movie is reminiscent of the Coens ' debut " Blood Simple " , in that it's a little hard to tell who is doing what to whom . That all said , I still think that it's worth seeing . I agree with a previous reviewer that Thornton has the perfect face for a film noir . The black-and-white setting naturally heightens the mood . What really catches our eyes nowadays is the presence of Scarlett Johansson ; her role here seems to foreshadow her roles in " Lost in Translation " and " Match Point " . So , I recommend it , but remember that you're likely to get confused . Also starring Jon Polito , Richard Jenkins ( Nate Sr . on " Six Feet Under " ) and Tony Shalhoub . PS : Santa Rosa was also the setting for " Shadow of a Doubt " and " Scream " , and Charles Schulz lived there . What a combo !
sometimes honorable , sometimes not	John Huston's last movie , " Prizzi's Honor " , has usually been well regarded , but it actually seems sort of slow at times . Starring Jack Nicholson as Mafia hit-man Charley Partanna in love with one Irene Walker ( Kathleen Turner ) who turns out to also be an assassin , the movie strives to be a zany comedy but never totally achieves it . Still , there are some good parts throughout the movie . It just seems that they should have come out with more , given the talent involved . And I certainly wouldn't compare this movie to " The Godfather " . Also starring Anjelica Huston ( who won Best Supporting Actress ) , Robert Loggia and William Hickey .
Really something , Boo .	OK , so the white - yuppie - and - black - ghetto - person - joining - up idea has been used a number of times in movies , but the dialog between Steve Martin and Queen Latifah makes this one worthwhile . Probably the best scenes are Betty White's nasty comments , Queen Latifah teaching Missi Pyle a lesson , Steve Martin dressed - and attempting to talk - like a rapper ( especially because of what Joan Plowright ends up doing in that scene ) , and of course , Eugene Levy's statements ending with " Boo " . " Bringing Down the House " really does bring down the house . Completely silly , but fun nevertheless . Who ever would have imagined Joan Plowright ( aka Laurence Olivier's widow ) doing what she did and saying what she said in the rapper scene ?
It did in fact apply during WWII	With the horrors of the Vietnam War and the disaster that is the Iraq War , it may be surprising that cartoons proudly promoted war . But " Any Bonds Today ? " does just that , as Bugs Bunny , Porky Pig and a portly Elmer Fudd ( strangely , no Daffy Duck ) sing a song encouraging the American people to buy war bonds to support US participation in World War II . I will say that although I would never want to join the army , it is fairly interesting to see Bugs , Porky and Elmer ( why no Daffy ? ) singing about WWII , even if it is propaganda . Of course , if you're expecting them to do their usual Looney Tunes stuff , you'll get mighty disappointed . This cartoon is strictly about the war effort ( other cartoons had them do crazy things to the Axis leaders ) . And knowing that at least some good things resulted from WWII , I guess that justifies this cartoon . So if nothing else , it's worth seeing as a historical reference .
this place is a zoo	Once again , Pepe Le Pew tries to get slinky with the female cat , but his offensive odor prevents it . In this case , he lives in Paris zoo - where everything begins with " le " - and she paints herself like a skunk to get something to eat . In some senses , it seems like if you've seen one Pepe Le Pew cartoon , you've seen ( and possibly smelled ) them all . But " Scent-imental Romeo " is still really fun . I've long viewed Pepe as the sort of misunderstood person who can't help that he's offensive , because he doesn't know it ( and isn't it our stereotype that the French lack hygiene skills ? ) . But anyway , this cartoon is still a treat . Watching it , you may feel like getting romantic with someone .
" We fall so we can learn to pick ourselves up . "	First of all , I should say that after " Batman & Robin " it would be impossible to drag the franchise down any lower . Therefore , we would have to figure that even if " Batman Begins " was atrocious , it couldn't be any worse than " B & R " . Well , we needn't worry : this one is very well done . Maybe not a " Citizen Kane " - style masterpiece , but definitely worth seeing . I'm not surprised at all , given that it's in the hands of " Memento " director Christopher Nolan . As the title identifies , this movie tells the story of how wealthy Gotham City heir Bruce Wayne ( Christian Bale ) became the Caped Crusader ( is it unacceptable to use that name , considering the dark nature of this movie ? ) . Specifically , we get to see how various and sundry incidents forced him to face his fears directly , no matter how unpleasant the situation could be . And there are plenty of unpleasant situations to experience in a Chinese prison . Ah , but a Tibetan training camp can teach a person the most unimaginable skills . And that's just what they do with Bruce . Back in Gotham City , Bruce moves back into Wayne Manor , where butler Alfred Pennyworth ( Michael Caine ) has lived alone for seven years . In that time , gangster Carmine Falcone ( Tom Wilkinson ) has risen to prominence , bought out all the politicians , and completely turned the city into his playground . Only reporter Rachel Dawes ( Katie Holmes ) has the courage to investigate him . Now that Bruce Wayne is donning a bat costume , there may actually be law enforcement . But wait until you find out what the crime syndicate is actually planning . Far from the idiocy in the previous Batman movie , the plot here is very cleverly constructed . The aforementioned cast members all do very well in their roles . Also starring are Liam Neeson as Henri Ducard , who helps Bruce pick himself back up ; Gary Oldman as honest cop Jim Gordon , assisting Batman ; Cillian Murphy as Dr . Jonathan Crane , who has a lot in store ; Ken Watanabe as Ra's Al Ghul , who trains Bruce ; Morgan Freeman as Lucius Fox , providing Bruce with all the devices necessary ; plus Rutger Hauer and Linus Roache . All in all , a very well done movie . True , some of the action sequences are a little silly , but never stupid . And certainly , this movie has some of the best advice that I've ever heard in an action movie .
Johnny , Marlon , and Faye have all still got it .	Practically everyone agrees that Johnny Depp is one of the most impressive actors of his generation - maybe THE most - but anyone who doubts that Marlon Brando and Faye Dunaway can still do their stuff need only watch " Don Juan DeMarco " . It casts Depp as the title character , who one day appears and claims that he is literally the world's greatest lover , having loved 1 , 502 women . Marlon Brando plays Dr . Jack Mickler , trying to cure Don Juan , and Faye Dunaway plays Jack's wife Marilyn , wondering how these sessions might affect their lives . What I thought was really neat in the movie was at the end , when it portrays Jack sort of taking on the Don Juan persona , applying it to himself as a psychiatrist . Maybe this is the sort of movie that they just made for fun , but it sure is interesting . You can do a lot with a combination of Ed Wood , Don Corleone , and Bonnie Parker . And Faye Dunaway is still really hot . Obviously , Marlon Brando is no longer with us , but he still had it up to his death .
I also dream of a genie , but my Jeannie has blonde hair .	OK , it's true : " Apes of Wrath " is basically a combination of two previous cartoons . There was " Gorilla My Dreams " , in which Bugs Bunny gets adopted by a gorilla family ( and the father wants to rip him to shreds ) , and " A Mouse Divided " , in which the inebriated stork delivers some parents - in that case Mr . and Mrs . Sylvester - the wrong kind of baby ( in that case a mouse ) and the father wants to eat him . But it's still a really funny cartoon , just because of what happens to the father . I originally saw this cartoon in the compilation film " Bugs Bunny's 3rd Movie : 1001 Rabbit Tales " , and I simply laughed at the events portrayed . Now that I'm old enough to analyze it , here's what I notice : the father is named Elvis . For me at least , that's weird to think about . I remember in " 8 Mile " , one of the rapper wannabes calls Eminem's character " Elvis " as an insult ; after all , Elvis Presley sang the sort of music originally created by African-Americans . So now , we see a gorilla named Elvis in Africa , the land identified by Muhammad Ali as the home of the black man . Go figure ! I know , it makes no sense to mention Elvis Presley , Eminem and Muhammad Ali in a review of a Bugs Bunny cartoon . But no matter . It isn't the best cartoon , but still worth seeing . And yes , I dream - or , more specifically , fantasize - about Jeannie from " I Dream of Jeannie " . You gotta admit , she is REALLY HOT !
there's more to Indian cinema than musicals	When Americans hear the name " Apu " , they're likely to think of the Kwik-E-Mart owner on " The Simpsons " . Well , here's a different one . " Apur Sansar " ( called " The World of Apu " in English ) tells the story of a Calcutta man and how he has to deal with his various experiences . I should identify that this is not a movie for people with short attention spans . We may think of Indian movies as over-the-top musicals , but those are specifically Hindi movies ; this is a Bengali movie . Apparently , it's part of a trilogy . I have to admit that this is the only installment that I've ever seen . But if this is any example , the other two should be interesting . Definitely worth seeing .
nature's revenge	What's most funny about " Room and Bird " is the fact that Sylvester and Tweety are in neighboring rooms in a hotel where no pets are allowed , and the manager keeps suspecting that something's up . . . all leading up to what happens at the end ! Truth be told , the hotel manager reminded me just a little bit of Mr . Hand in " Fast Times at Ridgemont High " , how he suspected everyone of breaking the rules . But that's just me . All in all , it's not a great cartoon by any stretch , but I just like the sight of seemingly lowly characters rattling authority figures ( think " Animal House " , and not just because of the animals here ) . All in all , an OK cartoon . Worth seeing .
goodbye Peter , goodbye	Once again , Peter Sellers makes a mess of everything as Insp . Jacques Clouseau . This time , a gangster sets up a trap to assassinate him , but kills the wrong person . This sets in motion a few things : Charles Dreyfus ( Herbert Lom ) is elated at the news of Clouseau's death and leaves the mental institution , and the real Clouseau decides to find out who tried to kill him . Naturally , we have to wonder what's going to happen once the two men meet . Burt Kwouk returns as Cato , and the female lead here is Dyan Cannon . As is the case with every movie in the series , the whole thing is really an excuse for Clouseau to be a doofus . Also , " Revenge of the Pink Panther " was the last Pink Panther movie released during Peter Sellers ' lifetime . It remains to be seen how Steve Martin will stack up .
it didn't really happen like this	The recent belated conviction of Edgar Ray Killen ( wouldn't you say that it's appropriate that he has " kill " in his last name ? ) brings to mind the story that inspired " Mississippi Burning " . It's the story of how a group of Ku Klux Klan members murdered civil rights activists James Chaney , Michael Schwerner and Andrew Goodman in Philadelphia , Mississippi , in the summer of 1964 . The movie portrays the murders , but FBI agents Rupert Anderson ( Gene Hackman ) and Alan Ward ( Willem Dafoe ) are made up . It turns out that the FBI bribed one of the murderers to rat on the other two , and all the while the FBI was tapping Schwerner's father's phone to see if he was a Communist . So , they played with the facts . Hollywood often does that . Either way , " Mississippi Burning " still is a good movie , reminding us of a time in our country's history when we were about to explode .
Here's what happened when I went to see the movie . . .	Usually , when we hear that the United States has remade a foreign movie , it's time to start groaning in despair . Not so with " Dark Water " . An ingenious thriller helmed by " The Motorcycle Diaries " director Walter Salles , the movie succeeds where too many movies have failed . Dahlia ( Jennifer Connelly ) has just gone through a nasty divorce . So , she and her daughter Cecilia ( Ariel Gade ) move into an apartment on Roosevelt Island . Looking at the apartment complex , almost anyone might get turned off : not only does it look like something put up by the old Soviet bureaucracy , but the whole place is pretty dreary . But , she and Ceci like it enough , to move in . But then , strange things start happening . A leak from the next floor won't stop , and a lot of the water from the sinks and washer is much darker than it should be . What is causing this ? The answer lies in some unpleasant events of the building's past . Part of what was so good about this movie was the use of shadows : very few scenes are without shadows , rain , or something else to give a sense of fear . Pete Postlethwaite , as security guard Veeck , is the sort of character whom you aren't sure whether or not to suspect of something . Even if " Dark Water " doesn't leave you with a sense of mortal fear , you will most likely feel that you want to think twice before trying to move into any place . Here's just a little aside . When I went to see the movie , it was out of focus , and they kept stopping it and restarting it . Finally , they decided that they couldn't fix it , so they just gave us passes to see a later showing . But that's just a side note . It's a pretty good movie .
there also seems to be a connection to " The Shining "	We've all heard about how the title character fell into a twenty-year sleep , and found the world totally different when he awoke . I wish to assert that there seems to be a connection to " The Shining " , as both have the theme that things return , but not necessarily in the same form ( needless to say , it was more subtle and more horrific in the latter ) . But even ignoring that , this version of " Rip Van Winkle " is very well done , as can be expected from Will Vinton . I will say that the scene in the forest might be a little bit intense for young children , but otherwise , the whole thing works very well . Definitely worth seeing . Because here we all are .
snow excuse for such rivalry	I wonder why Sylvester doesn't just give up on trying to get Tweety . Clearly that bird has a bad-ass streak . But Sylvester keeps going after him , and in " Putty Tat Trouble " has to vie with an unidentified orange tabby around Christmas . Needless to say , their attempts have rather detrimental results ( to them , that is ) . I agree with a previous reviewer that Sylvester and the other cat could have just made a deal to divide up Tweety equally . But it appears that they're both really greedy ( these toons have a real problem with that , don't they ? ) . And anyway , their misfortunes are their own fault for trying to harm someone else . So , it's not the best Sylvester-Tweety cartoon , but still worth seeing .
yet again , the human male lets his sex drive get the better of him	OK , so " Booby Traps " is chock full of non-PC material , quite offensive in the 21st century . As long as we understand that , it's one of the funniest things imaginable , made as a warning to American soldiers about rigged objects . Dim-witted soldier Pvt . Snafu - complete with his Bugs Bunny-like voice - is trudging through the north African desert , when he comes across a building full of scantily clad babes ( I don't think that they would really allow that in a Muslim country ) . As expected , Snafu not only gets as horny as possible , but the whole building is rigged . By which I mean that when they say " booby " traps , they really mean it ! So , it's a true guilty pleasure . Seeing some of those women , I might have easily fallen into the trap ! Pretty fun .
stupid white men	" Dead Man " is not like any western that you've seen before . It's not a glorification of pioneers traveling out west , and it's not a direct indictment of our treatment of the Indians . Granted , it portrays the Old West as a pretty ugly place , but the movie almost seems to treat it as a parallel universe . Johnny Depp plays William Blake , who gets hired to be an accountant for a metal company in a town called Machine in 1876 . When he arrives in town - after using up all his money - he learns from the corporate CEO ( Robert Mitchum ) that they've hired someone else . With nowhere to go , Blake hooks up with a woman , only to have her hubby walk in on them and kill her and wound him . Blake kills the guy and has to flee , since it turns out that this guy is the corporate CEO's son ( and the CEO is more concerned that Blake stole a horse than that his son got murdered ) . Out in the open , Blake meets up with an Indian named Nobody ( Gary Farmer ) , who calls him " stupid white man " . That's when the movie really starts to seem metaphysical . I thought that this movie was OK , although it's definitely not for everyone . It almost seems to have as its main strength a giant cast : Crispin Glover , John Hurt , Gabriel Byrne , Lance Henriksen , Michael Wincott , Billy Bob Thornton , and a whole bunch of other people . You might want to check it out , although mind you , you may find it very strange .
How far can they go ?	This time , Mike Myers plays Austin Powers , Dr . Evil and Fat Bastard , plus one new character : a Dutch guy named Goldmember who wants to help Dr . Evil take over the world . That's the main plot , but the movie is really an excuse for a bunch of silly gags ( namely the subtitles ) . The female interest this time is Foxxy Cleopatra ( Beyonce Knowles ) , whose cool never ebbs . The other addition is Austin's father Nigel ( Michael Caine ) . Anyway , " Austin Powers in Goldmember " is raucous fun from beginning to end . You just have to remember not to take anything seriously - and believe me , you can't . Reprising their roles from the earlier movies are Seth Green , Michael York , Robert Wagner , Mindy Sterling and Verne Troyer , while the guest appearances this time are Fred Savage , Steven Spielberg , Tom Cruise , Gwyneth Paltrow , Kevin Spacey , Danny DeVito and Britney Spears . And that's life , baby !
Not bad at all ( if you can accept something totally silly ) .	During the period when Richard Benjamin wasn't acting in any movies , he turned to directing , and " My Stepmother Is an Alien " was one of the results . It features nerdy astronomer Steven Mills ( Dan Aykroyd ) accidentally doing something that causes alien Celeste Martin ( Kim Basinger ) to get sent to earth . Naturally , she has to learn about everything step by step , causing some really wacky situations . This movie's nothing special , but good for a laugh . You probably really like the scene where Celeste asks her purse " What is sex ? " . Also starring Alyson Hannigan , Jon Lovitz , and Seth Green . Oh , and most of us probably know that Aykroyd had already played Mr . Conehead on " SNL " .
truly identified where Joe Dante was going	Before Joe Dante ( " Gremlins " ) got really famous , he directed this " Jaws " send-up , in which man-eating fishes accidentally get released into a river and swim downstream , looking for people who dared to stick their feet in the water . What makes " Piranha " so neat is how it knows that it's a pretty corny movie , so it just lets the cast be as calm as they want . It elicits some true fun . And the most surprising part is : John Sayles wrote it ! But the point is , you gotta love this movie . If Roger Corman executive produces , then you know that it's good . Among the cast are Dante regulars Kevin McCarthy ( happy birthday , Kevin ! ) and Dick Miller , and also Barbara Steele and Bradford Dillman .
cinematic butterfly	Steve McQueen starred in what may have been his last really great movie here . As Devil's Island inmate Henri Charriere , he gets down and dirty throughout the whole movie , and we really see how nasty the prison is . Equally good in the movie is Dustin Hoffman as Charriere's friend Louis Dega , looking about like he did in " Midnight Cowboy " and " Marathon Man " . The alligator scene is quite shocking , but what the movie portrays overall is supposed to be shocking , what with the hellish prison life . As for the issue of the movie's accuracy , that's always up to debate . The point is to understand how Henri and Louis had to cope with everything . All in all , this isn't the greatest movie ever , but worth seeing . An interesting change of pace from the director of movies as dissimilar as " Planet of the Apes " and " The Boys from Brazil " .
OK , but weakened just a little because there was also " The Score " that year	There have just been so many heist movies , that " Heist " seems like it would be hard to register , especially since 2001 also saw the release of " The Score " - also focusing on a heist - which I found more interesting . I will say that this one is worth seeing , if nothing else for some of the tricks that they play . But David Mamet's best movie was really " House of Games " , with more tricks than anyone could imagine . This one just doesn't seem to be adding anything significant to the cinematic landscape . Probably worth seeing once . Starring Gene Hackman , Danny DeVito , Delroy Lindo , Ricky Jay and Sam Rockwell . Did the chicken cross the road , or did the road move beneath the chicken ?
Stephen King and the 1960s	I haven't as yet read Stephen King's novel " Hearts in Atlantis " ( which , as I understand it , was a compilation of a few stories ) . But I remember reading King's intro at the beginning , in which he talked about having come of age in the ' 60s , and how this has influenced his work . Well , I would say that the movie " Hearts in Atlantis " - based on one of the short stories from the book - gives the that impression . Like " Stand by Me " and " It " , the movie portrays working-class children around 1960 whose only escape from the world's unpleasantness is each other . In this case , young Bobby Garfield ( Anton Yelchin ) lives with his widowed mother ( Hope Davis ) . Unfortunately , she considers him a nuisance at best : she practically ignores him and spends all her money on fancy clothes for herself . But one day , stranger Ted Brautigan ( Anthony Hopkins ) rents the room upstairs . Bobby suspects that there's something unusual , almost magical , about Ted . But who else might know about this ? As is the case with King's other looks back at childhood , this one gets told as a flashback , with Bobby's older self ( David Morse ) thinking about the repercussions of everything that happened . Maybe it's just me , but I think that there was something to that , given that the movie got released a few weeks after September 11 . One of the things that we as a country could have considered was how past deeds could have led to , and how we could have changed certain policies . But maybe that's just me . Overall , I thought that this was a very well done movie . I really got a sense of how Bobby must have been feeling about everything going on in his life , and of his newfound strength . I recommend it .
pleasure still with us	On one level , " Little Nikita " is just another silly action movie . But strong performances and some interesting turns keep this one afloat . FBI agent Roy Parmenter ( Sidney Poitier ) interviews teenager Jeff Grant ( River Phoenix ) , who is trying to get into the Air Force Academy . But while reviewing Jeff , Roy discovers the most surprising thing of all : Jeff's parents are Soviet " sleeper " spies who fled to the United States and never told him about their history . Moreover , there's renegade Soviet agent Scuba - who murdered Roy's partner many years earlier - looking for Jeff , while the USSR has sent someone to capture Scuba ! Yeah , it's beyond convoluted , and - quite frankly - improbable . But director Richard Benjamin knows how to to do it . There isn't a dull moment anywhere in the movie . Pretty interesting . And playing Jeff's dad is Richard Jenkins , aka Nate Sr on " Six Feet Under " .
When will we get over things ?	When " The Crossing Guard " came out , it seemed like we'd heard for years that Sean Penn was worthless and just got in a bunch of fights . We turned out to be wrong . He's as great a director as an actor . The movie casts Jack Nicholson as Freddy Gale , out to get drunk driver John Booth ( David Morse ) , who accidentally killed his daughter . Over the course of the movie , we see how Freddy's life is damaged not only by his daughter's death , but how he has never talked to anyone about this . Moreover , Freddy has never gone to his daughter's grave , but John has . Everything comes to a head at the end . Maybe I wouldn't call this the ultimate masterpiece , but it is worth seeing . Also starring Anjelica Huston , Robin Wright Penn and Piper Laurie .
crime just might have to pay sometimes	Dustin Hoffman gives as intense a performance as we can expect from him as ex-con Max Dembo , who might have a harder than expected time ditching his past . " Straight Time " hits you like a kick in the gut , and they pull no punches . Maybe it's not the greatest movie ever , but it's definitely worth seeing . I would certainly say that whenever Ulu Grosbard directed Dustin Hoffman , there was always a good result ( the previous time was " Who Is Harry Kellerman and Why Is He Saying All Those Terrible Things About Me ? " ) . So , this is one that you should see . Also starring Theresa Russell , Gary Busey , Harry Dean Stanton , M . Emmett Walsh and Kathy Bates .
Who's a Christian now ?	As an atheist , I'm not a person who really goes in for any portrayal of Jesus . Still , " The Last Temptation of Christ " does an interesting job looking at him . We see Jesus ( Willem Dafoe ) as an imperfect human being with his own personal problems . Many Bible-thumping ideologues objected to this movie , due to its portrayal of Jesus ' sexual life ; all that I can say is " If the guy didn't have sex , what would he have done ? " Now , the movie's weird aspect . Aside from the fact that " Spiderman " ' s Norman Osborne is playing Christ , Verna Bloom - aka Marion Wormer in " Animal House " - plays Mary , and Harvey Keitel plays Judas . All the Jews in the movie have American accents , while the Romans sound like Brits . But don't get me wrong ; this is still a good movie . Maybe Martin Scorsese is an odd choice to direct a biblical epic , but whom do we want to do it ? The biblical epics made in the ' 50s and ' 60s were boring as hell , and I heard that " The Passion of the Christ " was basically an anti-Semitic screed . My favorite biblical epic is " Life of Brian " . Here's what I think that they should do . A movie version of the Bible hosted by Jon Stewart . The cast members are all Jewish-American entertainers . For example , Goldie Hawn and Woody Allen play Eve and Adam ( for PC purposes , Eve comes first ) ; they behave like a pair of tensed-up artistic people . Dustin Hoffman is Joseph ( with the coat of many colors ) ; when the Pharaoh's wife comes on to him , he says " Mrs . Pharaoh , you're trying to seduce me , aren't you ? " . Harrison Ford plays Moses ; he splits the Red Sea with a light saber , and when he gets the Ten Commandments , it's done like the opening sequence in " Raiders of the Lost Ark " . Other cast members would include Carl and Rob Reiner , Mel Brooks , Gene Wilder , Elliott Gould , Barbra Streisand , Bette Midler , Billy Crystal , Kevin Kline , Richard Dreyfuss , " Weird Al " Yankovic , and others . At the end , Jon Stewart would say that the Bible was made into a movie . . . called " Saturday Night Fever " . He would then walk down the street a la John Travolta while " Stayin ' Alive " gets played , and go to a discotheque . Yes , the Bible would end in a discotheque . Call me crazy , but that would be my ideal Bible .
M . Night Shyamalan's last really interesting movie so far .	M . Night Shyamalan followed up " The Sixth Sense " with the not-quite-as-great , but no less fascinating , " Unbreakable " . Bruce Willis plays Philadelphia security guard David Dunn , who survives a train wreck that kills everyone else . After this , he meets Elijah Price ( Samuel L . Jackson ) , who suffers from Osteogenesis Imperfecta , which causes his bones to break very easily . Elijah is convinced that David is as strong as the superheros in comic books . But what is there about either of these men that remains to be discovered ? As in his previous movie , Shyamalan creates a bleak setting that may be about to undergo a mind-shattering change . This one isn't as good as " The Sixth Sense " , but you will be shocked at the end just the same . Watch for Shyamalan as the man whom David investigates at the stadium .
Call me on the " land " line .	Maybe " The Land Before Time " is the sort of movie that appealed more to us when we were little children . Still , as a young adult , I remember that it was an interesting idea , with dinosaur children having to rely on each other . However , I do wish to assert that some of the T-Rex scenes may have been a little too intense for really young children . I mean , some of them get really ugly . Overall , it's a pretty interesting movie . I guess that " Jurassic Park " has made us expect a different portrayal of dinosaurs on the silver screen , but this one still passes . You probably won't have a religious experience or anything , but it's an OK way to pass time .
inanimate objects come to life , and even look at world events	" Billboard Frolics " was one of the many Warner Bros . cartoons in which inanimate objects come to life ; others included " Have You Got Any Castles ? " , " You're an Education " and " Book Revue " . The title identifies what comes to life here . There's Eddie Camphor and his why-oh-lean ( violin ) player Rub-Him-Off playing " Merrily We Roll Along " , which of course became the theme song for the Merrie Melodies cartoons . Another poster advertises Cuba ( I wonder whether or not they were allowed to show this cartoon after the Cuban Revolution ) . Yet another poster shows Russian rye dancing to a different version of " MWRA " , while also mentioning the Five Year Plan . If you've never studied Soviet history , you probably won't catch that reference . The Five Year Plan was Joseph Stalin's goal of turning the USSR's economy into one of the world powerhouses ; not surprisingly , it didn't work out quite like he proposed . But I digress . There are some pretty neat tricks in this cartoon . The last section has a bird chasing a worm , then a cat chases the bird , then a dog chases the cat . There's even an appearance by Ham & Armor baking soda . Pretty cool .
Happy 60th , Glenn !	Since today is Glenn Close's 60th birthday , I wanted to talk about one of her lesser known movies . Directed by Gabriel Garcia Marquez's son Rodrigo , " Things You Can Tell Just by Looking at Her " interweaves the stories of several women . Close plays a doctor having to care for her mother . Kathy Baker , Cameron Diaz , Calista Flockhart , Valeria Golino , Holly Hunter and Elpidia Carrillo play some of the other women . At times , the movie gets confusing , what with the various plots crossing paths , but I still found it worthy . Some people might compare " TYCTJBLAH " to " Short Cuts " and " The Hours " , but I beg to differ . This one never gets cynical like " Short Cuts " ( although the latter was still worth seeing ) and isn't a downer like " The Hours " ( although the latter was still worth seeing ) . Despite having a bunch of stars , this movie never feels like the sort of movie that collects a bunch of stars to show them off ; the looks at the women's relationships ensure that the film has a more realistic feeling . Anyway , I recommend it , but don't expect a religious experience .
Remember : you're next !	Normally , I wouldn't support the idea of remaking " The Invasion of the Body Snatchers " ( although it's apparently been done a few times ) ; I consider the original one with Kevin McCarthy almost sacrosanct . But this new version - despite being mostly predictable - brings up an interesting point : what if a virus turning the human race into cold , insensitive beings ended up solving so many of the problems that we see ? What results from the infection's overtaking of humanity looks like ultra-idealism , what with ending all wars and stuff . But would we want to lose what makes us human ? Then again , I can't guarantee that the people behind the movie intended for that sort of interpretation . After all , many people interpreted the original version as either an anti-communist screed or an anti-McCarthyism screed , while the director apparently intended it as a plain old alien invasion story . Overall , this one's worth seeing , if only once . Starring Nicole Kidman ( looking very much like Grace Kelly ) , Daniel Craig , Jeffrey Wright ( the CIA agent in " Syriana " ) , Josef Sommer ( Harrison Ford's boss in " Witness " ) and Veronica Cartwright .
grimmer and grimmer	In a loose adaptation of " Hansel and Gretel " , Dutch siblings Jacob and Marie are abandoned by their parents and eventually make their way to Spain . In Spain , Marie marries surgeon Diego . Everything looks normal at first , but it becomes apparent that Diego might not be quite what he seems , especially after Jacob tries to drag Marie away from him . What's really neat about " Grimm " is how it plays with the audience . After they leave the Netherlands , you think that the movie's important part has already happened , but you're wrong . Dead wrong . That door in Diego's house gives me the feeling that along with " Hansel and Gretel " , there's also a tinge of " Bluebeard " here . And I wonder if that town at the end is the one where they filmed the spaghetti westerns . All in all , this is black comedy at its neatest .
corruption is life	When I started watching " American Gangster " , I had no idea what it was about . By the end , I was surprised that I had never heard the story before . The first character whom we meet is Frank Lucas ( Denzel Washington ) , confidante of Harlem gangster extraordinaire Ellsworth " Bumpy " Johnson ( Clarence Williams III ) . Lucas's first scene makes him look like a heartless killer , but we soon see that he does have friends and can be a nice guy . When Johnson dies in 1968 , Lucas becomes head honcho in Harlem . But simply being the big cheese isn't enough for this guy . So he starts another business venture : drug trafficking . The ongoing Vietnam War enables Lucas to import heroin from Indochina , and before long he practically runs Harlem . Part of his aim is to stamp out corruption in his inner circle . Meanwhile Det . Richie Roberts ( Russell Crowe ) has his own stuff going . While going through a divorce , he seeks to bring down Lucas's drug empire , and at the same time dealing with corruption in his own ranks . So here we have these two men mired in slimy settings , both trying to make good . Well , as good as is possible in this sordid world that they inhabit . For me , the movie's main strength was focusing on this topic . Since I had never known about any of this stuff , any concentration on it will be good . Beyond that , the movie does a pretty good job with its various topics . Granted , the breadth of the focus makes it hard for the movie to delve too deeply into any particular topic , but I felt fulfilled just learning about what happened . No , it's not the greatest movie ever ( I consider " Blade Runner " Ridley Scott's best ever ) . But I would still recommend it . Also starring Ruby Dee .
Maybe it's just a place holder , but it remains an essential part of the series .	With boy wizard Harry Potter ( Daniel Radcliffe ) going into his second year at Hogwarts , he gets visited by a " house elf " named Dobby , who warns him not to go . Naturally , Harry doesn't listen to this . But when he does arrive at the school , he finds that there's a number of things not right . And the answer is closer than he thinks . Obviously , the filmmakers couldn't go straight from " Philosopher's Stone " to " Prisoner of Azkaban " , so they had to include " Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets " . This is probably the HP movie which I recommend the least ( but make no mistake , I do recommend it ) . Sometimes , it just seems like a big Hollywood production , but I consider it a good movie nonetheless . The Oregonian's review correctly stated that it maintained the first movie's strength and flaws . Radcliffe plays Potter to perfection , while Rupert Grint and Emma Watson also return as Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger , respectively . Aside from the other cast members from the original ( Richard Harris , Maggie Smith , Alan Rickman , Robbie Coltrane , Richard Griffiths ) , there are two new ones : Kenneth Branagh as Gilderoy Lockhart ( the overstuffed Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher ) and Jason Isaacs as Lucius Malfoy ( Draco's father ) . Overall , worth seeing , but I liked " Prisoner of Azkaban " better ( I still haven't seen part 4 ) .
devil went down to England	The usually less-than-dependable Dudley Moore does a good job here as Stanley Moon , a short order cook leading a go-nowhere life but always eyeing waitress Margaret Spencer ( Eleanor Bron , whom you may recognize from " Help ! " ) . Enter the Devil ( Peter Cook ) , going by the alias George Spiggott . Satan gives Stanley seven wishes , so as to help the poor bloke win Margaret's heart . Stanley makes his wishes , but there's always a loophole leading to a rather embarrassing situation . Maybe " Bedazzled " was sort of a period piece . A particularly dated scene is when a policeman is showing someone a rape victim and says " She brought it on herself . " But overall , it's pretty funny , and Raquel Welch is really something playing Lillian Lust ( one of the seven deadly sins ) .
Nice kid , but he doesn't listen to a word you say ( he just sees through it ) .	Poor Foghorn Leghorn . That blustery yokel of a rooster always tries to be the most important character on the farm , but someone always outsmarts him . Usually , Henery Hawk and Barnyard Dog enjoy this luxury , but " A Broken Leghorn " features neither of them . Instead , there's a newborn rooster who Foghorn thinks is going to replace him . Sure enough , every attempt to eliminate the little guy results in Foghorn getting maimed somehow . OK , so we can probably predict what sorts of things are going to happen to FL , but it's neat seeing how for some reason he always finds a reason to keep going ( sort of like Wile E . Coyote ) . A pretty funny cartoon . Roostery . Foghorn makes up neater words than Stephen Colbert does .
Beans Amuck	Sort of a forerunner to Chuck Jones's more famous " Duck Amuck " , " A Cartoonist's Nightmare " portrays an animator working on a Beans cartoon . He falls asleep and ends up in the cartoon , where the monster threatening Beans proceeds to menace the cartoonist . It's up to Beans to save the day ! This short , directed by Jack King ( previously a Disney animator , he soon returned to Disney , after which Frank Tashlin took over his unit ) , came out right after Friz Freleng's " I Haven't Got a Hat " , which debuted not only Beans but also Porky . If I remember right , Porky and Beans were officially a team ( pork and beans , get it ? ) . Needless to say , Beans quickly dropped off the radar , while Porky gained fame as WB's first bona fide cartoon superstar , although he soon got overtaken by a certain stuttering duck , and later by a wise-guy rabbit . Anyway , this one's OK as a historical reference .
Maybe there will always be the issue of life and death .	On one level , maybe " Casper " is just a kids ' movie . But it does bring up the question of how we deal with our own mortality . The plot involves unctuous Carrigan Crittenden ( Cathy Moriarty ) and her crony Dibbs ( Eric Idle ) inheriting an abandoned mansion in Maine , only to find out that it's inhabited by people-hating ghosts . After a few failed attempts to get rid of these spirits , they hire Dr . James Harvey ( Bill Pullman ) , who claims that he can communicate with the dead . When he and his daughter Kat ( Christina Ricci ) move in , they have a few unpleasant encounters with the ghosts , but settle down . Thus arises the issue of how to cohabit with specters and also please Crittenden . Overall , maybe there's nothing totally special about this movie ; at face value , it seems to be all about quantity and not quality . But it does have some neat lines , and prompts us to consider what will become of ourselves post mortem .
3 types of there	Indie director Hal Hartley accomplished the quirky but definitely worth seeing " Henry Fool " , in which a trashy writer helps a socially awkward garbage man discover his real talent . Since the title character describes three kinds of " there " , I will use them to describe the movie . There is much in this movie that will give you a new view of your own life . Their talents come across very clearly in this movie . They're the people showing us that movies work best when not showing things exploding for no reason except to show off some star . Anyway , this is certainly a movie that I recommend . If it stars Parker Posey , you know that it's got to be interesting ( see also " The House of Yes " ) .
Don't try to fool a Portlander .	I didn't know anything about " Mr . Brooks " when I turned it on , and I got a surprise when I saw that the movie takes place here in Portland ! Unfortunately , it was clear that large portions got filmed elsewhere ; we Portlanders know when movies don't get our geography right ( not that I would expect Hollywood to get it right ) . In fact , I had never even heard of the movie getting filmed here at all ! WTF ? ! Was it just that the last movie that Kevin Costner filmed in Oregon was " The Postman " ? Oh well . I still found it a pretty interesting movie , with Costner as a man with a murderous side . Granted , it's not a masterpiece by any stretch , but OK . Also starring Demi Moore , Marg Helgenberger and William Hurt .
the " ideal " life	During the ' 50s and early ' 60s , the image of the " ideal " life ( where everyone lived pretty no matter what ) reigned supreme . " Save the Tiger " is like a barrel of salt in that image's wound . Middle-aged Harry Stoner ( Jack Lemmon ) has a top job , but he's clearly not happy ; quite the contrary , he always seems like his blood pressure is through the roof , and like his composure is hanging by a thread . I saw this right before I graduated from high school , and . . . well , it was pretty disturbing to think that what " Save the Tiger " portrays is my prospect for the future . But , that's life . Harry Stoner apparently knows this all too well . About his surname , was that a reference to something ? Harry clearly was not getting stoned or anything , although he did hang out with a hippie girl .
interesting , but both men have done better	There have been many drifter stories , but " Scarecrow " stands all on its own . Portraying tough Max ( Gene Hackman ) and loopy Lionel ( Al Pacino ) befriending each other while wondering through the world , the movie is admittedly a downer . I will say that the movie doesn't seem to accomplish everything that it was probably trying to do . For example , the scene where Lionel does the act for the kids comes across as silly , maybe even pointless . But overall , the movie is an enjoyable - if gritty - look at searching for one's goal in life ( if that's what it was trying to do ) . So scarecrows entertain birds . . .
So Rube Goldberg met Barnyard Dog , eh ?	" Lovelorn Leghorn " probably wasn't the best Looney Tunes cartoon ever , but it certainly has its moments . It features Prissy looking for a husband , so Foghorn Leghorn tells her that Barnyard Dog is a rooster in disguise . After a football sequence , Barnyard clarifies everything and helps Prissy build the most whacked-out " rooster trap " ever , the sort of thing that looks like it was dreamed up by Rube Goldberg . It was always neat how Foggy had his hillbilly phrases , and how he and Barnyard liked to razz each other . This cartoon makes OK use of everything , so I have to say about it - to quote Prissy : " Ye-e-e-e-e-es . " Pretty good .
ringing the Belgium	Prior to seeing Martin McDonagh's " In Bruges " , I had heard that it was a straightforward comedy . It turned out that while the movie starts out comedic , it gets more serious as it progresses . Colin Farrell and Brendan Gleeson play hit men Ray and Ken , respectively . After Ray accidentally kills a boy , head honcho Harry ( Ralph Fiennes ) sends Ray and Ken to Bruges , Belgium . This is the sort of city that by rights should attract just about every tourist ; certainly Ken spends as much time as possible sightseeing . Ray , however , can't get over his previous actions , and his short temper gets him into trouble everywhere . Two wrenches get thrown into the works when Ray strikes up a relationship with local drug dealer Chloe ( Clemence Poesy ) and Harry orders Ken to kill Ray . The events resulting from the second part really set the movie on its more serious course . I guess that the movie disappointed me a little in that it turned out not to be the comedy that I expected . But for the most part I liked how it posed the question of what is right in such a convoluted situation and lets the audience decide for themselves ( sort of like what " No Country for Old Men " does ) . Worth seeing , if not the best movie . And if I may say so , Jimmy's ( Jordan Prentice ) description of the race war sounded like what Charles Manson envisioned . Also starring Elizabeth Berrington , Anna Madeley , Thekla Reuten , Ciaran Hinds , Rudy Blomme , Mark Donovan , Ann Elsley and Jean-Marc Favorin .
action-packed . . . and doing a good job with it	I'll admit that " Ronin " has a somewhat vague plot , but they do a good job with it . It has ex CIA agent Sam ( Robert DeNiro ) accompanying tough guy Vincent ( Jean Reno ) around France to find a suitcase wanted by various factions . Mostly , the movie is a bunch of car chases and such things , but good performances keep it strong . And I think that we have to agree that this was infinitely better than Jean Reno's other starring role in 1998 ( " Godzilla " ) . An interesting aspect is that we never find out what's in the suitcase , but maybe that's not totally important . Among other things , there aren't really any good guys in this movie ; we identify with Sam and his cohorts , but you can't totally classify them as " good guys " . All in all , another interesting flick from John Frankenheimer . Also starring Natasha McElhone , Stellan Skarsgard , Sean Bean and Jonathan Pryce .
Looks even better now that the Cold War has ended	I'm guessing that when " Moscow on the Hudson " first came out , it looked kind of silly and unrealistic . But now that the Cold War has long since ended , it looks better ( and watching the movie , you can see why the Soviet Union was imploding ) . Robin Williams , in one of his more easygoing roles , plays Russian saxophonist Vladimir Ivanoff , who defects while his group is performing in New York . The rest of the movie shows him trying to adjust to life in America , with varying degrees of success . Among his new acquaintances are Lucia Lombardo ( Maria Conchita Alonso ) , Lionel Witherspoon ( Cleavant Derricks ) and Orlando Ramirez ( Alejandro Rey , whom you may recall as Carlos on " The Flying Nun " ) . All in all , this isn't really anything special , but it does almost seem to be a premonition of the Eastern Bloc collapsing . Worth seeing .
Porky's voice comes from a dog	While the early Warner Bros . cartoon " Into Your Dance " ( directed by Friz Freleng ) does feature a scene of black-face characters , the rest is pretty entertaining . It portrays a sort of talent show aboard a stern-wheeler , but every performer screws up somehow . Is that doomed to happen every time ? ! One thing that I noticed is that the conductor is a pig looking very much like Porky , but I didn't detect that he says anything . Towards the end , a dog has Porky's stutter . What gives ? Then again , maybe I too easily get hung up on the wrong sorts of things . This cartoon is a worthy look into the beginning of the group that would soon create Bugs , Daffy , etc .
Carl Stalling departs	" To Itch His Own " is not like anything that I've ever seen . For the first few minutes , it's sort of unclear what's happening , as Angelo the world's strongest flea decides to take a vacation from the circus ( I guess that he " fleas " the circus ) . But once he settles in on a certain dog and another dog invades the scene , it all takes off . Was this cartoon a masterpiece ? I wouldn't go so far as to say that . But pretty much anything that Chuck Jones created was quite fascinating . This cartoon contains no dialog , unless of course you count yelps of pain . Worth seeing , and a worthy final effort for composer Carl Stalling , who retired after this one . I wonder why strongmen always have to have names ending in O .
one feather washes the other	I would call " Leghorn Swoggled " one of the more mind-boggling ( but no less funny ) Foghorn Leghorn cartoons , as Henery Hawk wants to catch a chicken , but has to do a favor for Barnyard Dog , a cat , and a mouse . Foggy tries to give him advice every step of the way , but guess what ends up happening ! Even if the process leading up to the real action gets a little whacked out , it's all worth it just for the final gag . Why does FL have to suffer so much ? Who knows . Maybe his blustery , impetuous attitude gets the better of him like Daffy Duck's does him . Really hilarious . As this cartoon is not yet available on DVD ( that I know of ) , you can watch it on YouTube .
chairman of the billboard	Sort of an updated version of " Billboard Frolics " , Friz Freleng's eye-popping " Lights Fantastic " depicts a bunch of billboards - apparently around Times Square - putting on various skits . This cartoon really shows off Freleng's penchant for synchronizing music and action ( especially with the conga beat ) . Freleng also made ample use of this in " Pigs in a Polka " and " Show Biz Bugs " . Mostly this was a place holder in 1942 . By that point , Bugs Bunny was the undisputed Warner Bros . cartoon star , Chuck Jones had totally eschewed cuteness in favor of slapstick , and the United States ' entry into WWII prompted a series of cartoons portraying the characters battling Nazis . But this was certainly a good place holder . Very similar to " Billboard Frolics " , true , but I recommend it .
Darren McGavin , RIP	Darren McGavin's death yesterday brings to mind his career , including all his movies . He only had a small role in " The Natural " , but the movie itself was something else . Starring Robert Redford as a 1930's baseball player with a seemingly superhuman talent ( possibly due to his bat ) , it's one of those movies up to interpretation - although IMDb . com noted that there's a slight allusion to Greek mythology . Maybe some parts were a little predictable , but it was overall a pretty neat movie , even for someone like me who takes no interest in sports . With a supporting cast of Robert Duvall , Glenn Close , Kim Basinger , Wilford Brimley , Robert Prosky , Joe Don Baker , and Richard Farnsworth , it's another impressive feature from Barry Levinson .
" rooms " with many views	I seem to recall that when " Four Rooms " came out , it was critically and commercially derided . When I saw it a few months later , I actually thought that it was pretty well done . I knew that Quentin Tarantino was involved in the making , so I could safely assume that there was an element of sleaze in the movie . Well , the movie is likely to blow anyone away , just in terms of how far they go . Portraying bellhop Ted ( Tim Roth ) and his loony experiences on New Year's Eve while waiting on several people in a hotel , they blow everything out of the water . The first two segments are pretty lowbrow : the first one portrays a witches ' coven and the second one portrays a psychopath who thinks that Ted had sex with his wife . But when we get to the third segment , that's where the movie really takes off . Ted has to watch the children of a slick Mexican guy named Man ( Antonio Banderas ) . After a few incidents , Man comes back and finds the room in the most mind-blowing scene imaginable . And , the last segment . Ted , in a totally frenetic state , goes to a room where several Hollywood guys are having a discussion ( with as many curse words as possible ) . What happens at the end of that segment . . . well , let me just tell you that no one sees that coming ! All in all , people who think that the movie didn't go anywhere obviously missed the point . I don't know for certain whether this movie was just an excuse to be crazy , but it sure seemed like that . You're sure to have fun watching it . Also starring Madonna , Valeria Golino , Jennifer Beals , Salma Hayek , and even Quentin Tarantino in the final segment playing a Hollywood type .
tip your hat to Porky Pig's 1st appearance	Although " I Haven't Got a Hat " just looks like a cute cartoon , it really seems to be focusing on the various kinds of things that can happen during a school recital , namely stage fright and resentment . Probably most famous as Porky Pig's debut ( he sings about Paul Revere's ride ) , the cartoon culminates when an owl tries to play the piano but a cat messes with the piano . So , this is a formidable part of cartoon history . The crowd behind the Looney Tunes cartoons would further develop the cartoons in later years , but this is a good reference point . Worth seeing . The lamb's fleece was as white as corn flakes . Ha !
Why can't Snafu ever do anything right ?	In one of the many Pvt . Snafu training films , Snafu tries to camouflage himself , but the Nazis are always one step ahead of him . I guess that these shorts had as their purpose to show American soldiers what not to do in wartime . As we can expect , the cartoon portrays an Americanized version of the German language ( " Mein Herr , haben Sie einen light ? " ) . I guess that as long as we understand what the cartoon portrays , it's easy to enjoy ( as were pretty much all the Pvt . Snafu cartoons ) . And for the record , with those sorts of mermaids , I would have been only to happy to jump into the scenery ! I know , that last part made me sound like a sexist pig . No need to rub it in .
As I understand it , there were accusations of anti-Arab stereotyping ?	" Father of the Bride II " may seem to some people like a lesser Steve Martin movie , with him as the patriarch from the previous movie now having to deal with his daughter's and wife's pregnancies . Unpretentiously silly . But one interesting thing is that apparently , some Arab groups claimed that the movie was making anti-Arab stereotypes , as a Middle Eastern man buys their house with plans to demolish it . I wouldn't have interpreted that as anti-Arab ; I mean , it's not like they're portraying him as a terrorist . Oh well , life goes on . The movie's a nice , goofy way to pass time . I really liked the scene where they bring Steve Martin into the hospital ( that would've sure been an embarrassment ! ) . Also starring Diane Keaton , Martin Short , Kimberly Williams , B . D . Wong and Eugene Levy .
Finally , an educational film worth watching !	So many educational films are nothing more than mind-numbing drudgery , saved only by the fact that " MST3K " mocks them ( " Why Study Industrial Arts ? " comes to mind ) . " Hemo the Magnificent " is actually quite well done . It's all about blood , the heart , and the circulatory system . I admit that I don't remember everything from it , but it does a good job explaining everything , keeping it serious but entertaining . I guess that you can always count on June Foray ( most famously the voice of Rocky the Squirrel , she plays a deer here ) . Since " Hemo the Magnificent " itself may be hard to find , probably the best place to see it is in " Gremlins " : a class is watching it while a gremlin is forming .
Jonathan Harker and Dracula's director reunite in Romania	Usually in movies , Romania is the land of Count Dracula . " Youth Without Youth " takes a new approach to Romania , even though it stars in a supporting role Bruno Ganz ( who played Jonathan Harker in Werner Herzog's " Nosferatu " ) and is directed by Francis Ford Coppola ( who directed " Bram Stoker's Dracula " ) . At the beginning , we meet Dominic Matei ( Tim Roth ) , a septuagenarian Romanian polyglot in 1938 . Suddenly , a flash of lightning hits Dominic . As the movie progresses , he gets younger and younger . The Nazi takeover of his native country prompts him to flee . But when he finds love in young Veronica ( Alexandra Maria Lara ) , his unusual trait has an unexpected result , forcing Dominic to decide what he'll now have to do . At the very least , this is a Dorian Gray-style movie , as Dominic stays much younger than he should be . But what I personally found really impressive was the range of languages spoken throughout the film , including Sanskrit . Apparently , " YWY " author Mircea Eliade as a young man went to Calcutta to study Sanskrit and and Eastern philosophy , so it wouldn't surprise me if the events in the story mirror his own experiences . From what I read about this film , it sounds as though this was an ambitious project in the vein of some of Coppola's more famous work . Not only did filming start more than two years before the release , but they shot over 170 hours of footage over a period of 85 days ; that's an average of more than 2 hours of footage per day ! But it came out very good , I must say . This is certainly a movie for which I have to commend everyone involved in the production . Definitely one that I recommend . And among other things , I hope that more movies will portray Romania as something other than the land of Count Dracula ( and possibly Nicolae Ceaucescu ) . Similarly , Coppola started filming " Apocalypse Now " over three years before its release .
Don't worry : it won't leave you feeling frail .	A story about a single father trying to convince his two sons that there's demons everywhere seems like the sort of thing that would come out completely idiotic . But they pull it off here rather neatly . It's the story of how Dad Meiks ( Bill Paxton , in his directorial debut ) got his sons to help him kill people whom he claimed were demons in 1970s Texas . Does he sound crazy ? Maybe , but after you see the movie , you may have doubts about everything . Because believe you me , contrary to what you may expect , Matthew McConaughey can actually play a creepy role ; and that's just what he does here . Texas sure has turned out some interesting directors : first Owen Wilson and Wes Anderson , and now Bill Paxton .
appropriately silly with some surprises along the way	Following his supporting role in " Talladega Nights " , John C . Reilly gets his own lead role in the musical biopic spoof " Walk Hard : The Dewey Cox Story " . Mostly poking fun at the Johnny Cash biopic " Walk the Line " - with elements of Ray Charles , Bob Dylan , Brian Wilson , Stevie Wonder , and even appearances by the Beatles and the Temptations - the movie isn't a yuk-fest in the vein of " Airplane ! " . Most of the humor is much more subtle , but when they throw it at you , it comes head on ! So , it's mostly a nice , short way to get a few laughs . Chockablock with inconsistencies about his age , yes , but there's no need to take anything seriously about this flick . Basically an excuse to be silly , with some neat surprises along the way . Judd Apatow is certainly making a good name for himself .
nothing totally new , but interesting	I can't claim to be a connoisseur of Bob Clampett's work , but I've liked most of the classic Looney Tunes cartoons . A previous reviewer said that " The Hep Cat " falls short of Clampett's usual quality . I , on the other hand , think that this cartoon is actually quite neat , as a cool feline tries to woo a woman , but a dog keeps interfering . I assume that the title referred to the sort of person who would soon be a beatnik . Even if it doesn't , I still have often noticed that the Looney Tunes cartoons had a way with jazz ( the ultimate kind of beatnik music ) . All in all , not a masterpiece , but worth seeing .
You wanna squirm ?	" Pulp Fiction " had the shot in the car , and the " Kill Bill " movies had , well , various death scenes . But " Reservoir Dogs " . . . ah , now this one will make your skin crawl . It focuses on a heist gone wrong . That's the most minimal description of the plot . Most of the movie has the various characters trying to figure out who did what . And then , there's the . . . well , let's just call it the ear scene . You will very likely squirm during that scene . If nothing else , we can say that Quentin Tarantino gave us a preview of his later films . Maybe his later films don't make your skin crawl , but but they all deal with lowlife culture . And you'd better believe that the characters in this movie are lowlifes . If absolutely nothing else , " Reservoir Dogs " shows us that violent , gross movies can be masterpieces .
genetic mutations get so weird that a pig fathers a cat	Porky Pig's second appearance ( and Tex Avery's directorial debut ) does feature a few racial stereotypes , but overall , " Gold Diggers of ' 49 " made me laugh . Set at the time of the 1849 California gold rush , Porky and Beans are prospectors , and Beans wants to marry Porky's daughter Kitty ( the three characters got introduced in " I Haven't Got a Hat " earlier in 1935 , and Porky looks as if he needs triple bypass surgery ) . Part of this involves Beans guarding a little something of Porky's . If you've seen any of Tex Avery's cartoons , then you should know what sorts of things to expect here . The gags aren't quite as zany as I might have hoped for , but I try to imagine how hilarious they must have looked the first time that moviegoers ever saw them . If absolutely nothing else , this should be of interest to cartoon fans as a look into the Termite Terrace crowd's early days . Worth seeing . As for the question of how a pig fathered a cat . . . well , in cartoons things don't have to make sense .
seemingly couldn't be , but is	Having seen Richard Kelly's work so far ( " Donnie Darko " and " Southland Tales " ) , I'm very eager to see what his third salvo will be . If you just hear a little bit about this movie , it would probably sound like something that either couldn't exist as a movie , or would have to be something starring Leslie Nielsen . It would likely be hard to envision The Rock ( billed with his real name Dwayne Johnson ) , Sarah Michelle Gellar and Seann William Scott co-starring in a movie set in a future in which the War on Terrorism has officially become World War III , and every part of everyone's lives in monitored in a way that puts Orwell to shame . But yes , this movie is just that , and even more . There are a couple of things to interpret ( at least as I interpreted them ) . Boxer Santaros ( Johnson ) is a movie star who married into a politician's family ( possibly a reference to Arnold Schwarzenegger ? ) . Krysta Now ( Gellar ) is a former porn star who has her own reality show , on which she pontificates about current issues ; ah yes , wouldn't every news show just love to have movie stars on as commentators , whether or not they know a damn thing about the topic ? Anyway , the setting is that there was a nuclear attack on the United States on Independence Day 2005 , and so the government used that as an excuse to turn the country into an ultra-police state ( while invading every " enemy country " except Cuba ) . Ronald Taverner ( Scott ) is an agent of UPU , the secret police ; he also has a twin brother Roland , who is a member of a neo-Marxist group . Meanwhile , German company Treer has invented a device to use the ocean currents as energy . . . with unexpected results . As the third anniversary of the attack approaches , Los Angeles gears up for the release of a zeppelin into the sky while the authorities battle the neo-Marxist group . But all is not what it seems . . . At times , there's so much going on that the movie is a little hard to follow , especially in the scenes with the multiple TV screens . But in the grand scheme of things , I recommend this movie . As I said earlier , I would have never imagined The Rock , Sarah Michelle Gellar and Seann William Scott co-starring in a movie dealing with things like the PATRIOT Act , but they all did a good job . I wouldn't be surprised if some of the events depicted here come true . And like I said , I'm eager to see Richard Kelly's next movie . Also starring Justin Timberlake , Wallace Shawn , Beth Grant , Miranda Richardson , Mandy Moore , Kevin Smith , John Larroquette , Jon Lovitz , Rebekah Del Rio , Nora Dunn , Bai Ling , Cheri Oteri , Amy Poehler , Lou Taylor Pucci , Janeane Garofalo , Christopher Lambert , Zelda Rubinstein and Will Sasso .
promoting the Columbus myth , but still hilarious	Obviously , " Hare We Go " is promoting the myth of Christopher Columbus's life . In reality , it's unclear whether or not Columbus was really Italian ( he may have been a Spanish Jew who converted to Christianity during the Inquisition ) ; by the time that he set sail , most people on both sides of the Atlantic had already figured out that the Earth is round ( Washington Irving made up the story about him proving it round ) ; the story about the crew trying to mutiny mostly seems to be making those at the top look good - an attack on the working class , if you will ; and Columbus couldn't have discovered America if there were already people there ( never mind that he initiated 500 years of genocide against the Indians ) . " Lies My Teacher Told Me : Everything Your American History Textbook Got Wrong " tells the whole story . Oh well , other than that , it's great to see Bugs Bunny's gags , as he accompanies Columbus as mascot on the trip across the ocean , and then discovers America . Another classic cartoon .
contrary to what Phil Ochs sang . . .	In one of Friz Freleng's early cartoons , a bunch of flowers have a big parade , complete with floats . I of course was half expecting there to be an " Animal House " - style finale , but something uglier happened . As this was in the early days of Warner Bros . animation , we needn't expect any of the full-scale wackiness that characterized their work in the ' 40s and ' 50s . But either way , it's a worthy look into the beginning of what would soon be one of the most popular cartoon series of all time . It's available on YouTube , but has probably been altered a little : the YouTube version starts with the zooming WB shield , whereas the 1935 cartoons began with the credits against a plain background ( and ended with a court jester saying " That's all , folks ! " ) .
nobody rips at Hollywood more than Hollywood itself	Jack King's " Hollywood Capers " came out during the first year in which Warner Bros . animation really had the recognition that it has had ever since . Featuring many of the characters from " I Haven't Got a Hat " , it portrays simple-minded feline Beans getting to Warmer ( yes , in this case it's Warmer , not Warner ) Bros . studios , only to cause a series of problems , culminating in Frankenstein's monster coming to life . The cartoon has a very simple story - as did most of their cartoons during the animation department's early years - but comes up with some really crazy sight gags , namely Frankie's meal ; no live action film , no matter how silly , could ever show that ! So , it's far from a great cartoon , but an eye-opening look into the early days of what would soon be the domain of Bugs , Daffy , etc . And it's a neat jab at Hollywood . Speaking of which , why does no one rip at Hollywood more than Hollywood itself ?
Chloe , the swamp song	In what must have been one of Daffy Duck's last black and white cartoons , he's looking for someone named Chloe , but gets the hiccups and goes to Dr . Jerkyl for a cure . Sure enough , Dr . Jerkyl transforms himself . . . into a big doofus named Chloe . Go figure ! Apparently , the opening scene of Daffy calling for Chloe in a swamp , that's something that audiences in 1942 probably would have understood perfectly but has since lost all meaning . As I understand it , there was a song called something like " Chloe , the Swamp Song " . But even ignoring that , this is a fairly humorous cartoon . Granted , I like it better when Daffy gets paired with the other famous Looney Tunes , but he does OK here . I guess that no one knows anyone else very well .
Catch this film if you can .	I'd never heard of Frank Abagnale Jr before " Catch Me If You Can " came out , but what a guy ! Watching the movie , one really grows to admire him , partly because of Leonardo DiCaprio's cool portrayal . Abagnale forged checks and assumed a number of false identities during the ' 60s . Tom Hanks is equally cool as FBI agent Carl Hanratty , doggedly searching the world for Abagnale . This isn't Steven Spielberg's best movie by any stretch , but it's sure a neat one . There is one scene that's probably there for comic relief ( hint : it involves shirts ) . Also starring are Christopher Walken , Nathalie Baye , Martin Sheen , Amy Adams , and James Brolin . Cool .
Well , you know Bruce Campbell . . .	Or if you've seen the " Evil Dead " trilogy and / or " Bubba Ho-Tep " , then you should know that his movies are total farces . With " Man with the Screaming Brain " , he goes all out again . In this case , he plays smarmy American businessman William Cole visiting Bulgaria - when do we ever get to see that country ? - when a woman kills him . So , strange scientist Ivan Ivanov ( Stacy Keach ) replaces half of Cole's brain with the brain of a former KGB agent , leaving him acting sort of like Steve Martin in " All of Me " . Yes , the whole movie is pretty much an excuse for pure nonsense . Much of the real humor comes from " Evil Dead " director Sam Raimi's brother Ted as Ivanov's nearly brain-dead assistant Pavel . The two men have a relationship more like Laurel and Hardy or Gilligan and the Skipper . So just understand that this is a totally silly movie , and you won't be a bit disappointed . I liked it , anyway .
Porky in a milder role	In one of the many WWII-themed Warner Bros . cartoons , Porky Pig is a cop working for Ye Towne Cooler ( where the Long Arm of the Law is just that , and the " Wanted " photos include a pin-up girl ) . On this particular day , Porky and his dog have to look for a lynx - named Missing Lynx - spying for Germany and ready to plant a bomb ( titled " Hallelujah , I'm a Bomb " ) . Like in many of their cartoons from this era , much of the action in " Confusions of a Nutzy Spy " centers on sight gags . But when Porky realizes that the spy has planted the bomb is when the action really takes off . Actually , the dog does more than Porky , but the stuttering swine has his share . All in all , not a great cartoon , but worth seeing . Available on YouTube .
So that was " The Andy Griffith Show " ' s Aunt Bee playing Mrs . Barley ?	Robert Wise's recent death brings " The Day the Earth Stood Still " to mind . Some of the things in the movie are clearly a product of the ' 50s , namely the public's blind trust of the government ( made evident early in the movie when the people crowd around the spacecraft without any protection ; for all that anyone knew , that spacecraft could have been radioactive ) . But still , this story of alien Klaatu ( Michael Rennie ) coming to Earth to warn humanity about the dangers of war seems especially relevant given the current state of the world . Patricia Neal is particularly good as Helen Benson , an every-woman who takes Klaatu into her apartment ( without knowing who he is ) . And Klaatu's wordless cohort Gort is really something , as is the now famous line " Klaatu barada nikto . " All in all , " TDTESS " isn't your average sci-fi movie . There are no scenes of scared crowds running away from something , or rays blowing up buildings . In fact , it might not suffice to call this a sci-fi movie . I don't want to use the phrase " social commentary " , but it's something like that . We could all learn something from Klaatu .
elaborated , this could be a ' 50s , ' 60s or ' 70s B-movie	Obviously , " The Fair Haired Hare " is one of the many instances in which Yosemite Sam provokes Bugs Bunny and then Bugs gets revenge ( one of the rules about the Bugs Bunny cartoons is that Bugs never provokes the unpleasant situation ) . But watching the cartoon , I thought that it loosely resembled those B-movies in which animals take revenge on humans . It wouldn't even have to be a case of an atomic test's causing the animal ( s ) to turn giant , as was the case in " Them ! " . When you look at how Sam builds his house over Bugs's rabbit hole , it makes sense that Bugs does what he does . Of course , people for centuries have been building their houses on animals ' homes ; therefore , if all animals could do what Bugs does , then we humans would be in big trouble ! Although I have to admit that I would consider it an honor to have Bugs trash my life . Whatever the case , this is a pretty funny cartoon . Friz Freleng certainly created a formidable opponent for Bugs Bunny in the roughest , toughest , he-man stuffest hombre as ever crossed the Rio Grande ( and he ain't no namby-pamby ) , even if Yosemite Sam was no more competent than Elmer Fudd . Worth seeing .
time may not treat these old-school entertainers nicely , but I still recommend the cartoon	I learned about Jack Benny through his bit part in " It's a Mad , Mad , Mad , Mad World " . Later on , I learned about his overall career . And now , here's another addition to his career : " The Mouse That Jack Built " is a cartoon version of Benny's TV show ( which I've never seen ) . In this case , Jack Benny , Mary Livingstone , Eddie " Rochester " Anderson ( also an " IAMMMMW " cast member ) and Don Wilson provide the voices of mice with their respective names and personalities ; Mel Blanc voices vault watcher Maxwell . . . and he's been watching the vault for a VERY long time ! Anyway , after Jack has played the violin - though not equaling Isaac Stern - he makes Rochester return a white vest , as he's about to take Mary out for her birthday . The only thing is , the Kit Kat Klub is in fact a real cat ! I've always liked how the Termite Terrace crowd kept finding new things to do in cartoons . The obvious problem with a cartoon like this one is that people in the 21st century might not know who Jack Benny was and the whole premise will go over everyone's heads . But if we just watch what happens , we can surely get a kick out of the cartoon . I certainly recommend it .
The spy who came in from the heat .	I wasn't totally familiar with John Le Carre's work when I saw " The Tailor of Panama " . But whether or not you're familiar with his work , you're still likely to get impressed by the movie . If it looks strange that Pierce Brosnan plays a non-James Bond spy , don't let that turn you off ; as it is , I like this spy better than his role as James Bond . The plot has British agent Andrew Osnard ( Brosnan ) getting involved with impeccably dressed tailor Harry Pendel ( Geoffrey Rush ) in Panama City . Both men have self-serving sides , but Osnard clearly has some unctuous plans up his sleeve , and will likely stop at nothing to get the job done . The potentially explosive political climate surrounding them serves to heighten the tension . I certainly thought that Brosnan and Rush both did a really good job with their roles . Jamie Lee Curtis is actually , in my opinion , a strange person to cast in a spy movie - I've always found it a little bit hard to view her in a tense role - though I do feel that she did a good job with the role . And playing the son is none other than Harry Potter himself , Daniel Radcliffe . So , while it may not be the most eye-opening spy movie ever , it creates a fairly unnerving feeling . After watching it , you may be tempted to go to Panama . . . just to see whether or not this sort of thing actually happens ( although you probably wouldn't want to experience it ) . Worth seeing .
Barry Levinson's early look at Baltimore	Before Barry Levinson turned to directing , he co-wrote Norman Jewison's " . . . And Justice for All " , a comedy-drama that makes you feel like your head just exploded . Al Pacino plays Baltimore lawyer Arthur Kirkland , whose frustration with America's legal system - coupled with having to defend a judge whom he hates under threat of getting disbarred - leads him to do something that in reality probably no lawyer would ever do . Even if the movie has a rather unrealistic ending , you have to agree with what Arthur does . And one does get the feeling that America's legal system has been degenerating for years . Can we ever restore the ideals that the Founding Fathers envisioned ? ! Whether or not we can , I recommend " . . . AJFA " . It's a hilarious indictment of the failed state of the criminal justice system in this country . You can pledge allegiance to it ( figuratively speaking ) . Also starring Jack Warden , John Forsythe ( happy birthday , John ! ) , Lee Strasberg , Jeffrey Tambor , Christine Lahti , Sam Levene ( in his final role ) and Craig T . Nelson .
I can't exactly tell which side it takes	" Vantage Point " portrays an assassination attempt on the US president ( William Hurt ) during a trip to Salamanca , Spain . The first half of the movie consists of the viewpoints of several people present at the event : a bodyguard ( Dennis Quaid ) , a tourist ( Forest Whitaker ) , a newswoman ( Sigourney Weaver ) , and a Spaniard ( Eduardo Noriega ) fearing for his life . The combination of these viewpoints eventually lay everything out . This was certainly an interesting idea for a movie . What I'm not sure about is the movie's specific position . It portrays the president going to Spain to praise the prime minister's participation in the so-called War on Terrorism . Needless to say , driving through the city , the president passes hoards of protesters calling him the world's # 1 terrorist and things like that . Therefore , I can't tell whether the movie promotes the War on Terrorism or opposes it . If the movie opposes it , wouldn't it be better to focus on what the Middle East has become due to the war ? If the movie supports it , then . . . well , does any movie really want to support it ? Whatever the position , it's still an interesting idea for a movie . Worth seeing .
playing nine pins	I'd never heard of " The Nines " when I started watching it . Now , I'm not sure what to think of it . Portraying three interconnected stories set in Los Angeles - and all starring the same people - it seems to be saying something about happenstance . . . but I don't know for certain . I can't say what the overall gist is supposed to be . But I do think that the movie is worth checking out . Seeing what happens in the middle segment , one gets a sense of just how cutthroat the entertainment world must be ( is it just me , or does nobody focus on that more than the entertainment world ? ) . Anyway , worth seeing , but don't be surprised if it totally blows your mind . Starring Ryan Reynolds , Melissa McCarthy , Hope Davis and Elle Fanning .
yes , we will wonder why	We all know that family gatherings are likely to be awkward , to say the least . So , " Home for the Holidays " strings it all together , with out-of-work Claudia Larson ( Holly Hunter ) going to her parents ' home for Thanksgiving . Sure enough , more relatives are coming , all with more than a few eccentricities . What to do ? It's hard to tell what most to notice while watching this movie . Each character has his / her quirks , but I couldn't really tell whether Claudia's personal life was supposed to be more important . But either way , it's a pretty funny movie . The whole scene with the turkey makes me feel safe to be a vegetarian . Anyway , Jodie Foster has shown herself to be a really capable director , with this one and " Little Man Tate " . I think that we need to pay this movie a little bit more attention in the future . Also starring Robert Downey Jr . , Anne Bancroft , Charles Durning , Dylan McDermott , Geraldine Chaplin , Steve Guttenberg , Claire Danes , Austin Pendleton and David Strathairn . So just remember what Janis Joplin said . . .
If I've offended . . .	I remember that when " A Midsummer Night's Dream " came out , many critics considered it a weird version of Shakespeare's play . I didn't see anything particularly wrong with it . Granted , they did change some things ( namely moving the setting about 300 years ahead of the original play's setting ) , but there's nothing bad about that . I probably should admit that one thing which I've never quite understood about the play is whether or not one of the stories portrayed is supposed to eclipse the others . The one that most sticks in my mind is Nick Bottom getting turned into a donkey ( especially thanks to Kevin Kline's neat interpretation of the role ) . So , while I wouldn't consider this movie the ultimate masterpiece ( particularly in a year that saw " The Sixth Sense " , " American Beauty " and " Being John Malkovich " ) , it's a fairly edifying experience . It's a little strange to see Calista Flockhart as Helena , given that she's best known as Ally McBeal , but she still does OK with the role ) . So overall , I do recommend the movie . Also starring Michelle Pfeiffer , Stanley Tucci , Rupert Everett , Christian Bale and David Strathairn . To paraphrase the cast : the " Fish Called Wanda " thief , Ally McBeal , Catwoman , Walter Winchell , a certain character actor , Batman and Edward R . Murrow . To think . After Bottom gets turned into a donkey and has a fling with Titania , she says that she was enamored an ass . No matter how you look at it , he always sounds like a posterior .
Nobody give Slovakia bad reputation !	Sorry if I find it a little hokey when they make Eastern Europeans the antagonists in movies ; they do that in " Big Top Bunny " , as Bugs Bunny ends up in the circus and gets paired with a jealous Slovak bear . Bugs plays some funny tricks on the big guy - hell , with this big doofus , it's a cinch - but I would like to see a movie or cartoon in which Eastern Europeans are not the antagonists . I know that this cartoon was produced only a few years into the Cold War , when we were supposed to view the Soviet bloc as the evilest place of all time , but it just seems dated ( particularly to someone like me , a student of Russian ) . Otherwise , it's a pretty funny cartoon , especially the diving scene .
ah , family gatherings . . .	By now , we should know that in movies , when WASPs meet ethnic people , there are some wacko situations , as " My Big Fat Greek Wedding " showed . But when the ethnic people are Jews , then it really gets crazy . " Meet the Fockers " makes use of this . Having been accepted by the Byrneses , Greg Focker ( Ben Stiller ) decides to introduce them to his parents in Florida . His parents are Bernie ( Dustin Hoffman ) , who distrusts the government , and Roz ( Barbra Streisand ) , a sex therapist . The Byrneses are very laid back , to say the least , and after a little while with the very open Fockers , Jack ( Robert DeNiro ) once again starts considering Greg unfit for his daughter Pam ( Teri Polo ) , especially since he and Dina ( Blythe Danner ) are trying to raise their grandson to be tough , while Bernie and Roz want to dote on him as they did Greg . Watching this movie , I had to wonder what kind of parents Bernie and Roz were to name their son like they did . Of course , all the Focker relatives had embarrassing names . What a family ! The movie is mostly an excuse to be silly , and silly it was . But the good kind of silly . I just wonder how it would be to experience the Byrnes-Focker reunion . Either way , " Meet the Fockers " is hilarious .
accelerate yourself	Once again , Wile E . Coyote is after Road Runner . I notice that this time , he doesn't try to trap Road Runner as much as accelerate himself . But sure enough , it still ends in disaster for him . Will Wile E . ever succeed in catching that bombastic bird ? ! Or better yet : why doesn't he just give up ? I will say that " Out and Out Rout " isn't my favorite cartoon involving these guys , but it has its moments . Maybe it is just another litany of WEC chasing RR throughout the Southwestern United States , but how can you not love what happens to him ? Nothing particularly new , but still lots of fun . I guess that Road Runner was really " driven " at the end .
Hubie and Bertie debut in a setting resembling a cross between a Dali painting and an earlier Chuck Jones cartoon	As always , Chuck Jones's wise-guy mice Hubie and Bertie ( making their debut ) play tricks on an unsuspecting feline . While " The Aristo-Cat " has a fairly routine plot , the background catches my attention . The slanted angles look more like what I would expect in a Salvador Dali painting ( Bob Clampett used Daliesque angles to a great degree in " The Great Piggy Bank Robbery " ) . But it's not just the angles . The colors - resembling those in Jones's " The Case of the Missing Hare " - obscure all perspective . This has to be the least pleasant place for a cat to attack a dog , believing the dog to be a mouse ! So this is far from a masterpiece , but the background should draw interest . Even more than the fact that it's Hubie and Bertie's debut . Jones branched out their personalities in " Mouse Wreckers " , " Cheese Chasers " and " The Hypo-Chondri-Cat " .
a bloody good time	It may surprise some people to learn that the man behind " Animal House " and " The Blues Brothers " directed a vampire movie , but it's true . And it's not a bad movie , either . Portraying sexy French vampire Marie ( Anne Parillaud ) killing Pittsburgh mafia people but accidentally letting one ( Robert Loggia ) live - thereby letting him turn more people into vampires - the movie takes some interesting turns . This is the sort of flick that would easily make anyone respect creatures of the night . If I was Anthony LaPaglia's character , I would be only too happy to help her out . OK , so maybe this movie seems a little silly , but I still hold that it's impossible not to like . John Landis always has some interesting ideas . Also starring Chazz Palminteri and Angela Bassett .
Kevin Kline's continuing saga	" Life as a House " is one of those movies that looks like it should be a total stinker , but actually comes out quite good . Architect George Monroe's ( Kevin Kline ) life is going down the tubes . He's totally alienated from his ex-wife Robin ( Kristin Scott Thomas ) , while his son Sam ( Hayden Christensen ) has gotten addicted to drugs . To crown everything , George is plagued with guilt from having injured someone in a car wreck . So , George decides to build a house as a metaphor for his life . While some people find it a little strange , he clearly has some good intentions for everyone . Kevin Kline has been my favorite actor for some years now , and " Life as a House " reinforces that . Some parts of the movie may be a little sentimental , but it's overall pretty good .
New Orleans of the past	In one of the stranger Pepe Le Pew cartoons , the famous skunk comes to New Orleans , where Fabrette the cat is looking for a lover . Pepe is of course perfect except for his scent . What I mean about " Really Scent " being one of the stranger cartoons is that Pepe comes to understand that he smells terrible . What made these cartoons great is that he always believed himself to be irresistible , despite the obvious fact that he repelled everyone . So why have him realize that he stinks ? Oh well , at least they also have Fabrette change herself . Not a bad cartoon , but not the first one that I would recommend ( as a director , Abe Levitow just couldn't equal Chuck Jones and Friz Freleng ) . And of course , this cartoon is also a look at the New Orleans of long ago , before Hurricane Katrina irrevocably changed it . I know that that's not related to the events portrayed in the cartoon , but I notice it .
I read the novel on which this was based .	" Hyenas " is based on Friedrich Durrenmatt's play " Der Besuch der alten Dame " . In it , an old woman returns to her home town , which has fallen into disrepair . She offers them a large sum if they will take revenge on the man who caused her to lose her virginity . Above all , it was interesting to see a Senegalese spin on the story . Obviously , we don't often hear much about Senegal . Of course , another aspect is the story's metaphors . There are two men who have been castrated and blinded . This is a metaphor for inter-war Germany : the reparations demanded by the Allies destroyed Germany economically , and then the German people didn't realize what the Nazi government was doing . Moreover , when the main character sees what everyone is trying to do to him , he goes to the authorities but can't get any help from them ; this is like the Jews going to the authorities but to no avail . These are the sorts of stories to which we should all pay attention .
Carl Reiner loosely resurrects Alan Brady	As with " Ocean's 11 " , the best parts here are everything leading up to the heist ( I haven't as yet seen " Ocean's 12 " ) . I guess that I've always thought that the coolest parts of elaborate plots are the plots themselves rather than the result . Just earlier this month , I went to Las Vegas to see Cirque du Soleil's " Love " ( a visual production of the Beatles ' songs ; I highly recommend it ) , so it was fairly interesting to see the sites here . I interpreted Willie Banks's ( Al Pacino ) hotel as the real symbol of Las Vegas : disgustingly giant so as to fulfill one's own hubris . All in all , " Ocean's Thirteen " is some pretty neat entertainment . Steven Soderbergh has certainly proved himself a capable director during these past few years . Playing their roles from the earlier movies are George Clooney , Brad Pitt , Matt Damon , Don Cheadle , Andy Garcia , Casey Affleck , Scott Caan , Bernie Mac , Carl Reiner and Elliott Gould . In fact , Carl Reiner's character reminded me of his earlier Alan Brady ( the boss on " The Dick Van Dyke Show " ) . The bald Alan always wears a wig , just like Reiner's character here wears a wig as part of his disguise . The new cast members are Pacino , Ellen Barkin , Eddie Izzard and David Paymer .
once a sadist , always a sadist	I've long wondered why the Termite Terrace crowd tortured Sylvester so much . In " Canned Feud " , his owners go on vacation and leave him locked in the house . He has plenty of cans of tuna , but a nasty little mouse keeps holding the can opener out of reach , forcing Sylvester to come up with all sorts of unpleasant gags to try and get it . So why would a mouse want to be a sadist ? Your guess is as good as mine . Of course , these cartoons were chock-full of sadists ( or at least characters with a New York side ) : Bugs Bunny , Road Runner , even Tweety himself . If nothing else , it goes to show that these cartoons weren't really intended for children ; they were created to get shown before feature films in the cinema . Anyway , it's not a bad cartoon , but I've seen better .
10 out of how many stars ?	" 10 " isn't really the sort of movie that I feel that I can just straightforward review , as it has its ups and downs . The plot of course has composer George Webber ( Dudley Moore ) going through his midlife crisis all obsessed with the hot young women , thereby messing up his relationship with girlfriend Samantha ( Julie Andrews ) . I guess that if the movie has any problem , it's the casting of Moore . From everything that I've ever heard , it sounds like he was kind of worthless and undesirable to be around . Granted , in this movie he does a passable job as George , although it's hard to tell whether the movie is romanticizing or ripping at the LA lifestyle . As for the movie's famous scene - Bo Derek in her swimsuit - I don't know what else to say . She later spoofed that scene in " Tommy Boy " , but I don't know what else she's done recently except appear at the Republican National Conventions . And who on the set of " Mary Poppins " would have ever guessed that Julie Andrews would eventually star in this ? Among the really funny scenes in my opinion are the wedding ( and the events leading thereto ) , and what happens when George identifies himself as a Brit . In a way , Dudley Moore was expanding on his character from " Foul Play " . Still , I think that we're probably doing Blake Edwards a favor if we remember him more for the " Pink Panther " movies . Also starring Dee Wallace ( yep , ET's mom ! ) , Brian Dennehy , and that guy at the end was character actor Don Calfa ; you're sure to have seen him somewhere .
I choose : " nun " of the above ( just kidding ; it was a good movie ) .	" The Nun's Story " is the sort of movie that we really view differently nowadays . I mainly say this because while Sister Luke is in the Congo , people talk about witch doctors and call the local men " boys " ( among some other cringe-inducing things ) . Moreover , the process of entering the convent looks really unpleasant ; whoever came up with that process must have been a total crackpot . But overall , this is a pretty good movie . Audrey Hepburn , gorgeous as ever , does a great job showing Sister Luke's inner conflict as she tries to deal with this life that she has chosen . It's just that the whole nun lifestyle looks rather undesirable . And why do they make the nuns wear their heavy habits in the tropical Congo ? Anyway , this is certainly a movie that I recommend . I will admit that because the movie is clearly quite full of itself , you may feel tempted to make the sorts of comments that Mike , Servo and Crow make at the crummy flicks on " Mystery Science Theater 3000 " . For example , when Sister Luke is sailing to the Congo and admits that it was a sort of flight , I said : " Flight ? ! You're not the Flying Nun ! " But mostly , it's a really good movie . A solid classic . But how could it not be , starring the woman from " Roman Holiday " and directed by the man behind " High Noon " ? Also starring Peter Finch ( yes , the guy who was as mad as Hell and not going to take it anymore ) , Edith Evans , Peggy Ashcroft , Dean Jagger , Beatrice Straight ( also of " Network " ) and Colleen Dewhurst . I know , it's rude to talk like that about someone else's religion , but I mean really .
something that we can all " bear "	The three bears ' cartoons from the Looney Tunes crowd aren't in my vocabulary as much as Bugs Bunny and his ilk are , but the two that I've seen ( " Bugs Bunny and the Three Bears " and this one ) I really like . " A Bear for Punishment " portrays Father's Day , and so Ma and Junyer try to make Pa happy . . . all the while irking him due to arch-incompetence and excessive affection . They should have just left the guy in peace ! So , Chuck Jones had every reason to be proud of this cartoon . One can imagine how much fun voice artist Stan Freberg must have had turning Junyer into his dopey self . Really funny . I wonder why Junyer is twice his father's size .
looking back on things	OK , so the Oscars seem to get hyped just a little more each year . And I was rooting for " Gosford Park " to win ( come on , Robert Altman had deserved an Oscar for years ! ) . That said , I guess that it was high time for an African-American to win Best Actress . Contrary to the previous reviewer , Halle Berry's role in " Monster's Ball " was far more original than Nicole Kidman's in " Moulin Rouge " ; I never would have thought to nominate the latter for anything , especially in a year that saw " Mulholland Dr . " . Among the things that I had predicted was the stuff about the September 11 attacks ; I knew that they were going to say something about freedom . Yeah , yeah . Robert Redford should know better . But contrary again to the previous reviewer , Whoopi Goldberg is not the worst host ( among the past hosts was Bob Hope , for whom I have no respect ) ; I really liked her jab at John Ashcroft . So , although I wouldn't have given " A Beautiful Mind " Best Picture , " The 74th Annual Academy Awards " still pleased me ( I have to admit , I enjoy the Oscars more than my own birthday ) . And the day after , as my parents and I were hiking around the dwellings in Bandalier , New Mexico - it was spring break - I was thinking to myself that when Jim Broadbent won his Oscar , that most people watching were asking " Jim who ? ! " I wonder whether or not Woody Allen will ever attend the Oscars again .
man who came to supper	One of the blackest comedies of the 1990s portrays a group of left-wing activists murdering right-wingers at dinner . Yes , very grim , but they know how to keep everything in good taste the whole time . Probably the funniest character in the movie is Ron Perlman as a Rush Limbaugh type on TV ( he calls for a return to the Reagan era ) . Admittedly , " The Last Supper " isn't any kind of masterpiece . I guess that they could have improved it some by looking into how these various individuals on both sides of the political aisle arrived at their views . But otherwise , it sure pleased me . Some of the ill-fated conservative characters made my skin crawl . Also starring Cameron Diaz , Courtney B . Vance , Annabeth Gish , Bill Paxton and Charles Durning .
The first Chevy Chase movie that I ever saw . . . and it's in Movie Madness's horror section .	If you're walking through Movie Madness's horror section and see a Chevy Chase movie , you may think that it's either a joke , or that you're dreaming . Well , it's serious . " Memoirs of an Invisible Man " was actually the first Chevy Chase movie that I ever saw ( and I even saw it in the theaters ) . Chase plays San Francisco stock analyst Nick Halloway , who becomes see-through after an accident . His only hope is documentary maker Alice Monroe ( Daryl Hannah ) , but CIA agent David Jenkins ( Sam Neill ) has his eye on Nick ( not literally , of course ) . Much of the movie has Nick running away from people . Some scenes are just straight comedy , like his dream of undressing . But most of the movie portrays the grim world that Nick is forced to inhabit . Maybe this was an allusion to the malaise that had taken over the country during Bush Sr's presidency . I wouldn't call this John Carpenter's best movie ever , but I did find it interesting , if only to see Chevy Chase in a non-goofy role .
" express " yourself crazy	Some people's complaint about " Pineapple Express " is that the end scene goes on too long . My criticism is that it focuses a little too much on high action . But no matter , this movie is still a laugh riot from beginning to end , as a pair of marijuana-obsessed goof-balls ( Seth Rogen and James Franco ) have to go on the lam after one of them witnesses a murder . It's the sort of movie intended as completely silly , and it succeeds in every way . A latter day Bill & Ted , if you will . If I thought that the movie could have done anything differently , it was Ed Begley's and Nora Dunn's characters . I felt that it should have developed their characters a little further , even though they only appeared briefly . Otherwise , this flick pleased me very much . A real hoot . Not in the same league as a Cheech & Chong movie , but still really enjoyable . Also starring Gary Cole and Rosie Perez .
Happy 60th , Sally !	A few years before Sally Field and Tom Hanks played mother and son in " Forrest Gump " , they played stand-up rivals in the light comedy " Punchline " . I will say that this isn't the funniest movie that I've ever seen , but it's great just for the tension between the performers , some of the stand-up jokes , and for Tom Hanks's definition of the rectum ; you have to agree that his name for it is a lot more descriptive . So , this movie probably won't give you any kind of religious experience , but it's a fun way to pass time . Also starring John Goodman and Damon Wayans . Oh , and in case Sally Field is reading this : Happy 60th birthday ! I'm in Russia right now , and yesterday , I went to Verkhoturye , where they have a convent . As a semi-birthday present to you , I said that the convent housed a flying nun . I know , you don't like that moniker , but I had to do something . Thanks for everything .
Jim Carrey eventually found fame and kept it ; plus , I see a tiny link to current events .	In the grand scheme of things , " Finders Keepers " is one of those silly comedies that they cranked out in the ' 80s . This one has a scam artist ( Michael O'Keefe , of " Caddyshack " fame ) accidentally getting mixed up in a wacky larceny case on a train after he has to escape the cops and a roller skate team in 1973 . You see , he thinks that a coffin on board the train holds a man killed in Cambodia , but it actually holds an exorbitant amount of money stolen by a woman believed to have been kidnapped . If that sounds overwhelming , just wait ' til you see what happens on the train ! The point is , this movie makes no pretense about being completely goofy . Probably the main reason that anyone would notice it nowadays is the presence of a pre-fame Jim Carrey as . . . well , I might spoil a major part of the movie if I explain it . But one can see a slight hint of the roles that would later make him famous . Speaking of the present day , there's a link in " FK " : Watergate . Throughout much of the movie , we hear about Pres . Nixon ( Nickerson ? ) , the Watergate investigations , and how Spiro Agnew may not last in his position . Agnew was of course replaced by the recently deceased Gerald Ford . Personally , I believe that Ford doesn't deserve the praise that he's been getting ( what really did he do besides fall down ? ) . But anyway , this is a pretty funny movie . You're sure to like it . Also starring Beverly D'Angelo , Louis Gossett Jr . , Pamela Stephenson , Ed Lauter and Brian Dennehy . Back when Richard Lester was directing The Beatles ' movies , who ever would have guessed that he would direct this flick ?
not " In the Bedroom " or " Mystic River " , but approaching them	I didn't know what " Reservation Road " was about when I started watching it . Not knowing the plot makes the movie hit you more . After an unfortunate event , the two families involved ( neither of whom knows who the other is ) inadvertently become more and more intertwined . Each time that another link gets revealed , you know that you're getting closer and closer to something ugly . The characters , although not the best that I've seen in movies , were certainly worthwhile . Ethan Learner ( Joaquin Phoenix ) remains totally despondent about his son's death and the fact that the killer hasn't been caught . Ethan's wife Grace ( Jennifer Connelly ) wants to move on with her life and finds it regrettable that Ethan obsesses on one topic . Dwight Arno ( Mark Ruffalo ) , who caused the accident , spends most of the movie bothered by his actions and wanting to right the wrongs , but worried about what might result . At times , each of the characters come across as somewhat repulsive , but you still understand why they behave as they do . Some people might liken this movie to " In the Bedroom " and " Mystic River " . " Reservation Road " certainly deals with similar themes , although I wouldn't actually put it in the same league as those other two . This movie seems a little bit more sensationalistic , and as though it's trying to do the same as the other two . But overall , I thought that it's a good movie , and I would recommend it . Also starring Mira Sorvino and Elle Fanning .
Can you guess what the 39 steps are ?	Back in the days when Alfred Hitchcock was still making movies in his native England , he made the slick - if somewhat confusing - " 39 Steps " . This one has Canadian tourist Richard Hannay ( Robert Donat ) getting involved in intrigue while in England . Getting handcuffed to the perplexing Pamela ( Madeleine Carroll ) only complicates matters . Probably the most interesting aspect of this movie is about the 39 steps themselves . What are they ? I can't tell you or it would give away the plot . But let me tell you : that end scene really comes at you . All in all , Hitch created another classic here . Maybe " The 39 Steps " won't change your life or anything , but it is another installment in Hitch's filmography . Pretty interesting .
performance-enhancing drugs : the original version	With all the talk that we often hear about athletes using performance-enhancing drugs to win competitions , Friz Freleng's " Along Flirtation Walk " becomes all the more interesting . It starts out with a dance in Plymouth Rock College - which reminded me just a little of the dance in " The Way We Were " - a college for chickens . The next day , there's the big game against the Rhode Island Reds . It looks like it's going to be football , but it turns out that they're laying eggs . That's when the cheating starts , as the Reds ingest billiard bills so that they keep laying . More surprises lie ahead . I know , the people making this cartoon probably never intended for anyone to interpret anything about athletes taking drugs . It's just that I always like to associate the portrayals with things about which I hear in the news . If that makes me a weirdo , then so be it . All in all , an OK cartoon .
Good , but the best movie of 1988 ?	Personally , I don't know whether I would have given " Rain Man " Best Picture for 1988 . It was a good movie , but I don't think the best one from that year ( I would give that distinction to " A World Apart " ) . The plot of course has yuppie Charlie Babbitt ( Tom Cruise ) meeting his autistic brother Raymond ( Dustin Hoffman ) and taking him on a trip across the country . Over the course of the movie , we see how Raymond's autism affects him and his surroundings , but also makes him able to do really hard math problems ( granted , the numbers mean nothing to him ) . All in all , this is a pretty well done movie . Maybe not a masterpiece or anything , but worth seeing nonetheless as a look into a certain part of society .
mispronounced quite often , but Carroll Baker made some cool stuff in Italy	During the late ' 60s and early ' 70s , Carroll Baker expatriated from the United States and made some horror flicks in Italy . Among these giallo movies was " Baba Yaga " . It portrays a fashion photographer ( Isabelle De Funes ) getting involved with an otherworldly older woman ( Baker ) . The title identifies who she is , but people unfamiliar with Slavic mythology may not know who that is . Baba Yaga is a witch in Slavic , especially Russian , folklore . Depending on which story , she can be good or evil , but they usually portray her living in a house standing on chicken legs . We in the west usually mispronounce the second part of her name : we say YAH-gah , but it's actually yah-GAH . But let's not get off topic . I liked this movie . It was sort of half horror , half look at the mod culture in early 1970s Italy ( although it seems like all the giallo movies back then showed it ) . And of course , there's plenty of eroticism to go around ; as far as I'm concerned , Carroll Baker embodies ( pun intended ) eroticism . Quite cool . Also starring George Eastman .
things may happen , but memories last forever	" Summer of My German Soldier " was one of the many TV movies that became a staple of the small screen in the 1970s ( others were " Brian's Song " , " Sybil " and " Someone's Watching Me ! " ) . It portrays a Jewish girl ( Kristy McNichol ) befriending a German POW ( Bruce Davison ) in WWII-era Georgia . One of the things that the movie shows is that many of the German soldiers weren't really Nazis , but were just drafted . Watching the movie , I got a real sense of how things must have been in the South back then ; I mean , can you imagine being a Jewish person accused of supporting the enemy ? So , I certainly recommend this movie . I believe that it's always important to show the things portrayed here . Occasional overacting keeps the movie from being a full-scale masterpiece , but they usually do quite well . I hope that the movie eventually comes out on DVD . Also starring Esther Rolle and Michael Constantine ( the " My Big Fat Greek Wedding " patriarch ) .
Uri Geller , Kim Cattrall and Ricky Nelson	I saw " Ercole e la regina di Lidia " ( called " Hercules Unchained " in the USA ) on " Mystery Science Theater 3000 " . The movie itself is actually quite cool , but " MST3K " makes it even cooler . The movie basically has the muscle-bound - and often well-oiled - Greek hero ( Steve Reeves ) drinking water of forgetfulness and getting seduced by Queen Omphale ( Sylvia Lopez ) . Mostly , it seems like an excuse to show scantily clad women . I guess that even ancient Greece was a male chauvinistic fantasy ! But seriously , the " MST3K " version is the one that you gotta see . You can probably guess what sorts of things Joel , Servo and Crow say . Specifically , they sneak in mentions of Uri Geller , Kim Cattrall and Ricky Nelson . How else to keep sane while watching these cheesy flicks sent by Dr . Forrester and TV's Frank ? Yes , you know what Hercules and the queen were doing when not on screen . Seriously , a buff hunk and a hot babe . How could they not do it ?
Bob Clampett moves into his really wacky phase	Following some mildly risqué opening credits , we get treated to a series of spot gags on a farm , often relating to World War II . One features a baby bird who looks like the early version of Tweety in " A Tale of Two Kitties " . The part about the swallows and San Juan Capistrano seems to predict Robert McKimson's " Swallow the Leader " . It was around this time when Bob Clampett's cartoons started getting truly wacky . His cartoons in the late ' 30s had made use of his affinity for shape-shifting , but during WWII he went all out and pretty much became Termite Terrace's star director . While his spot gags didn't quite reach the quality achieved by Tex Avery , he definitely created some funny ones . All in all , " Wacky Blackout " is certainly worth seeing . While Sylvester and Tweety are known as Friz Freleng's characters , Bob Clampett debuted Tweety .
I guess that life is a game of chance !	You know the drill : young Alan Parrish gets sucked into a board game called Jumanji , returns when a brother and sister are playing 26 years later , and has to battle the animals that wreak havoc on the town . It all seems pretty simple , but they play some neat tricks with it in the movie . As the adult Alan , Robin Williams is more subdued than usual , but still makes the character admirable . With good support from Bonnie Hunt , Kirsten Dunst , David Alan Grier , Bebe Neuwirth , Jonathan Hyde and Patricia Clarkson , this is a pretty interesting movie . I will admit that the monkeys looked pretty fake , but we can't dwell on that in this movie ; the point is to enjoy oneself while watching it . Oh and one more thing : from " Jumanji " , I learned the difference between alligators and crocodiles .
just like Hollywood	Before Hollywood biographies centered on drug abuse and such things , " What's Up Doc ? " portrayed Bugs Bunny telling his life story from childhood - " I knew I was different , and then it hit me : I was a rabbit in a human world . " - up to his career in entertainment . However , it seems like there's a little less in this cartoon than the Looney Tunes cartoons usually showed . But I'd say that it's strength lies in its portrayal of the lack of employment in Hollywood ( which I've heard is actually around 95 % ) , and how it forces individuals into self-degrading work . I always get the feeling that whenever the Termite Terrace crowd made cartoons spoofing Tinseltown , they were probably basing the cartoons on their personal experiences . Maybe I can't prove that , but I just get that feeling . So , it's not the greatest cartoon , but worth seeing . I don't know whether or not you're rooting for me , so now I have to go .
New Orleans , RIP	" The Skeleton Key " is the sort of movie that one might expect to be the manifestation of pure idiocy : a movie star's daughter in a flick about a creepy house . But this one has some neat twists and turns , with a very surprising ending . New Orleans caretaker Caroline Ellis ( Kate Hudson ) takes a job as a caretaker for disabled Ben Devereaux ( John Hurt ) in the countryside . Ben's wife Violet ( Gena Rowlands ) explains to Caroline some of the house's history , but Caroline finds out more as the movie progresses . And the answer to it all is closer than she realizes . Overall , there's nothing particularly special about this movie - except that it may have been the last major movie that featured New Orleans before hurricane Katrina . But the flashbacks and camera angles give it a really cool feeling . You might check it out if possible .
you gotta admit , Nixon really was a crook	Richard Nixon ( or as I like to call him , President Pinocchio ) brought American politics to an unprecedented low ( unfortunately , Tricky Dick was not the last one to do that ) . His escalation of the Vietnam War , his " dirty tricks " campaign to spy on protesters , his assassinations of Black Panthers and American Indian Movement activists , his overthrow of Chile's government , and Watergate , pretty much destroyed the idealistic view of " good government " . So , it's not surprising that someone would want to assassinate him . In " The Assassination of Richard Nixon " , Sean Penn plays Sam Bicke , a disgruntled salesman who is going through a divorce and losing his job . After seeing Nixon's policies play out , Sam takes it upon himself to assassinate the president by crashing a plane into the White House . Maybe that conjures up memories of September 11 , 2001 , but Penn gives a gritty performance to the point where you can't help but completely agree with Sam's actions .
read , they say	First , I will say that the events portrayed in John Carpenter's " In the Mouth of Madness " are some of the most outlandish things ever to grace the silver screen . Second , I will say that I'm glad that it's like that : this movie is supposed to be outlandish . I've liked every John Carpenter movie that I've seen , and this is one of them ( of course , I can't vouch for the ones that I haven't seen ) . Portraying a horror novel affecting people in evil ways , they throw in anything that they want . Are there any parts of the movie where they got just too far out to merit any credit ? Maybe one such scene is the part where Sutter Cane ( Jurgen Prochnow ) tears himself open , but what happens to John Trent ( Sam Neill ) right after that more than makes up for anything unrealistic in the movie . And then , what he discovers about Hobb's End raises the stakes even further . So , while the plot line may border on complete nonsense , they keep it cool by not taking anything too seriously . Worth seeing , if only once . And remember this movie the next time that you decide to read a book ; it might just save your life . I bet that back in the days when Charlton Heston was starring in movies like " The Ten Commandments " and " Ben-Hur " - not to mention participating in civil rights marches - he never imagined that he would co-star in a movie like this .
nice intro to mambo	When I watched " The Mambo Kings " , I knew little if anything about that kind of music , so it sort of made the movie even more of a treat to hear it for the first time . In fact , I try to imagine living in New York in the early ' 50s and hearing the brothers bring their music to America for the first time ; it must have been an experience unlike any other . But no matter , Armand Assante and Antonio Banderas did a really impressive job in their roles . It's no accident that this movie started Banderas on the career path that he's had ever since . Is this the greatest movie of all time ? Not by any stretch . But I , for one , always like to learn about new types of music , so I have to give the movie credit for that . I recommend it . Also starring Cathy Moriarty and Desi Arnaz Jr .
James Bond as a moron	OK , so " Johnny English " is basically a stupid movie . BUT IT'S SO HILARIOUS ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! Rowan Atkinson plays the title character , a dim-witted secret agent trying to stop French villain Pascal Sauvage ( John Malkovich doing a ridiculous accent ) from becoming king of England . Of course , the whole thing is an excuse for English to get into one embarrassing situation after another . . . and meanwhile get to know sexy Lorna Campbell ( Natalie Imbruglia ) . Yes , this is very much a movie that they only intended to be silly . Rowan Atkinson's character is essentially Mr . Bean as a spy ( and talking more than usual ) . Even if it is a pointless movie , you're sure to love it .
One can do a lot with an obscure movie .	" Dead Heat on a Merry-Go-Round " is probably mostly of interest to us nowadays due to Harrison Ford's bit part as a bellhop . Apparently , after the movie bombed , a producer told Ford : " Kid , you ain't got it . " Of course , Ford went on to star in the " Star Wars " and " Indiana Jones " trilogies , so he clearly had lots of " it " . Anyway , the movie casts James Coburn as ex-con Eli Kotch , plotting a heist in LAX while the Russian prime minister is visiting . Coburn seems to be mirroring his Derek Flint character , right down to being surrounded by hot babes ( specifically Camilla Sparv and Nina Wayne ) . The good ol ' Cold War , when the US and USSR could play all sorts of tricks on each other , and there were plenty of beauties to go around . Overall , " DHOAMGR " isn't a great movie , but it's worth seeing . You may notice that playing Mrs . Kirby is Rose Marie , better known as Sally on " The Dick Van Dyke Show " . Nina Wayne . Hubba hubba . . .
an interesting look at a culture that we rarely see	I have to admit that I don't know much about Mongolia , even though I've known about it for most of my life ( when I was young , I had a puzzle that was a map of the world , so I learned Mongolia ) . So " The Story of the Weeping Camel " is an interesting little look at this culture . The movie focuses on a group of nomads whose camel ignores her calf , and they have to hire a musician to get the camel to change her mind . It was especially eye-opening that this was a German-Mongolian co-production . I wouldn't expect Germany to make a movie about the relationship between a camel and her calf . But what do I know ? It's a really interesting movie .
half a century later , the oil itself would have to be the star	While " Oily Hare " has its plot , the idea of a Texas oil well is what catches my attention . The unctuous - or should I say " oily " - tycoon here is exactly the type who would have forced the Cajuns off of their land in Louisiana , just as he tries to do to Bugs Bunny . And we see how much the oil industry affects policy today . Of course , I've probably gone too far in analyzing this cartoon . I'm sure that it was intended as crazy entertainment , and it certainly entertains . When they start playing Raymond Scott's " Powerhouse " is when you know that you're in for something really cool , and boy are you ! Anyway , a pretty funny one .
" Mayor Carmine , I don't think it's right that you should extort money from the college " . . . but do act in horror flicks	" Chamber of Horrors " is one those obscure movies , probably available only at Portland video / DVD store Movie Madness . It portrays serial killer Jason Cravette ( Patrick O'Neal ) on his way to jail when he has to cut off his hand to escape . So , he returns to Baltimore and resumes his murders . Yes , the plot is pretty routine , but this movie is unique . The star is Cesare Danova , better known as Mayor Carmine DePasto in " Animal House " . Does that give the movie a feeling of silliness ? Maybe , but the movie mostly feels very neat . Also , the judge is played by Vinton Hayworth , aka Gen . Schaeffer on " I Dream of Jeannie " . So Bluto Blutarsky and Jeannie are linked by a hook-handed maniac ! Go figure ! But overall , this movie is a real treat . Fans of 1960s camp will surely love it . And it might just save your life one day . . . A murder mystery in Baltimore . I try to imagine if one or both of Baltimore's two famous sons ( by whom I mean Barry Levinson and John Waters ) had directed this movie . Hmmm . . .
a real aphrodisiac	As " Mighty Aphrodite " shows , Woody Allen really works best when he goes for straight comedy . In this case , he and wife Helena Bonham Carter adopt a boy who turns out to be a genius . When Woody searches for the boy's biological mother , she turns out to be an air-head prostitute ( Mira Sorvino ) . Yeah , it doesn't really sound like much of a story , but it is . The Greek chorus telling the story really helps the story ( it's sort of like " Oedipus " ) . And you're sure to like the cacti . This isn't Allen's greatest movie by any stretch , but definitely worth seeing . Also starring F . Murray Abraham , Olympia Dukakis , Jack Warden and Peter Weller . The remote control . Ha !
interesting allegory	" Alien Nation " portrays the future , when aliens have come to the Earth and become the second class citizens , so to speak . Then , human Det . Sgt . Matthew Sykes ( James Caan ) and alien Samuel " George " Francisco ( Mandy Patinkin ) have to join up to stop alien William Harcourt ( Terence Stamp ) from taking over . Much of the movie seems kind of silly ( namely Sykes ' one-liners ) , but they know how to pull it off without letting the movie get ridiculous . I think that my favorite part was when Sykes and Francisco learn what each other's names mean . The movie is a little strange , but definitely worth seeing . You might say that the aliens replace African-Americans as second class citizens .
You kids have it easy . You only have to kill the mummy twice . Back in my day , we had to kill him thrice .	Mostly a rehash of the original , but this time , there's the Scorpion King ( The Rock ) to shake things up a bit . I actually saw this movie in Spain , so the one-liners were often hard to translate . But overall , we now know that movies from the 1930's are to be remade in the 1950's-1970's with a sense of camp , and then remade in the 21st century as crosses between David Lean-style epics and Harrison Ford action flicks ; not only " The Mummy " , but also " King Kong " comes to mind . But now that Brendan Fraser has starred in a Best Picture winner ( " Crash " ) and Rachel Weisz has won Best Supporting Actress for " The Constant Gardener " , I expect no more mummies . And one more thing : why did the Scorpion King get his own movie ? I never saw it but heard that it was just an excuse for buff men to flex their muscles . It was actually released the same weekend as " My Big Fat Greek Wedding " , which of course is much more well remembered . No surprise there .
a different turn for John Sayles	In what may have been John Sayles's most Hollywood-style movie - and I use that description loosely - an alien slave ( Joe Morton ) lands in Harlem and tries to escape two bounty hunters ( the director and David Strathairn ) from his planet . In the process , even though he can't talk , he starts fixing video-games ( unintentionally , natch ) . It just goes to show that you don't need an exorbitant budget to make a good movie about extraterrestrial life . Maybe not Sayles's all-time masterpiece , but worth seeing , partly as a look at people's everyday lives . I'd recommend it . Make all the white people disappear . Yeah . . .
Yvonne DeCarlo , RIP	Yvonne DeCarlo's death a few days ago brings to mind her varied career . She may be best known for playing Lily on the comic-horror TV series " The Munsters " , but in the movie " American Gothic " , she went for straight horror . The movie portrays some young people flying out over the Puget Sound - on either a sunny or overcast day ; the setting kept changing - and having to land on an island when their plane conks out . The island turns out to be inhabited by a family . Ma ( DeCarlo ) and Pa ( Rod Steiger ) are practically Amish , their daughter Fanny looks only a little younger , and sons Woody ( Michael J . Pollard ) and Teddy don't do much . But this family isn't what they seem . Every member seems like s / he has some nasty plans , and the outsiders had better not trespass . There were some pretty gross scenes here , but I liked how they played everything out . Especially what Cynthia did at the end . I couldn't have predicted that even if I'd tried ! So , it's mostly your average slasher flick , but still quite enjoyable . I wonder what Grant Wood would have thought had he known that the name of his famous painting would one day get used for this sort of movie .
as it turns out , some millionaires have made the mistake that Preston Blake makes	Since this remake of a classic movie is an Adam Sandler flick , you can pretty much predict most of it , namely the fact that he can get aggressive and that one character eventually reveals something embarrassing about himself . But otherwise , you're sure to have a good time . As an earthy goof-ball inheriting a massive fortune and turning the business world upside down , Sandler makes the most of his role . In supporting roles , Winona Ryder , John Turturro and Steve Buscemi have some great moments . Obviously , " Mr . Deeds " isn't any kind of " Citizen Kane " - style masterpiece , but it doesn't pretend to be ; and let's face it , this movie easily beats any Jean-Claude Van Damme movie for smarts . Nice , goofy fun . Also starring Allen Covert , Peter Gallagher and Jared Harris .
If things do get as intertwined as many movies portray , don't say that they didn't warn us .	I've noticed that in the 21st century , there's been a surge in movies portraying several people who , although they may never meet , are all connected by something : " Traffic " , " Syriana " , " Fast Food Nation " and " Babel " . Now , there's also Mark Rydell's " Even Money " , depicting several people linked by gambling addictions . There's Carolyn Carver ( Kim Basinger ) , a writer ignoring her family and spending all her time in the casino with prestidigitator Walter Markowitz ( Danny DeVito ) ; Clyde Snow ( Forest Whitaker ) , a handyman trying to help his son become a basketball player ; and Augie ( Jay Mohr ) , who has taken some very wrong turns in his life . But in control of everything is slime-ball Victor ( Tim Roth ) , intent on rigging the upcoming basketball game . I should say that I didn't find this movie to be as good as the aforementioned intertwined-story films , as the aforementioned ones dealt more with political issues . But I thought that it was worth seeing as a look at the underbelly of life in general ( is that a lame description ? ) . And an ugly look at things it certainly is . Victor is one guy whom you hope that you never have to meet , but it's still possible to admire him somewhat . At times , every one of the characters made my skin crawl just a little bit . All in all , an OK movie . Also starring Ray Liotta as Kim Basinger's husband , Kelsey Grammar as a detective , and director Rydell at the end . PS : Mark Rydell also directed Bette Midler's movies " The Rose " and " For the Boys " .
Never doubt Robin Williams ' sinister abilities in movies .	Following the sappy box office duds " Jakob the Liar " and " Bicentennial Man " , Robin Williams probably decided that he needed to do some darker roles . Therefore , you might say that 2002 was his comeback year : he not only did his first tour in fifteen years ( which I saw ) - he also made some good movie choices , with " Death to Smoochy " and " One Hour Photo " ( I still haven't seen " Insomnia " ) . In " One Hour Photo " , he plays photo developer Sy Parrish . Sy seems like a pretty routine person . But beneath that nondescript exterior lies something totally different . Sy has been developing the Yorkins ' pictures for a long time , to the point where he is getting very interested in them . And by " interested " , I mean " a lot more interested that most people would prefer " . By which I mean that he's starting to spy on them . Yes , it all sounds pretty creepy , but the movie does end on a good note . No matter how you interpret it , it just goes to show that no one truly knows anybody . And anyway , it was good to see Robin Williams doing a new kind of role .
Sooner or later , probably all opera pertains to this .	I have to admit that this is the only movie version of Gaston Leroux's classic novel that I've seen . The plot of course has abused musician Erique Claudin ( Claude Rains ) getting acid thrown on his face and thereafter haunting the Paris Opera House , and in the process helping beautiful starlet Christine DuBois ( Susanna Foster ) get famous . Having not seen any other versions ( nor read the novel ) , I can't compare it with anything else . But I can say that this version was quite well done . Maybe the cast doesn't do any profound interpretations of the characters , and maybe there aren't any filmic elements , but the movie is certainly worth seeing . Although above all , I recommend Brian DePalma's " Phantom of the Paradise " .
that's all , folks ( for B & W Warner Bros . cartoons , that is )	The final black and white cartoon from Warner Bros . features a plot line that we've seen many times : cat tries to eat bird , bird turns out to be nasty little dude . Believe it or not , " Puss n ' Booty " came before the Sylvester-Tweety pairings ( Sylvester hadn't even yet debuted when this one came out ) , so if anything , those copied this one ; in fact , they remade it as " I Taw a Putty Tat " and cast Sylvester and Tweety . Some of the shots - such as looking down from inside the birdcage - reminded me a little bit of POV shots from movies like " Rear Window " , but maybe that's just me . While I do prefer the Sylvester-Tweety pairings for cat-canary rivalries , I do have to give this one credit for starting the genre , and for giving Bea Benaderet her debut . Worth seeing .
loose lips sink fools	True , " Spies " is a WWII propaganda film , so it portrays the Germans and Japanese - and maybe the Italians ; I couldn't quite tell whether or not the cartoon portrayed them - mercilessly . But other than that , it's a real hoot , as that quintessential idiot soldier Private Snafu has a secret and tries to keep it hidden but accidentally spills it , leading to an attack by the Axis Powers . So as long as we understand what it shows , then we can really enjoy it . I guess that if nothing else , the cartoon does bring up the question of whom we can trust during wartime . But it's worth seeing just to hear the Dr . Seuss rhythm in it . Pretty funny .
Or Celsius ?	Probably when people hear of Ray Bradbury's novel " Fahrenheit 451 " , they nowadays think of Michael Moore's documentary " Fahrenheit " . Both have similar topics , namely the suppressing of information and reliance on brainlessness . Francois Truffaut's only English-language film is very well done , with Oskar Werner as the book burner starting to question his job . The parallels to the current state of affairs remain important , as society today seems to be one that does everything except burn books . Does the movie have any problem ? Well , I can't tell whether or not Julie Christie is mainly there for looks ( and believe me , she had those ! ) , especially since she plays two roles . Also , the whole end sequence sort of comes across as funny , which I felt seems out of place in such a story . But otherwise , I thought that it was a very good and topical movie , and I certainly recommend it . In fact , I would recommend that you stop reading this review and go read a book . You may not be allowed to for much longer . I wonder why people always give the paper-burning temperature in Fahrenheit instead of Celsius .
cats live such dangerous lives	OK , so fairy tales and bedtime stories are some of the easiest to make fun of , and " Little Red Riding Hood " may be at the top of the list . Before " Little Red Rodent Hood " , the Termite Terrace crowd had already made " Little Red Riding Rabbit " , and they later made " Red Riding Hoodwinked " . This one portrays a mouse's grandmother telling him the famous story , and the mouse imagines it with himself as Red and Sylvester as the wolf . You can probably guess what sorts of things he does to Sylvester ; naturally one trick involves dynamite ( they loved their TNT , didn't they ? ) . So , this is far from the best Looney Tunes / Merrie Melodies cartoon ; having seen " Duck Amuck " and " What's Opera , Doc ? " , I expect really clever , high quality from them . But it's OK in a pinch . Currently available on the Looney Tunes website . Yeah , nobody whistles Dixie anymore .
Ahme , Mr . Dawes , and one of Mexico's three	Many years after I saw Alfonso Cuaron's movie adaptation of Frances Hodgson Burnett's novel " A Little Princess " , it surprised me to learn that the cast includes Liesel Matthews ( Harrison Ford's daughter in " Air Force One " ) , Eleanor Bron ( Ahme in " Help ! " ) and Arthur Malet ( Mr . Dawes in " Mary Poppins " ) . It's certainly a good story , as a little girl struggles to maintain her dignity and imagination after getting enslaved in a girls ' school in WWI-era New York . Of course , I reckon that the movie wouldn't appeal to very many people above the age of 14 . The look into Indian culture was certainly a good one ( the Ramayana is India's equivalent of " The Odyssey " ) . PS : what I mean by Mexico's three is that Alfonso Cuaron ( who also directed " Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban " and " Children of Men " ) , Guillermo Del Toro ( " Cronos " and " Pan's Labyrinth " ) and Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu ( " 21 Grams " and " Babel " ) are known as Mexico's three really famous directors of the 21st century .
more internecine than you realize	In one of his most eye-opening roles , James Coburn plays a US diplomat in England who gets hired to be one of the president's cabinet members . But several people know too much about his sordid past , so he decides to make sure that they don't reveal anything . So , he devises a plan to have each of them kill each other . But it turns out that they're ahead of him . " The Internecine Project " has a very ' 70s look , with the pre-digital secret technology ( which , combined with London's dreary nocturnal environs , gives the movie a more mysterious feel ) . Seeing how this movie came out during the Watergate era , I wonder whether it was playing off of people's growing suspicion of the government . But even if it wasn't , it still comes out really well . It does more to show what a great actor James Coburn was . Lee Grant , Harry Andrews and Ian Hendry also star .
the perfect role for Steve Buscemi	We should all know by now that Steve Buscemi is the unofficial king of indie flicks , and " Living in Oblivion " is possibly the best example . He plays the director of a very small movie - something right up his alley - who has to put up with the various problems on the set . We've seen this sort of story before , you say ? Well , remember that Buscemi barely has to do anything to make the movie good ; his pop-eyed gaze pretty much acts all on its own . If absolutely nothing else , this movie is a good look into the work that people have to put into making movies . Of course , I think that we need to consider it for much more than that . This movie has something for everyone , in my opinion . Also starring Catherine Keener , Dermot Mulroney , James LeGros , Peter Dinklage and Kevin Corrigan .
looking back on it	Knowing that " Lord of Illusions " is directed by the same man who brought us " Hellraiser " , you would probably expect two hours of torture scenes . But Clive Barker has a real treat in store for you . This movie is not a series of torture scenes , but a descent into the unknown . And a cool one at that . The movie begins several years earlier when a cult leader named Nix ( Daniel Von Bargen - aka Commandant Spengler on " Malcolm in the Middle " ) was killed by follower Philip Swann ( Kevin J . O'Connor ) . In the present , New York detective Harry D'Amour ( Scott Bakula ) comes out to LA and gets to know Swann and his wife Dorothea ( Famke Janssen - of " Goldeneye " and " X-Men " fame ) . But D'Amour has no idea what's about to happen , because some of the cult members want to resurrect the cult . And this will require certain accidents to happen . I can't really do justice to this movie by trying to explain it . Barker makes such an interesting use of mind-bendingness that you have to see it to understand it . Just see if you don't come away with your mind blown . You may never believe your eyes again after you see this . And I also would like to say that Famke Janssen is kinda hot in this movie .
I guess that since I don't know much about Natalie Wood herself . . .	. . . then I'll have to take this movie's word for it . " The Mystery of Natalie Wood " did actually do a pretty good job showing her life and death . Justine Waddell , as Natalie Wood , does look almost exactly like her . As for some aspects , I never knew that her mother Maria ( Alice Krige ) pushed her so hard to be famous ( or pushed her at all ) , or that Ms . Wood got raped when she was young . As for the death scene . . . well , I guess that Natalie Wood's death will remain a mystery , and they had to choose something to portray . Probably taking a cue from " Reds " , director Peter Bogdanovich interviews some people who knew her ( most notably " West Side Story " co-star George Chakiris ) . A well-done biography , if nothing else .
possibly the root of some of " Weird Al " Yankovic's songs	I don't usually like 1950s short movies , as they tend to constitute milquetoast approaches to complex issues ; " Mystery Science Theater 3000 " makes them worth seeing . But I found " Ain't It Aggravatin ' " pretty funny . It portrays botched attempts to park , and then to build a patio . Watching what happens here , I thought that it looked like the sorts of irritating situations described in " Weird Al " Yankovic's songs . I mean seriously , a parking job trashing other cars , and then an Insp . Clouseau-style attempt to build a patio ? So , it's no masterpiece by any stretch , but still a fairly neat look at the irking situations that really can arise in one's life . The kind of stuff that Gilligan would probably do , if I may say so .
Let's point the finger , shall we ?	" Picking Up the Pieces " is one of those nonsense stories that gets morphed into something really neat . In this case , Sheriff Tex Cowley ( Woody Allen ) tries to bury the body of his wife , but accidentally leaves her hand above the ground . I should identify that her hand has the middle finger sticking out . When a blind woman stumbles upon the hand , she regains her vision , and then the hand starts performing all sorts of miracles . Yes , it's a totally outlandish idea , but they do some really funny stuff with it . I especially liked the scene with " Ortiz " . One might say that this movie looks at the interconnectedness of everything . Maybe . But overall , I'd say that it's an excuse to have fun . And it sure is something to see Woody Allen in a small Texas town . Also starring Sharon Stone , Cheech Marin , David Schwimmer , Maria Grazia Cucinotta , and Kiefer Sutherland .
a worthy exorcise video	The title may make " The Exorcism of Emily Rose " sound like another cheap " Exorcist " rip-off ; after all , there have been plenty of those . Even the reminder that the movie is based on a true story could seem like an excuse for the people behind the movie to feel good about themselves in case the whole thing came out crappy . Ah , but there is a major surprise in store for us . Don't get me wrong : there is a girl suspected by some of being possessed by the Devil . However , this is not the same thing as " The Exorcist " . You see , in this case the girl died during the exorcism , and so the priest is on trial for negligent homicide . So , the movie focuses on the trial , and how it forces people to consider various possibilities of what happened . Demonic possession and a trial ? Is that really possible in one movie ? Not only is it , they do a very interesting job with it . I will say that some of the scenes sometimes seem a little silly , but they are also intense . You just might feel like you are getting possessed , even though the whole concept seems far-fetched . As for the trial scenes , they bring up the issue of what all one should consider when reviewing a case . Certainly demonic possession isn't something that we would usually count as a probability , given our understanding of mental illness and epilepsy . But is there any chance of it ? The movie doesn't tell us what to think ; if anything , it's something to think about , which is part of what makes the movie better than one would expect . As for the cast members , Laura Linney does a top-notch job as the defense attorney ( which isn't surprising , given her performances in " The Truman Show " , " You Can Count On Me " and " Kinsey " ) . Tom Wilkinson is also quite good as the priest ( also not surprising ) . Also starring are Campbell Scott , Colm Feore , Mary Beth Hurt , Henry Czerny and Shoreh Aghdashloo . So check it out . It just might save your life .
film must change with the times	I had known a little bit about the 1960s change in cinema , but " Reel Radicals : The Sixties Revolution in Film " lays it all out . Probably the main aspect that comes to people's minds is the emergence of sexuality on the screen , as shown by the likes of " Midnight Cowboy " and " Bob & Carol & Ted & Alice " . But the overall change was a shift away from the 1950s eye candy to more serious topics : race relations ( " To Kill a Mockingbird " ) , the Cold War ( " Dr . Strangelove " ) , the generation gap ( " The Graduate " ) and overall political upheaval ( " Medium Cool " ) . One thing that I wish that they could have gotten into was when movies from that era had a seemingly apolitical plot as the setting for political commentary . For example , " It's a Mad , Mad , Mad , Mad World " may look like a wacky comedy , but really seems to be a parable of greed , showing how people will do anything for money . For the most part , though , I thought that the documentary did a swell job with its topic . It all brings to mind the fact that the 1960s cinematic shift away from escapism led to 1970s cinema focusing on the fruits of the ' 60s movements , then escapism ( particularly high action ) resurfaced in the ' 80s , and then the indies rose in the ' 90s . It still remains to be seen what specifically 21st century cinema will inhibit . All in all , worth seeing . I might also note that people talk about TV experiencing its major change in the ' 70s , with " All in the Family " and " Sanford and Son " . I would say that there actually was a little bit of a shift in the ' 60s . Aside from shows like " Bewitched " , " Gilligan's Island " and " I Dream of Jeannie " having a semi-psychedelic look , these shows often contained situations where people from the older generation would come across something unfamiliar , and look ridiculous when they tried to explain it ( after all , people not taking part in what happened in the ' 60s couldn't even begin to explain it ) . That's my take on things . But I digress . Definitely a documentary that I recommend .
I guess that in international relations , there are no good guys , no bad guys , and no middle ground ; there is only moral nihilism .	Silvia Broome ( Nicole Kidman ) is a UN interpreter who is fluent in the fictional African language of Ku , spoken in her fictional native country of Matobo . When she returns to her office one night to retrieve something , she overhears some men plotting ( in Ku ) to assassinate the president of Matobo . Now that it looks like someone is probably after her , US agent Tobin Keller ( Sean Penn ) is assigned to protect her . From there , we learn that every character knows more than they are revealing . What I determined most while watching " The Interpreter " was not whether it was a good or bad movie , although I did like it . It seems that when you reach certain degrees of international relations , there are no good guys , no bad guys , and no middle ground ; there is only moral nihilism . We learn that for years , Matobo was ruled by the white minority while the black majority lived in desperate poverty . Then , current president Edmund Zuwanie led a revolution that brought the black population to power . Unfortunately , he turned into a dictator . Among other things , he murdered Silvia's family . Whether or not Silvia wants revenge is not the point ( but she does admit : " I don't care for him . " ) . The point is that no character can be truly classified one way or the other . As for what the movie said about the United Nations as an organization , it didn't take a solidly pro - or anti-UN stance , although it leaned towards pro . Like I said , the point overall seems to be that you can't go totally one way or the other .
my big fat Hindustani wedding	I have to admit that I don't really know much about East Indian weddings , so what I saw in " Monsoon Wedding " was totally new . Focusing on the various events and revelations surrounding a wedding in India ( no , this isn't a South Asian version of " My Big Fat Greek Wedding " ) , the movie is really something . I will say that as for director Mira Nair , I liked her " Mississippi Masala " better , but this one is still interesting . We may think of Indian movies as over-the-top musicals , but this shows that there are other kinds of cinema coming from the subcontinent . The only cast member whom I recognized was Roshan Seth ( you may remember him from " Gandhi " and " Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom " ) . All in all , a pretty neat movie .
equal to all forms of revenge	As long as we understand that " Magical Maestro " contains some politically incorrect scenes , we can enjoy it for the purely crazy , as a sadistic magician plays all sorts of tricks on a snobbish opera singer by changing the guy's persona every couple of seconds . I think that my favorite one was the little kid . I believe that it was the Klingons on " Star Trek " who declared " Revenge is a dish best served cold . " Maybe the magician doesn't go quite that far , but he sure has some funny things up his sleeve ! It just goes to show that while Tex Avery may not have been as clever as the people behind the Looney Tunes / Merrie Melodies cartoons , he certainly had some great ideas . Worth seeing .
I will forever remember Art Carney as Harry ( I've never seen " The Honeymooners " , and there's apparently no reason to see it ) .	Road movies always make for interesting stories , including " Harry and Tonto " . In a role that won him Best Actor , Art Carney plays retired New Yorker Harry Coombes , who decides to go on a cross-country tour with his cat Tonto . Harry not only visits his son and daughter ( Larry Hagman and Ellen Burstyn , respectively ) , but also manages to live life to its fullest , come what may . Among other things , this movie shows that regardless of what we may assume , old folks still have it even at their age . I guess that when I'm as old as Harry , I'll have to go on a cross-country tour . Who knows what there is out there .
Orange ya glad that you saw it ?	It seems that most of the country - and maybe other places on earth - consider Orange County to be the most pathetic place imaginable , as the domain of Disneyland , the John Wayne Airport and Richard Nixon . Well , you're in for a surprise here . The movie " Orange County " portrays teenager Shaun Brumder ( Colin Hanks ) . He lives well-off with his parents ( John Lithgow and Catherine O'Hara ) and stoner brother ( Jack Black ) . Anyway , Shaun is trying to get into college when the guidance counselor ( Lily Tomlin ) sends the wrong transcript . Most of the movie has Shaun trying to fix this with some very unexpected occurrences ! Overall , this is basically an excuse to be goofy , but Jack Black really carries the movie . I know that an obvious problem with the movie is the clear nepotism , as it's directed by Lawrence Kasdan's son and stars Tom Hanks's son and Sissy Spacek's daughter ( as Shaun's girlfriend ) . But as long as we understand that , we can appreciate the movie for what it truly is : pure , unadulterated fun . Also starring Chevy Chase , Garry Marshall , Harold Ramis , Ben Stiller and Kevin Kline .
they all knew of each other's existence in their metaphysical , animated world	One of the many Merrie Melodies cartoons that entertained American moviegoers during WWII , Bob Clampett's " An Itch in Time " portrays a hobo flea settling on Elmer Fudd's dog . The little guy turns into a real sadist while making a home on the dog's back , but Elmer warns the dog : " One more scwatch and I'll give you a bath ! " Meanwhile , the flea is setting up dynamite on the dog ! And that's not the end ! I noticed that in one scene , Elmer is reading a comic book featuring Bugs Bunny and Porky Pig . Obviously , Elmer and Bugs frequently co-starred but Elmer never co-starred with Porky ( unless you count the very short " Any Bonds Today ? " ) . But to me , the thought of Elmer reading about these other famous characters from his same genre stresses the metaphysical nature of his world , as though he knew of their existence within his universe even though they don't appear in this cartoon . Of course , I'm probably going too far in my analysis . I'm sure that the cartoon was intended as pure entertainment , and it certainly entertains . As for the " I might get to like this " line , it sounds as though that was something that the censors wouldn't have allowed but somehow missed ; I , for one , don't actually know what it was supposed to sound like . Was it something sexual ? As for the end , had I thought that I'd seen everything , I would have been tempted to look for more , rather than do what the cat did ( although it was a neat trick ) . The guys behind these cartoons sure had a thing for TNT , didn't they ?
not-so-gay Paree	Before Peter Weir got really famous , he made this strange but worth seeing flick about a small town in Australia whose local economy centers on car wrecks , and how they draw an outsider in . " The Cars That Ate Paris " doesn't star anyone whom you would recognize , and there's no big action scenes here , but that actually gives the movie a more realistic feeling . I should identify that this is not a movie for those with short attention spans . It's not likely to stick heavily in your memory the way that most of Peter Weir's movies do ( it's certainly not my favorite of his movies ) . But still , it's something to check out as a historical reference if nothing else . " I can drive ! " You'll probably feel like you can too .
There always has to be a disease , doesn't there ?	" Outbreak " isn't any kind of masterpiece , but worth seeing nevertheless . Portraying the army trying to contain a deadly virus brought by a monkey smuggled into the country , the movie seems especially relevant , what with bird flu and all . A particularly disturbing scene takes place in a movie theater , when a person coughs and the camera follows the particles catching on everyone's lips as they laugh , unaware of the fate that awaits them . The always dependable Dustin Hoffman plays as intense a role as ever as the colonel in charge of trying to control the virus . Rene Russo , Morgan Freeman , Kevin Spacey and Cuba Gooding Jr . also play their roles very well . Donald Sutherland's menacing looks are perfect for the kind of character whom he plays . All in all , Wolfgang Petersen directs another good one here .
he lived in turn-of-the-century Vienna but never met Sigmund Freud	In " The Illusionist " , Edward Norton plays a magician who uses his tricks to upset the power structure . Whenever he performs his tricks , he reminds us how one can never be totally certain about what's real and what isn't . I guess that the correlation is that Austria-Hungary has a status quo - in that it's run by straight-laced aristocrats - and this magician is changing it ; showing that the status quo doesn't have to be , if you will . But even without that aspect , it's still a pretty fascinating movie . Even though Eisenheim is a fictional character , one has to wonder what it must be like to be in his audience and witness his tricks . If anything lessens the movie at all , it's that the woman - loves - someone - outside - her - social - circle premise seems pretty routine ( and why do the characters in these movies always have English accents ? ) . But overall , I really liked it and I recommend it . Also starring Jessica Biel , Paul Giamatti and Rufus Sewell . I wonder why they didn't incorporate Sigmund Freud into the plot . I bet that he could have had some comments about illusions .
No doubt Altman based this on his own experience .	" California Split " portrays compulsive gamblers Bill Denny ( George Segal ) and Charlie Walters ( Elliott Gould ) . By compulsive , I mean that these guys gamble on EVERYTHING . Needless to say , it occasionally gets them in trouble , to the point where they have to go in for a final showdown . Robert Altman actually used to have a gambling problem , so I'm assuming that he based this movie on what he experienced during those years . Anyway , it's as relevant today as it was in 1974 , a look into the gambling world . Segal and Gould do a good job , as does the supporting cast ( including a then-unknown Jeff Goldblum ) .
Feeling hungry , anyone ?	When " Ravenous " first came out , a lot of people thought that it was really gross . But when you think about it , the movie actually has a pretty interesting story . During the Mexican-American War , Capt . John Boyd ( Guy Pearce ) gets transferred to Ft . Spencer , where he meets Col . Ives ( Robert Carlyle ) . The only thing is , Ives has some very ( with a capital V ) strange eating habits . And he intends to show Boyd at any cost . I guess that the movie was mainly pretty good because it showed how a person can get driven to cannibalism in desperate situations . As a vegetarian , I'm not sure whether or not I would , but the movie sure made a good point about it . Pretty impressive .
the mild / wild / gnarly West	So , there arrives another addition to a movie genre believed by some people to be practically extinct . I , for one , didn't even know that " 3 : 10 to Yuma " is a remake until I read IMDb's description ; westerns from the ' 40s and ' 50s are the types of movies that I usually avoid . As for this movie . The most interesting aspect is that , as was the case with David Cronenberg's " A History of Violence " , I ended up wondering whether or not the son is headed down the same direction as his father . But for the most part , I can't see much difference between this western and the average one . You see , " High Noon " was very likely an allusion to McCarthyism kowtowing ; " Shane " was the original story of a total stranger defending a family from thugs ; the spaghetti westerns gave the first accurate portrayal of life in the old west ( gritty and dismal ) ; and " Little Big Man " was the first movie to side with the Indians ( and of course " Blazing Saddles " totally trashed the genre ) . But to this movie's credit , it does show the Chinese working on the railroad , which is what really happened . Overall , it's worth seeing , but I wouldn't recommend it above most other movies . Starring Russell Crowe , Christian Bale , Gretchen Mol and Peter Fonda . Imagine that : Peter Fonda went from " Easy Rider " to a remake of a western .
climbing ever upward	So I guess that Bud and Lou just liked to mess with classic stories ( although they did have some interesting results ) . In this case , they're baby-sitting a bad boy , and Lou tries to read him " Jack and the Beanstalk " but falls asleep and dreams that he's Jack and Bud's the butcher , and they climb the beanstalk to rescue the prince and princess from the giant ( Buddy Baer ) . I think that my favorite scene was when Lou was trying to make the giant an omelet , and . . . well , I'll let you see what happens . As this was an Abbott and Costello movie , they did have a few unnecessary songs , but other than that , it was pretty funny . For other interpretations of the classic story , " Bewitched " and " Gilligan's Island " both had episodes portraying it .
an interesting compilation	In " The Great American Chase " , Bugs Bunny traipses through his house and tells us the story of chases . To make his point , he shows us several classic cartoons ( some starring him ) dealing with situations involving hot pursuits . Well , not all of them have chases ; some are there just for fun . Bugs remembers how Chuck Jones sent him into space , where he met Marvin the Martian ; then how Daffy Duck and Porky Pig tried to colonize Planet X and had to contend with Marvin the Martian ; how Daffy ( as Robin Hood ) had a very hard time recruiting Porky ( as Friar Tuck ) ; how Daffy's scenery frustratingly changed every few minutes ; how he , Bugs , ended up in a bullfight ; how he and Daffy dug into Ali Baba's cave ; how he and Elmer Fudd acted out " The Ride of the Valkyries " ; how Wile E . Coyote tried and failed to eat him ; and finally , how Wile E . decided to try something a little more his size , by which we mean the Road Runner . The Wile E . Coyote / Road Runner chase is really the best part of the movie . Overall , it's a pretty neat compilation of classic cartoons , and I liked the scene where Bugs remembers his " fathers " ( Mel Blanc , Chuck Jones , etc . ) .
branching out	For years , Wile E . Coyote had unsuccessfully chased Road Runner , and Sylvester had unsuccessfully pursued Speedy Gonzales . With RR racing against the Fastest Mouse in Mexico , it's no surprise that WEC and Sylvester try to catch them . . . whether they cooperate or get on each other's nerves . I should identify that despite the overall plot , " The Wild Chase " is not a particularly original cartoon . Many of the traps were lifted out of previous cartoons . I also felt that the cartoon ended sort of abruptly . But in the grand scheme of things , I liked the idea of what would happen if these two most accelerated Looney Tunes had to race against each other . If it brings up the continuing immigration debate in our country ( a Mexican and an American as opponents ) , then so be it . This is still a pretty interesting cartoon .
acceptable	Johnny Depp continued his interesting streak ( preceded by " What's Eating Gilbert Grape " , " Ed Wood " and " Don Juan DeMarco " ) with " Nick of Time " . He plays accountant Gene Watson , whose daughter gets kidnapped . The kidnappers ( Christopher Walken and Roma Maffia ) give him a envelope and tell him to murder the person on the photo within the next hour and 15 minutes or his daughter dies . It raises the stakes when it turns out that they want him to assassinate the governor ( Marsha Mason ) , and there's a conspiracy at work . I will admit that this movie isn't really anything special , but happening in real time heightens the suspense . Also starring Charles S . Dutton .
major combination	What makes Francis Ford Coppola's " The Conversation " ( released the same year as " The Godfather Part 2 " ) especially impressive is the combination of things that the movie constitutes . One important aspect is that in the ' 70s , there were released many movies involving suspicion of the government - " The Parallax View " , " Three Days of the Condor " , " All the President's Men " and " Capricorn One " - resulting from the Vietnam War , government spying on citizens , and Watergate . Therefore , this story of a surveillance expert ( Gene Hackman ) having a crisis of conscience was particularly relevant , especially nowadays with the current surveillance scandal . As for the more lowbrow aspect , the casting of Cindy Williams and Harrison Ford seems like advice from Coppola's buddy George Lucas ( who cast them in " American Graffiti " the previous year ) ; or maybe that's just conjecture . But no matter what the case , this is certainly a movie that I recommend . In times like these , movies dealing with these topics become practically a requisite for the survival of democracy . Also starring Teri Garr and Frederic Forrest .
much to derive	I'm guessing that Emir Kusturica probably wanted to flee his native Yugoslavia after what happened there in the early ' 90s . In this country , he made one of the most surreal movies that I've ever seen : " Arizona Dream " . Looking at the container , you may get a little befuddled by the cast - or just as easily take interest in it : Johnny Depp , Jerry Lewis , Faye Dunaway , Lili Taylor and Michael J . Pollard ( I lost respect for Vincent Gallo when I learned that he's a Bush supporter , so I didn't include him here ) . But the movie's actual plot is what will probably make you feel like your head is swimming . It focuses on young Axel Blackmar ( Depp ) , who moves to Arizona where his uncle Leo Sweetie ( Lewis ) wants him to take over the family business . But when elderly Elaine Stalker ( Dunaway ) and her daughter Grace ( Taylor ) enter Axel's life , nothing will ever be the same . A previous reviewer posed the question ( positively ) : how to make sense of what is unfolding here ? I have to agree . A melange of Inuit hunters , a weak imitation of " North by Northwest " ( acted out by Gallo's character ) , and a super-surreal plot , seems like it would be a comedy . But this movie is serious , and some scenes are rather grim . Anyway , it's not a great movie , but worth seeing , if only once . I still do wonder what was the meaning of that fish . And if I may say so , Faye Dunaway is still pretty hot .
Remade as 1990's " Havana " ?	There have been many stories of people going to countries on the eve of a revolution and finding out why there's a revolution . " Cuba " is kept afloat by strong performances . Sean Connery plays Maj . Robert Dapes , sent to Havana to help Batista fight the revolutionary army , but he soon figures out that the revolution is clearly going to succeed . In the process , he meets Alexandra ( Brooke Adams ) , an old flame now married to a philandering cigar factory owner . I guess that overall , there's nothing here that we haven't seen before . But the way that they filmed it gives one the feeling of a society about to explode . Also starring Jack Weston , Hector Elizondo , Denholm Elliott , Martin Balsam , Chris Sarandon , Lonette McKee , and Alejandro Rey ( aka Carlos Ramirez on " The Flying Nun " ) . Worth seeing . One more thing that I have to ask is whether or not Sydney Pollack remade this as " Havana " . The two movies don't have the exact same plots , but they're certainly pretty close .
These , I say these guys got seemingly no reason to fight , but it's funny that they do .	Somehow , I say somehow the worst things always seem to befall Foghorn Leghorn . In " The EGGcited Rooster " , he has to sit on his wife's egg and not leave it , or else . But when Henery Hawk - dressed as The Last of the Mo-hawk-ens - enters the fray , Foggy naturally sends him to harass Barnyard Dog . Guess what all ends up happening ! Why did Foggy always have the worst luck ? Who knows . The point is that his blustery attitude , and desire to play nasty tricks on Barnyard Dog , always get the better of him . And Henery's pride at being a chicken hawk - in this case , it means a chicken who eats other chickens , not a warmonger who never served in the army - always benefits him . So it's a pretty funny cartoon , despite the stereotyping of Indians . As it's not available on any video or DVD that I know of ( at least not yet ) , you can watch it on YouTube .
not too realistic , but what it portrays should be a cause for concern	When " The Net " was first being advertised , the ads made it look ridiculous . Then , when I saw it , it was actually quite good . Angela Bennett ( Sandra Bullock ) spends her days working on the computer and has never gotten to know her neighbors . Then , through a series of events , her identity gets erased by a cabal of shadowy people , and she can't prove that she exists . Some parts of the movie are a little bit far-fetched ; you'd probably know which parts if you saw the movie . Still , it's a good look into what the existence of the Internet may have wrought on unsuspecting people . I do recommend it .
How do things result when we apply Russian ideas to Mexico ?	If you know about Sergei Eisenstein's " Que Viva Mexico ! - Da zdravstvuyet Meksika ! " , you probably know that Eisenstein ran out of money and left the movie incomplete , so collaborator Grigoriy Aleksandrov organized the footage as close to how Eisenstein envisioned it . I personally thought that it was a fascinating movie , but one of many films where they throw so much at you that it's really hard to digest . Knowing that Eisenstein met with the execs at Paramount Pictures but didn't see eye to eye with them , I get the feeling that he may have made this movie in part to indict US involvement in Latin America . As we Americans were supposed to view our southern neighbor as the land of sombreros and senoritas , he wanted to show that there was a more serious-intellectual side , and of course the indigenous aspect . In my opinion , the combination of the Day of the Dead sequence and the rebellion at the end really constitute the movie's strength , sort of like the rebellion in " Battleship Potemkin " . Much of the rest of the film consists of very exaggerated facial expressions ( the Russians love those , don't they ? ) . But either way , I still recommend the movie as an important installation in cinematic history , exactly the sort of thing to show in film classes . If anything surprised me , it was that they were allowed to show nudity ; I always sort of assume that no major movie in any country was allowed to back then ( but don't get me wrong : some of those women were really hot ! ) .
one shot	" Drop Dead Gorgeous " is one of those movies that might leave a bad taste in your mouth , but also a sweet taste in your mouth . Portraying a beauty contest involving a lot of nasty tricks , they're not trying to be cute with this movie ; they're trying to bite everything right where it hurts , and they succeed . I , for one , wouldn't be surprised if many beauty pageants involve the stuff portrayed here . So , it's debatable whether or not we call this a gorgeous movie or a drop dead movie , but I wish to assert that it is worth seeing . Their accents will probably remind you of " Fargo " , and Kirstie Alley's character is likely to make your skin crawl . Also starring Kirsten Dunst , Ellen Barkin , Allison Janney , Denise Richards and Mindy Sterling ( Frau in the Austin Powers movies ) . Lutefisk . Ha !
if past and future really could meet . . .	Prehistory and the space age finally come face to face in this cartoon , as Elroy Jetson's time machine takes the family back to the stone age , where they meet the Flintstones . Then , lo and behold , the Flinstones accidentally get sent to the future , leaving the Jetsons in the past . As anyone might expect , both families have a hard time trying to cope with these new environments . " The Jetsons Meet the Flintstones " is pretty interesting . Granted , it's mostly intended for children , but I would suspect that practically anyone could like it . And overall , seeing what both families experience makes one content to stay in the present , even if the present isn't perfect . A real treat .
So it's complete .	You may have heard how " Star Wars : Episode III - Revenge of the Sith " ends , so I'll just talk about a few aspects . The line " Either you're with me or you're my enemy " sounds a lot like " Either you're with us or you're with the terrorists " ( although George Lucas wrote the script before September 11 ) . But I would have said a long time ago that George W . Bush is basically the same as Darth Vader . In some way , maybe the movie is sort of a video game , but that one line made it really good . Ewan McGregor , Natalie Portman , Hayden Christensen , Ian McDiarmid , Samuel L . Jackson , and Christopher Lee certainly do the best with their roles . Acceptable for what it is .
They'll use certain settings for anything , won't they ?	OK , since " Gift Wrapped " is set around Christmas , we can safely assume that Granny and Tweety are being good , while Sylvester and the dog - presumably named Hector - are being naughty . The main humor here is seeing how Sylvester uses the presents to go after Tweety . . . and when the dog appears unexpectedly ( come to think of it , I could occasionally guess when he was going to appear ) . Everyone likes to use Christmas as the setting for something unusual ( or would all this count as usual ? ) ; " Gremlins " did a really neat job with that . I figure that the cartoon mainly functions as a place holder in between the really great cartoons ( 1952 also saw " Operation : Rabbit " ) . So this is an OK , not great addition to the pantheon of Sylvester / Tweety cartoons . Passable .
Bound to happen sooner or later	Having gotten a lead role in " The Ipcress File " , Michael Caine got the role with which I believe that he remains best associated : ladies ' man Alfie Elkins . Alfie traipses around London , having flings with various and sundry " birds " , to the point where he starts seeming like a sexist pig - although it's probably debatable whether he is one . One might say that he loves every one of these women , or that he's just doing this for fun , but either way , it just may all come crashing down on him . On one level , " Alfie " is also a look at Swinging London . There's the ubiquitous clothes and hairstyles , among other things . As for Caine's female co-stars , there's Shelley Winters , Millicent Martin , Julia Foster , Jane Asher , Shirley Anne Field , and Vivien Merchant , to name a few . Lewis Gilbert directed two other really good women-related movies : " Educating Rita " ( also starring Caine ) and " Shirley Valentine " .
Yes , what is her name ?	Obviously , " Red Dragon " only got made because of " Hannibal " ' s success , but there seems to be more of an element of fear here than in the latter ( which focused more on gut-wrenching violence ) . Once again , the famous cannibal ( Anthony Hopkins ) has to help a detective ( Edward Norton ) find a killer ( Ralph Fiennes ) . As you may imagine , there are some pretty nasty scenes throughout the movie . If the movie has any problem , it's director Brett Ratner . It's just a little hard to take a suspense thriller seriously when it's directed by the man responsible for the " Rush Hour " movies . But other than that , there's a really intense surprise in this movie . You're sure to like it . Also starring Harvey Keitel , Emily Watson , Mary-Louise Parker , Philip Seymour Hoffman , Anthony Heald and Ken Leung . Oh , and one more thing : there's something REALLY interesting at the very end .
1979 : " Dracula " vs " Love at First Bite " vs " Nosferatu the Vampyre "	OK , so this is mostly another movie in which the title character goes around drinking blood , but it's not a bad movie by any stretch . Frank Langella plays the Count , with Laurence Olivier as Prof . Abraham Van Helsing , Donald Pleasance as Dr . Jack Seward , and Kate Nelligan as Lucy . As it is , that cast makes for something really interesting : Frank Langella was Whoopi Goldberg's beau for some years ( Dracula hooking up with Whoopi Goldberg ? ) , Laurence Olivier had played a man looking for Nazi fugitives in " The Boys from Brazil " the previous year and was now playing a man looking for a vampire , Donald Pleasance had played Dr . Sam Loomis in " Halloween " the previous year , and I best remember Kate Nelligan as Mercedes in the TV version of " The Count of Monte Cristo " . What a combination ! Also , 1979 saw three Dracula movies : this one , " Love at First Bite " and Werner Herzog's " Nosferatu the Vampyre " ( which I consider the best Dracula movie ever ) . The things that we see in life . All in all , " Dracula " is definitely worth seeing .
people can take a bite out of various aspects	John Carpenter was once known as the master of horror ( or at least part of the new wave of directors in the ' 70s ) , but more recently seems to have been regarded with some scorn , with most critics saying that his movies got totally trashy . To tell you the truth , " Vampires " looks like it's trying to be trashy . Specifically , it looks almost like Carpenter got a bunch of people together to party , they filmed it , and added a bunch of gore in post-production ( I admit that I just made all that up as I thought about it ) . But anyway , this movie is a pretty amusing romp , as James Woods leads a group of hunters trying to stop a centuries-old vampire ( Thomas Ian Griffith ) from finding a relic and becoming fully immortal . None of the overwrought pomp from " Bram Stoker's Dracula " , just pure unadulterated fun ; absolutely no pretense whatsoever . Definitely the sort of movie that you watch with best buds . Also starring Daniel Baldwin , Sheryl Lee , Maximilian Schell and Tim Guinee . Back when Sheryl Lee played Astrid Kirchherr in " Backbeat " , who would have ever guessed that she would later star in a John Carpenter movie ?
a picture is worth 1 , 000 words	It seemed like Ally Sheedy hadn't done much since " The Breakfast Club " when she starred in " High Art " , and she does a pretty good job here as photographer Lucy Berliner , who becomes involved with neighbor Syd ( Radha Mitchell ) , and they both start reevaluating their lives . I'll admit that this isn't the ultimate masterpiece or anything , but it is worth seeing as a look into the art world . These sorts of movies just go to show why indie flicks are more interesting than anything that Hollywood can conceive . Lisa Cholodenko followed it up with the perplexing , but also worth seeing , " Laurel Canyon " . Also starring Patricia Clarkson and Tammy Grimes .
I probably would have done that if surrounded by French bathing suits !	OK , maybe Tweety does get a little annoying sometimes - despite the fact that he started off as a near sadist in his debut - but I really liked the scene in " A Bird in a Guilty Cage " when Sylvester runs into the display of French bathing suits : given the sound that he made , we can probably at least guess how the bathing suits looked ! Especially for a lonely guy like him . Yeah , I know , it's pathetic to focus on a single scene and ignore the rest of the cartoon . Well , it seems like most of the Sylvester / Tweety pairings follow the same plot line , so even the slightest deviation catches my eye . Therefore , I wish to assert that this cartoon is worth seeing just for that one scene .
our introduction to Denise Richards	Obviously , the scene in " Wild Things " that really surprised everyone was a certain scene with Kevin Bacon . But as for the rest of the movie , it involves a rape lawsuit in a Florida high school , and the strange things that follow . I'm not sure how much I can tell you without giving it away . I never would have envisioned so many twists and turns in a movie . As it was , this was our introduction to Denise Richards ( although she had earlier appeared in the worth-seeing " Starship Troopers " ) . All in all , if you come away from this movie royally confused , don't say that I didn't warn you . But don't get me wrong : it's a pretty interesting movie . Also starring Matt Dillon , Neve Campbell , Theresa Russell , Robert Wagner , Bill Murray and Carrie Snodgress .
Does a great job dealing with death .	Some people have treated " What Dreams May Come " with scorn due to Chris Nielsen's ( Robin Williams ) affirmations that he can do anything , even if it violates the laws of nature . I beg to differ . The movie shows how he blames himself for his wife Annie's ( Annabella Sciorra ) suicide , and feels compelled to rectify this . Maybe some people thought that the movie was trying too hard to be like a painting but ended up a series of shots of Robin Williams trying to be emotional . Neither description would do the movie justice . This movie is not all about special effects . I think that it forces us to reconsider our own destinies , and what may become of everything after we die . All in all , a really impressive movie . Also starring Cuba Gooding Jr and Max Von Sydow .
stoned . . . out of my mind	As the first Jan Svankmajer movie that I ever saw , " Hra s kameny " ( alternately called " Spiel mit Steinen " or " A Game with Stones " ) holds a special place . It shows stones dripping out of a faucet every quarter hour and doing a series of wacky dances , contortions , and whatnot . The kiss is especially impressive . As for the end , I guess that it's saying that all good things have to end eventually - although in this case , it sort of brought the end on itself . All in all , I've heard how Jan Svankmajer's work is often bizarre ( even subversive ) , but you truly have to see it to believe it . In conclusion , " rock " and roll !
notion : the west is never the aggressor ( but we do get to be ignorant )	It was 1965 . The Cold War was raging . Espionage was in its heyday . That year not only saw another James Bond movie ( " Thunderball " ) , but also the first Harry Palmer movie ( " The Ipcress File " ) , the first Derek Flynt movie ( I can never remember which came first ) , and the debut of " Get Smart " ( an add for that one even called Maxwell Smart " the spy who forgot to come in from the cold " ) . So it's no surprise that " The Spy Who Came in from the Cold " got released that year . I will say that this movie overall is a little confusing , with Richard Burton as a British agent taking on a dangerous mission in East Germany . But there were some things that I noticed in the movie that may back up everyone's stereotypes about the west . Someone tells Burton about the notion that the west is never the aggressor . The people in various colonized countries know that to be entirely untrue . Also , Burton says that it is our right to be ignorant ; we've unfortunately overused that right . But I digress . I liked the movie , even if it was often hard to follow . Far from the idealized , sex-centric world of James Bond , " TSWCIFTC " shows the ugly side of espionage . And it does a very intense job of it . Also starring Claire Bloom , Oskar Werner and Bernard Lee ( I believe that he's the same Bernard Lee who played M in the James Bond movies ) .
My mom didn't like this movie , but I didn't mind it ( although I wouldn't have given it Best Picture ) .	After almost thirty years in movies , Clint Eastwood took home an Oscar for " Unforgiven " . In it , he plays ex-killer William Munny , who has given up his violent ways . Then , some unexpected events force him to have to decide whether to continue his non-violent life or return to violence . It seems to me that " Malcolm X " deserved Best Picture more than this one did , but Eastwood certainly turns in a captivating performance , as do Gene Hackman , Morgan Freeman , and Richard Harris . Some people may have trouble watching this due to some of the things that happen in it , but if you can stomach it , then you should check it out . As Munny notes : " It's a hell of a thing killing a man . Taking away everything he's got " .
they made something really creative here	I knew nothing about " The Strangers " when I started watching it . When it became clear that the movie was a horror flick , I figured that it was going to be a typical slasher . But there's more to it than that . A message at the beginning tells the audience that the depicted events are true ( or at least a possibility of what happened ) . We get introduced to James Hoyt ( Scott Speedman ) and Kristen McKay ( Liv Tyler ) , apparently having some problems . But then a young woman comes to their door and asks for a person who doesn't live in the house . She later returns , and noises start appearing around the house . That's when the real story sets in . The horror derives from never knowing who the killers are , or what their motives are . They are just masked figures with no aim except to torment James and Kristen . Because of the timing and editing in some scenes , I doubt that you'll be able to watch this movie without jumping in at least one scene . I should identify that this isn't a great movie . There are some clichés like heavy breathing and sobbing ( or might the true story have happened like that ? ) . But they do the right thing by keeping gore to a minimum and letting the story develop . Therefore , I recommend " The Strangers " .
If nothing else , it will increase your vocabulary .	Whenever they remake a movie , it's always iffy . But we can count on the Coen brothers . " The Ladykillers " of course has a group of thieves living in an old woman's house to carry out their heist , but she wises up to their scheme ; they try to kill her , but murder isn't as easy as it looks ! Tom Hanks plays the devilish , very cultured Southern gentleman Prof . Goldthwait Higginson Dorr III , whose speech gives one the impression that he spends all day searching the dictionary for obscure words . The Coen brothers did a really neat job updating Alec Guinness ' classic . Marlon Wayans ' character was kind of silly , but other than that , the movie had virtually no faults . Just one more thing : I notice that by now , Tom Hanks has acted in movies all around the US part of the Gulf of Mexico . " Forrest Gump " happened in Alabama , " Apollo 13 " happened in Texas and Florida , " The Green Mile " happened in Louisiana , and " The Ladykillers " happened in Mississippi . Well . . .
It's basically propaganda , but I'm sure that it's all true .	Released right after " Battleship Potemkin " , " Mother " shows a woman forced to choose between siding with her labor-organizing son or her corrupt husband . The movie makes double sure that we get to see the living conditions in Russia in 1905 , but it also uses ice as a metaphor . There are a few scenes where we see ice breaking up on the ocean ; it basically shows that the old order is slowly but surely coming apart . I have to admit that this is the only Vsevolod Pudovkin movie that I've ever seen , but it's certainly a good one , if only as a historical reference . A noticeable difference between Eisenstein and Pudovkin was that Eisenstein was into typage ( meaning that he liked to choose any random person who looked right for the role ) , while Pudovkin was very fixated on whom he wanted .
I always thought that Peter Jennings was the best of the " big three "	Of the " big three " anchors of the ' 80s and ' 90s , it always seemed like Peter Jennings was the most intellectual . Hard to believe that in his 22 years as anchor , he covered the collapse of the Soviet bloc and later September 11 . As I understand it , early criticism of him came because of his more circumspect approach to certain topics than other anchors ( or maybe it was just because he was Canadian ) . Still , from what I've heard , it would have been good to see " ABC Evening News " during the Vietnam War and hear John Chancellor's indictment of that war . I remember when Peter Jennings showed the 25th anniversary of the modern broadcast's first airing ( they reported on the trial of some Soviet Jews ) : John Chancellor correctly identified that the USSR was dooming itself to failure . But no matter . Had Peter Jennings survived a few more weeks , he could have covered Hurricane Katrina . I had never known that he smoked . But a radio station noted that he reported on anti-war protests when the US invaded Iraq , so you gotta give him credit for that . So , for all it's flaws , I recommend this news show .
Trust no one and everyone .	Now that " The X Files " has become part of our history , we can let the future judge the show and movie . Ah , but the movie's tag-line is " Fight the future " . As someone who always watched the show , I was naturally quite eager to see the movie . The plot is slightly confusing , but still well done . It portrays FBI agents Fox Mulder ( David Duchovny ) and Dana Scully ( Gillian Anderson ) investigating a cover-up which may prove the existence of extraterrestrials . Obviously , the show's premise centers on those sorts of things . But , as always , there's more here than meets the eye . For example , how does corn play into the plot ? And what does a strange doctor ( Martin Landau ) have to do with all this ? And of course , who all is involved ? Maybe the movie occasionally seems to be having a hard time , given that they usually only have to do hour-long segments , but it still holds the viewer's interest . Like any given episode , you may walk away wondering whom you can trust . Reprising their roles from the series are John Neville , William B . Davis , Mitch Pileggi , Tom Braidwood , Bruce Harwood and Dean Haglund . Also starring are Blythe Danner , Jeffrey DeMunn and Armin Mueller-Stahl .
X the known	I knew about the " X-Men " graphic novels but never read them . Although I did find the movie fairly interesting , mainly because it shows how Sen . Kelly ( Bruce Davison ) tries to create a McCarthy-style fear of mutants . I guess that for the most part , this movie is not much different from other superhero movies , but worth seeing as a cultural reference . It was surprising to see Ian McKellen go from " Gods and Monsters " to this . A particularly funny scene is when Cyclops ( James Marsden ) has to verify Wolverine's ( Hugh Jackman ) identity . This movie does make one grow to respect mutants . So why do you ask questions to which you already know the answer ?
one of the few good movies based on classic TV shows	Usually , it would seem like there's no incentive to make a movie based on " The Twilight Zone " . But " Twilight Zone : The Movie " is actually quite good . It all begins with Dan Aykroyd and Albert Brooks driving along a deserted road . At one point , Dan Aykroyd asks Albert Brooks if he would like to see something scary . Albert Brooks answers yes , and . . . well , let's just say that he shouldn't have . The first segment - directed by John Landis - is the most famous not for what it portrays , but what happened on the set : Vic Morrow was accidentally killed during filming . In this segment , he plays bigot Bill Connor , who gets to see what it's like on the receiving side of racism . The second segment - directed by Steven Spielberg - has Scatman Crothers as a man who lets some senior citizens become children one last time . Sort of a precursor to " Cocoon " , although the latter perfected it . The third segment - directed by Joe Dante - is . . . well , you know the phrase " . . . and a child shall lead them . . . " ? Well , Kathleen Quinlan plays Helen Foley , who visits a house where . . . well , you'd better believe that a child is leading them . Dante regulars Dick Miller and Kevin McCarthy appear . The fourth and last segment - directed by George Miller - was lifted from what is probably the most famous " Twilight Zone " episode of all time . John Valentine ( John Lithgow ) is on a plane and sees something on the wing - unfortunately , no one will believe him . All in all , they did a really good job with this movie . You may feel a little unnerved after viewing it .
straight from the heart	When " The Straight Story " came out , many critics called it a solid masterpiece . I don't know whether I would call it that , but it's definitely worth seeing . The true story of Midwest farmer Alvin Straight ( Richard Farnsworth , in his final role ) driving his tractor down a highway to visit his estranged brother , the movie makes us call into question our own lifestyles . Alvin may be about at the end of his rope , but he knows that he has to make amends sooner or later . All in all , this is a very interesting change of pace for director David Lynch . The man usually known for the likes of " Eraserhead " , " Blue Velvet " and " Mulholland Dr . " looks at the rustic life and how certain things in it may have to change . It's certainly a movie that I recommend to people . Equally as good as Farnsworth are Sissy Spacek as Alvin's speech-impaired daughter Rose , and Harry Dean Stanton as Alvin's brother Lyle . Also appearing ( as the tractor salesman ) is Everett McGill , whom you may recognize from " Silver Bullet " and " The People Under the Stairs " . A very unique movie indeed .
sort of toying around , sort of not	Around the same time that he starred in - and hilariously carried - " Aladdin " , Robin Williams starred in another movie clearly intended for kids : " Toys " . He plays toy company heir Leslie Zevo , trying to stop his uncle ( Michael Gambon ) from taking over the company and using it to make war toys . Yeah , it's a pretty simple plot - and maybe the movie's only really interesting once - but there's plenty of scenes that make it all worthwhile , namely the crossword scene and the scene where the spy camera has an unexpected experience . At times , the movie does seem like it's trying to tweak at your emotions , but it's mostly pretty good . Granted , I do prefer the previous movie in which Barry Levinson directed Robin Williams ( by which I mean " Good Morning , Vietnam " ) . Also starring Joan Cusack , Robin Wright , LL Cool J , Donald O'Connor , Arthur Malet , Jack Warden , and Jamie Foxx ( as a joke , I'll say what that translates to : the " In & Out " bride , Forrest Gump's sweetheart , a rapper , one of the people who didn't sing in the rain , Mr . Dawes Jr from " Mary Poppins " , Warren Beatty's frequent co-star , and Ray Charles ) .
the perfect universe to control	On one level , " Click " is the typical Adam Sandler movie , with him as a nervous every-man who explodes when it befits the situation . However , there is more here . Some reviews have said that this is basically the same sort of thing as " Bruce Almighty " , how he gets an unusual power but discovers that it isn't exactly what he expected . I guess that it's true - right down to his relationships with everyone - but if it was just 98 minutes of complete silliness , wouldn't that just be a total repeat of most such movies ? As for what specifically happens in the movie , the way that Michael Newman ( Sandler ) gets to control his surroundings is done sort of like a DVD , what with start , stop , rewind , forward , commentary ( by James Earl Jones ) and even different languages . Christopher Walken is especially neat as the guy who gives him the remote control , but when does Christopher Walken not bring an interesting presence to a movie ? And overall , the movie is a good lesson about the importance of family over career . . . even if they use some goofy things to show it ( e . g . , the part about Michael Jackson ) . So , overall , director Frank Coraci - who previously directed Adam Sandler in " The Wedding Singer " and " The Waterboy " - created a really perceptive look at life in general . I recommend it . Also starring Kate Beckinsale , Henry Winkler , Julie Kavner and David Hasselhoff .
How was Winston Churchill as a baby ?	This time , Porky Pig has to baby-sit a bad-ass infant named Butch , while the baby's mother goes to work in the factory , a la Rosie the Riveter . Obviously , the wartime stuff is probably going to make us cringe a little nowadays , particularly since the mother uses a derogatory word for the Japanese . But otherwise , it's really funny to see how the baby tortures Porky , and even goes so far as to imitate Winston Churchill in one scene . So even if it's not the greatest cartoon ever , " Brother Brat " is still pretty funny . Worth seeing . And yes , use a book . In fact , stop reading this review and read a book .
Is this Sylvester's eternal doom ? !	While most of the Sylvester / Tweety pairings would feature just one bulldog ( I seem to recall that his name is Hector ) to counter Sylvester's actions , " Ain't She Tweet " features a whole garden of dogs . When Granny brings Tweety home from the pet store - where Sylvester had already tried to go after him but had to abort his plan - Sylvester can't seem to get past the canine ocean . Why must he always suffer so ? ! Obviously , his mishaps form part of the cartoon's plot line , sort of like what befalls Wile E . Coyote when he tries to trap Road Runner . But no matter how you look at it , this is still a funny cartoon . Little more than a way to pass time , but worth your while . I noticed that the shop next to the pet store said I . Wyner . No doubt that was an in-joke referring to background artist Irv Wyner .
kids with last names as first names	One of Warner's many pre-1948 cartoons stripped of its opening credits and carrying the Blue Ribbon logo in their place , Frank Tashlin's " Booby Hatched " really seems to have come out of left field . Probably the neatest scene is when the mother duck rattles off the ducklings ' names : Franklin , Eleanor and Winston , before she realizes that Robespierre is missing . Of course , the thought of her son having that name brings to my mind the fact that so many children nowadays have last names as first names . Above all , it's a good thing that I first watched this cartoon nowadays when I'm old enough to understand what it portrays . Had I watched it when I was about six , I wouldn't have understood the ducklings ' names . Anyway , the wolf and bear don't stick in my mind as much as the idea of a duck named Robespierre . But it is a pretty neat cartoon . Worth seeing . What about Joseph ? Then again , she probably wouldn't want to name any of her children after Stalin .
not robotic at all	Obviously , " I , Robot " is the sort of movie that could very easily end up being completely ridiculous : an action star in a futuristic movie about humans battling robots . That certainly sounds like it could degenerate into an even lamer version of " Independence Day " - and I'm not just saying that because it stars Will Smith . However , the movie does manage to do something good . For starters , it's not just an excuse for a bunch of action ( although there is a lot ) . To me at least , the movie seems to be looking at the possible dangers of people relying too much on technology , like what " 2001 : A Space Odyssey " looked at . As cop Del Spooner , investigating a murder in 2035 Chicago that may or may not have been committed by a robot , Will Smith is sardonic , but never formulaic . Also starring James Cromwell . On one level , maybe the movie is sort of eye candy . But like I said , there is a plot here . And let's face it : this is a much better robot-themed movie than " Bicentennial Man " apparently was .
someone's gotta survive . . . I think	" The Survivors " is characteristic of Robin Williams's movies before " Good Morning , Vietnam " : innocuously silly . In this case , he and Walter Matthau join up after surviving a robbery , and Williams becomes a survivalist . The whole thing is pretty goofy - maybe even pointless - but some of the gags make up for that . I will say that it's not the funniest movie for either star by a long shot ; both have done far better than this . But , it's the sort of movie that you sit around in your underwear and watch ; it does a respectable job showing both stars ' talents . Good for a few laughs . Shooting a man's gun . Ha !
How about that ! It came out right before " Braveheart " !	I had never heard of Robert Roy MacGregor before " Rob Roy " came out , but the movie is definitely worth seeing . Playing the title character , Liam Neeson brings the same spirit to the role that he brought to Oskar Schindler , and Jessica Lange also does a really good job as his wife Mary . Archibald Cunningham ( Tim Roth ) is one person very likely to make your skin crawl . All in all , this comes out as good as " Braveheart " ( maybe even better ) . I laugh when I think of how Hollywood released two movies almost back-to-back taking a swipe at England . Very good . Also starring John Hurt , Eric Stoltz , Brian Cox and Jason Flemyng .
Lots on the table here .	David Niven won Best Actor for his perceptive role as the shady Maj . Angus Pollock , one of many characters at an English countryside estate . Maybe " Separate Tables " isn't the ultimate masterpiece , but the range of characters makes it worthwhile . It's one of those all-star cast vehicles , looking at various aspects of life . Also starring are Deborah Kerr , Rita Hayworth , Wendy Hiller , and Burt Lancaster . I have to admit that this is the only Delbert Mann movie that I've ever seen ( he also directed the Oscar-winning " Marty " ) , but if this is any indication , his other movies should be interesting . Worth seeing , even if you only see it once .
always a guilty pleasure with Ursula Andress on screen	Back in the ' 60s , everyone loved a cool spy flick . James Bond , Derek Flint , Harry Palmer ( and even Maxwell Smart ) were the famous secret agents , but probably not as many people remember " Les tribulations d'un chinois en Chine " . It has French everyman Arthur Lempereur ( Jean-Paul Belmondo ) getting involved in espionage in Hong Kong . A really fun scene is the whole chase scene . However , in my opinion , the intrigue and stuff gets overshadowed by Ursula Andress's presence . There's one scene in particular that will very likely remind you of her role in " Dr . No " . So , there always had to be spy stories involving hot babes . A flick similar to this one is " Die Holle von Macao " ( also called " The Corrupt Ones " ) which starred Elke Sommer . You'll probably like both movies .
magical realism , even outside of Latin America	Usually , it might seem out of place to make 1950s LA the setting for something involving magical realism , but they pull it off here , with Bridget Fonda as an amateur magician going to Mexico to further her studies with a Mayan shaman . While the story mostly focuses on her trip down there , and how a detective ( Russell Crowe ) follows her , my favorite parts were the scenes with the Mexican guy , and what he does towards the end . When people in Latin America first started telling stories centering on magical realism , they probably never envisioned that ! Anyway , " Rough Magic " isn't a great movie , but a good look at a part of Latin American culture that many people in the US unfortunately don't know about . Worth seeing . PS : This movie will probably give you a new view of rabbits .
around the world in 80 or so minutes	Prior to watching " The Bucket List " , I had doubts as to whether or not I would like it : Jack Nicholson and Morgan Freeman are both really good actors , while Rob Reiner has directed good and not so good movies . Well , I liked it . True , there's a predictable plot with the occasional treacly moment , but I liked how it portrayed these two men living their final months to the fullest by traveling around the world . Jack Nicholson always knows how to project just the right amount of sarcasm to make his role a cool one . OK , so maybe it is becoming a cliché to have Morgan Freeman narrate movies , but this one does a good job showing how both his character and Nicholson's use the trip to eventually make peace with their families . Among other things , I could relate to the scenes where Freeman watches " Jeopardy ! " ; I also like to shout out the answers as I watch it . Overall , I would say that this is not a great movie - far from the best film of Nicholson , Freeman or Reiner - but that it goes to show that all three still have what it takes to create a worthwhile piece of cinema . I recommend it . And I now have a hankering to go to some of those places . . . although I'm not so sure about skydiving .
Abracadabra and hocus pocus !	Another cartoon compilation ? ! Yes , and this one's pretty clever . It features Daffy Duck opening a business to battle supernatural forces , a la " Ghostbusters " . Probably the funniest part was the cartoon where Bugs Bunny stays in Count Dracula's castle and upsets the count's ( after ) lifestyle , but it was also really something when the sick millionaire threw all the pies at Daffy , and when Daffy scared Porky . Still , I never quite understood the whole part about the money disappearing . So , " Daffy Duck's Quackbusters " isn't quite the same as the classic cartoons , but it's still worth seeing . Don't be surprised if , after watching this , you go around saying " abracadabra " and " hocus pocus " . If I may add something , the two segments with Sylvester were also neat .
Here's what was risky .	Everyone remembers the scene of Joel Goodsen ( Tom Cruise ) dancing around to " Old Time Rock ' N ' Roll " , but some people may have forgotten some of the movie's other aspects . The plot of course has Goodsen hooking up with prostitute Lana ( Rebecca DeMornay ) , but the movie also shows the takeover by greed in the ' 80s : Joel's classmates are obsessed with money , and he even asks if people can think about anything else . Oh well . I really liked the scene where people are arriving in the house while " Mannish Boy " is playing ( the movie was actually released the year that Muddy Waters died ) . And it's also surprising now that I know who some of the cast members were : Joe Pantoliano - of " The Goonies " , " The Matrix " and " Memento " fame - plays Guido the pimp , and Curtis Armstrong - aka Booger in " Revenge of the Nerds " - plays Miles . Whoa .
more than ( air ) plain	Knowing that " Red Eye " comes from the man who gave us " The Hills Have Eyes " , " A Nightmare on Elm Street " and " Scream " , we would probably expect a slasher movie . It turns out that this is nothing of the sort . What we have here is a slick thriller in the vein of another airplane-set movie from last year , " Flightplan " . And a very clever one at that . It all begins when hotel clerk Lisa Reisert ( Rachel McAdams ) is headed for the Dallas airport to catch a plane back to Miami . Upon learning that her flight has been delayed , Lisa waits in line , where she gets to know one Jack Rippner ( Cillian Murphy ) , an extremely likable everyman . Lo and behold , she's sitting next to him on the plane . But right after the plane takes off is when she learns what he really wants : he wants her to change a government agent's room reservation in her Miami hotel , or her father will get killed . I wish to assert that the airplane setting really heightens the tension . Even creepier is how Jack gets everyone to like him , so Lisa probably can't blow his cover . If the movie has any problem , it's the actual assassins : why do they have to be Russians ? Aren't we done portraying Russians as killers / Mafiosos / oligarchs ? But overall , I really liked this movie . Wes Craven brings the same sensibility that he brought to the rest of his movies . So check it out . You're sure to like it . . . and it just might save your life .
Starting with Volume 2 , the featurettes on the Looney Tunes DVDs were the locksmiths of love , no ?	In a way , Pepe Le Pew - more than any of the other Looney Tunes - represents that deep down desire that so many men have . The mini-documentary " Behind the Tunes : The Charm of Stink - On the Scent of Pepe le Pew " explains his hilarious delusion of being the world's greatest lover while actually repelling the women . People like Leonard Maltin and Joe Dante put in their two ( s ) cents . I think that I may have heard that Pepe was based on French actor Charles Boyer , but this featurette clarifies the whole thing . I guess that it's another example of knowing the parody before knowing the original ( heck , without even knowing that the parody is a parody ) . Kind of like how the first time that I saw " What's Opera , Doc ? " when I was really young , I had never heard of Richard Wagner , or that I learn about many pop songs by hearing " Weird Al " Yankovic's spoofs . But anyway , this short does a good job looking at Pepe Le Pew . I agree with another reviewer that the mini-documentaries on the Looney Tunes DVDs improved with Volume 2 .
Jimi Hendrix's song comes to the screen	Ever since Luc Besson directed " The Fifth Element " , it was probably hard to imagine him directing a movie like the mystifying " Angel-A " . But he did , and the movie impressed me . One might interpret it as the same idea as Jimi Hendrix's song in which an angel - whether real or metaphorical - saves a person's existence . Certainly how Angela helps Andre fix up his life in a world that seemingly rejected him , that's a matter of interpretation . But I also detect an allusion to France's treatment of the North Africans ( but that's just conjecture , so don't quote me ) . But overall , I think that Luc Besson is offering hope amidst the turmoil that has engulfed the world . It's a little bit like " Pan's Labyrinth " in that sense . So I recommend it .
Good , but in the year that produced " American Graffiti " , " The Exorcist " , " The Last Detail " , " Serpico " , and " Enter the Dragon " , did this deserve Best Picture ?	As " The Sting " is probably the most famous con artist-themed movie ever , you probably know that it's about aging con artist Henry Gondorff ( Paul Newman ) and up-and-comer Johnny Hooker ( Robert Redford ) teaming up to get revenge on crime boss Doyle Lonnegan ( Robert Shaw ) in Depression-era Chicago . This movie may be most famous as 1973's Best Picture winner , but I wouldn't have given it Best Picture . Granted , it was an interesting look at the underworld of the 1930s and the corruption prevalent throughout that period , but a number of movies that year were more deserving . Oh well . It's still worth seeing . Whenever George Roy Hill directed Newman and Redford together , he always came up with something good . As it was , this was one of two movies in 1973 about Depression-era conning ; the other was of course " Paper Moon " . And " The Sting II " ? I don't think that anyone's actually seen that movie ( I sure haven't ) . Once on " The Simpsons " , Grampa even made a comment about it's lack of fame .
Kevin Spacey as Lester Burnham's flip side	To me , it seems like 1995 was really the year that brought Kevin Spacey into the national spotlight . He played a creepy boss in " Swimming with Sharks " , a strange interviewee in " The Usual Suspects " and a serial killer in " Se7en " . The first one lets him go all out as a total jerk - and he's a movie producer , so that makes him as bad as can be - making life a living hell for Frank Whaley's newcomer . So it's no surprise that Whaley does what he does . Is Spacey the actor who most defined the direction that indie films started to take in the ' 90s ? Hard to say , as there were many such actors . But I would say that it's neat how Spacey's characters usually perpetrate misery on other people ( like here ) or rebel against it ( like in " American Beauty " ) . Overall , this is certainly one that I recommend . Because a paper cut on the tongue can't be anything pleasant . Also featuring Benicio Del Toro in an early role .
the wearing of the green . . .	In the ' 70s , Charlton Heston starred in sci-fi flicks of varying quality . " Soylent Green " is one of the better ones . He plays Robert Thorn , a detective in 2022 New York . In this future , most food is so expensive that everyone needs a product called Soylent Green . But when Thorn finds out the unsavory truth about this product , he finds himself on the run . I guess that it's only natural that this movie should seem dated to us nowadays . But even so , it still brings up interesting questions about what will become of our agriculture . Also starring Leigh Taylor-Young , Chuck Connors , Brock Peters , Joseph Cotten and Edward G . Robinson ( in his final role ) .
Cook the goose , and then imitate Barbarella	Once again , a dimwit unsuccessfully tries to do away with Daffy Duck . In this case , soft-spoken Mr . Meek has to cook a duck for dinner or his wife will cook his goose ( heh , heh ) . Some of the gags here have appeared in so many cartoons that I easily predicted them ( namely the one about lumps ) . But the highlight here is Daffy's striptease ; it reminded me of what Jane Fonda did at the beginning of " Barbarella " . If we in the 21st century find that scene wacky , just imagine how it must have looked to moviegoers in 1943 ! Anyway , this is a true display of Daffy's talent back when his first name actually described his personality ( it was after WWII when he became a sociopath under Chuck Jones's direction ) . OK , so we could also be cynical and say that Bob Clampett gave Daffy a too vulnerable rival , and so Daffy didn't have to do all that he could . Well , I still say that " The Wise Quacking Duck " is a really funny cartoon . And I don't think that any live-action actor would have dared do that striptease .
Who scent you ?	For years , many people have associated the French with certain smells , whether the stereotype of the people not bathing , or Pepe Le Pew . But now there comes something different . Something that I could have never imagined . " Perfume : The Story of a Murderer " tells the story of Jean-Baptiste Grenouille ( Ben Whishaw ) . He was born to a meat cutter in the putrid environs of a market in 18th century Paris . When his mother tried to abandon him , she was executed and he was sent to work in a tannery . During his employment there , he developed a unique sense of smell . So , he went to work for has-been perfumer Giuseppe Baldini ( Dustin Hoffman , whom I at first didn't recognize due to his makeup ) . But in the process , he found that the only way to capture the perfect scent was through . . . murder . So , he began killing women and rubbing animal fat on them to capture their scent . And in the city of Grasse , things were doomed to get really ugly . . . This was certainly an interesting movie , if not the best . Director Tom Tykwer ( " Run Lola Run " ) makes us understand that Jean-Baptiste is turning very weird , but still allows us to admire him somewhat . As it is , some of the other characters aren't much better . When Jean-Baptiste starts murdering women in Grasse but nobody knows the culprit , the town's head honcho ( Alan Rickman ) proposes a curfew and people start blaming the gypsies . But anyway , the movie's worth seeing . You may never think about perfume the same again after seeing it .
Say hello to our little film . . .	I've never seen the original " Scarface " , but the remake is not something that you'll forget easily . Al Pacino plays Antonio Montana , one of the Cuban exiles known as " Marielitos " . After arriving in Miami , he soon becomes a drug kingpin , distributing cocaine everywhere , not to mention getting all coked up himself . As one might expect with such a person , he gets into all sorts of bloody situations ; in one scene , he and his friends commit what can only be described as the " Florida Chainsaw Massacre " . Pretty much the whole movie shows Tony's violent escapades . I should warn you that this movie is not for the squeamish in any way , shape or form . But don't worry : the violence is not gratuitous . Overall , the movie was an interesting counterbalance to the 1980s ' obsession with optimism . In " Scarface " , all optimism is eliminated early on . Maybe it's not a masterpiece , but it is something that everyone should see just to understand Miami's mafia .
cute	" The Couch Trip " is one of those silly comedies that they cranked out in the ' 80s . In this case , Dan Aykroyd plays a mental patient who poses as a psychiatrist , and he goes to Beverly Hills to sub for Charles Grodin . Most of the movie's humor springs from their satirical look at Beverly Hills and people's empty lives there ( a woman has a power struggle with her maid ) . It's the sort of movie that you just watch to have a good time . Don't expect any kind of religious experience . But you'll most likely laugh a lot at how the Beverly Hills people flaunt their wealth . Also starring Walter Matthau , Donna Dixon , Arye Gross and Victoria Jackson ( of " UHF " ) .
Anyone remember in " Gilda Live " , when Gilda Radner played the theme song ?	OK . So Barbra Streisand has a weird reputation ( although I agree with her political views ) , and Robert Redford is . . . well , I don't know how to finish the sentence ( although it seems that his politics are about the same as Streisand's ) . But " The Way We Were " does what it can to look at politics from the Depression to the postwar era . Streisand is the left-wing political activist , Redford the apolitical athlete , and they become lovers , but get forced apart by the red-baiters . Apparently , when this came out , director Sydney Pollack wanted people to interpret it mostly as a love story , but also to pay attention to the politics . I still don't know whether the political aspect or the lovey-dovey aspect is supposed to dominate . As a political message , this is certainly a good movie , but do we need the love story ? By the way , has anyone ever seen Gilda Radner's concert movie " Gilda Live " ? In one scene , she appear as Lisa Loopner , describes this movie's plot , and plays " The Way We Were " on the piano . The things that we see in life .
Was the ending changed ?	Frenchman's Bend , Mississippi , is a town that's never seen much change . Will Varner ( Orson Welles ) owns everything in town and doesn't allow any competition . But that's all about to change now that Ben Quick ( Paul Newman ) has arrived in town and has his eye on Will's daughter Clara ( Joanne Woodward ) . From William Faulkner's novel , " The Long , Hot Summer " has several things to look at . The title implies more than air temperature ; there's the tension between the various characters . As for the theme of everything suddenly changing , that makes sense ; in 1958 , America - and the whole world - was going through some major changes . There's just one thing : I read that the studio changed the ending for this movie . Does anyone know anything about that ? Because I've never actually read the novel . Oh well . The overall point is that Martin Ritt's first major movie is quite impressive . The three main stars turn in top-notch performances , as do Anthony Franciosa , Lee Remick , and Angela Lansbury . As for the question of whether or not this movie glorifies the South . . . well , they didn't glorify it the way that " Gone with the Wind " did . You'll probably like it .
mission im-possum-ble	One of Robert McKimson's miscellaneous cartoons features a pair of hick possums trying to get their lazy son to do chores , to the point where the father dresses as a dog to scare the tyke . . . but the little guy turns out to be the Road Runner of possums ! Two of McKimson's one-shot cartoons that come to my mind feature animals not usually seen in Warner Bros . cartoons . Aside from " Sleepy Time Possum " there was " Swallow the Leader " ( starring swallows ) . I wonder what was up with that . Whatever it was , this is still worth seeing . Watching McKimson's cartoons , I notice that his characters have really prominent mouths , as opposed to the prominent eyes in cartoons by other directors ( compare the Bugs Bunny in Chuck Jones's and Friz Freleng's cartoons with that in McKimson's cartoons ) . All in all , the possum-bilities are limitless .
Paul Newman , RIP	Two days ago , one of the greatest actors of all time left this life . Paul Leonard Newman was best known for films like " Hud " , " Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid " and " The Verdict " . But he also starred in small , less noticed movies over the years . One example is " Where the Money Is " . Newman plays an aged crook who moves into a nursing home where it becomes clear to the woman ( Linda Fiorentino ) running the place that he's not as disabled as he claims to be and might in fact be looking for help in pulling off another heist . OK , so an elderly criminal going in for one last scheme is sort of a hackneyed plot . But in this role , Newman doesn't even need to talk much ; it seemed to me as if his eyes functioned as actors . Not to mention that there's some great chemistry between him and Fiorentino . This might not be the most noticeable movie , but it's worth seeing , if only once . There will never be another Paul Newman . Also starring Dermot Mulroney .
grow old gracefully	One of Marco Ferreri's movies from later in his career focuses on a woman in a retirement home and her new relationship . Protagonist Adelina ( Ingrid Thulin ) hooks up with a man whose wife is undergoing treatment . Many of Adelina's acquaintances don't approve of her relationship , to the point that someone steals her dentures . This sets in motion a whole new series of events . What I found to be a really interesting part of " La casa del sorriso " ( " The House of Smiles " in English ) was the African music . The African immigrants brought a most unexpected dimension to a movie with a seemingly routine story . But anyway , I've liked every one of Marco Ferreri's movies that I've seen , and I recommend this one .
Woody Allen was beginning to show his lecherous side .	Following his Oscar win for " Annie Hall " , Woody Allen took another look at relationships . Except that this time , his character Isaac Davis is in love with 17-year-old Tracy ( Mariel Hemingway ) . Maybe nowadays that looks like a premonition , but one shouldn't let it overshadow " Manhattan " ' s high quality of film-making . The movie's title identifies where it happens , and the plot centers around Davis ' relationships with Tracy , as well as Mary Wilkie ( Diane Keaton ) and Jill ( Meryl Streep ) . An incredible look at New York in its own right , this is one movie that shouldn't disappoint you . Also , look for Bella Abzug as the guest of honor , and Wallace Shawn in a supporting role . A really good movie .
We now know where the Acme factory is located .	While accompanying his owners to a certain national park , Sylvester finds a nest and decides to wait for the egg to hatch . Guess who comes out ! While most of " Tweet Tweet Tweety " has the usual sorts of gags - albeit in a forest setting - there was one thing that I saw that should be of particular interest to Looney Tunes fans : the Acme factory . That fictional corporation from which Wile E . Coyote receives every catch-the-Road-Runner gadget ever conceived of turns out to be located in this national park ( we find this out when Sylvester goes there and . . . well , I'll let you see what happens ! ) . But even ignoring that entirely , this is a really funny cartoon . True , we know what sorts of things are going to happen , but it's just a pleasure to watch them happen , and to see Tweety turn into a bad-ass ( he actually did have kind of a mean streak when you think about it ) . Worth seeing .
strange days have found us	Released a few years before the millennium , " Strange Days " portrays Los Angeles at the turn of the millennium . And it's become a total hellhole : a police state to the core , and there's crime everywhere . The actual plot centers on street hustler Lenny Nero ( Ralph Fiennes ) uncovering a police conspiracy . Maybe for me at least , the crime and totalitarian factors pretty much outweighed Lenny's story . But either way , this is definitely a movie that I recommend . Fiennes commands a great performance as always , while Angela Bassett , Juliette Lewis , and Tom Sizemore are also great . Another aspect is the fact that , to quote a line from a Doors song : " Stra-a-a-a-ange . . . da-a-a-ays . . . have found us . " Bush used September 11 as an excuse to militarize everything , and terrorist attacks continue increasing around the world . And this movie predicted everything .
Espionage . . . what a business !	OK , in retrospective , we should all know that 1960s espionage was all about cool dudes battling evil , and attracting hot babes in the process ( though the latter often overshadowed the former , as Austin Powers showed ) . " Our Man Flint " is no exception . I will say that Derek Flint ( James Coburn ) isn't exactly James Bond , but he has his merits . The movie mostly seems like an excuse to experience that ultra-cool feeling that always emanated from the spy movies of the ' 60s , and they achieve that . So , even if it isn't James Bond , it's still very enjoyable . Also starring Lee J . Cobb . . . and a bunch of half-dressed women . So during that era , the four most important spies were James Bond , Derek Flint , Harry Palmer and Maxwell Smart .
an acceptable remake	Usually , when they attempt a remake of a classic sci-fi / horror flick , they bungle it beyond redemption . " The Blob " is actually a pretty good remake , elaborating the original's story . In this case , the protagonist - aside from the title character - is punk Brian Flagg ( Kevin Dillon ) . The movie's strength comes from the intrigue that it portrays . Needless to say , now that the censorship laws had eased , they were able to add in some more things . I'll never forget the sink scene ( as I call it ) . And , as I understand it , Donovan starred in this movie ( or was it someone else with the name Donovan Leitch ? ) . Oh well , the point is that they eked out a good movie with this remake .
The post-September 11 world .	Some people say that the country became more violent after Kennedy got assassinated ; following that argument , one might say that we got even more violent still after September 11 . Certainly , Kennedy's assassination destroyed the image of a squeaky-clean , wholesome America , and September 11 changed the way that we felt that we could do everything . Whether or not we became more violent after , " Training Day " offers some insight into that . Released right after September 11 ( it's release even got delayed because of the latter ) , the movie stars Denzel Washington as corrupt cop Alonzo Harris , teaming up with rookie Jake Hoyt ( Ethan Hawke ) . As this is a movie about the gritty world of crime , I shouldn't have to identify that it's pretty violent . By the time that the movie had gotten released , movies had been showing violence for over thirty years . But if in fact we did become more violent , then the movie might have been a look at the future . Movies about corrupt cops are nothing new , but they did an OK job with this one . As for other aspects , Denzel Washington won an Oscar for his role , making him the first African-American to win Best Actor ( Sidney Poitier is actually Bahamian ) . Some may ask whether or not it he would have won had not happened , but not me . I say that he deserved the Oscar .
better than you would expect for such a movie	It doesn't quite suffice to call " Runaway Train " an action movie . True , it's got a prison escape and an out-of-control train , but there is actually a plot . After safe cracker Oscar Manheim ( Jon Voight ) and tag-along Buck ( Eric Roberts ) escape from an Alaska prison , they jump onto a train whose engineer suddenly dies of a heart attack . More than simply making every scene a " will they ? ! won't they ? ! " situation , the movie has character development and never moralizes . Nor does it heroify or vilify anyone . The audience is left to develop their own opinions about each of the characters . I won't tell you what happens , but I will let you know that this is one of the only non-mind-numbing action movies that I know .
birds	What one notices while watching " Sabotage " is the role of avians . There's the birds in the cage ( like the lovebirds in " The Birds " , maybe ? ) , and after Sylvia Verloc ( Sylvia Sidney ) watches the cartoon " Who Killed Cock Robin ? " , she gets an idea . You see , her husband Karl ( Oscar Homolka ) is involved with some anarchists who have some unpleasant plans . Alfred Hitchcock was showing his skills with this movie . As chaos is often a motif in his movies , you see it here , and this also has the theme of the guilty woman ( or is she guilty ? ) . It's hard to believe that the young woman in this movie is the " Mars Attacks ! " grandmother , but it's true .
How to describe it ?	I should identify that " The Ipcress File " is not the easiest movie to describe ; the truth is , it's a little hard to follow . In the role that turned him into a star , Michael Caine plays cockney agent Harry Palmer , hired to investigate the brainwashing of some scientists . I think that's what happened , but the movie confused me a little . I would say that this movie functions best if you look at it in a historical context . Aside from dealing with the Cold War , we get to see mid-'60s London . Specifically , Palmer lives in a dreary flat but is called to investigate things involving geopolitics . Some people note that this was around the same time as the James Bond movies but " The Ipcress File " was more intellectual . I guess that in a way it was ; James Bond mostly bedded hot babes . But overall , I would recommend watching this movie as a historical reference more than anything .
but not an urban legend , says I	Many's the day that we've heard of cures , medicines , drugs , etc . , having unintended consequences . So there had to be a movie like " I Am Legend " . It portrays a future in which a miracle cure wipes out cancer but turns the cured people rabid . New York City is now empty except for Robert Neville ( Will Smith ) . He and his dog Sam spend the days driving throughout the city looking for things to shoot . But every night , the mutated people come out of hiding . . . and you don't want to get bitten by them . This is a remake of the Charlton Heston movie " The Omega Man " , which was itself a remake of the Vincent Price movie " The Last Man on Earth " ( what do you call a remake of a remake ? ) . As I haven't seen the other two , I can only focus on this one . Much of the movie was certainly intense enough , and the issue of a miracle cure having a disastrous outcome is a relevant one . But truth be told , the movie mostly seems a little sensationalistic . While I mostly think that Will Smith has so far been a good actor , it seems as if the movie is just trying to show him off . But I do recommend the movie . It really does create a sense of intensity like I rarely see in movies , and it does seem as if the overall plot could really happen . Worth seeing .
I would like to learn Esperanto .	Obviously , the two things that " Incubus " really has going for it are that it's spoken entirely in the artificial language of Esperanto ( listening to that language , it sounds like a bastardization of Italian ) , and that it stars William Shatner right before he became Capt . Kirk . He plays a man who gets involved with a devil woman . I know , it doesn't sound like much , but it's neat hearing Esperanto spoken . As it is , this movie seems sort of like a premonition of Shatner's movie " The Devil's Rain " ( in which he also battles the Prince of Darkness ) . So anyway , this is a neat time capsule . And Esperanto sounds like a neat language . I'd like to learn it .
Here we " state " our point .	William Hurt made a mind-shattering debut in this somewhat disturbing - if improbable - movie about a Harvard scientist who does tests with hallucinatory drugs and an isolation chamber . . . but what kinds of effects will this combination have on him ? After watching " Altered States " , you may be reluctant to try any kind of experiment . Mind you , it's not any kind of great movie . More than anything , it seems to be a look at the possibilities of what could happen if some tests go too far . Ken Russell brings to this flick the same kind of intensity that he brought to " The Devils " , although this one is far less gruesome . All in all , this movie is certainly worth seeing , although I don't recommend it for the fainthearted . The visual effects aren't quite what we're used to , but that doesn't diminish the movie's quality at all ; if anything , that makes the movie feel grittier . Also starring Blair Brown , Bob Balaban , and Drew Barrymore in her film debut .
I don't know whether or not cats is duh cwaziest people , but Bob Clampett was sure one of duh cwaziest directors !	Since cartoon characters usually take their dogs hunting , it was at the very least interesting to see Porky Pig take his cat hunting . But not even that idea could have prepared me for what was in store here . After Porky tells the loopy feline that they're having fish for dinner , the cat sort of flips out to the point where the bird decides that he's seen everything ( in case you don't know that gag , you'll find out ) . But it's once they go fishing that the cartoon takes off . This fish acts as if he's on acid or something . It seems that the Termite Terrace crowd took Daffy from " Porky's Duck Hunt " and applied the characteristics to an aquatic vertebrate . All in all , " The Sour Puss " is definitely a funny one . You're sure to like it . The last line is a parody of Lew Lehr , who appeared in Movietone newsreels in the 1930s and said things like " Chickens is duh cwaziest people ! " The Termite Terrace crowd also parodied him in " She Was an Acrobat's Daughter " and " Scaredy Cat " .
you might want to see it	" Immediate Family " is a look at the vicissitudes of adoption . Glenn Close and James Woods play Linda and Michael Spector , a middle-aged couple who have never been able to have children . They meet with a younger , economically strapped couple to discuss adopting from them , but further complications ensue . I will admit that this isn't the ultimate masterpiece , but it's the sort of movie that people should see before they adopt , just to understand the issues . Equally as good as Close and Woods are Mary Stuart Masterson and Kevin Dillon , as the young couple having the baby but having doubts about giving it up . A pretty interesting movie .
HAL's next step	I suspect that the total control of society depicted in " Eagle Eye " is nothing compared to real life . The movie actually comes out a little better than I expected it to be . It focuses on two people who start getting telephone calls from an unidentified source telling them what to do or face drastic consequences , and helping them along every step of the way . As one might predict , the movie's weaknesses are the excessive - and totally improbable - action sequences . But the movie does a good job looking at the risks that our society has created with its reliance on technology . Granted , it's not in the same league as " 2001 : A Space Odyssey " . Probably worth seeing once . It appears that D . J . Caruso likes casting Shia LeBoeuf in quasi-remakes of masterpieces ( he previously cast LeBoeuf in " Disturbia " , which had a plot similar to the one in " Rear Window " ) . Also starring Michelle Monaghan , Billy Bob Thornton and the voice of Julianne Moore .
And that's the way it is , folks .	A tongue-in-cheek look at soap operas , " Soapdish " portrays a series of events involving several people in the TV world . Specifically , some of these people don't even know about each other , but they're all about to crash head-on into each other . Sally Field , as star Celeste Talbert / Maggie , almost seems to be channeling her " Flying Nun " persona , but she does a great job with it . Kevin Kline , as stage actor Jeffrey Anderson / Dr . Rod Randall , is his normal self : an average Joe who has some unusual comments . Cathy Moriarty , as unctuous Montana Moorehead / Nurse Nan , is a REAL bitch . Whoopi Goldberg , Elisabeth Shue , and Robert Downey Jr . also provide some great roles . A very interesting movie .
interesting idea , killing us softly	Watching " Natural Born Killers " , I can certainly see why it caused so much controversy . Portraying husband and wife mass murderers Mickey ( Woody Harrelson ) and Mallory Knox ( Juliette Lewis ) , the movie doesn't leave you with a soft feeling in your stomach . But I think that simply writing the movie off as a violent screed misses the point . It was also showing how the TV interviewer ( Robert Downey Jr ) glorifies them ; isn't it protocol in our society for the media to heroify killers ? So maybe the two murderers here are the protagonists . When you think about it , Oliver Stone is showing the degenerate state of our society . We could try to do something about the conditions that drive people to become killers , but we lock them up and let the media lionize them . In short , we have become the Law and Order-obsessed Sensationalistic States of America . Anyway , I do actually recommend this movie . I do not blame it for school shootings ; I blame society . Are Mickey and Mallory a modern-day Bonnie and Clyde ? That's debatable . Also starring Tom Sizemore , Rodney Dangerfield , Jared Harris , Edie McClurg , Russell Means and Tommy Lee Jones .
Let them tell you about some friends they know . . .	What I mainly find interesting about these " making of " mini-documentaries is seeing the cast members all these years later . But even beyond that , " The Yearbook : An ' Animal House ' Reunion " is still quite entertaining , as most of the cast and crew put in their two cents about the production . One of the most impressive parts was footage shot by a Eugene , Oregon , TV station during production . Absent from this are the late John Belushi , Doug Kenny and Cesare Danova - and John Vernon has since passed on - while the still alive Donald Sutherland , James Daughton , Tom Hulce and Martha Smith also don't appear . But the rest of the cast and crew do a pretty good job explaining what all happened on the set ; it all sounded really fun ! So , it's a must-see for any " Animal House " fan . I recommend it . I wonder if Babs and Mandy are still as hot as they were in the movie . . . especially if we see them doing some of what they did in the movie !
The squirrels of Central Park	Arthur Davis , who directed " Porky Chops " , was most famous as an animator ; maybe he just didn't have exactly what it takes to be a director . This cartoon is pretty funny - hell , it looks like " Citizen Kane " compared to some of the cartoons coming out today - but it mostly seems to be a one-joke premise , as Porky Pig tries to chop down a tree but the wise-guy squirrel using it as his vacation home keeps interfering . So , it's not a great cartoon , but still good for a few laughs . . . particularly with what happens after the dynamite gag ( the Termite Terrace crowd sure had a way with dynamite , didn't they ? ) . PS : The name " The squirrels of Central Park " originally came from Gary Larson's cartoon " The Far Side " . The squirrel here reminded me of that .
Who wants to see violence ?	Previously , I had seen Michael Haneke's movie " Cache " with Juliette Binoche and Daniel Auteuil , and so I only knew of Haneke from that movie . It surprised me more than a little when , after watching " Funny Games U . S . " , I learned that it's a nearly shot-for-shot remake of an earlier movie by Haneke . When an affluent family arrives home after a vacation , two men come to the neighborhood . These guys look as if they just walked out of the typical exclusive sports club , and talk like straight-laced politicians . But when these two kindly take the family hostage and get them to follow every order , that's when the movie really takes off . Specifically , the movie plays with the audience . Showing brutality but carefully tempting us to want to see more , this is not the sort of thing that you usually see . . . if you truly desire to see it . As I've never seen the original version , I can't compare the two ( although I do wonder what's up with remakes of foreign movies , even if it is from the same director ) . But I do recommend the film . It disturbingly forces us to think carefully about our society's obsession with violence , while never preaching or moralizing ; hell , it actually takes a rather humorous approach . Starring Naomi Watts and Tim Roth .
mutiny on the Porky	The early , morbidly obese Porky Pig had only existed for a little over a year ( and Mel Blanc was not yet providing his voice ) when he appeared in " Shanghaied Shipmates " . The cartoon portrays a sadistic captain kidnapping Porky and several other sailors to use as his crew . The whole voyage is practically a torture chamber . Sure enough , they eventually rebel . Knowing that this came out the year after " Mutiny on the Bounty " got released , I wonder whether or not the latter gave them the idea to make it . Since they were still getting started , we should understand not to expect any of the completely wacky stuff that became their cornerstone during the ' 40s and ' 50s . Anyway , it's an OK cartoon . Warner Bros . returned to this topic with the Bugs Bunny-Yosemite Sam vehicle " Mutiny on the Bunny " . Worth seeing , if only once . Available on YouTube .
What is corn silk anyway ?	Some of the coolest Warner Bros . cartoons were their riffs on children's stories . One example is Robert McKimson's " Paying the Piper " , in which pied piper Porky Pig rids Hamelin of the rats . While the citizens rejoice , it disturbs the cats that they won't have any food . So , their New Jersey-accented " Supreem Cat " dresses as a rat , hoping to make it look as though Porky hasn't fulfilled his duty and therefore won't get his reward . Are cartoon cats just the biggest tricksters of all ? ! While the cartoon may sound like a one-joke premise , they have some great gags to move it along , such as Supreem's insults to Porky . I'd never even heard of corn silk before watching this cartoon . Is there even such a thing as corn silk , does anyone know ? But also , I liked how Porky and Supreem trick each other throughout the cartoon . Maybe not the greatest short to come from the Termite Terrace crowd , but entertaining enough for the few minutes that it runs . Just became available on the Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 5 Disc 2 . I might have expected Bugs Bunny in that scene ; after all , it's the sort of thing that he would do .
Kubrick's mild letdown sandwiched in between two greats	Following a troika of masterpieces ( " Dr . Stranglove " , " 2001 " and " A Clockwork Orange " ) , Stanley Kubrick decided to make a period piece . In " Barry Lyndon " , the title character ( Ryan O'Neal ) abandons all morals with the goal of becoming rich and titled in 18th century England . Of course , he's only doing himself in . It's debatable whether or not Kubrick was the ideal person for a costume drama , although he did a pretty good job here . Unfortunately , Ryan O'Neal isn't quite right to play Lyndon . Still , one can look for similarities to Kubrick's other movies . For example , the first Mr . Lyndon is in a wheelchair ( just like Dr . Strangelove and the one character in " A Clockwork Orange " ) . There's a bathroom scene , like in " The Shining " and " Full Metal Jacket " . Throughout most of the movie , Barry and Lady Lyndon ( Marisa Berenson ) are wearing red , but not at their wedding ( that's a filmic element meaning that they aren't marrying for love ) . But overall , this isn't the Kubrick movie that I would recommend above all others .
Would you believe that I see a connection to a Porky Pig cartoon ?	Set in a mental institution near Chechnya , Andrei Konchalovsky's " Dom durakov " - " House of Fools " in English - indirectly poses the question of whether the real insanity lies inside or outside the mental institution . It does have a plot fairly similar to " King of Hearts " ( the staff flees and leaves the patients , who then have to deal with the surrounding war ) . By the time that this came out , I don't know how long it had been since Konchalovsky had directed a movie in his native Russia - in the United States , he had directed " Runaway Train " and " Shy People " - but this was an OK return for him ( though far from the best Russian movie that I've ever seen ) . And the Porky Pig cartoon ? It was 1947's " Little Orphan Airedale " , the first appearance of Charlie Dog ( the pushy canine who always tries to get Porky to adopt him as a pet ) . At the end of the cartoon , Charlie's other friend decides that life is screwy on the outside , and so the final scene shows him trying to get back into the dog pound ! Maybe that's a little more like " King of Hearts " , but they all question where the real insanity lies ( I guess that " One Flew over the Cuckoo's Nest " also does ) . Does anybody know whether or not Yulia Vysotskaya is related to Vladimir Vysotsky ?
it may be hard to believe , but I derived some character development	If I remember right , when " The Waterboy " got released , critics called it things like " a deflated football comedy " and " utterly dehydrated " ( and some considered it ironic that Oscar-winner Kathy Bates stars ) . Well , when I saw it a little while later , I did something that probably few if any people did : I derived some character development . It seems that Adam Sandler's character is one of these guys afraid to challenge his domineering mother to the point where he reacts if people challenge what she says , and so football is the only way for him to assert himself . Then again , I might be reading too far into the movie ; it was most likely intended as silly entertainment ( and it mostly is quite goofy , especially with Henry Winkler's Roy Orbison tattoo ) . See what you think . Also starring Fairuza Balk and Rob Schneider .
Here's why it outdoes the original :	You see , the first " Terminator " had someone protecting Sarah Connor ( Linda Hamilton ) , and she depended on him . In " Terminator 2 : Judgment Day " , Sarah goes all bad-ass to protect her son John ( Edward Furlong , in an impressive debut ) . Oh , and of course there's the Terminator ( Arnold Schwarzenegger ) battling the villainous T-1000 ( Robert Patrick ) , sent back in time to kill John . Okay , so " T2 " goes a little overboard on special effects , but it does manage to have a plot . The threat of a nuclear holocaust is always unnerving . Obviously , sending someone back in time to change history violates the paradox of time travel ( meaning that if you change the past , then the future will be completely different , so there would be no incentive to change the past to begin with ) , but this is a pretty good movie , as action flicks go . Among other things , it shows that when Ah-nuld tries , he can act .
life as a film noir	After so many politically-themed movies , Oliver Stone decided to try something very different with " U Turn " . Sean Penn plays Bobby Cooper , whose car breaks down in Superior , Arizona . Over the next few days in this small town , Cooper gets to know the various people there . . . but is he learning everything about them that there is to be learned ? Penn gives his usual intense performance . Nick Nolte , as the might-as-well-be-mayor Jake McKenna , creates one perplexing character . Also starring are Jennifer Lopez ( actually doing a good role ! ) , Jon Voight , Billy Bob Thornton , Joaquin Phoenix , Claire Danes , Powers Boothe , and Julie Hagerty . This is definitely not a movie for everyone , but it's fairly neat . A sort of modern-day film noir .
almost San Juan Bautista	In basically any cartoon where a cat attempts to eat birds , it's pretty much a guarantee that the birds will give the cat hell . And Robert McKimson's " Swallow the Leader " gives the feline star ( he looks like a slightly fatter version of Sylvester ) some real hell ! Awaiting the return of swallows to San Juan Capistrano , the head swallow makes mincemeat of him . . . so guess what the whole gang does ! What I think would have been neat would have been if they'd set this cartoon in San Juan Bautista . You may recognize the latter as the place in Alfred Hitchcock's " Vertigo " . I try to imagine the cat doing what Kim Novak's character does ( though for the record , there isn't actually a bell tower in San Juan Bautista ) . But that's beside the point . Contrary to McKimson's detractors , he had some good ideas for cartoons . Like Friz Freleng , he just used material that he considered funny ( Chuck Jones went for the intellectual stuff ) . Worth seeing .
Hitchcock's guilty woman	A common motif in Alfred Hitchcock's movies is the guilty woman : " Blackmail " , " Psycho " and " The Birds " are all prime examples . In " Blackmail " , Alice White ( Anny Ondra ) goes home with an artist one night and he tries to rape her . She murders him , and from then on everything reminds her of it . The jester painting appears to be looking at her ( or she at it ? ) , a billboard looks like a knife , and a woman keeps uttering the word knife . But in the end , everything blows up in Alice's face . Hitch was certainly showing his chops here . The camera angles , scenery , and other such things all combined to make what we would expect in a Hitchcock movie . I try to imagine being a moviegoer in 1929 watching " Blackmail " for the first time , wondering what Hitchcock's subsequent work would be like .
John Candy and Carl Reiner : what could be a better combo ?	For most of his career , John Candy played a bunch of rather silly roles that - while they were completely goofy - were great nevertheless . " Summer Rental " is one such role . Candy plays overworked air traffic controller Jack Chester , who takes his family on vacation in Florida . Naturally , it ends up being not as much of a vacation as they hoped . Finally , Jack and his family decide to take one last chance to restore their dignity . I will admit that " Summer Rental " is pretty much a big excuse to be silly , but you gotta love it . This is John Candy doing what he does best . It's really too bad that he died ; he really had a good track record .
stop / start the presses	" The Paper " does seem slightly more serious and less sentimental than most of Ron Howard's movies . Focusing on an overworked reporter ( Michael Keaton ) getting torn between a big story and his wife ( Marisa Tomei ) , it's worth seeing . I wonder how many movies there can be about someone getting between his family and his job , but combining that with something about the media - specifically a newspaper - makes it a little bit more interesting . In my opinion , the most interesting character was Glenn Close's incarnation of the bitchy executive ( there always has to be one of those , doesn't there ? ) preferring to stick with policy rather than investigate the story seriously ; you're not sure whether she makes your skin crawl or whether she's kinda likable . So , this isn't the greatest movie ever - certainly not the best movie focusing on the media - but worth seeing as a look into situations slowly but surely spinning out of control . Also starring Robert Duvall , Randy Quaid , Jason Alexander and Clint Howard .
they told us so	I read that there was a version of " The Quiet American " made in the 1950s . Since the Vietnam War had not yet happened - at least not its really famous stages - that version could have been seen as a warning . Since this one came out long after the Vietnam War ( in fact , shortly before the invasion of Iraq ) , it's both a warning and saying " I told you so " . The obvious point is that this movie is not a war movie , but it's still a good look at what led up to the Vietnam War , as the young American agent ( Brendan Fraser ) comes in pretending to help the people but is actually coming to stir up trouble that the US can use as an excuse to invade . This may be the best role that he has ever done , to the extent that the movie would work equally well without the presence of a great actor like Michael Caine ( no offense to Mr . Caine ) . So , it's certainly one that I recommend , as a warning about the dangers of militarism , even in its most minimal form . Also starring Rade Serbedzija and Tzi Ma .
Get away from the computer and read a book , gosh darn it !	" The Pagemaster " may have been the only really good movie that Macaulay Culkin ever did . Playing accident-obsessed youngster Richard Tyler , who goes to the library and gets transferred into a world of horror , fantasy and adventure , he makes the most of the role . Patrick Stewart ( a pirate-like book named Adventure ) , Whoopi Goldberg ( a fairy-like book named Fantasy ) and Frank Welker ( a maladroit book named Horror ) show themselves to be as adept in these kinds of movies as they are in their normal roles , as does Christopher Lloyd ( the librarian and the Pagemaster ) . All in all , this movie really shows you how much there is to read . I think that my favorite scene was the whole Jekyll and Hyde sequence - although the dripping painting was also pretty impressive . A very well done movie . Also starring Ed Begley Jr . , Mel Harris , and the voices of Leonard Nimoy , Dorian Harewood and Phil Hartman .
sweet Woody-back's good-ass song	When " Sweet and Lowdown " came out , I was somehow led to believe that Emmet Ray was a real person . Although it turns out that he wasn't , this is still a very well done movie . Sean Penn makes the most of the role , with the same sort of intensity that he always brings to his roles . He shows Ray as a rather impolite weirdo whom you can't help but admire - he is a great guitarist . Samantha Morton is equally interesting as Ray's mute love interest Hattie . It just goes to show that Woody Allen can do good work when he doesn't focus on neurotic rich New Yorkers . Also starring Uma Thurman , Anthony LaPaglia , Gretchen Mol , John Waters , Brad Garrett , and Allen as himself .
On the piano , folks !	Maybe " The Fabulous Baker Boys " was mostly one of those " small " movies , but it was certainly well-done . Jack ( Jeff Bridges ) and Frank Baker ( Beau Bridges ) are professional musicians whose lives consist of playing in clubs . Figuring that they need a back-up singer , they hire Susie Diamond ( Michelle Pfeiffer ) . But her presence reveals the flaws in Jack's and Frank's lives , and specifically , their relationships with each other . I don't know much about professional music to really comment further , but this was certainly an interesting flick . The Bridges brothers played the pianos on their own , and one can clearly see it . Definitely worth seeing .
vintage Lemmon and Matthau	Okay , so the sequel was pretty absurd , but it was Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau doing what they do best ( it was also their final teaming ) . In this case , Felix Ungar ( Lemmon ) and Oscar Madison ( Matthau ) are driving to their son's and daughter's wedding in San something , California , experiencing various unpleasant situations along the way . Most of the movie's strength lies in its one-liners , most of which show just how much both men are seething . I think that my favorite scene is when they stop out in the middle of the desert , and . . . well , you have to see it . Somewhere up in that great retirement home in the sky , Oscar and Felix must still be getting on each other's nerves . They were truly great .
Destined to happen ?	Obviously , there have been many movies about people having affairs . In fact , Adrian Lyne - who directed " Unfaithful " - directed " Fatal Attraction " . But good performances keep this one afloat . They create an interesting blend of drama and suspense here , with wife Diane Lane having the affair , and husband Richard Gere wondering how long he can put up with it . I don't know whether this is really any masterpiece . It mostly seems pretty routine . It's just that it creates a feeling of impending doom . Also starring Olivier Martinez and Erik Per Sullivan ( aka Dewey on " Malcolm in the Middle " ) .
OK , if nothing else . And it did affirm Paul Giamatti's presence on the silver screen .	For the most part , " The Negotiator " is kind of a cliché : a Chicago hostage negotiator ( Samuel L . Jackson ) gets framed for something and has to take hostages to prove his point , so another negotiator ( Kevin Spacey ) is brought in to talk everything over with him . But in this case , there's the interesting balance of both men trying to outdo the other . And among other things , this was one of four movies in summer , 1998 , that affirmed Paul Giamatti's burgeoning presence in movies ( the others were " The Truman Show " , " Dr . Dolittle " and " Saving Private Ryan " ) . Anyway , this movie is worth seeing . You just might learn some good things about hostage situations here . Also starring David Morse and J . T . Walsh .
Shakespeare in the army	Halt thyself , thou knave . I shall tell thee of a film in which a great thespian of our time plays a man who teacheth a group of milit'ry people about one of the greatest playwrights of all time . Never have these men and wenches known such masterful work , but eager they are to learn . OK , I'll cut the Shakespearean talk . But the point is that " Renaissance Man " is a really cool movie , with Danny DeVito as a literature teacher who joins the army and teaches some of the recruits about Shakespeare . This was certainly one of the under-appreciated comedies of the 1990s ( specifically , one showing that you don't need scatological humor to make a good comedy ) . At the very least , it should be interesting to see Mark Wahlberg in his film debut . But even beyond that , I would say that there's lots to admire here . I definitely recommend it . Also starring Kadeem Hardison and Cliff Robertson .
Maybe the ending was a little unclear , but it was overall a good movie .	Communication with the dead is a fairly common theme in movies , but Electronic Voice Phenomenon ( EVP ) is not . " White Noise " deals with it . Michael Keaton plays architect Jonathan Rivers , whose wife disappears and is then found dead . Then , a strange man shows Jonathan a recording that appears to be his wife trying to reach him . Jonathan at first keeps trying to listen , but then some disturbing messages begin to come through , some of which may spell bad news . This is a pretty interesting movie . The truth is , I had never even heard of EVP prior to this movie . Maybe the very end was just a little unclear , but I felt that overall , I understood it . Deborah Kara Unger plays Sarah Tate , a woman who joins up with Jonathan in his searches . With this role , she continues with her somewhat quirky roles , much like the ones that she played in " The Game " and " The Hurricane " . True , it's not any kind of masterpiece , but I wasn't expecting one . " White Noise " is , moreover , a new kind of movie .
a plot as perfect as the murder planned	Steven ( Michael Douglas ) and Emily Taylor ( Gwyneth Paltrow ) look like the typical rich New Yorkers : he's twice her age , they live in a high-rise , and both have prestigious jobs . But she doesn't know that he's planning to have her killed to pay off his debts . And he doesn't know that she's cleverer than he thinks . " A Perfect Murder " does a very good job updating " Dial M for Murder " . They keep the suspense going every step of the way . And they really pull some surprises . Equally as good as the aforementioned stars is Viggo Mortensen ; he gives sort of an air of Aragorn's bad side . But either way , this is certainly a movie that I recommend . Also starring Sarita Choudhury .
still , it does seem that they could have looked at more	I would have given " Saving Private Ryan " a higher score had it looked at more issues abundant during WWII ( they could have focused on the various roles that each country specifically played in the war ) . But don't get me wrong : watching the movie , you can literally feel the bullets hitting you . Tom Hanks commands as strong a performance as we can expect him to , and the rest of the cast also does quite well . I guess that if the movie has any problems , it's in the characters themselves . Aside from the fact that the movie pretty much makes all Americans out to be good and all Germans out to be bad , the Americans are basically clichés . They're all wholesome , hard-working guys out to make something of themselves . Moreover , there's the wise-guy New Yorker and the cowpoke Southerner , and Pvt . Ryan comes from Iowa ( read : America's heartland ) . But otherwise , it's a very good movie , and it goes to show what an incredible director Steven Spielberg is ( although I still wouldn't have given the movie Best Picture ; I would have given that to " Life is Beautiful " ) . Also starring Tom Sizemore , Edward Burns , Barry Pepper , Adam Goldberg , Vin Diesel , Giovanni Ribisi , Jeremy Davies , Matt Damon , Ted Danson , Paul Giamatti and Dennis Farina .
Fox molded	" Fox-Terror " has something that I never expected to see : Foghorn Leghorn and Barnyard Dog as friends . In this case , a fox is doing everything possible to keep BD out of the way while he attempts to snatch the chickens , so he gets FL to inadvertently harm BD . Meanwhile , a tiny rooster sounds an alarm but BD never sees the fox and ends up thinking that the little guy is just playing pranks . Until someone takes everything a little too far . Overwhelming ? Well , with some of the gags that they pull - namely the suit-changing - you'll never find it bad . OK , so this cartoon was probably a place-holder between the really great cartoons ( 1957 also saw the release of " What's Opera , Doc ? " and " Birds Anonymous " ) . But it's always a pleasure to see Foggy do his folksy stuff . Worth seeing .
One can definitely see this as a Monty Python movie .	In a movie that could have only come from Monty Python , Erik ( Tim Robbins ) and his crew set out on a voyage to find Valhalla , encountering many zany situations along the way . " Erik the Viking " not only makes fun of Viking life , but also of Christianity ( well duh ; Monty Python did that in " The Holy Grail " ) . And they gave the characters some hilarious names ! I never would have imagined Mickey Rooney in a movie like this , but he's here as Erik's grandfather . In a way , the whole movie is an excuse for craziness in the same way that " Monty Python and the Holy Grail " was , but it never gets stale . On the contrary , they keep surprising you with one thing after another . Also starring Eartha Kitt and John Cleese .
Wait ' til you hear what Rosebud was . . .	OK , so we all know that " Citizen Kane " was probably the all-time # 1 masterpiece . Not as many people know that William Randolph Hearst tried to have the movie destroyed . " RKO 281 " does a really good job telling that story . I will admit that Liev Schreiber seems to be overacting a little bit as Orson Welles , but he still does a good job in the role . Hearst ( James Cromwell ) is actually the most intriguing character in the movie : we see how this hypocrite did business with Hitler , sought to discredit FDR ( believing the 33rd president to be a Bolshevik ) , and had a half-his-age mistress in Marion Davies ( Melanie Griffith ) . In my opinion , Hearst had no good qualities . All in all , the movie's quite interesting , and I don't just mean as a part of cinematic history . What it portrays is part of Americana . Also starring John Malkovich , Brenda Blethyn and Roy Scheider .
keeping up with the Dickens	Somewhat confusing story about a Londoner ( Vinnie Jones ) who gets involved in a web of intrigue centering on newly discovered Charles Dickens manuals . I spent much of the movie wondering how much of the stuff about Dickens himself was true ; I would like to know more about Charles Dickens as a person . Other than that , the acting kept the movie afloat . Aside from Jones , Derek Jacobi , Julie Cox , Vanessa Redgrave and Jason Flemyng turn in very good performances . It's just that I felt that the movie didn't tell as much about Charles Dickens as I would have wanted to hear . Pretty good otherwise .
" Score " one for both the good guys and the bad guys .	Another heist movie ? Actually , this one's pretty good . Mostly notable for being Marlon Brando's final screen appearance , " The Score " has aging thief Nick Wells ( Robert DeNiro ) going in for one last heist in Montreal . Sound like a familiar plot ? It is , and if it was just two hours of violence , it would make your eyes roll , but good performances keep the movie from dragging . Of course , how could it not have good performances , starring Brando , DeNiro , Edward Norton and Angela Bassett . Still , I wonder just how many heist-themed movies there can actually be ( 2001 also saw a movie called " Heist " ) . Who ever would have guessed that Fozzy the Bear - that's Frank Oz - would one day direct together in a movie the two men who played Vito Corleone ?
ah yes , this is what they mean when they talk about screwball	It is true that " My Little Chickadee " does have some stereotypical portrayals of American Indians . Other than that , it's a pretty good time . W . C . Fields plays his usual character : a simple-minded weirdo going on and on about his exploits ( would people in the Old West have really been familiar with Afghanistan ? ) . But there's a reason that Mae West is the star . She plays a bitchy woman taking some real pride in her illegal activities , so much so that she calmly and self-assuredly sasses the court . But the real action takes off when Fields becomes sheriff . As for the news that Mae West and W . C . Fields didn't like each other , that doesn't change the movie . This film remains a piece of nice , short entertainment , despite the occasional racism . Even more interesting still is Margaret Hamilton's character : she basically plays a human version of the Wicked Witch of the West ! So , this is far from the funniest movie , but certainly an important part of cinematic history . Worth seeing . Flower Belle Lee and Cuthbert J . Twillie . What a whacked-out pair of names .
somewhere between " Gremlins " and " The Anniversary Party "	I have used some of my IMDb reviews to assert that we as movie audiences need to acknowledge certain actors / actresses - such as Dorothy Provine and Richard Benjamin - more than we presently do . Therefore , I will use my " Princess Caraboo " review to assert that we need to recognize Phoebe Cates more than we do . In case you aren't familiar with the name , she starred in " Fast Times at Ridgemont High " and the " Gremlins " movies . But this movie constituted one of her most interesting roles . She somehow seems to exactly fit this role of a woman who may or may not be a princess from another part of the world . The whole movie creates an almost mystifying feeling . Also starring is Cates's husband Kevin Kline ( who turned 60 yesterday ) as a butler ; they later co-starred in 2001's " The Anniversary Party " with their son and daughter . There's also Jim Broadbent and John Lithgow . Worth seeing .
specifically , there's an even cooler aspect	In the first few minutes of " The General " , it may throw you off and make you think that you already know the ending . But it turns out that John Boorman has a fine plot in store . The film shows how Martin Cahill ( Brendan Gleeson ) not only had to deal with the English occupation , but with the police in his native Ireland . And clearly , when you see his background , it's clear that he wasn't going to be a " model citizen " . Cahill , like any other person , was a product of the society that created him . And it led to a very good biopic . I certainly recommend this movie . You have to be patient with it , just to let the characters develop , but it's certainly an enjoyable film . Also starring Jon Voight .
and it happened in Texas . . .	" Waking Life " is not an easy movie to explain . Portraying the philosophical adventures of a young man , the movie does some mind-blowing things . Certainly the animation is not like anything that you've ever seen . As to the question of whether or not the movie is trying to make a point about anything , I guess that it's looking at the current state of the world . Did I like it or not ? It is definitely worth seeing , but not for those with short attention spans , or who just want to be " entertained " . This movie is closer to " The Seventh Seal " than to most of Richard Linklater's other movies . Check it out .
one of Jones's cinematic forays into semi-psychedelia	No longer working at Warner Bros . , Chuck Jones made this mystifying short about a drab delineation in love with a dot . He can't catch her attention until he realizes that he can make angles and all sorts of shapes . Now that I've seen " The Dot and the Line : A Romance in Lower Mathematics " , I would say that it's the sort of movie which I wish that I had seen in math classes . Directed by Jones , it's certainly a clever one . However , I wouldn't call it the greatest cartoon . All the stuff about the scruffy squiggle sounds a little bit like they were chastising young people for being independent ; ironically , the whole cartoon seems kind of psychedelic ! So , it may not be Chuck's masterpiece - in my view , " What's Opera , Doc ? " easily gets that distinction - but still worth seeing . Narrator Robert Morley also starred in " The African Queen " and " Theater of Blood " .
in times like those	The opening scene in " Darling " was an all too accurate prediction of how society would become . Then , there's Julie Christie as Diana Scott , a ravishing but ruthless model who quite literally will stop at nothing to make it to the top . Unfortunately for her ( and everyone else ) , the world of Swinging London proves to be not quite what she expected . " Darling " hit two birds with one stone , launching the careers of both John Schlesinger and Julie Christie ( although he had previously cast her in a supporting role in " Billy Liar " ) . Maybe it wasn't the greatest movie ever , but it did offer a different view of fame from what everyone expects going into the famous world . I guess that life is like that sometimes !
Corny , but worth seeing .	Whereas usually there was only one Zorro , this time they have the famous Zorro ( Anthony Hopkins ) teaching a new one ( Antonio Banderas ) how to fight oppression in 1841 California . Granted , " The Mask of Zorro " is pretty corny ; it mostly consists of people sword-fighting , jumping on and off tables , and such things ( there's always conveniently something for him to use ) , but it is a good look at the history of the Golden State . Of course , I had never heard of Catherine Zeta-Jones before this , but she was quite impressive here , and has done some impressive stuff since . All in all , a pretty fun movie . Oh , and " zorro " means " fox " in Spanish . I would assume that women are supposed to consider him a fox .
a preview of the coming obesity epidemic	This time , filmdom's most drake gets a turkey to give up his food , and then eats it . This proves unfortunate for him once Thanksgiving comes around . Mostly , this cartoon is really funny because of what Daffy Duck does in trying to avoid getting eaten ( a true display of his craven , self-preserving side ) . The sight of a morbidly obese Daffy makes me think of the current obesity epidemic . Who would have guessed that Daffy would have become a couch potato ? But otherwise , it's just a regular cartoon . Fairly entertaining . A duck is the female of the species , while a drake is the male . Therefore , the second most famous Looney Tune would more accurately be called Daffy Drake . But it's a bit late to change the name after seventy years .
I can't believe I'd never heard of the woman microwaving her dog before I saw this !	" The Willies " is sort of an " Urban Legend " for kids trying to gross each other out . Sean Astin and two other boys are camping out and tell each other a bunch of nasty stories . This was actually the first time that I'd ever heard of the woman microwaving her dog ; I was surprised when I later learned that it's a fairly common urban legend . The movie itself first portrays a school where the janitor ( James Karen ) turns out to be a hideous monster . . . fortunately , not totally malevolent . The next half portrays a boy who gets a little too obsessed with bugs . Yes , it's probably one of the sillier movies out there . But it knows that it is just that , so there's no problem . Sean Astin shows the same flair that he'd shown in " The Goonies " and would later show in the " Lord of the Rings " movies . Worth seeing . PS : In case you don't recognize James Karen , he most recently starred in " The Pursuit of Happiness " . He also starred in " All the President's Men " , " Poltergeist " and " Return of the Living Dead " 1 and 2 .
almost the same as " The Daffy Doc " , but some differences	One of the many relics from the days when Porky Pig mostly appeared in black and white cartoons , Bob Clampett's " Patient Porky " does contain a racial stereotype ( in the form of an elevator operator ) . As in " The Daffy Doc " two years earlier , an excessively eager physician tries to operate on Porky ( in the earlier one , it was doctor wannabe Daffy Duck ) . Having seen many of Porky's cartoons from his debut until the US entered WWII , one can see that the studio usually cast Porky in rather sedate , pedestrian roles : fireman , pilgrim , bullfighter . Therefore , this one was pretty much representative of the era . " You Ought to Be In Pictures " may have been the one exception . Porky's roles got really cool once Chuck Jones started directing him regularly after WWII , frequently casting him as a foil to Daffy's craziness . Anyway , this one isn't bad . Worth seeing maybe once .
a Scottish restaurant that didn't taste very good ( but a very well done movie )	The idea of H . G . Wells inventing his own time machine and traveling to 1979 San Francisco to catch Jack the Ripper sounds like the sort of movie that would get created by Jerry Bruckheimer and Michael Bay . But " Time After Time " is very well done . More than simply a get-the-villain story , it shows how Wells ( Malcolm McDowell ) arrives in SF and falls in love with local woman Amy ( Mary Steenburgen ) , and also has to readjust to the world of the 1970s , with mass media and overt sexuality . My favorite scene is when he describes McDonald's ; I guess that if I'd been a guy from the nineteenth century , I would have thought the same ! Anyway , I consider this movie one to admire . Nicholas Meyer pulled off a cool one . David Warner makes one nasty Jack the Ripper . Also starring ( in his debut , in fact ) is a very young Corey Feldman . I wonder if we'll ever find out just who Jack the Ripper was .
obviously a product of " back then " , but still pretty neat	I have to admit that I only loosely know Tex Avery's work ( namely that it was the inspiration for " The Mask " ) , but " The House of Tomorrow " is still a treat . A look at how people in 1949 imagined that future dwellings would be - think " The Jetsons " - there are some things that might eat at us in the 21st century , namely the fact that the cartoon envisions housewives staying home cooking and cleaning while their husbands go to work . But , as long as we understand that this cartoon was a product of its era , we can accept it for what it is . And I think that everyone can agree about the mother-in-law ; it looks like they were talking about Endora on " Bewitched " . In conclusion , this cartoon will always remain a classic ! And about that woman on dad's TV : meow meow . . .
I shouldn't even have to explain why it's better than " Armageddon " .	" Deep Impact " was one of two collision-related movies released in summer , 1998 ( the other was " Armageddon " ) . Whereas the latter had no other purpose than to have Bruce Willis kick ass , the former was actually quite good . More than just an action movie , this one shows the human aspect of everything . One of the most interesting aspects is Pres . Tom Beck ( Morgan Freeman ) . Whereas we usually expect black men in movies to be macho , this guy talks about his belief in God . I guess that the only thing of which I would have liked to see more would have been the shelters , but I guess that such an aspect would probably occupy an entire movie on its own . All in all , a really good movie .
How many Irish stories are there ?	OK , we should all know by now that Meryl Streep is one of the few Americans who can do a believable accent . So , she makes use of that ability here as a woman in 1930s Ireland . She and her sisters spend their days making the most of life . Some of us may think that there are a few too many stories about Irish people making the most of life . Maybe so , but really , who doesn't like making the most of life ? And after all the terrible things that have happened to the Irish , do we really wish to slam them like that ? So anyway , " Dancing at Lughnasa " isn't any kind of great movie , but worth seeing , if only once . Also starring Rhys Ifans ( who later starred in " Little Nicky " , " The Shipping News " and " Human Nature " ) .
newly relevant	The first time that I saw " Enemy of the State " advertised , it looked totally formulaic and idiotic . It appeared to be about someone planting something on Will Smith , so Smith has to take matters into his own hands . I thought : " Oh , and I bet that they didn't know who they were messing with when they put it in HIS pocket . " When I saw the movie much later , I was surprised . Now , I will admit that parts of the movie are predictable ( such as the end ) , but the whole thing about surveillance was actually quite interesting , especially with the recent NSA scandal . Therefore , this movie seems better many years after its release than at the time of its release ( just the opposite of what one would expect ) . So , it's not a masterpiece by any stretch , but worth seeing . Also starring Gene Hackman , Barry Pepper , Jon Voight , Regina King , Ian Hart , Lisa Bonet , Jake Busey , Scott Caan , Jamie Kennedy , Jason Lee , Gabriel Byrne , Jack Black and Jason Robards . So have YOU ever gotten the feeling that you were being watched ?
OK as long as it doesn't directly try to copy " It's a Mad , Mad , Mad , Mad World "	" Rat Race " has widely been viewed as a semi-remake of " It's a Mad , Mad , Mad , Mad World " . Personally , I think that no movie can equal the latter . So , as long as this one doesn't actually try to ape that one , it comes out pretty good . Once again portraying a gaggle of people in a wild race to try and find an exorbitant amount of money , the movie is mostly an excuse to be silly , not really focusing on greed the way that " IAMMMMW " did . Ignoring that , it's basically a litany of hilarity . Whether it's John Cleese's slimy weirdo , Rowan Atkinson's narcoleptic Italian ( why didn't they cast Roberto Benigni in that role ? ) , Jon Lovitz in Hitler's car , Cuba Gooding Jr . driving a most unusual bus , Whoopi Goldberg learning a lesson about squirrels , or something else , they just go all out here . All in all , it's good for a fun time , if nothing else . Also starring Breckin Meyer , Amy Smart , Seth Green , Vince Vieluf , Kathy Najimy , Kathy Bates and Dave Thomas .
every entertainer must have an ugly side	No one can deny that " Great Balls of Fire ! " has some great music . Dennis Quaid really gets into the role of Jerry Lee Lewis , and the movie really transports you back to the ' 50s . If the movie has any problem , it's the stress on his marriage to his 13-year-old cousin Myra ( Winona Ryder ) . As for Ryder herself , she looks a little too old to play a 13-year-old ; I've heard that in footage of them , Myra looks like a little girl . So , Jerry Lee Lewis leaves a lot to be desired . But still , it's a pretty fine movie . I will say that Alec Baldwin comes across as a little silly as Jerry's cousin Jimmy Swaggart ; he rants against ( what else ? ) " devil's music " . But overall , I liked the movie . Also starring B-movie connoisseur Joe Bob Briggs in a small role . Jerry Lee Lewis married his cousin and Jimmy Swaggart got caught with a prostitute . There must be some sort of pathology in that family .
the days before ESPN	I've always noticed that during their first few years , the Looney Tunes cartoons were sort of like the Marx Brothers ' movies with the kinds of gags that they pulled . " Porky's Baseball Broadcast " actually features the famously stuttering swine in more of a supporting role , as he narrates a baseball game in which every crazy thing possible happens : American Indians are the scalpers ( not PC anymore ) , one of the players literally stretches , and a ball is truly a screamer . As far as I can tell , Friz Freleng and the rest of the Termite Terrace crowd - to paraphrase Cyndi Lauper - just wanted to have fun with their work . This one is pretty funny ; in fact , if you've seen enough Looney Tunes cartoons , you can probably guess what will happen just by Porky's narration . Some of the gags were later used in " Baseball Bugs " . PS : writer Ben Hardaway drew Bugs Bunny's prototype . Hardaway's nickname was Bugs , and he titled the drawing " Bugs ' Bunny " . So , they dropped the apostrophe , and the wascawwy wabbit was born .
Who would have ever thought that " Henry Fool " could have a sequel ?	When I started watching " Fay Grim " , I had no idea that it was a sequel to " Henry Fool " . Now , the latter was not a movie that I envisioned as having a sequel . But one has arrived , and it's quite good . I assume that you've seen the original , so I won't explain it . This one starts with Fay ( Parker Posey ) living with her son whom she had with deadbeat Henry ( Thomas Jay Ryan ) . Simon ( James Urbaniak ) is still in jail . One day , the son gets expelled for bringing a pornographic toy to school . But this is no ordinary toy . It holds a secret that explains much of what happened in the first movie . And this secret delves deeper into geopolitics than " Syriana " . I must say that I'm quite impressed with what Hal Hartley has accomplished here . Maybe this one doesn't quite reach the original's quality , but it certainly takes a good look at what's going on in the world . And the end leaves open the possibility for another sequel . Also starring Jeff Goldblum .
Steven Spielberg messes with Texas	" The Sugarland Express " is the sort of movie at which we have to look in retrospective . It's about Lou Jean Poplin ( Goldie Hawn ) who gets her husband Clovis ( William Atherton ) to break out of jail so that they can retake their baby who has been put in a foster home . From there , they lead every law enforcement officer in the Lone Star State on a crazy chase . When this movie came out , Hawn was well known for " Laugh-In " and had already won an Oscar for " Cactus Flower " . I think that Atherton was unknown , although he would later become famous as the EPA agent in " Ghostbusters " . And of course Spielberg made his mark the very next year with " Jaws " . I guess that this movie is sort of a before-they-were-famous situation . But it is worth seeing .
Porky's second brush with the piscine world	If you've seen most of Porky Pig's early cartoons , you've probably observed that they mostly put him in a series of black and white Looney Tunes portraying various walks of life : bullfighter , pilgrim , firefighter , etc . Most of these cartoons consisted of rather corny - but still really funny - spot gags and word jokes . Bob Clampett's " Porky's Poor Fish " is a prime example . The plot has a street cat sneaking into Porky's fish store with the aim of turning the piscine inhabitants into lunch , only to see them go all Rambo on him . But most of the cartoon has stuff like " Twenty Thousand Leaks Under the Ceiling " and " Tiny Shrimps with Giant Mussels " . I probably speak for most Looney Tunes fans when I say that Clampett's best cartoons made heavy use of his penchant for contortionism . Examples include the iron lung in " The Daffy Doc " , the garbage can in " A Corny Concerto " , and any scene in " Porky in Wackyland " and " The Great Piggy Bank Robbery " . I suspect that this one was a place holder . But still , it provided its fair share of laughs during its few minutes . Worth seeing . PS : the first time that Porky Pig had a run-in with fishes was in 1936's rare " Fish Tales " , in which he goes fishing and dreams that the fishes try to cook him . In 1940 , he also starred in " The Sour Puss " , featuring a piscine who behaves like Daffy Duck . At this time , the Looney Tunes were filmed in black and white and usually featured stars Porky and Daffy , while the Merrie Melodies were filmed in color and usually featured miscellaneous characters . After the Looney Tunes went color , the series became indistinguishable except for the opening songs .
one way to remember kindergarten	I remember how during summer school between kindergarten and first grade , we would often watch " Honey , I Shrunk the Kids " on video . It's the sort of thing that can easily appeal to kids , as family man / inventor Rick Moranis creates a machine that's supposed to make inanimate objects tiny , but a snafu makes the machine turn his kids and the neighbor's ( Matt Frewer ) kids tiny . So , most of the movie has the kids traveling through the now giant front yard trying to get back to the house and having many adventures , ranging from fun to weird to scary . Yeah , I guess that it's hokey family stuff . But it's still fairly fun to watch . Now that I think about it , the sprinkler rain scene was actually sort of sexy . When I watched " Ghostbusters " , I was surprised that Sigourney Weaver's neighbor was the guy from this movie . Speaking of which , what ever became of Rick Moranis ? All in all , pretty entertaining . Still , I can't believe that in summer , 1989 , this movie out-grossed " UHF " .
what goes around comes around	Over the years , TV show reunions have varied in quality . " The Dick Van Dyke Show Revisited " actually comes out quite well . In this one , Rob ( Dick Van Dyke ) and Laura ( Mary Tyler Moore ) are retired and living in Manhattan when Alan Brady ( Carl Reiner ) summons Rob and Sally ( Rose Marie ) to write a eulogy for him before he dies . So arises the question : how do you write a eulogy for someone like Alan Brady ? The characters themselves haven't changed a bit in the nearly 40 years since the original series . Rob is still tense , Laura is still fiery , and Alan is still a jerk . Sally is now married to Herman Glimscher ( Bill Idelson ) , and neighbor Millie Helper ( Ann Morgan Guilbert ) is dating Rob's brother Stacy ( Jerry Van Dyke ) . A good thing that the reunion did is not try to replace the deceased cast members ( Morey Amsterdam , Richard Deacon , Jerry Paris ) ; I think that we can agree that no one throws out hilarious insults like Morey Amsterdam . So , this reunion isn't bad at all . However , couldn't they have found someone other than Ray Romano to host it ? Oh well , it's pretty good otherwise . Still , I would have liked to have heard Buddy make just one more comment about Cooley's bald head .
Sylvester's trip to Eastern Europe	One of Sylvester's outings with neither Tweety , Hippety Hopper nor Speedy Gonzales has the slobbering cat going after a mazurka-dancing rodent in a fictional Slavic country . There's the common gag with explosives : in this case , it's nitroglycerin ( what kind of person keeps that stuff in his / her house ? ! ) . " Mouse Mazurka " has the true feeling of a Friz Freleng cartoon , given how it incorporates music ( Freleng's frequent themes in cartoons were music and breaking into show biz ) . Here we get to hear " Song of the Volga Boatmen " . But another thing about this one : the scene where Sylvester paints his finger like a female mouse - plus the shot of the woman at the beginning of the cartoon - reminds me how hot Eastern European women are . While staying with a family in St . Petersburg , Russia , I totally had a crush on my host sister ; I like to describe her as a cross between Barbara Eden and Julie Christie . Think what you will about Eastern Europe , but the women there are some of THE MOST gorgeous ! Anyway , a pretty funny cartoon . Actually , this was before Speedy debuted .
sociology-anthropology	When I entered Lewis & Clark College in autumn , 2002 , I took a sociology-anthropology class . The teacher told us about water distribution systems and recommended " The Milagro Beanfield War " as a look at this topic . Since I had seen a number of Robert Redford's ( who turns 71 today ) movies during the past year and had thus taken an interest in his work , I decided to watch the movie . I have to say that it really impressed me . I don't know whether to describe it as mystifying , ethereal , or something else . I could go forever in trying to praise it , though I don't consider it the greatest movie ever . But I definitely extend the recommendation that the teacher gave the class . Starring Ruben Blades , Daniel Stern , Melanie Griffith , John Heard and Chick Venera .
Truffaut was always a trustworthy director , and " Day for Night " shows it	" Day for Night " tells the story of a movie set , and how the movie-within-a-movie's plot mirrors the goings-on on the set , and vice versa . Truffaut ( who plays the movie-within-a-movie's director ) once asked " Is life more important than art ? " Well , this movie shows that both can be equally interesting . If nothing else , both are more creative than any Jean-Claude Van Damme movie . As I said , Truffaut was a director whom you could always trust to turn out something good . Maybe " Day for Night " wasn't his best movie , but it definitely deserves praise .
Enough with the religious debate . It's still a good movie .	In the three years since it's publication , " The Da Vinci Code " has of course gained a cult following and has finally arrived on the silver screen . I will admit that there are some scenes from the book that the movie omitted due to time constraints , but the movie overall does a very good job . We might expect a Ron Howard movie to tug at our emotions , but this one does no such thing . It blows your mind as much as the novel does . And then there's the characters . As Harvard symbologist Robert Langdon , trying to expose a 2 , 000-year-old religious cover-up , Tom Hanks makes the most of his role , even with that weird hairdo . As Det . Sophie Neveu , trying to find out what was behind a certain murder , Audrey Tautou plays with the audience : she looks sweet , but this woman can gravitate between nice and acerbic . As Sir Leigh Teabing , Ian McKellen does as great a job as we can anticipate from a famous British actor . As Capt . Bezu Fache , Jean Reno is as good as always . Also starring are Alfred Molina as Cardinal Aringarosa , Paul Bettany as Silas , and Jurgen Prochnow as Andre Vernet , all doing a very good job . Does the movie have any problems ? Well , there seems to be a lot of running around , so you wonder how much that adds to the story . Also , I don't know whether or not this counts , but there's the possibility that the presence of someone like Tom Hanks distracts from the plot . And one has to wonder whether Audrey Tautou is there mostly for looks . What about the probability that this story is pretty unlikely ? Maybe , But overall , I don't think that these factors subtract from the movie's quality . I really liked " TDVC " , and I'm sure that you will . As long as we understand that this is a movie - albeit one that really gives us something to think about - then it's all good . So what do YOU think that the Mona Lisa means ?
So do YOU want to become a lawyer ?	Law may be a prestigious profession , but " The Paper Chase " makes it look as though the process of getting there is something else . James Hart ( Timothy Bottoms ) is a first-year law student in Harvard . He's in a class taught by stuffy Charles W . Kingsfield Jr ( John Houseman ) . To further complicate matters , Hart is in a relationship with Kingsfield's daughter Susan ( Lindsay Wagner ) . Needless to say , Hart's life proves more and more difficult . Houseman won Best Supporting Actor for his role , and you can see why . Embodying the old order surrounded by the new generation , he brings a snide but understanding presence to the screen . At the helm is James Bridges , who also directed " The China Syndrome " . Whether or not you seek to become a lawyer , you might want to watch this just to know what law school is like . Interestingly , while Houseman won Best Supporting Actor for this , Best Supporting Actress that year went to another paper-related movie : Tatum O'Neal for " Paper Moon " .
chance . . . chance	How to describe " Magnolia " ? It poses the question of whether or not certain things happen by chance , all centering around some people in the San Fernando valley . The cast members all do really good jobs with their roles . I never could have predicted what ended up happening in the movie , and I now will forever wonder whether certain things do happen by chance . You will probably never think about anything the same way again after watching this movie . I'd never even heard of Philip Baker Hall before this movie , but now I recognize him often ; prior to this movie , I'd probably seen him in something and just not recognized him . Paul Thomas Anderson certainly followed up " Boogie Nights " with something really good ; " Punch-Drunk Love " was sort of confusing .
This may be the coolest superhero movie ever .	On one level , " Mystery Men " is kind of dumb . But on all other levels , it's a hoot . When superhero Captain Amazing ( Greg Kinnear ) is kidnapped by the lascivious Casanova Frankenstein ( Geoffrey Rush ) , it's up to superhero wannabes Mr . Furious ( Ben Stiller ) , The Shoveller ( William H . Macy ) and The Blue Rajah ( Hank Azaria ) to save him . Along the way , the group is joined by Invisible Boy ( Kel Mitchell ) , Spleen ( Paul Reubens ) , Baby Bowler ( Janeane Garofalo ) and The Sphinx ( Wes Studi ) , all of whom provide some riotous lines . Among other things , this was the first place where I ever saw comedian Eddie Izzard ( he plays Tony P . , one of Frankenstein's henchmen ) . All in all , the movie is great fun . Don't get turned off just because the sets look a little bit like those from the god-awful " Batman and Robin " ; " Mystery Men " is really cool . It's one of a kind .
art sometimes imitates life , sometimes not	While feature films became a staple of 1970s TV - think " Brian's Song " and " Sybil " - few were like John Carpenter's " Someone's Watching Me ! " . The story is quite familiar : a woman ( Lauren Hutton ) moves into an apartment , starts getting strange phone calls , and eventually realizes that there's a peeping tom in the vicinity . As this is a TV movie , there are unfortunately some things that we don't get to see ( namely Lauren Hutton naked ) , and the spots where they obviously had commercial breaks gives the movie a slight feeling of silliness . But the really neat factor springs from the clear homage to other kinds of horror flicks : the voyeurism scenes look like a " Psycho " reference . As for the cast , Lauren Hutton easily looks vulnerable enough , but I can't figure out why the characters in these movies take threatening phone calls in stride ; I would have immediately suspected that something was amiss . You can see Adrienne Barbeau getting primed for the other kinds of between-A-and-B-movies in which she would later star . So , it's mostly your average suspense movie , but certainly one that you'll enjoy . And just be suspicious the next time that your lights start flickering .
a new image of Colombia	While we have usually seen an image of Colombia as the country where cocaine reigns supreme . " Maria Full of Grace " shows something slightly different . While drugs do play a role , we get to see people's daily lives and see that individuals do try to live normal lives in spite of the country's drug wars . The plot has pregnant 17-year-old Maria Alvarez ( Catalina Sandino Moreno ) agreeing to be a " mule " , carrying drug pellets in her stomach . She does this , but things don't work out quite as anyone expects . I'm sure that most people in Colombia are not dealing drugs ; the revolutionary groups and the government have been fighting each other since 1964 , and both sides target the common citizens . But like I said , this movie shows the lives of the common people in Colombia . And not that this is related , but Catalina Sandino Moreno is really pretty .
offers some clues about the future	Teen comedies are quite common , but " Clueless " has going for itself the fact that it transposes Jane Austen's " Emma " to mid-'90s Beverly Hills and plays with stereotypes there . We see how air-head Cher Horowitz ( Alicia Silverstone ) may not have a clue about the rest of the world , but her heart is always in the right place - maybe a little too much . And of course , who can forget how the movie introduced to national dialogue phrases like " as if " . Overall , the movie functions as a sort of look at how the future would become . Maybe our society has gone too far in being like Cher . But anyway , it's just a great movie to watch . Also starring Dan Hedaya , Stacey Dash , and Brittany Murphy ( happy birthday , Brittany ! ) . Spa-rat-acus . . . I bet that culturally devoid people probably would say that .
this movie reminds us that sometimes , there are no redeeming characters	Knowing Martin Scorsese's movies ( particularly " Taxi Driver " , " Raging Bull " and " Goodfellas " ) , you may think that you're prepared for " Casino " . Well , you're not . " Casino " has some scenes that will outright shock you . The story of mob boss Sam " Ace " Rothstein ( Robert DeNiro ) becoming a kingpin in Las Vegas exposes the fact that contrary to all the glitz associated with that city , the whole place is one of the most violent cities in the country . Ace's wife Ginger ( Sharon Stone ) gets sucked into the slimy business and is poisoned by it , while mafioso Nicky Santoro ( Joe Pesci ) never abates in his nastiness . Ugly as hell , but unfortunately , it's all true . A strange irony to the movie's serious tone is Nicky's speech : he curses like mad . It sort of comes out funny . But make no mistake about it , this is not a movie that is intended to produce any laughs .
budding generation gap	Nearly forty years after having collaborated with Salvador Dali on " Un chien andalou " , Luis Bunuel directed the equally bizarre " Belle de jour " . Catherine Deneuve plays an unfulfilled Parisian housewife who decides to take a daytime job as a prostitute . The movie contains two interesting dichotomies : on the one hand , it's never totally clear what's real and what's Severine's imagination ( the scenes where she gets whipped and raped look like her imagination ) . Similarly , we get to see cosmopolitan Paris juxtaposed with the mildly seedy adventures in which Severine takes part . Maybe this is a slight allusion to the budding generation gap , which in France culminated in the student uprising of May 1968 . Or maybe I misinterpreted the movie . But I will say that Catherine Deneuve displays the same masterfully scary flair that she did in " Repulsion " . Every camera angle and every edit combine to make one of the most impressive movies that I've ever seen . I certainly recommend it .
you can read " Rocket Boys " before or after watching the movie , and they're still both really good	I think that we can now say that Jake Gyllenhaal's troika of great roles are " October Sky " , " Donnie Darko " and " Brokeback Mountain " ( " The Day After Tomorrow " was also worth seeing ) . In the first one , he plays 1950s West Virginia teenager Homer Hickam . In their small town , the men work in the coal mine and it's assumed that all the boys will go into that line of work - or become jocks . Then , in October , 1957 , the Soviet satellite Sputnik glides across the sky . Homer realizes that he wants to go into that line of work , so he and his friends start making test rockets . Needless to say , Homer's family is shocked at this , and the local jocks don't like it either . But Homer knows his desire , and he and his friends keep at it . If Jake Gyllenhaal was relatively unknown when this movie came out , then it surely cemented him as a talented presence on the silver screen . Equally great in the movie are Chris Cooper as Homer's coal miner father , who is nervous about his son doing this , and Laura Dern as Homer's teacher , who encourages him . All in all , very well done .
Here's why it's good .	When " Small Soldiers " came out , it was right after back-to-back school shootings ( plus the murder of Phil Hartman ) , so there was some controversy about having a movie where toys get violent . But this movie is actually quite good . You see , it's not some ridiculous , rah-rah military movie ; it sides with the Gorgonites ( the soldiers ' adversaries ) , showing how - whether or not they win or lose - they always remain supportive of each other . As for the cast members , this is a Joe Dante movie , so Dick Miller and Robert Picardo get supporting roles . In this case , they play a delivery man and clean room technician , respectively . Phil Hartman is probably the funniest cast member , playing the ultimate suburban consumer ( he wants to remove his neighbor's tree to make room for a satellite dish ) . All in all , this is definitely a movie worth seeing . As far as I remember , Joe Dante always does a good job .
Hopefully , we've all learned to avoid getting thrown in jail in the Third World .	The movie that made director Alan Parker really famous tells the true - if somewhat exaggerated - story of Billy Hayes ( Brad Davis ) , who got thrown into a hellish Turkish prison after he was caught smuggling hashish . The movie starts off by setting up the historical context . The first thing that you see is Billy and his hubby Susan ( Irene Miracle ) reading about Janis Joplin's death in the paper . But once he gets arrested , then things get ugly . You'll need a strong stomach to watch this movie . That of course means that they did really well with it in every way . Oliver Stone was one of the screenwriters . Also starring Randy Quaid , John Hurt , and Bo Hopkins .
possibly Allen's most interesting movie ever	It seems that often , " Shadows and Fog " has been regarded as one of Woody Allen's lesser movies . I can't understand why , as I found it very interesting ; surely anyone would have to agree that a murder mystery is infinitely more watchable than a story about neurotic rich New Yorkers . The movie blends Allen's personal neurosis with the look of a Franz Kafka novel ( possibly taking place in 1920s Germany or Prague ) . It portrays nebbish Kleinman ( Allen ) getting woken up one night by his neighbors to help them find a strangler . But then they disappear and Kleinman has to fend for himself . Meanwhile , circus performer Irmy ( Mia Farrow ) has a spat with a clown ( John Malkovich ) and runs away . . . but is the strangler stalking her ? The movie creates a dreamlike setting the same way that " The Cabinet of Dr . Caligari " does , and shows that Woody Allen can make interesting movies when he tries . That whole end sequence was especially cool . I seriously wish to assert that " Shadows and Fog " may have been his most interesting movie ever . Probably the only unrealistic scene is when a baby apparently wants to be with a father figure more than a mother figure . But other than that , this is a movie that you can't afford to miss . It might just save your life one day . As for the cast , now that's something else . Aside from the aforementioned people , there's also Madonna , David Ogden Stiers , James Rebhorn , Daniel von Bargen ( Commandant Spengler on " Malcolm in the Middle " ) , Donald Pleasance , Jodie Foster , Lily Tomlin , Kathy Bates , John Cusack , Julie Kavner ( the voice of Marge Simpson ) , Kate Nelligan , Fred Gwynne , Wallace Shawn , William H . Macy , Kurtwood Smith ( Red Foreman on " That ' 70s Show ) and Kenneth Mars ( Otto on " Malcolm in the Middle " ) . This is probably the only Woody Allen movie that stars two people from " Malcolm in the Middle " .
magic is fun , and you'll be dead	Usually , I don't think of Anthony Hopkins as a horror star , but in Richard Attenborough's " Magic " he gets almost as eerie as he did in " Silence of the Lambs " ( of course his physiognomy helps ) . I understand that " SOTL " made him really famous , but it seems like he was well known before then . I would call this one of his most interesting roles . Hopkins plays Charles " Corky " Withers , a magician with little satisfaction in life . Corky performs ventriloquism acts , but the dummy Fats is easily the center of attention . Finally , Corky decides that he needs to take a little vacation . So , he goes to his home town , where he meets high school sweetheart Peggy Ann Snow ( Ann-Margret ) , and they strike up a relationship . That's where the movie changes . Up to this point , the film looks like a story of someone in search of lost love , and it looks as though Corky pretends to have conversations with Fats . But this is where we really get to know Fats . You see , when Corky affirms that he prefers to spend the rest of his life with Peggy , Fats doesn't like the sound of that . . . and he has more control over Corky than we initially realize . What you have to like about this movie is that it's not the sort of movie where someone walks into a room to get slaughtered ( of course , Richard Attenborough would probably never make that kind of flick ) . There's the psychological aspect of Corky's and Fats's relationship , and the question of who really controls whom . Don't be surprised if some scenes tense you up a bit . Also starring Burgess Meredith and Ed Lauter . As for that one scene of Ann-Margret ? Well , that shot is definitely a guilty pleasure , and it was probably inevitable that she would eventually do a scene like that . On the DVD's special features , they affirm that she was perfectly fine filming it ( and proud of it , if anything ) . I would say that her three famous movies in the ' 70s ( " Carnal Knowledge " , " Tommy " and " Magic " ) cemented her break away from the sex kitten image that she'd developed in the ' 60s . All in all , I recommend this movie .
" Some Like It Hot " meets " The Flying Nun " !	I'd heard of " Sister Act " for years but never seen it . Now I've finally seen it . While not every scene elicits rip-snorting laughter , the general idea is really funny . Obviously , we should suspect something crazy just knowing that Whoopi Goldberg co-stars with Maggie Smith ( plus Harvey Keitel ) . But once Whoopi enters the convent and has all her trouble adjusting - I just cracked up when she tried to say grace - the real humor starts . . . with some great music to boot ! All in all , director Emile Ardolino followed up " Dirty Dancing " with another impressive flick . If you ask me , the real musicals are the sorts of movies that feature music - whether or not the characters sing it - to show an individual's personality , as opposed to just having people break out into song ( have you ever actually seen a person do that ? ) . In that sense , " Sister Act " is a real musical . I sure recommend it . Really cool . Also starring Bill Nunn and Kathy Najimy . PS : the next time that Whoopi Golberg and Maggie Smith co-starred was the 74th Academy Awards . Whoopi hosted and Maggie was nominated for Best Supporting Actress for " Gosford Park " .
like Raymond Carver , except ending on a good note ( and a good end for Alan King )	Some people may think that the fact that " Mind the Gap " was Alan King's last movie would be a simple incentive to see it . It turns out that the movie has a lot more in store . Portraying several oddballs on the verge of seeing change in their lives , it's sort of a more interesting version of Raymond Carver's stories ( in " Short Cuts " , they were alienated and stayed such ) . Some scenes are likely to tense you up , but that just goes to show that the movie is doing a really good job . So , this was definitely a good end for Alan King . The only other cast member whom I recognized was John Heard , but the unknown cast doesn't diminish the movie's quality ; on the contrary , it gives the movie a more realistic feeling . Definitely worth seeing .
prove the movie right	When " Girlfight " came out , the reviews praised it , but I didn't get around to seeing it . I finally saw it when it got released on video , and understand the glowing reviews . The movie opens in a high school in the middle of a ghetto . We quickly get introduced to student Diana Guzman ( Michelle Rodriguez ) . She has a bad-ass expression on her face , and any idea about Diana that we might derive from this expression soon gets corroborated when she gets in a fight . As Diana gets in trouble for this , we then meet her father , an aggressive type in his own right ; clearly we can't totally blame Diana for her attitude . But then the movie really picks up , as a new thought germinates in Diana's mind : boxing as a way to escape this grim existence . Her older brother has already gotten into boxing , but her father most likely won't approve . Only Diana herself can decide what to do . Just the first few minutes alone identified that I was in for a very gritty , non-Hollywood movie , but the brief appearance of John Sayles in a supporting role truly affirmed that . Even before they get to any boxing scenes , you feel like you're getting pounded in the face at seeing the ugly life that Diana lives . And when they finally arrive at the film's main story , there's no turning back . All in all , I definitely recommend this movie . I will admit that using boxing as a means to show someone trying to make something of himself / herself has been sort of a cliché in cinema for many years ( " Rocky " , " Million Dollar Baby " ) , but I still think that they did a great job with it here . In fact , this may have brought the genre to its apex . Really good . Too bad that Michelle Rodriguez wasted herself in Hollywood movies after this one .
more to discover	In one of many impressive movies from the early ' 70s , a man ( James Coburn ) invites several people onto his yacht where he has some tricks planned , but things get out of hand . You see , none of these individuals is being particularly forthright with each other . And it all somehow relates to the murder of the man's wife a year earlier . Probably the best scene is where no one could locate anyone else ; that , more than anything , goes to show what we do and don't know about these people . Part of the movie's strength lies in how they set it up to fool us . You can't see anything coming . If the movie has any problem at all , it's that Richard Benjamin plays the sort of role that he always plays . But that's really no problem . " The Last of Sheila " is a very clever movie . Also starring Dyan Cannon , Ian McShane ( of " Deadwood " fame ) and Raquel Welch .
Look into my eyes . . .	We've probably all been warned not to hypnotize people , as it could have a dangerous outcome . Well , after watching " The Hare-Brained Hypnotist " , you just might want to hypnotize someone . This cartoon has Elmer Fudd trying to catch Bugs Bunny by hypnotizing him , only to have everything go a little haywire . I partly agree with a previous reviewer that the ending seemed like a little bit of a cop-out , but on the other hand , a cartoon couldn't really go on for too long or it would get tiresome . So anyway , it may not be the best cartoon ever produced by the Friz Freleng crowd , but it's still very fun to watch . Ready to hypnotize anyone ?
Bird impersonates Katharine Hepburn and a fish resembles Peter Lorre ; you don't see this every day !	Bob Clampett's version of Dr . Seuss's " Horton Hatches the Egg " was the first cinematic adaptation of a Dr . Seuss book . And a good one at that . While it does change a few small things , it mostly stays faithful ( like Horton is 100 % ) . Oh , and just in case you operate under the assumption that this is just cute stuff for children : Michael Maltese , in his screenplay , also threw in a some things that moviegoers in 1942 would have understood but 21st century tykes probably won't get ( including a brief instance of mild sexuality on the bird's part ; look what she does to attract Horton's attention ! ) . I definitely recommend this cartoon . Clampett doesn't make quite as much use of contortion as he does in some of his more famous cartoons , but he still pulls off some fine work . The combination of talent from Seuss and Clampett should identify that you're in for something neat . This was one of the many Warner Bros . cartoons released before 1948 that lost its opening credits in the Blue Ribbon reissue .
Nowadays , it's hard to believe that this was directed by the same guy who did " Gigli " .	After twenty years as an A-list star , Al Pacino took home an Oscar for his role in " Scent of a Woman " . He plays blind Lt . Col . Frank Slade , who talks like he's ready to tear your throat apart , but has a heart of gold . Sound like a cliché ? Well it's not . " Scent of a Woman " succeeds where so many movies have failed , probably because Al Pacino is in the lead role ( almost anyone else very likely would have turned the character into a maudlin dweeb ) . Anyway , the story has college student Charlie Sims ( Chris O'Donnell ) agreeing to be a caretaker for Col . Slade , and the colonel takes Charlie on an adventure that he'll never forget . Along the way , a rather unusual event happens at Charlie's college ( that scene will most likely make you at least giggle if not break out into laughter ) , and the colonel sees no choice but to get involved . Among other things , this movie has a number of people who weren't yet famous but would make their marks in later years : Philip Seymour Hoffman as Charlie's friend George , James Rebhorn as the dean , and even Frances Conroy several years before " Six Feet Under " . " Scent of a Woman " is like a breath of fresh air in the stench of so many lousy movies . Which brings us to the question : why did director Martin Brest have to direct that god-awful " Gigli " ?
As you can see , the Germans don't have a patent on anti-Semitism .	Brendan Fraser , Matt Damon , and Ben Affleck were all relatively unknown when they starred in this story of anti-Semitism on a 1950s Ivy League campus . Fraser plays David Greene , a Jewish student who gets into the school only to find out that almost everyone there hates Jews , so he hides his ethnicity . Of course , someone eventually finds out ( in this case , it's Matt Damon's character ) . It's interesting when you think about how far the cast members have come . Just last year , Brendan Fraser starred in " Crash " and Matt Damon starred in " Syriana " , both of which are now nominated for Best Picture . Ben Affleck , on the other hand , seems to have degenerated into stuff like " Pearl Harbor " and " Gigli " .
Maybe the past has been changed .	Prior to " The Butterfly Effect " it seemed like Ashton Kutcher's movies were among the stupidest , with " That ' 70s Show " as his only good credit . This movie will shock anyone . Portraying a teenage boy messing with the paradox of time travel - meaning that if you change even one thing in the past , the future will be completely different - it really grips you . It's the sort of movie that makes you afraid to touch things , wondering what sort of strange ripple effects your actions might have . So do see it . What this movie portrays just might save your life . Because you can't expect anything to be disconnected from anything else .
Oh give me a home , where classic cartoons roam . . .	I remember in a documentary about Chuck Jones , he talked about having created the various kinds of camera angles for " Drip-Along Daffy " ( as Daffy and the criminal approach each other ) . Obviously , this is just a cartoon , so they didn't really have camera angles , but it just goes to show the magic of these cartoons . And believe me , what happens here is really whacked-out , with Daffy trying to become a sheriff in a lawless Old West town , but Porky has his own plans . So , if nothing else , this is a solid addition to the pantheon of classic Looney Tunes cartoons . You just can't beat this kind of stuff . Yes , he is lucky that there's only one horse .
That's a good old patriotic duck !	Many wartime cartoons ended up being pretty racist , due to how they portrayed the Japanese , but when they portrayed only Nazis , they were quite funny . In " Daffy - The Commando " , Daffy Duck parachutes into enemy territory and makes life a living hell for Nazi Kommandant Von Vulture . Finally at the end , Von Vulture shoots Daffy out of a cannon , and Daffy lands next to Hitler , who is making a speech . He promptly conks the Fuhrer on the head with a mallet . Some people may object to using Nazism for comedy , but remember , Charlie Chaplin did it masterfully in " The Great Dictator " . Admittedly , this cartoon isn't on the same level , but it's good for a few laughs .
It's a good thing that I saw this movie when I did .	I saw " Solas " ( called " Alone " in English ) at the 2000 Portland International Film Festival . It's always good to be able to see something non-Hollywood , especially considering the subject matter here . Maria ( Ana Fernandez ) comes from an abusive household and seeks to get away . When the father ends up in the hospital , Maria and the mother resist the idea of going to see him , but end up going anyway to see whether or not they can make amends with him . A major point is that the mother actually looks like someone who has been in an abusive relationship ( in a Hollywood movie , she would probably look like Julia Roberts ; or be played by her ) . It's a truly effective look at relationships and how they shape who we are .
an early look at the coming power of computers	Stories about a simple person getting turned into something more seem pretty common in movies , but none are like " The Lawnmower Man " . Portraying scientist Pierce Brosnan turning retarded Jeff Fahey into a super-genius ( with unintended consequences ) , this is one movie destined to blow your mind . The visual effects were beyond impressive even for 1992 , but they never dominate the movie . We might say that the movie deals with the dangers of people relying too much on technology , and also the dangers of militarism , but even aside from that , this is a movie worth seeing . Check it out . Oh , and I think that we can all agree that the sequel needs to be avoided at all costs .
maybe it's just another lavish historical epic , but very well done	Set during the French and Indian Wars ( 1754-63 ) , " The Last of the Mohicans " tells the story of a love affair between Nathaniel " Hawkeye " Poe ( Daniel Day-Lewis ) , a white man living with the Indians , and Cora Munro ( Madeleine Stowe ) , a colonist . The wars naturally interrupt their relationship . Among other things , the movie does a really neat job showing the vast landscape in upstate New York . I'll admit that I don't know how accurate the movie is , or how closely it follows James Fenimore Cooper's novel , but like " Legends of the Fall " , this is what historical epics are all about . This movie , along with " My Left Foot " , " In the Name of the Father " and " Gangs of New York " , certainly shows Daniel Day-Lewis to be one of the greatest actors of our time .
radio days	Oliver Stone , always ready to make politically-themed movies , makes another one here . " Talk Radio " is loosely based on the career of Alan Berg , a radio talk show host in Denver who was murdered by white supremacists . In this case , the character is Barry Champlain ( Eric Bogosian ) , an outspoken talk show host in Dallas who loves nothing more than to irk the people who call in . As it is , most of the people who call in are a bunch of pigheaded racists . And things may be heating up more than anyone realizes . Bogosian's performance brings a light comical tone to an otherwise serious movie . I really liked the scene where he jabs at a redneck who calls in . Granted , I wouldn't call this Oliver Stone's greatest movie ever , but it's a good reference in an era when media gets more and more concentrated . Good performances by Ellen Greene and Alec Baldwin also help .
Smoke ' em out	I still remember when " 60 Minutes " interviewed Jeffrey Wigand , and I thought that Michael Mann's " The Insider " did a swell job telling the story . I'm not a bit surprised that the tobacco industry did what they did . According to what I read , General Motors tried to stop " Roger and Me " from getting released , so it should be no shock that Brown & Williamson tried to go after Jeffrey Wigand and " 60 Minutes " . I recall that Russell Crowe had to gain a lot of weight for his role as Wigand , only to lose it to play Maximus in " Gladiator " . I guess that it's debatable whether or not Al Pacino eclipses him as producer Lowell Bergman , but both men do very well in their roles . I agree with a previous reviewer that Crowe's role here deserves more recognition ( maybe even more than " Gladiator " ) . Anyway , this is a very important movie . It just goes to show what these corporate industries are really all about . Once again , Mann shows himself to be a capable director , as he did with " The Keep " , " Heat " and " Ali " . Also starring Christopher Plummer , Lindsay Crouse , Philip Baker Hall and Gina Gershon .
one of the many movies in the theaters when we moved into our new house	Another movie adaptation of " A Christmas Carol " ? ! Yes , but a new kind , with Bill Murray as a creepy executive about to get a new lease on life . Murray does his usual goofy stuff . I think that my favorite line was " You are just a hallucination brought along by alcohol ! Russian vodka poisoned by Chernobyl ! " I bet that Charles Dickens never envisioned anyone mentioning a nuclear disaster in an adaptation of his novel . So , it's not any kind of great movie , but funny just because of what Murray does . Many years after it came out , I learned that it was in the theaters when we moved into our new house ( others included " Rain Man " and " The Naked Gun " ) . But that's just a side note . The point is that this is a pretty funny movie , and you're sure to like it . Also starring Karen Allen , John Forsythe , John Glover , Bobcat Goldthwait , Carol Kane , Robert Mitchum , Michael J . Pollard , Alfre Woodard , Jamie Farr , Robert Goulet , Buddy Hackett and Lee Majors . The Manson Family Christmas ! Ha !
" Get Shorty " stands honorably tall .	John Travolta followed up his " Pulp Fiction " comeback with " Get Shorty " , in which he plays Miami hit-man Chili Palmer . Moving to Hollywood to collect a debt , he finds that show biz isn't much different from the mafia , and he decides to get involved . But of course , once there's anything mafia-related involved , things start to get ugly . Not that they weren't already seedy . This movie has its strengths mainly in the script , but also in the strong performances from Travolta , Gene Hackman , Rene Russo and Danny DeVito . I guess that any time that someone gets a chance to show Hollywood's unseemly side , they take it . Of course , there's plenty of reasons to do so . The sequel , " Be Cool " , wasn't quite as good , but still worth seeing .
the last show in more ways than one	The fact that " A Prairie Home Companion " was Robert Altman's final film makes it all the more eye-opening that the movie portrays a final broadcast . In fact , the presence of the Dangerous Woman ( Virginia Madsen ) almost seems to foretell Altman's approaching end . Anyway , the movie portrays the final broadcast of Garrison Keillor's ( playing himself ) famous radio show - which is done like a 1940s broadcast - as a Texas company is taking it over . In the process of everything , people's secrets get revealed ( namely in the duct tape scene ) , and one gets a sense of independently owned media sources getting bought out . But regardless of what happens , the various performers all know that they have to hang on to their lives . Among the performers are the calm Johnson Sisters ( Lily Tomlin and Meryl Streep ) , the dirty-minded Lefty and Dusty ( Woody Harrelson and John C . Reilly ) , and others . The real sense of the 1940s comes in the form of detective Guy Noir ( Kevin Kline ) , keeping an eye on everything ; he looks as anachronistic as the show itself , but he never lets it get him down . The movie has the definite feel of a Robert Altman movie , with the overlapping dialogue ( I remember that when Lily Tomlin and Meryl Streep gave Altman his honorary Oscar at the Academy Awards in February , they talked like that ) . Not his best movie by any stretch , but still worth seeing . Also starring Tommy Lee Jones , Lindsay Lohan , and Maya Rudolph . It runs in your blood . Yeah . . .
Why do some people hate this movie ?	" 1941 " shows what war should be : a lot of destruction , but no killing . In fact , most of the destruction is caused by Americans on their own territory . Happening a few days after the Japanese army has bombed Pearl Harbor , the the people of Los Angeles are paranoid that the " Japs " are going to invade . Wild Bill Kelso ( John Belushi ) is a crazy pilot who can't tell an American plane from a Japanese one , Lt . Frank Tree ( Dan Aykroyd ) does not like it when Americans fight Americans ( " You want Yamamoto to end up in the White House ? ! " ) , the Douglases ( Ned Beatty and Lorraine Garry ) involuntarily get a giant gun placed in their front yard , a dimwitted soldier ( Tim Matheson ) keeps trying to come on to Gen . Stilwell's secretary ( Nancy Allen ) , two incompatible men ( Murray Hamilton and Eddie Deezen ) are in a Ferris wheel to keep an eye on the coast , and two macho soldiers ( Bobby DiCicco and Treat Williams ) battle over Betty Douglas ( Dianne Kay ) . All the while , a Japanese submarine is stationed off the coast . The captain ( Toshiro Mifune ) wants to bomb Hollywood , while Col . Von Kleinschmidt ( Christopher Lee ) , a Nazi with the Japanese , says that they should let the Third Reich deal with America . They take garbage man Hollis " Holly " Wood ( Slim Pickens ) hostage , hoping to get some info , but it ends up leading to a rather childish situation , to say the least . Probably the funniest scene is a free-for-all between the army and navy at a USO party . Picture it : the army and navy beating the stuffings out of each other on the faces of Hitler and Tojo ( painted on the floor ) . While this is happening , Gen . Stilwell ( Robert Stack ) is getting all teary-eyed watching " Dumbo " . Either way , the whole thing is a laugh riot from beginning ( a spoof of " Jaws " ) to end ( we've all heard of a house divided , but here a house gets more than divided ) . It may be completely silly , but among other things , " 1941 " shows how both sides in World War II were crazy ( the Japanese want to attack come hell or high water , and the Americans turn into trigger-happy wackos every time something even slightly unusual happens ) . I recommend it to anyone and everyone .
Be prepared to have your stomach turn .	I am not Catholic , so my description of this movie may offend some people . " El crimen del padre Amaro " ( called " The Crime of Father Amaro " in English ) portrays newly ordained priest Amaro ( Gael Garcia Bernal ) getting pulled in several directions in a small Mexican town . The most prominent is a simmering desire to have sex with the dazzling Amelia ( Ana Claudia Talancon ) . Finally , it all comes crashing down . . . irrevocably . The Catholic Church was of course disturbed by this movie , but any religious group is likely to get unnerved by any movie that takes a gut-wrenching look at their religion . I certainly thought that the movie does a good job looking at guilt and other such things . But mind you , this is not a movie for the squeamish .
Let's hear it for the boy !	OK , so a town where it's illegal to dance makes no sense , but everything about " Footloose " makes it worthwhile . The plot of course has big city boy Ren McCormick ( Kevin Bacon ) moving to a small town where Rev . Shaw Moore ( John Lithgow ) has banned dancing , and challenging this . Prior to watching this movie , I'd heard " Let's Hear It For the Boy " in a gym class , but I didn't know that it was used in this movie . Also starring are Lori Singer , Frances Lee McCain ( the " Gremlins " mom ) , Dianne Wiest , and Chris Penn . All in all , not a masterpiece , but definitely an enjoyable movie . Banning dancing . I mean really . Even the most totalitarian societies in history allowed dancing .
Michael Caine is THE Scrooge !	Everyone knows Charles Dickens ' classic novel " A Christmas Carol " , but the Muppets do manage to put a neat spin on it . Michael Caine plays one nasty Ebenezer Scrooge ( well duh ; how could Scrooge not be nasty ? ) . Kermit the Frog plays Bob Crachit , and still does a good job despite the fact that Jim Henson was no longer around to provide his voice . As for other things , there is of course Jacob Marley , but his brother has a most interesting name ( hint : think reggae ) . All in all , " The Muppet Christmas Carol " adds what it can to the story , while maintaining the original's spirit . This is one movie that won't make you say " bah humbug " .
Life in Mexico , folks .	I've seen some unnerving movies in my life , but " Amores perros " ( alternately called " Love's a Bitch " in English ) is a level all on its own . It knocks the breath out of you the way " Mystic River " does ( maybe even more so ) . The plot centers on a car wreck in Mexico City and how it affects several people . The people are from every walk of life - there's a doctor and a homeless man - but they're all desperate , with a capital " D " . And everything in their gut-wrenching lives all relates somehow to their dogs . This is a very accomplished piece of cinema . Among other things , it introduced the world to Gael Garcia Bernal , who went on to play Che Guevara in " The Motorcycle Diaries " . And director Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu went on to make the equally gut-wrenching " 21 Grams " in the USA . Despite the unrest that has dominated Mexico , they have always turned out some good movies . Hollywood should take a cue from them .
He's been working ' on the railroad . . .	How many schemes can Wile E . Coyote ( insert bogus scientific name implying eating ) think up in order to trap Road Runner ( insert bogus scientific name implying speed ) ? I don't know , but " Hot-Rod and Reel ! " shows some of them . I could pretty much figure out what sorts of things were going to happen each time , but the pleasure is watching them happen . And in this case , RR gets a little tougher . The truth is , I just never tire of watching these cartoons , even as an adult . As the cartoons ' creators explained in interviews , WEC comes just close enough to catching RR so that he believes that he'll succeed next time . He correlates exactly with George Santayana's definition of fanaticism ( redoubling your efforts after you've forgotten your aim ) . I don't know which of the Wile E . Coyote / Road Runner cartoons I like the best , but this is certainly a funny one . I recommend it . And just be careful the next time that you start playing with a train set .
married to craziness	" Bachelor Party " is a big , stupid , pointless excuse for a movie . And it's proud of being such . That's what makes it so great . One of the many examples of Tom Hanks's career before he started acting in serious movies , it portrays him getting a party thrown by his buddies the day before he gets married . His father-in-law-to-be may try to undermine the wedding , but this guy doesn't know what he's up against ! So , while the critic-stapo may say that Tom Hanks is now a serious actor , so these sorts of movies are worthless , I categorically beg to differ . It's just a nice , wacky , not-for-children excuse to have a lot of fun . And when I say not for children , I mean that this movie isn't afraid to do anything that it wants ! I assert that it's worth seeing . You're sure to like it .
there is no reality as long as we only see what we want	In one of the many groundbreaking movies , London fashion photographer Thomas ( David Hemmings ) photographs what may or may not be a murder . Thomas has spent his career photographing Swinging London , but this throws everything into flux . I should admit that " Blowup " is the first of Michelangelo Antonioni's movies that I've ever seen , so I can't use his other ones to help explain what it shows . But I can say that it will probably blow your mind . The events put in question how much we can trust our own judgment . As for the Swinging London aspect , I can't tell whether or not it idealizes that era or looks at its possible superficiality . As for the whole thing about truth and reality vs . what we want to believe ( in this case , Thomas wants there to have been a murder so that he can expose it ) , it works alongside Stephen Colbert's definition of " truthiness " : what we want or immediately believe to be true . There was one scene that I thought looked a bit unrealistic : the Yardbirds concert . Everyone was just standing around staring , rather than getting into the music and dancing . I would have been partying down ( especially when the one guy smashed his guitar ) . But otherwise , I found the movie quite fascinating . Just see whether or not you totally trust yourself after watching this . Also starring Vanessa Redgrave and Sarah Miles .
Don't " fly " away while watching this .	Neat , if hokey , " The Fly " does teach us an important lesson about being careful when performing experiments . The plot of course has Montreal scientist Andre Delambre ( Al / David Hedison ) discovering how to transport matter at light speed , and then transporting himself with a fly , thereby getting its head and claw . Patricia Owens , as Andre's confused wife Helene , truly gives one the impression of someone sinking into desperation . Vincent Price , as Andre's brother Francois , has the same sinister aura that he has in most of his movies , although here he's a good guy . All in all , this is a pretty neat movie . And who could forget that famous line " Help me . . . help me ! " ? The 1986 remake was also pretty good .
and on and on	In one of Jan Svankmajer's many quirky short films , several things continue happening . A human whips a dog , and slowly turns into a dog while the dog turns human ; a man has all sorts of trouble drawing a house ; and an animated figure has a weird experience with some wings . I can't figure out what would be the point of all these images , but it all just goes to show that Svankmajer had a really cool imagination . Most of us in the Western Bloc probably would never have envisioned something like this coming from the Eastern Bloc , but it did , and it's all really something . So definitely " Czech " it out . I said that I can't figure out the point . Maybe we shouldn't try to figure those sorts of things out . We should just watch and get enthralled .
So you think that YOU'VE got trouble ?	Robert McKimson's " Kiddin ' the Kitten " is a delightfully crazy look at turning manipulation and exploitation on its head . When slothful cat Dodsworth is ordered to rid his house of mice , he doesn't quite know what to do ( after all , for generations no Dodsworth has ever stooped to physical labor ) . So , he opens a bogus mouse-catching school and " trains " an anonymous kitten how to trap rodents , so that it looks as though he , Dodsworth , has been doing his job . But not only is this kitten cleverer than Dodsworth throughout the whole " lesson " , once the little guy wises up to Dodsworth's shenanigans , things won't go so easily ! All in all , I have to disagree with some people who in other reviews belittled McKimson's work . He really did have his own interesting style . For example , whereas Chuck Jones and Friz Freleng portrayed Bugs Bunny as a stay-at-home type whose life gets invaded , McKimson would often portray him as an adventurer . Honestly , if Warner Bros . had closed McKimson's animation unit instead of Arthur Davis's , we wouldn't have Foghorn Leghorn , Hippety Hopper or the Tasmanian Devil . Anyway , this is a good one . McKimson cast Dodsworth and the kitten the following year in " A Peck o ' Trouble " , only that time the kitten had yellow fur . In the late 1940s , due to a financial situation , Warner Bros . couldn't keep four animation units opened , and had to close one . Since Jones , Freleng and McKimson were all tenured , they discontinued Arthur Davis's unit ( which had been Bob Clampett's unit until Clampett left ) . During his approximately two years as a director , Davis did turn out some interesting shorts , namely " Bowery Bugs " . PS : Sheldon Leonard , who provided Dodsworth's voice , produced " The Danny Thomas Show " , " The Andy Griffith Show " and " The Dick Van Dyke Show " .
" Good Morning , Vietnam " redux ( I mean that positively )	In one of his many roles as a free-spirited wacko challenging authority ( the others were " Good Morning , Vietnam " , " Dead Poets Society " and " Awakenings " ) , Robin Williams goes all out as medical student Hunter " Patch " Adams , who decides that laughter is the best medicine . Although it's based on a true story , virtually everything that he does looks like something out of a Mel Brooks movie - especially the scenes with the skeleton and the gynecologists . I try to imagine having been there when he first did that stuff . It is true that " Patch Adams " tries the whole way through to tug at your emotions , but they still do a neat job with it . If only we could all have this guy as our physician . Also starring Monica Potter , Philip Seymour Hoffman , Bob Gunton , Josef Sommer , Irma P . Hall , Frances Lee McCain ( the " Gremlins " mom ) , Harve Presnell , Peter Coyote , Michael Jeter and Harold Gould .
any man can have a feminine-sounding name	Judi Dench continues her string of high-quality , Oscar-nominated roles with " Mrs Henderson Presents " , as a woman who sets up an all-nude revue in WWII London . She's the sort of character who seems like some demure character , but actually has an acerbic streak ( one hilarious line late in the movie affirms that ) . Bob Hoskins is equally good as her assistant , who in one scene experiences some truly fantastic embarrassment ( although I bet he liked filming that ! ) . Anyway , it's a really good movie , showing people understanding how they have to keep going even in the darkest of moments . Stephen Frears scored another great one here ( and I've heard nothing but praise for his current movie " The Queen " ) . Back when Christopher Guest starred in " This is Spinal Tap " , he probably never guessed that he would star in a movie like this . PS : Aside from the fact that Hoskins's character is named Vivian , there's a man named Leslie . I knew that " Leslie " was gender non-specific , but " Vivian " also ? Oh well . . .
Which witch is which ?	In a role that only Jack Nicholson could play , he comes to the rescue of three lonely women ( Susan Sarandon , Cher , Michelle Pfeiffer ) in a New England . . . but who is he really ? There are some scenes here that are really likely to blow your mind , not the least of which are the cherry scene or the whole speech about why societies executed women - much of which involves inappropriate conversation . They know how to make everything cool here . Also starring Veronica Cartwright , Richard Jenkins ( aka Nate Sr . on " Six Feet Under " ) and Carl Struycken ( aka Lurch in the " Addams Family " movies ) . All in all , something REALLY neat this way comes !
Not quite " Dr . Strangelove " , but still . . .	In the early ' 80s , the possibility of a nuclear holocaust was in full swing once again , so it makes sense that they had to make a movie about it . David Lightman ( Matthew Broderick ) is a Seattle high school student who prefers playing computer games to doing his homework . Then , one day he accidentally hacks into a government program that lets him pretend to be the Soviet Union launching an attack . As you might imagine , once the US government finds the " USSR " hacking into their system , they think that it's a real attack . It's now up to David to set everything straight . " WarGames " is no masterpiece the way " Dr . Strangelove " was , but it's still really good . If nothing else , it reminds us of the insanity of war . And it's also got the most unusual cast : aside from Matthew Broderick , there's also Dabney ( " 9 to 5 " ) Coleman , Ally ( " The Breakfast Club " ) Sheedy , and Eddie ( " I Wanna Hold Your Hand " ) Deezen . Well . . .
Martin Ritt and social issues	Martin Ritt seems to be a director who was always interested in social issues ( as the son of immigrants , he had every incentive to be so , especially since he was blacklisted in the ' 50s ) . " Conrack " is based on Pat Conroy's novel " The Water is Wide " , about his own experience in 1969 teaching a school of impoverished black children about the outside world , much to the chagrin of the right-wing superintendent ( Hume Cronyn ) . What added to the movie's strength was the cultural and historical context : Conroy ( Jon Voight ) frustratedly tells another teacher how many of the children don't know about Paul Newman , Sidney Poitier , the Vietnam War , or even where Vietnam is . He proceeds to enlighten them about all these factors . Somewhere , I read a complaint that when Conroy played music for the children , he only played white music . The truth is , you can't blame the movie for that ; it was based on Conroy's real experience . Either way , the movie's a real gem .
Ship ahoy !	It may come as a surprise that Stanley Kramer followed up his ultra-zany " It's a Mad , Mad , Mad , Mad World " with the serious " Ship of Fools " . But he did a good job with it . The movie portrays various and sundry people aboard an ocean liner sailing from Mexico to Germany in 1933 . At the start , dwarf Karl Glocken ( Michael Dunn ) tells the audience that the passengers are all fools , including him . As the movie progresses , we get introduced to the numerous characters : a divorced socialite ( Vivien Leigh in her final role ) , an alcoholic ( Lee Marvin ) , a Spanish aristocrat ( Simone Signoret ) , and a Nazi ( Jose Ferrer ) . This looks to be a tense voyage , with emotions flaring on every side but also with relationships developing , and other things . But no matter what happens , the trip must go on . An obvious aspect is that this movie takes place just as the Nazis have taken control of Germany - and the final scene shows a soldier wearing a swastika - so it's a sort of retrospective at the days of old . But even aside from that , one might interpret it as a look at life in general , and how we deal with things . Not the ultimate masterpiece ( I actually consider " It's a Mad , Mad , Mad , Mad World " to be Stanley Kramer's best movie ) , but I still recommend it . Also starring Oskar Werner , Elizabeth Ashley , George Segal , Jose Greco , Charles Korvin , Heinz Ruehmann , Lilia Skala , Barbara Luna and Werner Klemperer ( that's right : Col . Klink ! ) .
Batman and Alfred ( outside Gotham ) meet Wolverine	In between the Batman movies , Christopher Nolan cast Christian Bale and Michael Caine in " The Prestige " . It tells the story of magicians Alfred Borden ( Bale ) and Robert Angier ( Hugh Jackman ) . Initially partners , they had a falling out and became rivals . From there the movie becomes a battle of wits , showing how the men have no aim except to destroy the other . Caine plays John Cutter , the state engineer who works for Angier . I notice similarities between this movie and some of Nolan's others . There's the non-linear plot , like " Memento " ; one-upmanship , like " Insomnia " ; the question of morality , like in " The Dark Knight " . But what impressed me more than anything was all the stuff about magic tricks , how the characters use the tricks against each other , and how they both use Olivia Wenscombe ( Scarlett Johansson ) . Angier's and Borden's rivalry mirrors Nikola Tesla's ( David Bowie ) rivalry with Thomas Edison . All in all , I recommend this movie . It's both a look into the world of magic tricks , and also the dangers of obsession with revenge . Also starring Andy Serkis ( Gollum in the LOTR movies ) and Ricky Jay ( a real-life magician ) . PS : other 2006 movies dealing with magic tricks are " The Illusionist " and " Scoop " ( also starring Hugh Jackman and Scarlett Johansson ) .
it almost makes you view the ' 80s positively	Like most Adam Sandler movies , " The Wedding Singer " is an excuse for him to be silly . In this case , he plays 1980s wedding singer Robbie Hart , who gets jilted at his own wedding . Ever the cool dude , he hooks up with waitress Julia Sullivan ( Drew Barrymore ) , who's about to get married to the world's most undesirable person . But with a flair for popular culture , Robbie has a few of his own tricks planned . If nothing else , this movie is a look back on the era of Rubik's cubes . Having not grown up in that era , I can't verify the movie's accuracy ( and wasn't the ' 80s really the era of Gordon Gekko ? ) , but we can't dwell on that . The point is to revel in Adam Sandler's crazy gags . And boy does he have some !
we need more movies like this	In 1992 , director Michael Apted released two accounts of the American Indian Movement : there was the documentary " Incident at Oglala " about Leonard Peltier , and the feature film " Thunderheart " , loosely based on the Leonard Peltier case . This one features the ancestrally Indian Val Kilmer as an ancestrally Indian FBI agent investigating events in Pine Ridge in the 1970s and getting more interested in his own indigenous heritage . If absolutely nothing else , this movie should call to mind the history of Native Americans . They discovered America , but we don't admit it because they didn't colonize the Americas for another country . The Indians have gallantly fought against terrorism since October 12 , 1492 , while we act as if terrorism only emanates from the Middle East . They're reduced to running casinos to stay alive . For the record , at least some Indians don't like the word " tribe " , preferring " nation " . All in all , I really recommend this movie . Also starring Sam Shepard , Graham Greene , Fred Ward , John Trudell and presidential candidate Fred Thompson ( I would never expect a creep like him to star in a movie like this , but he did , and later starred in " Bury My Heart at Wounded Knee " ) .
Will we all do that with a dollar bill one day ?	Hot off " American Graffiti " , Richard Dreyfuss starred in another movie set in the era of Brylcream and poodle skirts : " The Apprenticeship of Duddy Kravitz " . This one chronicles the rise of a working-class Jewish lad in 1948 Montreal . Duddy is determined to make it , even if he has to do some undesirable things to get there . A particularly eye-opening scene is when Duddy is working in the resort and a man offers him a dollar bill , tears it in half , and promises Duddy the rest if he provides good service . So , maybe this isn't the greatest movie ever made , but it's an interesting look at one man's dreams , and at post-WWII Canada . Very good performances by everyone . Also starring Micheline Lanctot , Jack Warden , Randy Quaid , Joseph Wiseman ( that's right , Dr . No ) and Denholm Elliott . If I may say so , Yvette is really hot . And to think that director Ted Kotcheff later directed the first " Rambo " movie .
Never underestimate Paul Newman's and Joanne Woodward's comic abilities .	" Rally ' Round the Flag , Boys ! " may be a movie that you never get to see . As far as I know , it's not available on video or DVD ; I saw it on TV one night . But anyway , here's the story : Harry Bannerman ( Paul Newman ) and Grace Oglethorpe ( Joanne Woodward ) are a typical ( or not so typical ) suburban couple in an idealistic 1950's small town in Connecticut . Then , when the army announces plans to build a secretive base near the town , Harry is hired to promote it , while Grace does everything possible to oppose it . In the process of everything , the townspeople begin to see things that they've never seen before - namely , when Grace catches Harry . . . well , I won't spoil it for you ( don't worry , it's not ( particularly ) dirty ) . The whole thing ends in one wacky climax . Anyway , this is one of those interesting movies from the late ' 50s starring A-list stars , that for some reason doesn't seem to be very well remembered today . Good support comes from Tuesday Weld and Dwayne Hickman as local teenagers .
most control over the situation	Dmitri Meskhiev's " Svoi " ( which means " one's own " ) focuses on the moral dilemma of some Soviet soldiers during WWII . After they escape a POW camp , they end up on a farm . But this farm , while Russian , turns out to be not much different from anything operated by the Nazis . The character Nikolai , due to his manipulative actions , has more control over things than the Nazis do . To Starosta , the Chekist represents the 1930s repression in the USSR . As for why Starosta doesn't kill the man at the end . . . it's because the man is still one of his OWN ( not a German ) . I certainly recommend this movie . Full comprehension of the plot does require some understanding of Soviet policy during WWII , namely that Stalin vowed to punish the family of any soldier who surrendered to the German army . But anyway , it's a really good movie .
a rose is a rose is . . .	Making her film debut , Bette Midler plays a singer loosely based on Janis Joplin . Midler does a very good job in the role , showing the woman making something of herself , but living a self-destructive life to the point where she ruins herself . A particularly eye-popping scene is when she struts through the men's room and the men get all freaked out and start jumping into the pool . You gotta wonder what's with those guys . Equally as good as Midler is Alan Bates as her manager and sometimes lover . " The Rose " is certainly a movie that I recommend , and I believe the director later directed Bette Midler in the equally interesting " For the Boys " . Also starring Don Calfa and Doris Roberts .
apparently , you can't be a Seventh Day Adventist in a media-centric society	When I first saw " A Cry in the Dark " , I had no idea what the plot was . But when I saw it , I was shocked at what it portrayed . When I saw it a second time in an Australian Cinema class , I realized a second point : communication issues . You see , when a dingo snatched Lindy Chamberlain's ( Meryl Streep ) baby , she and her husband Michael ( Sam Neill ) were grief-stricken but didn't show it . As Seventh Day Adventists , they believed that God willed this to happen , and so they couldn't mourn it . But when people all over Australia saw their lack of sadness , everyone started believing that Lindy did it herself . The point is , the wrong message got communicated to the public , and it turned people against Lindy . Even though this was a pure accident , it still happened . It may be one of the biggest disasters resulting from the existence of mass media , regardless of any media outlet's political views . As for the performances , Streep does a very good job with an Australian accent ( no surprise there ) , and Sam Neill is equally great . You will probably get blown away just by what you see here . Definitely one of Fred Schepisi's best movies ever .
Fred Schepisi does better when focusing on these things	Featuring a whole slew of England's most acclaimed stars , " Last Orders " focuses on a man's death and cremation , and how his friends and family remember their lives with him . As is common in British films , there's the issue of class , and how the characters have to stick by each other no matter what . The title refers to the man's last wishes that he get cremated and have his ashes scattered in the sea . Overall , this is a display of the cast members and director doing what they do best . To be certain , Fred Schepisi has turned out many good movies ( e . g . , " A Cry in the Dark " and " Fierce Creatures " ) , so he needn't try stuff like " It Runs in the Family " . But anyway , Michael Caine , Tom Courtenay , David Hemmings , Bob Hoskins , Helen Mirren and Ray Winstone do a perfect job .
the entry to the new millennium	After Roberto Benigni's acceptance speech the previous year , " The 72 Annual Academy Awards " would be hard-pressed to equal it . Still , I liked that the first Oscar ceremony of the 21st century ( assuming that we start the 21st century in the year 2000 ) gave " American Beauty " Best Picture . Like " The Graduate " in 1967 - when , incidentally , my parents were as old as I was in 1999 - it presented a totally new approach to how cinema looks at things . Other such movies in 1999 were " Election " , " The Blair Witch Project " , " The Sixth Sense " and " Being John Malkovich " . As for the rest of the program , I thought that the most interesting part was the look back at the 20th century ( I remember that it included a scene from " Yellow Submarine " ) . And Hilary Swank's win for " Boys Don't Cry " was also well-deserved ( Hilary Swank and Annette Bening were both nominated again five years later , and Swank won again ) . Overall , a worthy ceremony .
" Six Feet Under " meets " It's a Mad , Mad , Mad , Mad World "	If you thought that funeral homes could only make for grim plots in movies , then you've got a real surprise coming ! " The Loved One " portrays a young Brit Dennis Barlow ( Robert Morse ) coming to the Los Angeles and getting involved in a funeral parlor , with some very zany results . It's the sort of wacky humor that pervaded comedy flicks in the 1960s , right down to the giant cast ( aside from Robert Morse , there's Jonathan Winters , Anjanette Comer , Dana Andrews , Milton Berle , James Coburn , John Gielgud , Tab Hunter , Liberace , Roddy McDowall , Robert Morley , Lionel Stander and Rod Steiger ) . Anyway , this movie really does have something to offend everyone . Goofy but lovable , it's not to be missed .
people will do anything for fame	Gus Van Sant directed another really good movie with " To Die For " , focusing on the true story of a woman's vicious obsession with having a career . As fame-starved weather reporter Suzanne Stone , Nicole Kidman radiates a kind of iciness missing from most of her movie roles . As her husband Larry Maretto , Matt Dillon shows the audience an admirable man truly oblivious to his wife's scheme . I had never seen Joaquin Phoenix in anything before this ( although it turns out that he'd had previous roles ) , but he brings to the screen an unctuous teenager with whom we almost want to sympathize . I can't believe that this didn't get any Oscar nominations ; I think that it was one of Van Sant's best movies up to that time . Not a movie that you're likely to soon forget . Also starring Casey Affleck , Ileana Douglas , Wayne Knight , Kurtwood Smith , and Buck Henry .
such stories have probably happened many times	When I first watched " ' Breaker ' Morant " , I had never heard of the instance during the Boer War when the Australian army executed some of its soldiers so as to cover up misdeeds by superior officers . The movie does a very good job looking at the story . Aside from top-notch acting by Bryan Brown and Edward Woodward ( among others ) and direction by Bruce Beresford ( who later directed " Driving Miss Daisy " ) , the movie brings up the very issue of war crimes . The charge was that these soldiers had committed atrocities against Dutch South Africans . It was obvious that the entire British army - and its affiliates - had been doing these sorts of things , and that the real problem was the empire's militaristic nature . The army just wanted to make it look as though they were serving justice . And this didn't end with the Boer War . The US army prosecuted Lt . William Calley for commanding the My Lai Massacre , but the architects of the Vietnam War got off Scot free . Suffice it to say , this all applies to the current state of affairs . But anyway , this is a really good movie . Definitely one that I recommend . And I bet that the aroma truly would have been a failure ! As it is , it hardly seems worth talking about atrocities against the Dutch South Africans ( known as Boers or Afrikaners ) , as they were the ones who established apartheid .
good ol ' Cold War comedy	Comedies like " Dr . Strangelove " and " Spies Like Us " make one long for the Cold War , when they could actually make such comedies . In the latter , government employees Emmett Fitzhume ( Chevy Chase ) and Austin Milbarge ( Dan Aykroyd ) are recruited for something . They think that they're going to be spies , but they're really decoys for some saber-rattling between the US and USSR . They finally have to take action when the threat of a nuclear holocaust becomes real . Chevy Chase does his usual goofy things , and Dan Aykroyd is his usual uptight-but-silly self . There's some interesting guest appearances : Bob Hope chasing his golf ball , and Greg from " Animal House " as a very shady character . A great comedy .
Rock ' n ' roll forever !	Elvis Presley's movies weren't masterpieces by any stretch , but " Jailhouse Rock " was certainly fun ! The King plays Vince Everett , who accidentally kills a man in a fight . In jail , he meets country bumpkin Hunk Houghton ( Mickey Shaughnessy ) , who helps him hit it big as a rock star . Sound too simple ? Well , they know how to do it right . The theme song was also something . Not only famous for Elvis ' version , but you may recall that John Belushi and Dan Aykroyd sang it at the end of " The Blues Brothers " . These sorts of songs remind us what real music is all about , and that the Britney Spears / Jessica Simpson mold doesn't count .
a great look at the personality cult of celebrities today	" S1m0ne " is only one of two movies with which I'm familiar from Andrew Niccol ( the other being " Gattaca " ) . I must say that I'm impressed with his resume so far . This one portrays director Viktor Taransky ( Al Pacino ) simulating a starlet ( Rachel Roberts ) so as to become famous again . But will he be able to continue it ? More than just the official plot , this movie looks at the obsession with celebrities in the modern world . And it's a comedy ! That line about the Oscar nominations pretty much sums up everything . I certainly recommend this movie . Also starring Winona Ryder , Jay Mohr and Catherine Keener . Overall , " S1m0ne " just might make you feel like a natural woman .
that Ringo is something else	Okay , so " Help ! " isn't quite as creative as " A Hard Day's Night " , but the Beatles always were able to do something good . In this case , Ringo happens to have a sacrificial ring belonging to a religious cult . So , the cult sets about trying to get it back . When they fail , they decide to sacrifice Ringo . Meanwhile , a scientist ( Victor Spinetti ) wants the ring for his own purposes . And of course , there's plenty of great music along the way . In a way , the whole movie is sort of an excuse to be wacky . Whether it's the seemingly separate apartments that turn out to be one big room , the trap door activated by a glass , the skiing tournament , or the whole Bahamas sequence , they've got something neat every step of the way . Leo McKern , as cult leader Clang , and Eleanor Bron , as cultist Ahme who tries to protect Ringo , provide cool supporting roles . I guess that if I ever get a woman to watch " Help ! " with me , I'll never " Lose That Girl " .
tail-spin takes on a new meaning	When I took a class about Alfred Hitchcock's movies , we talked about how a really good device in movies is when you can tell a story without words . While Chuck Jones's " Go Fly a Kit " has some narration , it consists mostly of imagery , and not surprisingly comes out very well because of that . The cartoon tells the story of a cat adopted by a mother eagle . She teaches him to fly , and after initially plummeting off the cliff , he realizes that he can twirl his tail around to achieve aviation . Well , like all children eventually must do , he has to leave home so as to make his own way in life . That's when he lands on a telephone wire and sees a bulldog chasing a female cat . So , our feline hero springs into action in a manner that I never would have imagined . I have to say that I really consider this one of the cartoons that only Chuck Jones could pull off . Aside from the facial expressions - ranging from bittersweet to zany - some of the POV shots are nearly mystifying . It just goes to show that there will probably never be another director like Chuck Jones ( at least not our lifetime ) . I recommend this one .
Hot diggity !	In 1998 , with the conjunction of " The Opposite of Sex " and " Buffalo 66 " , Christina Ricci cemented her reputation as America's indie queen . In the former , she plays foul-mouthed teenager Dede Truitt , who moves in with her gay uncle Bill ( Martin Donovan ) . Then , one of Bill's students " outs " him ( without any actual proof ) . This sends the town into an uproar , with people ranting and raving against homosexuality . Look , I can't describe this movie and do it justice . " The Opposite of Sex " is a movie that you HAVE TO SEE TO BELIEVE . The truth is , nothing that you've seen in any other movie could prepare you for what this one offers . Mind-blowing to the nth degree , it's the sort of flick that will probably offend many people . But in a good way .
Don't mess with Annette !	Seemingly , all movies about rich people in 1930s England should be boring , but " Being Julia " isn't boring at all . In an Oscar-nominated role , Annette Bening plays Julia Lambert , a well-respected stage actress in 1938 London who risks getting replaced by a " more desirable " woman . But Julia is one person who can get nasty when mistreated . Bening makes Julia bitchy and lovable at the same time . One thing that made the role especially good was that she was beginning to show wrinkles , which strengthened the characterization . Jeremy Irons is also really good as Julia's husband Michael Gosselyn , and Michael Gambon adds an interesting aspect as the narrator . This is one movie that you won't find unpleasant .
music to my ears and eyes	" Le violon rouge " ( called " The Red Violin " in English ) uses a masterful violin as a conduit to show various parts of history - such as Renaissance-era Italy , 19th-century England , and the Cultural Revolution in China - right up to a 20th-century auction in Montreal . It's beyond amazing how they do the movie and look at the numerous historical events ( maybe the scene in China won't make your skin crawl , but it's not a pretty sight ) . This is definitely the sort of film that would make anyone revere musical instruments . And among other things , it shows that Samuel L . Jackson can do more than play bad motherers in movies . A most impressive piece of cinema . Also starring Colm Feore , Jason Flemyng , Greta Scacchi and Sandra Oh ( of " Sideways " fame ) .
There are some things that we just can't get over .	Omar Sharif remains indelibly associated with Dr . Yuri Zhivago , a Russian physician-poet who participates in the Bolshevik Revolution , only to have political history affect him against his will . Julie Christie is beautiful as ever as Lara Antipova , Zhivago's true love . " Doctor Zhivago " certainly pulled off a coup by showing the conditions that led to the revolution : the czar's despotic rule , the crushing poverty , and forced conscription ( especially since the generals cared nothing about the men under their command ) . Then , of course , the Russian people thought that they would have a workers ' society , but it didn't turn out that way . The theme song " Lara's Theme " kept the movie going every step of the way . Maybe not the greatest historical drama of all time , but this is a movie that I recommend to everyone .
interesting insight into Il Duce's life	Most people remember Benito Mussolini simply as Hitler's ally in WWII . " Mussolini and I " shows his family life during his years as Italy's leader . Starring Bob Hoskins as the Fascist himself , Susan Sarandon plays his daughter Edda , who married Count Galeazzo Ciano ( Anthony Hopkins ) . Among other things , the movie shows not only how the relationships among these people were always shaky , but also that Mussolini and Hitler didn't totally trust each other . Towards the war's end , Il Duce had Count Ciano executed , and shortly thereafter , Il Duce himself was of course arrested and executed . Edda escaped to Switzerland and survived the war . It's too bad that Mussolini was already dead when they hung him on the meat hook . Very well done .
like Gordon Gekko said : greed is good	Having escaped from a zoo , the Tasmanian Devil gets paired with Daffy Duck , as the latter learns that there's a $5 , 000 reward for Taz's capture , and that Taz becomes docile at the sound of music . " Ducking the Devil " is sort of a one-joke premise , but it keeps coming up with new ways to make the premise work . Like many of the Looney Tunes cartoons , this shows Daffy's greedy side ( which always prevails over his cowardice ) . And if absolutely nothing else , it's always great to see Taz spin around like a tornado , sawing his way through any impediment . Thank God that Robert McKimson created him ! Maybe greed ain't totally bad after all .
I agree : let's go back to our roots !	Looking back on it , " Human Nature " sort of reminds me of " I Shot Andy Warhol " , the way we slowly but surely get exposed to a gritty ( but somewhat funny ) topic . In this case , a man ( Rhys Ifans ) raised in the wild is getting interviewed by a congressional committee about why he murdered a scientist ( Tim Robbins ) . But overall , the movie poses the question of what separates humans from animals . And after everything that the movie shows , you'll probably agree with what Ifans's character says about everything . As for Robbins's character's setting , it definitely looks like something that would please Jean-Paul Sartre . This movie's probably not for everyone , but I think that it's worth seeing . Also starring Patricia Arquette , Hilary Duff , Peter Dinklage , Mary Kay Place and Robert Forster . Yeah , words are kinda evil . . .
Maybe one day , I'll do what Miles did with the spit jar . . .	In " Sideways " , novelist Miles Raymond ( Paul Giamatti ) and his friend Jack ( Thomas Haden Church ) drive up to California's wine country the weekend before Jack is getting married . Not only are both men middle-aged and single , but they're both oblivious to their own flaws . Once they arrive at their destination , they engage in a weekend of trying as hard as possible to get laid . Most people would have to agree that it seems out of line for Jack to do this when he's about to get married , but he's oblivious . Once the two men meet Maya ( Virginia Madsen ) and Stephanie ( Sandra Oh ) , all bets are off . Aside from being a great slice-of-life study , " Sideways " has some other great parts . You'll love the scene where Miles and Jack have to sneak back into a house where Jack had been having sex the previous night . The people behind this movie were definitely not sideways , and Paul Giamatti really did deserve an Oscar nomination . So is anyone drinking any - - - - ing Merlot ?
take dark to the next level	" From Hell " presents something not seen in movies since the old Sherlock Holmes movies . It tells the story of an inspector ( Johnny Depp ) investigating the Jack the Ripper murders in 1888 London , but it suggests that the decadent aristocrats in a way aren't much better than the murderer himself . Of course , the setting is like a star on its own : eerie , dismal streets that look like they could be hiding almost anything . . . ANYTHING . As for the question of historical accuracy , that doesn't really seem to be an issue . You have to focus on the bleak , evil surroundings to really get the feeling . Depp is great in his role , as can be expected . Also starring is Heather Graham as prostitute Mary Kelly ; let me tell you , this is a role very far removed from her comedic ones . Robbie Coltrane plays a sergeant ; because of this movie's grim nature , you probably will be able to forget that he plays Hagrid in the Harry Potter movies . Ian Holm , Ian Richardson , Jason Flemyng and Katrin Cartlidge also star . Maybe the most surprising thing about " From Hell " is that it was directed by Albert and Allen Hughes ( known for movies like " Dead Presidents " ) . Overall , this is not a movie to be missed . It just goes to show that real horror entails that which we don't know . Very well done .
a long , long , long , long time ago , in a place possibly far away , possibly not . . .	One of the relics from the days when Warner Bros . usually confined Porky Pig and Daffy Duck to the black and white Looney Tunes , Bob Clampett's " Prehistoric Porky " portrays cinema's most famous swine in the Stone Age - one billion , trillion years BC , apparently - doing the sorts of things that most people in 1940 probably did in their everyday lives ( with a caveman twist ) . It's got a fairly similar feel to Chuck Jones's " Daffy Duck and the Dinosaur " from the previous year , what with the sight gags relating to the popular culture of the cartoon's era . True , some of the stuff we in the 21st century might not understand , but it's funny enough just to see the characters do these things . So , this is one of the many classic cartoons that I fortunately only saw nowadays , when I'm old enough to understand what it portrays . We could of course be cynical and say that this was one of the many cartoons in which they stuck Porky in a common situation or role ; others included fireman , pilgrim and bullfighter . Even so , Clampett keeps the action moving so that nearly every scene is a hoot . I recommend it . Just became available on Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 5 . When Leon Schlesinger Studios began releasing cartoons in 1930 , all the cartoons carried the Looney Tunes label ( and all were filmed in B & W ) . Before too long , they created the Merrie Melodies label . In 1934 , the studio started filming its Merrie Melodies cartoons in color while still filming its Looney Tunes cartoons in B & W . In the late 1930s , Porky and Daffy - the studio's only major stars - starred mostly in Looney Tunes cartoons , while the Merrie Melodies cartoons mostly featured one-shot character ( there were of course a few exceptions ) . Elmer Fudd's prototype Egghead was the first character to appear regularly in Merrie Melodies cartoons , followed by Sniffles , Inki , and finally Bugs Bunny . The studio released its final B & W cartoon in 1943 , and so LT and MM thus became indistinguishable .
cold and warm at the same time	" Cold Comfort Farm " has a familiar plot , but is very well done . Portraying young Flora Poste ( Kate Beckinsale ) moving in with her backwards relatives in 1930s England and trying to change everything , the movie has the perfect pacing . It's the sort of situation where her relatives sort of irk you , but you can't help but admire them ( mainly due to Flora's snobbish attitude about everything ) . It just goes to show what a great director John Schlesinger ( " Midnight Cowboy " , " The Day of the Locust " , " Pacific Heights " ) was . He will definitely be missed . Also starring Eileen Atkins , Stephen Fry , Joanna Lumley , Ian McKellen , Miriam Margoyles and Rufus Sewell .
Why did such a great movie flop ? !	Having seen most of Ron Howard's movies , I know that he's a director who has a tendency to try and tug at people's emotions . Maybe after playing Opie Taylor and Richie Cunningham , he wanted to show people that he could be more than " silly " ; thus , " Cocoon " showed hope for senior citizens , " Backdraft " showed the lives of firefighters , " The Paper " looked at journalism , and " Apollo 13 " focused on a real event . As it is , I have liked most of his movies , and I can now add " Cinderella Man " to that list . Russell Crowe plays Jim Braddock , a working stiff who was a boxing star back in the ' 20s . But when the Depression hit , he and his family were plunged into abject poverty . With no other options open , Jim convinces his manager Joe Gould ( Paul Giamatti ) to find him a boxing match . When Jim wins , it begins his path to prominence again , and hope for his family . " Cinderella Man " struck me less in its focus on boxing than in its look at the Depression . Jim's only chance for work is to go to the harbor where the boss only admits five people each day , and Jim's busted hand makes it hard for him to work even when he gets in . Also , much of the movie shows Jim walking through the slums , and another scene shows a bunch of rich people in a fancy hotel as a contrast to how most people were living . As for the boxing aspect , many movies have shown working class people trying to make something of themselves by getting into boxing , so maybe that's why the boxing aspect didn't strike me as much . All in all , this is a very well-done piece of cinema . Crowe and Giamatti are perfect in their roles , as is Renee Zellweger as Jim's desperate but strong wife Mae . Also starring are Craig Bierko as Jim's opponent Max Baer ( yes , Jethro Bodine's father ) , and Paddy Considine as Jim's friend Mike , whose desperation leads him to commit suicide . Howard and Crowe have accomplished something as great as they did with " A Beautiful Mind " . I can't understand why this movie flopped , even if there was an overall low turnout this summer .
not to be confused with Robert DeNiro's lame movie from some years ago	What's really interesting about Michael Radford's " Flawless " is how it crosses two political issues , although it only focuses on them briefly . The whole issue of diamonds of course brings to mind the fact that South Africa's apartheid government used diamonds to sustain itself . But what Michael Caine talks about at the end brings to mind everything that Michael Moore's " Sicko " showed . Of course , most of the movie does center on the heist planned by Caine and Demi Moore ( who does an accent that sounds like a cross between English and American ) . And it is one neat heist . The part about avoiding the security cameras reminded me of the rotating light in " Topkapi " . All in all , definitely worth seeing . PS : another movie called " Flawless " was a 1999 comedy wannabe starring Robert DeNiro as a homophobic cop and Philip Seymour Hoffman as a drag queen who suddenly have to cooperate . It was one of the lamest movies that I've ever seen .
don't look down	You understand " Vertigo " better once you know the word's definition . It refers specifically to dizziness , not acrophobia as some people mistakenly believe . Dizziness plays a major role in the movie . Jimmy Stewart plays San Francisco Det . John " Scottie " Ferguson , who gets uncomfortable in high places . Hired to follow Madeleine Elster ( Kim Novak ) , he rescues her from drowning . As he stays with her more and more , he begins to suspect something strange about her . It all comes to a head at the San Juan Bautista Mission , when she jumps off of the bell tower . Scottie feels guilty , but some questions remain unanswered . Just who is that woman whom Scottie sees in the museum ? Why does she look exactly like Madeleine ? And how does a Spanish woman who lived almost 100 years earlier relate to all this ? The spirals are an eye-opening aspect . Not only the opening credits , but also Scottie's acrophobia , and the staircase in the bell tower . As is often the case in Alfred Hitchcock's movies , the lighting tells part of the story ; in this case , a sign outside the apartment illuminates Madeleine and her dress . The San Juan Bautista Mission is not an accident . Hitchcock was raised Roman Catholic , so it makes sense that he might want to use such an institution . But the movie's final scene - which happens at the Mission - seems to be a metaphor for things coming back to haunt people . And of course , Kim Novak was one of Hitchcock's " icy blondes " , in the same category as Grace Kelly , Doris Day , Eva Marie Saint , Janet Leigh and Tippi Hedren . All I can tell you further is that there is a scene in which Madeleine is next to a window , and you see her reflection ; that appears to be foreshadowing . All very vertiginous .
almost like a prequel to " Blade Runner "	" A Scanner Darkly " portrays Orange County in the near future , where many people are addicted to a drug called Substance D , the government is scanning everyone to see whether or not they are using it , and someone announces that the government is going after terrorists pushing the drug ( Philip K . Dick wrote this long before September 11 , 2001 , so it now seems very prescient ) . However , the movie itself focuses more on the people using the drug and how it affects their relationships . Undercover - and he's literally undercover - agent Bob Arctor ( Keanu Reeves ) has been using the drug when the secret police for whom he works order him to spy on his friends ( Rory Cochrane , Robert Downey Jr . , Woody Harrelson and Winona Ryder ) . Thus begins a drugged-out , sci-fi experience that I can't even begin to describe ; you basically can't tell what's real and what isn't . The nearly live-action animation gives the movie a very hallucinogenic feel , lifting it above the average drug addiction-totalitarian future story . If the events portrayed in the movie make you feel like your blood has frozen and your brain is swimming , then it has succeeded . I would say that this is the best adaptation of a Philip K . Dick novel ever . Very topical in this era of the " war on terrorism " and " war on drugs " . I would also say that it makes a troika of great movies with Steven Soderbergh ( happy birthday , Steven ! ) as executive producer , started by " Syriana " and " Good Night , and Good Luck " ( which also co-starred Robert Downey Jr . ) . What does a scanner see ? Probably everything .
Martin Scorsese's grand ambition .	" Gangs of New York " is everything that we would expect Martin Scorsese to deliver . It's like all his movies rolled into one hard punch . Portraying young Amsterdam Vallon ( Leonardo DiCaprio ) looking to take revenge on crime boss Bill " The Butcher " Cutting ( Daniel Day-Lewis ) in 1863 New York , the movie shows what a historical epic should be . I can't believe that this didn't win a single Oscar ; what does Scorsese have to do to win their respect ? But the point is that " Gangs of New York " is a masterpiece . Scorsese showed the same flair for historical epics that he later brought to " The Aviator " . Fine support from Cameron Diaz , John C . Reilly , Brendan Gleeson , Jim Broadbent , Henry Thomas , and Liam Neeson make this one solid flick . Perfect .
not cheesy at all ; quite funny actually	We all know what happens in cartoons when cats try to catch mice , but what happens when the mice want the cat to eat them ? That's just what happens in " Cheese Chasers " . Wise-guy rodents Hubie and Bertie have just eaten way too much cheese and feel that they can't eat any more of the stuff . With nothing left to live for , they try to get Claude the Cat to devour them , but he doesn't want to . Feeling that he can never eat another mouse again , he tries to get a bulldog to eat him , but that leads to pure confusion on the dog's part , to the point where all four characters end up doing something that no mouse , cat or dog would probably ever consider ! I don't think that I've seen all the Hubie and Bertie cartoons , but this one is a really fun romp . With all sorts of gags , there isn't a dull moment in it . And you may just feel hungry for cheese after watching it ( don't eat too much , mind you ; you don't want to do what these characters did ! ) . Two thousand years . Yeah , I guess that life's like that .
being everywhere	There have been many existential stories , but few so interesting as " Being There " . It stars Peter Sellers in his last role of note , as mentally retarded gardener Chance , who occasionally utters what he heard on TV . After his employer dies , he wonders the city and eventually gets picked up by wealthy Ben Rand ( Melvyn Douglas , who won Best Supporting Actor ) and his wife Eve ( Shirley MacLaine ) . As the movie progresses , two things become apparent : Chance's comments - which he himself doesn't really understand - get interpreted by everyone as deep philosophical statements , and the Rands are not really living as they want . If nothing else , this movie underscores how talented the three stars are , and what a great director Hal Ashby was ( he also directed such greats as " Harold and Maude " , " The Last Detail " , " Shampoo " , " Bound for Glory " and " Coming Home " ) . Peter Sellers is as keen here as he was as Insp . Clouseau or in " Dr . Strangelove " . When Shirley MacLaine made her debut back in the ' 50s , who ever would have guessed that she would eventually , uh , play with herself in a movie ? And Melvyn Douglas certainly deserved his Oscar . A great , existential flick .
Take " Carrie " one step further . . .	If you thought that " Carrie " made incredible use of conflagrations , you ain't seen nothing yet ! In Stephen King's other combustion-themed story , " Firestarter " portrays the daughter ( Drew Barrymore ) of a experimental guinea pig ( David Keith ) using her ignition abilities to get her way . When the government kidnaps her and her father , things really get ugly . On one level , this movie seems a little preachy , with the shadowy agents going after the man and his daughter . But I would call that an accurate depiction of things . And you gotta agree with what the girl does , no matter how extreme she gets ( and I'm talking really extreme ) . So I definitely recommend this movie . But if you're a pyromaniac , don't let this movie encourage you . Also starring Heather Locklear , Martin Sheen , George C . Scott , Art Carney and Louise Fletcher .
Watts on second ?	Man , nothing was sacred to Abbott and Costello ! In the wacky " Who Done It ? " , they play soda jerks who pitch an idea to a radio station , and then find themselves in the middle of a murder case ! This of course is an excuse for a series of hilarious gags ( namely Alexander 2222 and the ledge of the building ) . One of the things that I liked about this movie is that it's not a musical . I'm just not into musicals . When I watch a comedy , I expect to laugh , and musical numbers cut into that . Here , just get to see Bud and Lou do their stuff . And some funny stuff it is . They must have had fun making it . Really funny !
Jewish guilt	Jewish guilt is not a topic that I see portrayed much in movies , but " Leon the Pig Farmer " does a good job with it . Leon Geller ( Mark Frankel ) is a Jewish estate agent in London who one day discovers that he was the product of artificial insemination ; his real father is a pig farmer . Going off to meet his " other " family , Leon has more than a few surprises ! They did an interesting job here . True , non-Jews might not get all the jokes , but it's funny nonetheless . And I guess that we sometimes forget that there ARE Jews in England . Anyway , you might see if you can find this movie . You'll probably like it . Oh , and by the way , that one character was played by Burt Kwouk ( Kato from the " Pink Panther " movies ) .
well done , even if it didn't quite equal " Schindler's List "	In what I assume was Roman Polanski's most personal movie ever , he tells the story of Polish-Jewish pianist Wladyslaw Szpilman ( Adrien Brody ) doing everything possible to survive the Nazi occupation . As is the case with all of Polanski's movies , there are some very harrowing scenes , namely when the Nazi planes first start bombing the city , and when Szpilman has to hide . As Szpilman , Brody really brings out the most in the character ( no doubt his sad face helps with that ) . I will say that the movie doesn't quite equal the profundity achieved by " Schindler's List " . But maybe that's not a fair comparison , since Polanski probably wasn't aiming for that . Either way , this is definitely a movie worth seeing , as a message of hope in the darkest of times .
One step beyond " The Great Dictator "	I remember that I first heard Johannes Brahms's " Hungarian Dances " in " The Great Dictator " , when Charlie Chaplin is shaving the guy to the tune of that song . For " Pigs in a Polka " , the Termite Terrace crowd continues its tradition of mixing classical music with wacky images , and they do a great job with it . OK , so " Three Little Pigs " is one of the easiest stories to spoof ( they later applied music to it again with " Three Little Bops " ) , but how can you not like how the cartoon came out here ? Probably the most eye-opening aspect is how , far from being a triad of warm , cuddly brothers , the pigs have some conflicts . The smartest one - who built his house out of bricks - doesn't like how his siblings take an irresponsible attitude towards everything . Among other things , we have to remember that these cartoons were not created for children . What they portray requires some knowledge of world history and culture . As it is , I've long considered it honorable that these cartoons could teach children about classical music ( much like " What's Opera , Doc ? " could ) . All in all , a very enjoyable cartoon short .
Alcatraz = Abu Ghraib	Obviously , we can't tell how much of any historical movie is accurate . But what " Murder in the First " portrays will freeze the blood of any sane person , whether or not it's accurate . Henri Young ( Kevin Bacon ) is sent to Alcatraz for theft and put in solitary confinement . When he comes out , he has turned into a murderous lunatic . So , novice lawyer James Stamphill ( Christian Slater ) uses the incident to expose how cruel Alcatraz is . Naturally , warden Milton Glen ( Gary Oldman ) tries to deny everything , but he can't hide the facts . Another reviewer noted that this particular trial wasn't the one that actually brought down Alcatraz , despite the tag-line . But either way , " Murder in the First " shows the cruelty inherent in the prison system overall , right up to Abu Ghraib . All that you have to do is take a tour of Alcatraz - or any defunct prison - to see what it's like .
And to think that I'd never heard of Iris Murdoch before this movie came out .	Judi Dench gives the performance of a lifetime as author Iris Murdoch , who eventually developed Alzheimer's disease . She really gets into the role , as she's done with every one of her performances with which I'm familiar . Jim Broadbent won Best Supporting Actor playing her husband John Bayley , who loves her but often gets frustrated by her mental condition . This is certainly a movie that I recommend to everyone . Also starring Kate Winslet as young Iris , and Hugh Bonneville as young John . I still remember when Jim Broadbent won his Oscar . The next day , we were hiking up an Indian dwelling in Bandalier , New Mexico ( it was spring break ) , and I was thinking : " When people heard that , I bet that most of them were thinking " Jim who ? " .
The first movie that I ever saw with my college friends .	Macaulay Culkin quickly became a has-been , but his brothers have taken some interesting roles , particularly Kieran in " Igby Goes Down " . The movie portrays teenager Igby Slocumb , who - although he seems really messed up - has a perfectly good reason for it : his relatives . His mother Mimi ( Susan Sarandon ) tries too hard to be a socialite ; his father Jason ( Bill Pullman ) had a breakdown ; his stepfather D . H . ( Jeff Goldblum ) turned his brother Ollie ( Ryan Philippe ) into a young Republican ; and so on . Obviously , many movies deal with screwy families , but this one does a great job the way that " The Royal Tenenbaums " did . Much like a whole slew of great movies came out while my parents were in college , so many have come out while I've been in college ( " Igby Goes Down " was in fact the first movie that I saw with my college friends ) . It's movies like this that make life worth living .
fear vs . respect	Robert DeNiro made his directorial debut with the gripping " A Bronx Tale " , about a boy in 1960s New York torn between his father and a gangster . Bus driver Lorenzo Anello ( DeNiro ) raises his son Calogero to be an honest person , but Calogero also is interested in mobster Sonny ( Chazz Palminteri , who based the story partly on his own childhood ) . What's really good about the movie is how it presents all sides of the dichotomy . For example , when Calogero claims that people respect Sonny , Lorenzo tells Calogero : " People respect me . They fear him . " Everything in this movie is likely to shock you . You want Calogero to do what he wants , but you're nervous about hoping for him to go into a life of crime . If Robert DeNiro is to be best known for these kinds of roles , then so be it ; he does them very well . The rest of the cast is also great . You may never feel the same after viewing this . Joe Pesci also appears .
Betraying one's own people .	Morgan Freeman's directorial debut casts Danny Glover as a cop in apartheid-era South Africa whose son is an anti-apartheid activist . Knowing this , the father has to choose between his people and his job : he basically betrayed his people , but he has to support his family . True , this seems like a plot that we frequently see , but " Bopha ! " ( Zulu for " arrest " ) makes good use of it . They raise the stakes by portraying a new white supremacist police chief ( Malcolm McDowell ) . And also impressive was that scene where the students leave school to protest the teaching of Afikaans ( my mom said that they used to show that sort of scene on TV all the time ) . A really good movie .
As history goes , so go various other things .	I had actually never heard of the Weathermen before " The Weather Underground " came out . As I understand it , some people complained that the documentary glossed over some of their more violent activities ( and some people think that that may have cost it the Best Documentary Oscar ) . But the way I see it , these sorts of documentaries are always going to stir up controversy , with different factions in society complaining about what they do and don't focus on . No matter . I will say that the documentary brings up important questions about when it's OK to use violence against those in power . Certainly the US government's actions in Vietnam - plus its spying on radical groups - left the people who formed the Weathermen feeling that they had no other options . And of course , it brings up questions of how far we can go today , when the Bush administration labels political opponents as terrorist enablers . So overall , I do recommend the documentary as a look at ' 60s radicalism ( even though this is radicalism in a less than pleasant form ) , and also a look at government surveillance . Whether or not you agree with the Weathermen is of course up to you . As for whether or not the documentary glossed over their more violent activities , is that any different from glossing over the government's crimes ?
must communicate events to the world	A frequent theme in Australian movie is communication issues . Here , one might say that because Guy Hamilton ( Mel Gibson ) is a reporter , it's his job to communicate to the world the events going on in Indonesia . As for Pete Curtis ' ( Michael Murphy ) racist comments towards Guy's half-Chinese dwarf cameraman Billy Kwan ( Linda Hunt ) , racism is an essential part of colonialism . Linda Hunt's role was of course really impressive because she played a man - and won Best Supporting Actress for it . The other star is Sigourney Weaver as British attache Jill Bryant . But of course the most important thing in the movie is the events going on in Indonesia , namely the CIA coup to install Gen . Suharto ( who went on to murder almost 1 million people during his thirty-two years in power , one of the most massive genocides in history ) . A really good movie , as Peter Weir always makes .
rock , mock , and doc	With " Zelig " , Woody Allen took a completely different approach to everything . It's a pseudo-documentary - maybe the first one ever - in which he plays Leonard Zelig , a human chameleon in the 1920s : he literally changes his personality and physical appearance to accommodate the people in his surroundings . Mia Farrow plays Dr . Eudora Fletcher , trying to cure him . This has some of the things that we would expect in a Woody Allen movie , namely Leonard's explanation of the kind of class that he teaches . But , he keeps it going . The " Reds " - style interviews really help the movie ( there's even one with Susan Sontag ) , as does the ' 20s soundtrack . This is one movie that you're sure to like . Too bad that Allen started making movies about neurotic rich New Yorkers later on .
trusty water stick . . .	This time , Robin Hood ( Daffy Duck ) tries to convince Friar Tuck ( Porky Pig ) that he really is Robin Hood , but the circumstances keep working against him . Maybe " Robin Hood Daffy " isn't the greatest cartoon from the Mel Blanc / Chuck Jones crowd , but it's still great . With some of the things that happen to Daffy here , you just have to remember what we learned in " Who Framed Roger Rabbit " about a given cartoon character : you can drop anything you want on his head . And let me tell you , Daffy has a lot more to worry about than that ! Anyway , this is another cartoon from the Golden Age . You may just feel like Robin Hood after viewing this .
there's gold in them thar varmints	As is the case with many of the classic Warner Bros . cartoons that I've seen recently , it's a good thing that I saw " 14 Carrot Rabbit " now , when I'm old enough to understand what it portrays . Of course , even if I didn't know about the Gold Rush , the cartoon would still be a riot , with Yosemite Sam being his usual blow-hard self and Bugs Bunny pretending to get hoodwinked but actually seeing through Sam's deception . With the Yosemite Sam cartoons , I mostly like how Sam's loose cannon personality always causes him bad luck . Anyway , there are some really funny scenes here . If you know Sam's cartoons , all that you have to do is imagine him looking for gold and trying to steal it from Bugs . Pretty cool .
show biz can't satisfy anyone	One thing that I've always wondered is why no one looks at Hollywood more negatively than Hollywood itself . But whatever the reason , " The Bad and the Beautiful " pulls no punches in looking at its topic . The movie portrays some people explaining how they used to be friends of producer Jonathan Shields ( Kirk Douglas ) but have since turned against him . There's the director whom Shields promised a directing job but betrayed him , the writer who lost his wife to Shields's actions , and the actress whom Shields drove to madness . I thought that one of the most effective scenes in the movie was Kirk Douglas holding Lana Turner in his arms . Here he is , this overbearing , hostile character forced to almost coddle his gorgeous female star ; it might be showing how he may seemingly have exalted her , but he remains in a higher position and is merely using her and sending her into insanity . And the scene of her driving the car while completely upset elaborates on this idea . And then , there's the writer . He and his wife move from Virginia hoping to get really big in Hollywood . . . until tragedy strikes . It all goes to show the disaster inherent in any industry ( of course , Douglas's character exacerbates any problem ) . But anyway , this is a formidable part of cinema history ; a precursor to movies like " The Player " . Also starring Dick Powell , Walter Pidgeon and Gloria Grahame ( who won Best Supporting Actress ) .
here comes the . . . something	Owen Wilson and Vince Vaughn have frequently co-starred in the past few years , and now they can add " The Wedding Crashers " to that list . They play John Beckwith and Jeremy Grey , who go to weddings so that they can have sex with the women there . But then everything gets out of hand when they follow one family home and John really starts getting attracted to the young woman . I don't know how they did it , but they did it . There are a few lapses , but most of the movie is a hoot . Sometimes , you think to yourself " Did I just see that ? " Believe me , you did . I sure hope that these guys co-star in more movies in the future .
someone should separate Florida from the rest of the country	When I saw the title and first minute of " Rebel Rabbit " , I sort of assumed that it would be a Robin Hood-style story . Boy was I wrong ! It portrays Bugs Bunny getting insulted when he finds that the government has placed exorbitant bounties on foxes and bears , but only 2 cents on rabbits ( after all , rabbits are such cute little creatures ) . So , the carrot-chomping rascal proceeds to make a complete mess of the United States . The final scene reminded me of the Peter Sellers-Ringo Starr movie " The Magic Christian " , how they ridiculously brought in the most elaborate weaponry to deal with so simple an animal ( then again , Bugs isn't so simple to catch ) . I especially agreed with one scene : Bugs cuts Florida off from the rest of the country . Considering that the Sunshine State is home to the rich Cubans who fled when Fidel Castro's army took over in Cuba , we should break that state off from the rest of the country and send it down to Cuba so that the current government there can prosecute Fulgencio Batista's henchmen . But I digress . The point is , this is a really funny cartoon . That southern senator was obviously Mel Blanc doing Foghorn Leghorn's voice . Really neat .
for anyone who's ever had to meet in-laws	We all know that meeting one's future in-laws can be an unpleasant experience , but none can be more unpleasant than what Greg Focker ( Ben Stiller ) and Pam Byrnes ( Teri Polo ) go through . Planning to get married , they go to meet Pam's parents Jack ( Robert DeNiro ) and Dina ( Blythe Danner ) . Maybe it's the R-rated connotation inherent in Greg's surname , or maybe it's Jack's status as a CIA agent , but Greg and Jack do not hit it off . Somehow , Greg causes a series of accidents , and it all leads Jack to consider Greg unworthy for his daughter . The whole movie is pretty silly , but at the same time , all so true . One can understand that Jack wants to protect his daughter , but a lie detector test ? And just what about Mr . Jinx ? What is with that cat ? No matter , the movie never gets so ridiculous to the point where you roll your eyes . It's nice brainless fun , but it's nice brainless fun that accurately reflects the world that we inhabit . Oh , and Greg is Jewish while Pam's family is a bunch of WASPs , so you know what that means .
I hope that at least most movies from England are somewhat like this .	England has released many films about people living a grim existence : " Poor Cow " , " Kes " , " The Full Monty " , " 24 7 " , " Billy Elliot " and " Children of Men " , to name a few . Shane Meadows's " This Is England " has a similar concept , but takes a different approach . Set in 1983 , the movie focuses on young Shane ( Thomas Turgoose ) . His father was killed in the Falklands invasion , and so he lives alone with his mother Cynthia ( Jo Hartley ) . Picked on at school , Shaun feels lost in the world . . . until he meets some skinhead punks . As Shaun gets to know these skinheads , the group becomes a sort of father figure to him . While Cynthia remains ambivalent about her son hanging out with such individuals , it comforts her - however loosely - that her son has found some friends . So , the first half of the movie makes it look rather lightweight . But when hardcore skinhead Combo gets out of jail and reconnects with the group , everything changes . In what I considered the movie's most effective scene , Combo stands up in front of the gang and talks about how Margaret Thatcher led the country into a phony war while unemployment runs rampant and immigrants steal everyone's jobs . This guy's such a racist nationalist , that he won't even fly the Union Jack representing the United Kingdom ; to him , the only flag is England's own flag ( showing St . George's cross ) . Whether or not this speech was intended as an allusion to current events I'm not sure . The movie maintains its strength in not meandering too much . While there is talk of the Falklands invasion , the focus stays on Shaun's friendship with the gang and how they get him to cooperate with whatever they do . It's worth noting that even though these skinheads are clearly disaffected youth , they stick by each other no matter what , to the extent that Shaun becomes very close to one of the girls in the gang . All in all , I recommend this one . While some people may not fancy a look into this kind of subculture , I find it very fascinating . And above all , I like movies disproving the " Mary Poppins " image of England . Definitely worth seeing .
Don Knotts , RIP	Don Knotts's death yesterday brings to mind his various roles . " Pleasantville " probably wasn't his most famous movie , but it's one that I would recommend to everyone . It portrays real-life teenagers David ( Tobey Maguire ) and Jennifer ( Reese Witherspoon ) getting transferred into a 1950's " Leave It to Beaver " - style TV show . Aside from the fact that everything is black-and-white , David and Jennifer ( now called Bud and Mary Sue in the show ) have a hard time adjusting to a world of wives wearing fluffy dresses all day and gray flannel suit-clad husbands saying " Honey , I'm home ! " But David and Jennifer's presence just might change everything . All that I can say is that it would sure be neat to experience this movie . More than just a goofy story , there's a clear reference to racism as colors start showing and everything starts changing . And the way that they use the song " Take Five " is also quite eye-opening . Great performances from the aforementioned cast members , plus Joan Allen , William H . Macy , Jeff Daniels , J . T . Walsh ( in his final role ) , and even Jane Kaczmarek right before she got the role of Lois on " Malcolm in the Middle " , make this one cool movie .
When are the star creatures going to kidnap me ? !	I stopped short of giving " Invasion of the Star Creatures " due to some cringe-inducing scenes involving Indians . Other than that , it's pure corny sci-fi fun . In this case , a pair of loopy soldiers find a cave housing two sexy women sent from another planet to colonize earth . Naturally , the soldiers try to stop the colonization . Personally , if those two babes were going to take over the world , I would immediately submit ! And moreover , this movie was clearly intended more as a comedy , with the sorts of lines that one expects in a Laurel and Hardy movie . As long as we understand the stereotyping of Native Americans here , we can enjoy the rest of the movie . Tanga and Puna ! Hubba hubba . . .
Why didn't anyone challenge Derek when he became a racist ?	My rating is because " American History X " is very well done in every way , except that it seems that when Derek Vinyard ( Edward Norton ) started spouting out the anti-Semitic diatribe , they should have asked him what became of his humanity . Then again , maybe they wouldn't know what to say in such a situation . But other than that , the movie is quite good . Portraying a reformed Derek trying to prevent his younger brother Danny ( Edward Furlong ) from becoming a white supremacist , we get to see various issues . For example , when Derek is in jail and gets to know a black man for the first time , his anger starts to ebb . Good support from Beverly D'Angelo , Elliott Gould , Stacy Keach and Fairuza Balk make this a very good movie , even if they didn't develop it as far as they could .
one of Bugs's trips down south	I understand that " Mississippi Hare " got censored for showing black people picking cotton , but most of the cartoon has nothing to do with that . In fact , most of the cartoon nearly made me die laughing , as Bugs Bunny plays every kind of trick to avoid getting shot by an aggressive riverboat gambler whom he beats at poker . While some scenes set up what's about to happen , others are sped up so that you can't wait to see what's going to happen ! Yes , once again , someone tries to go after Bugs , but Bugs is somehow always ten steps ahead . You gotta love it . And as for that scene where Bugs dresses up as a Southern belle . . . well , seeing a woman like that , I might have easily fallen for any trick !
Geraldine Chaplin's father grew up in one	I didn't figure that any movie could equal " Pan's Labyrinth " , but " El orfanato " - " The Orphanage " in English - comes close . When a family moves into a former orphanage in which the mother ( Belen Rueda ) grew up , the adopted son starts making imaginary friends and feeling very detached from his parents . And then , he just disappears . But that's not all . . . A major surprise as the movie progresses is the appearance of Geraldine Chaplin as a woman hired to try to help find the son . Ms . Chaplin certainly has a connection to orphanages , as her father spent part of his childhood in one . Although in reality , I don't know whether or not that influenced her decision to star in this . All in all , a really good one . Also starring Fernando Cayo .
Might there be more dodo birds in Madagascar ?	I stopped short of giving " Dough for the Do-Do " just because the whole idea of Darkest Africa doesn't exactly sound PC in this day and age . But other than that , it's a hoot , with Porky searching for the last do-do bird , worth four trillion dollars . He has to enter Wackyland , and as the Wackyland sign affirms : " It can happen here . " Sure enough , anything can happen . But the do-do himself is something else , and as elusive as can be . All in all , it's a cartoon that you're sure to like . And I know that the dodo is extinct , but I can't help but wonder whether or not there might be more in Madagascar .
dictatorships	Raul Julia and William Hurt play Valentin Arregui and Luis Molina , cell-mates in a South American jail . Valentin is a political prisoner trying to keep his sanity , and Luis is a gay man with fantasies of Nazis and their beautiful women . These two men are opposites in virtually every way , but are forced to grow to respect each other . Sonia Braga plays the woman in both men's fantasies : the " Spider Woman " and the Nazi's lover . That's the plot , but the movie is really a metaphor for any dictatorship . Obviously , any totalitarian state will imprison political opponents , and from what I know , most tyrants choose to lock up homosexuals . Valentin even tries to make the pro-fascist Luis understand what the Nazis did to gays . Regardless of how the two men eventually view each other , it remains a really good movie .
Painte Blanc	As always , Penelope accidentally gets painted white , and Pepe Le Pew thinks that she's a female skunk ( note : he doesn't say " belle femme skunk " in this one ) . One thing that I saw in " Touche and Go " that may or may not have been an in-joke was the paint that gives her that white stripe : the can is called " Painte Blanc " . I immediately assumed that it was probably an allusion to Mel Blanc ; after all , the Looney Tunes cartoons were chock full of in-jokes . But even ignoring that , this is still a really funny cartoon , packed with some great one-liners ( namely the part about fish ) . Because remember : the game of love doesn't end at sundown .
this cartoon was not a dog	I'll admit that I don't really know anything about dog races , but you don't need to know anything thereabout to enjoy " The Grey Hounded Hare " . Bugs Bunny stumbles upon a dog race , and quickly learns that the contestants don't like rabbits . But what truly riles him is the fact the dogs are chasing the female rabbit with whom he has just fallen in love ( it's a robot , but he doesn't know that ) . So , that long-eared rascal sets about coming up with ways to stop the dogs from chasing the rabbit . That is , until the final showdown with a big bellicose dog . Maybe this isn't the best cartoon that the Looney Tunes ' creative team made , but there's really nothing bad about it . And the end scene is a good lesson about the dangers of electricity .
this movie never gets " lost "	Why not take an adventure to get to know one's country a little better ? That's exactly what David ( Albert Brooks ) and Linda Howard ( Julie Hagerty ) do . After David loses a promotion that he's been anticipating , he quits his job and gets Linda to quit hers . The two proceed to travel across the United States , looking into every aspect of American life . Naturally , there are a few mishaps along the way . I could say that " Lost in America " is " Easy Rider " transposed to the ' 80's , but that doesn't do it justice . It's more of a look at life in general , and how the simplest things can yield unexpected results . Watch for " Happy Days " creator Garry Marshall as a casino owner in Las Vegas .
never underestimate Chevy Chase's power	In what may have been the high point of Chevy Chase's career , he plays Irwin " Fletch " Fletcher , a reporter who writes a column under the name Jane Doe . When a man hires Fletch to kill him , Fletch decides to investigate the man . As you might imagine , in the process , he gets more than he bargained for . And there's several gags throughout the movie . Of course , since this is a Chevy Chase movie , you don't even really need to pay attention to the plot . It's overall just an excuse for the star to goof off . Maybe not as much as he did on " Saturday Night Live " or in " National Lampoon's Vacation " , but he's still funny as ever . He must have had fun making this movie .
Believe it or not , I can find one unrealistic thing ( but it doesn't drag down the film at all ) .	I knew loosely about Loretta Lynn before I saw " Coal Miner's Daughter " . When I saw the movie , I not only got a sense of her personal life , but also of the culture out of which she grew . We see how her family was one of the most destitute imaginable , with more children than they could handle , and so Loretta's parents felt like they had no choice but to marry her off at the age of thirteen . As for Doolittle , we see how he clearly had a lot of problems - namely drinking and womanizing - but was a decent person at heart . From the beginning , the movie fascinates . Playing a thirteen-year-old , Sissy Spacek has no trouble looking the part . As the story progresses and Loretta ages , she still looks the part ( I don't think that I've ever seen anyone else do that ; that alone may have been what won her the Best Actress Oscar ) . Tommy Lee Jones is equally great as Doolittle , showing him as a sorry but still respectable person . There was one mildly unrealistic thing that I noticed in the movie . Loretta's father Ted ( Levon Helm ) looked a little too clean and polished for someone who spent his days working in the coal mines . But that doesn't drag the movie down at all . " CMD " is a very good movie , affirming Sissy Spacek and Tommy Lee Jones as two of the greatest actors of our time . Among other things , the movie also shows that Michael Apted ( happy birthday , Michael ! ) is a director whom we need to recognize more . He also directed the " 7 Up " series , " Agatha " , " Continental Divide " , " Gorky Park " , and the never - released - on - video - or - DVD " Stardust " , among other things . Anyway , it's a very good movie . I definitely recommend it . Also starring Beverly D'Angelo as Patsy Cline .
Even though I didn't catch the whole thing , it was still great .	When I read that " The 79th Annual Academy Awards " started at 5 pm , I assumed that the lead-in started then . When I turned the channel on at about 5 : 50 , I saw that they were well into the ceremony . Criminy ! But no worries , I saw most of it , and I really liked it . I especially laud them for FINALLY giving Martin Scorsese what he's deserved for so long , for giving Alan Arkin what he's deserved for so long , and for giving Ennio Morricone what he's deserved for so long . Kudos above all to Al Gore for calling on the world to deal with global warming and reminding us that it's not a political issue , but a moral one ( and I'm glad to see that Leonardo DiCaprio is part of the movement to curb global warming ) . What do I think of Ellen DeGeneres as a host ? Well , after Jon Stewart last year , I guess that anyone might seem a little weak , but I liked how she did ( particularly that trick with Scorsese ) . Even if she's not the best host ever , she's gotta be better than Bob Hope . I notice that Best Actress went to Helen Mirren - who's also deserved an Oscar for years - for playing a queen , and Best Actor went to Forest Whitaker for playing a king ( the last one of Scotland , that is ) . Jennifer Hudson's win is the perfect slap in the face to " American Idol " ( they kicked her off , believing that she had no talent ) . As is often the case , the best parts are the montages . I liked that the writing montage included scenes from " The Shining " , and the history montage included a scene from " Dr . Strangelove " . Good that they included Robert Altman in the " In Memoriam " , but I think that he should have gotten his own montage . I bet that this ceremony must have really irked the right-wingers . Aside from the fact that a lesbian hosted , a lesbian won for Best Original Song ( and for a documentary about global warming at that ) , honorary winner Sherry Lansing sits on a stem cell research board , and they gave some awards to " Babel " and " El laberinto del Fauno / Pan's Labyrinth " ( both by Mexican directors ) . I hope that tomorrow night , Stephen Colbert - in his right-wing commentator persona - rants against the Academy for all this . In fact , they ought to have him host the Oscars next year ; he would probably be better than Jon Stewart . So , it was a great ceremony . Each of the Best Picture nominees received at least one Oscar . If Scorsese really meant that " The Departed " was his first movie with a plot , then it paid off . A fine few hours . But what did Cameron Diaz do to her face ?
bridge over hilariously troubled water vs . a potential " Invasion of the Bunny Snatchers "	I think that I'd heard of Steve Brody before I'd seen Arthur Davis's " Bowery Bugs " , but I wish to call this cartoon the coolest way to know him . The plot has Brody suffering a bout of bad luck , so he decides to find himself a rabbit's foot . While we should immediately be able to guess which rabbit he tries to get it from , we still haven't seen what Bugs Bunny makes the poor sucker do ! It goes to show that Bugs was a New Yorker all the way . Truth be told , what Bugs does to the guy towards the end reminds me of " Invasion of the Body Snatchers " , how Kevin McCarthy's character starts finding that everyone has been taken over by the aliens and doesn't know whether or not he can trust anyone . But that's just me . While I have to admit that Arthur Davis is not the Warner animation director who first comes to my mind , he did helm some fairly interesting cartoons during his few years as a director : " Mexican Joyride " , " The Stupor Salesman " and " Porky Chops " are the ones that I know aside from this one . All in all , this is one that you're sure to like .
Believe it or not , some links to " Bewitched " .	More than anything , what I saw in " Sergeant York " is that competent people ran WWI , as opposed to what we see today . But as for the movie itself , no one can deny that Gary Cooper did quite an impressive job as simple Alvin C . York , suddenly thrust into a situation against his religious principles and ironically becoming one of the war's biggest heroes . Still , I have to say that the religious stuff comes across as sort of silly ; following a " sinful " streak , he found Jesus ( how many people make that sort of claim ? ) . Moreover , he claims that he knows certain things to be true because the Bible says so ( so everything started with Adam and Eve , and humans didn't evolve from apes ? ) . I guess that at this point in time , we were trying to get out of the Depression by imagining the whole country as a bunch of ultra-nice small town folk . But in response to " Give me that old-time religion " , I say " Give me that Einstein-level science , Hollywood-style depravity , and full-scale world knowledge " . As for the pro-war aspect , it fits into the USA's impending entry into WWII . I try to wonder what Alvin York would think about things were he alive today . Overall , I recommend the movie . At the very least , it remains an indelible part of cinema history . Also starring Joan Leslie and Walter Brennan . Oh , and the links to " Bewitched " ? Playing Pusher is George Tobias , better known as clueless old Abner Kravitz . Gary Cooper later starred in " The Court Martial of Billy Mitchell " ( also about a WWI hero ) , co-starring Elizabeth Montgomery . Finally , " Jeopardy ! " once had a category called " Sargent / York " , in reference to Dick York and Dick Sargent .
" The Kiss of the Spider Woman " : the flip side	While " The Kiss of the Spider Woman " cast Raul Julia as a political prisoner in an unidentified Latin American country , this time he works for a dictator in a fictional Latin American country . Specifically , the dictator suddenly drops dead , so Julia replaces el presidente with a Broadway actor ( Richard Dreyfuss ) shooting a movie in the country . From there , Dreyfuss has to figure out how to be a dictator , all the while balancing it with his own life . Is it appropriate to turn the tense situation in Latin America into comedy ? Well , " Moon Over Parador " does a good job with it . No matter what they do in this movie , they pull it off . It just goes to show why Richard Dreyfuss is one of the greatest actors of our era , and what we lost when Raul Julia died . Definitely worth seeing . Also starring Sonia Braga ( who co-starred with Raul Julia in " TKOTSW " ) , Jonathan Winters and Sammy Davis Jr . I agree : the first lady is hot .
a thriller in the real sense of the word	Dr . Malcolm Crowe ( Bruce Willis ) is a Philadelphia psychiatrist meeting with Cole Sear ( Haley Joel Osment ) , a boy who can - OK , I'll say it this one last time - see dead people . While too many horror flicks have relied on gore , this one relies on the subconscious , and other things that we don't realize . And of course , there's the ending . I literally did not see that coming , although there were a number of clues throughout the movie . All that I can say is , you are going to have your mind blown . M . Night Shyamalan truly created an impressive piece of cinema history here , and of his later movies , only " Unbreakable " came close to equalling this one's quality . On another note , I think that it was appropriate that " The Sixth Sense " came out in 1999 , when I was 15 . It was named by Entertainment Weekly as one of the many movies that year that revolutionized the movie industry ( along with " Election " , " The Blair Witch Project " , " American Beauty " and " Being John Malkovich " ) . Similarly , in 1967 , when my parents were 15 , movies such as " In the Heat of the Night " , " Bonnie and Clyde " and " The Graduate " - all revolutionizing the movie industry - were released . Some things just work out perfectly .
Anyone familiar with US foreign policy won't be a bit surprised .	Elizabeth Montgomery spent much of her life trying to break from the " Bewitched " reputation . I would say that " The Panama Deception " , which she narrated , marked her full success . The documentary exposes the real reasons for Bush Sr . ' s invasion of Panama : it was not to stop Gen . Manuel Noriega from drug trafficking , but rather to overthrow him when he was no longer an acceptable puppet leader - and the US army killed almost 4 , 000 civilians in the process . We assumed that this must be the truth all along . For further info on the circumstances of the invasion , read " What Uncle Sam Really Wants " by Noam Chomsky . He explains how , during the invasion , Bush announced an increased arms sale to Iraq and China . This was less than a year after the Tianenmen Square massacre , and less than two years after Saddam had used chemical weapons against the Kurdish city of Halabja . As Chomsky put it , Noriega looked like Mother Teresa compared to Bush's allies in Baghdad and Beijing . All in all , Bush Sr . deserved to get impeached for this . Or the Gulf War ( or both ) . Never doubt what these people are doing when they claim to be sending troops to countries for humanitarian reasons .
I'm PROUD to be a nerd	I first saw " Revenge of the Nerds " when I was ten ( that's right , ten ) . Some people at school had been making fun of me , calling me a nerd . After I saw " ROTF " , I was finally proud to call myself a nerd ( albeit not one who wears glasses , has buck teeth , and has his pant legs halfway up his calves ) . It's especially great that the nerds were such a diverse group of people ( Booger may have been gross , but he clearly had a brain ) . And there's also an interesting thing about the cast . Robert Carradine must be the only person who has co-starred with both Jane Fonda ( he played the brother in " Coming Home " ) and with the guy who played Booger . And I never realized that Stan was played by the same guy who played Roger on " Happy Days " . So , if you're any kind of individual who has spent his / her life getting bullied , this is the movie for you !
this is what courtroom movies are all about	Most movies make it clear throughout who's good and who's bad . " Anatomy of a Murder " , on the other hand , keeps you guessing . Jimmy Stewart plays Paul Biegler , a lawyer hired to defend Lt . Fred Manion ( Ben Gazzara ) , charged with murdering a man who allegedly raped his wife Laura ( Lee Remick ) . Fred wants to cop an insanity plea and say that he committed the murder out of sympathy for his wife . But some things remain unclear throughout the trial . How much does anyone really know about any of these people ? Is Fred really insane ? And what role do Laura's missing panties play in the whole thing ? The fact that they used the word " panties " is part of this movie's status as one of the many films that was pushing the barriers . The judge ( Joseph Welch , the real-life judge who took helped expose Joe McCarthy ) has to tell the courtroom that the evidence in question is " . . . Mrs . Manion's panties . " After everyone giggles , he reminds them that he wanted to get that point out of the way and that there will be no more giggling . Director Otto Preminger , who dealt with a real-life trial in 1955's " The Court-Martial of Billy Mitchell " , puts an interesting spin on this fictional trial . The black-and-white cinematography helps to give the feeling of both sides in the trial . You literally can't tell which side is the " right " side for most of the movie . " Anatomy of a Murder " is truly sublime .
passion all the way	John Sayles never disappoints as a director , and " Passion Fish " affirms that . After a car accident paralyzes soap opera star May-Alice Culhane ( Mary McDonnell ) , she returns to her childhood home in Louisiana , bitter about everything . After rejecting several caretakers , she befriends Chantelle ( Alfre Woodard , happy birthday ! ) . From there , we see how their lives and experiences help them form a bond . I know that it sounds like the average Hollywood crap , but remember , this is John Sayles so he knows how to do it right . The title refers to a legend told to May by local man Rennie ( David Strathairn ) . The legend is likely to blow your mind . With zydeco music to keep things going , this is definitely a movie that I recommend . Also starring Vondie Curtis-Hall and Angela Bassett .
great on every level	" Rabbit-Proof Fence " tells the story of how the Australian government used to steal Aboriginal children from their families and put them in reeducation camps to become servants for white people , and how three girls escaped and found their way home by following a fence erected to keep rabbits out of the farms . One thing about the movie is how it portrays A . O . Neville ( Kenneth Branagh ) , the man who orders the girls kidnapped . Certainly his actions are racist , but you don't grow to hate him . He doesn't act out of cruelty ; he believes that he's doing the right thing . Also , there's Moodoo ( David Gulpilil ) , an Aborigine working with the government to kidnap children . We recognize that it's awful that he's working with the oppressors , but somehow he also gives the feeling that he can't continue like this . The scene where they kidnap the girls is beyond heart-wrenching . And since we were doing the same things to the Indians in the US , we have to own up to it too . A perfect movie .
A great relic of the " thaw " .	After Stalin died , Khrushchev denounced him in started allowing more artistic freedom ( this era was known as the " thaw " ) . Probably the two best results film-wise were " Letyat zhuravli " ( " The Cranes are Flying " in English ) and " Ballada o soldate " ( " Ballad of a Soldier " in English ) . The latter portrays Pvt . Alyosha Skvortsov ( Vladimir Ivashov ) getting a leave of absence during WWII so that he can visit his mother . He travels across the countryside , meets various people , and falls in love with Shura ( Zhanna Prokhorenko ) , a young woman whom he meets on a train . One of the interesting things about this movie is that it starts by telling the audience that Alyosha got killed in WWII . Even though we know throughout the whole movie that he eventually gets killed ( which the movie doesn't show ) , we always root for him . The movie in fact begins in the same place where it started . The opening shows a road in Alyosha's home town , and the last scene shows him walking down the road after seeing his mother . We don't find out how he gets killed , we just know that he is a hero for his country . All in all , a great movie .
Hollywood endings and non-Hollywood endings	After many years of semi-obscurity , Robert Altman made a full-scale comeback with the blistering satire " The Player " , about Hollywood . Tim Robbins plays producer Griffin Mill , working in a studio . He gets pitched thousands of scripts every year , but has to choose twelve . Day in and day out , he hears ridiculous suggestions like " The Graduate 2 " - from , who else ? , Buck Henry - and so he usually tells people that he'll get back to them . But one day , he tells this to the wrong person , and he starts getting threatening postcards from this unidentified individual . Finally , it all boils over . Aside from simply the main plot , this movie gives you the sense of several things . One gets the feeling of how weird the Hollywood world is , and how unpleasant it must be to have to be part of that world . Even when a director suggests a realistic movie without top stars , everyone immediately wants a happy ending and top stars . There are cameos from more movie stars and singers than I could count , and they're usually egomaniacs at best , total creeps at worst ( I wonder if any of what the movie portrays mirrors what went into making the movie ) . But probably the most interesting aspect is how several times throughout the movie , they mention the movie's plot as an idea for a movie . Overall , this must be one of Robert Altman's coolest movies . It's got the feeling of his movies , what with everyone talking at once , and a no-holds-barred look at its topic . I definitely recommend it . Also starring Greta Scacchi , Fred Ward , Whoopi Goldberg , Vincent D'Onofrio , Peter Gallagher , Dina Merrill , and the numerous stars in cameos .
Samantha , do you see what has resulted from your marriage to that mortal ?	Vincent Price scores another cool one with " The Bat " , about a bunch of people staying in a mansion where a serial killer known by that name is taking people out one by one . There's plenty to throw you off , and I doubt that you'll see that ending coming ! One other thing about this movie is something not exactly related : the presence of Agnes Moorehead . Nowadays , most people probably remember her as Endora on " Bewitched " . Maybe in this flick , she got some witch sensibility . Also starring is Darla Hood ( yep , the Little Rascal ) . Yet another cast member is named Harvey Stephens . I recall that the boy who played Damien in " The Omen " had that name . Any relation ? Speaking of which , why should I mention " The Omen " ? Well , today is / 06 , or 666 . And considering that that movie is supposed to be sacrosanct , WHY did they have to remake it ? Oh well , life goes on . Just make sure to catch " The Bat " .
Thank you , Bruce Campbell , thank you very much !	When I give " Bubba Ho-Tep " stars , I of course assume that the only people who will even opt to read my review are the types who have decided that they like the movie even before they've watched it . Such people should already know the plot : Elvis Presley ( Bruce Campbell ) and John F . Kennedy ( Ossie Davis ) are both alive and living in a retirement home in Texas , and they have to fight a mummy . It'll be cool to cult fans . When I saw the movie , Bruce Campbell was supposed to appear at the theater , but had to cancel . Right before the movie started , they showed some footage of him thanking the audience for coming to watch the movie . Then , his phone rang . From there , it went like this : " Oh , Sam Raimi ? I'll get back to you in a minute , Sam . " ( He turns back to the camera . ) " So I'd like to thank all of you for supporting this movie . " ( He turns back to the phone . ) " Now then , Sam , what did you want to talk about ? . . . Evil Dead 4 ? ! . . . I'll do it ! "
Martin Scorsese shines a light on the Rolling Stones ' continuing greatness	After I saw " The Last Waltz " a few years ago , I figured that it would be hard for Martin Scorsese to top that . Well , he at least comes close with " Shine a Light " , about the Rolling Stones ' tour promoting " A Bigger Bang " . And let me tell you , this is a GREAT one . Don't let the first few minutes fool you : we get to see Marty meeting Mick , Keith , Charlie and Ronnie , and figuring out how he wants to film the documentary . But then comes the show . Funded by the Clinton Foundation ( Bill and Hillary even attended ) and performed in Beacon Theater , this is an experience unlike any other . Granted , it isn't the same on TV as it is being in the theater and hearing the Stones directly , but it's really close ( so far the closest that I've ever gotten ) . As for the Stones themselves , Mick Jagger still looks great , Keith Richards looks totally bizarre ( of which he's no doubt quite proud ) , while Charlie Watts and Ronnie Wood look as they usually do . Also performing are Christina Aguilera , Buddy Guy and Jack White . But the overall point is that this is a great documentary . Interspersing footage of the current show with footage from the band's early days , Scorsese accomplished another masterpiece here . Not to be missed .
Walter Salles is a great director .	In the past year , Brazilian director Walter Salles has gained much recognition in the United States for " The Motorcycle Diaries " and " Dark Water " . " Central do Brasil " ( called " Central Station " in English ) shows his work before these movies . It focuses on former schoolteacher Dora ( Fernanda Montenegro ) , who now writes letters for the illiterate . She befriends young orphan Josue ( Vinicius de Oliveira ) . It is sort of a second chance for them both . Salles does a really good job showing human emotions without ever trying to manipulate the audience's emotions . I would say that from these three movies , he is on the way to becoming Brazil's Alfred Hitchcock .
walking into cinematic history	What's really good about " Dead Man Walking " is that it shows Matthew Poncelet's ( Sean Penn ) side of the story , but it never portrays him as a hero . We understand that , and Sister Helen Prejean ( Susan Sarandon ) understands that . Sarandon definitely deserved her Best Actress Oscar for this movie ( I can't believe that it took her so long to win one ) . Never preachy , the movie shows all sides of the story in looking at Poncelet's approaching execution . Among other things , this movie should dispel the notion that they don't make movies like they used to - although this one is over ten years old . A true classic in every sense of the word .
What's cookin ' , varmint ?	Bugs Bunny is cooking some carrots , which Yosemite Sam smells ( where there's carrots , there's rabbits ) . But when Sam attempts to blast the flea-bitten varmint , things always go haywire ! Even when Sam gets Bugs back into his house , it's still not as easy as it looks to deal with him . Is this Sam's eternal doom ? ! It's just always great to see how nothing was sacred to these guys . Everything was always fair game . True , it's not much different from most Bugs-Sam pairings , but they're always so hilarious . And this one even had an interesting twist at the end . " Rabbit Every Monday " is a real treat . In conclusion : Happy new year !
never try to undermine someone's integrity	In the first of three Bugs Bunny / Daffy Duck / Elmer Fudd combinations , Bugs and Daffy perpetually try to get Elmer to shoot the other . Sure enough , through various tricks , Bugs gets Elmer to shoot Daffy ( well , his bill at least ) . And this one had a most unusual ending . What was always great about these combinations was the idea that they portrayed : the loud , mindless Daffy always tries to undermine the integrity of the calm , perceptive Bugs , but always gets his just desserts . It's sort of like how Wile E . Coyote always tries to harm Road Runner , but always gets harmed himself . Anyway , " Rabbit Fire " is a real classic .
in dreams or out of them	The rating of course applies only to those who've decided that they like the movie before they watch it ( others will find it totally tasteless ) . This one has Freddy Krueger ( Robert Englund ) using some girl's dreams to attack people while they're still awake . Yeah , how far out can they get ? If you've seen # 5 , then you know that they took it one step further . I guess that no matter what happens , Freddy's just never gonna go away ; in 2003 , he even got to duke it out with Jason . But anyway , " A Nightmare on Elm Street 4 : The Dream Master " is really nothing that you haven't seen before - or at least nothing that you wouldn't expect . I , for one , would like to see a movie in which all the bad guys and all the good guys from all movies have a big battle royale .
no matter what you call it . . .	No matter what you call it - " Rocky and His Friends " , " The Bullwinkle Show " , " Rocky and Bullwinkle " , or something else - you can't deny how great this show is . A total parody of the Cold War , they hit everything right on the mark . Equally as great as the parts where Rocket J . Squirrel and Bullwinkle J . Moose battle the evil-and-proud-of-it Soviet spies Boris Badenov and Natasha Fatale , are the Fractured Fairy Tales ( narrated by Edward Everett Horton ) , Mr . Peabody's Improbable History , and Dudley Do-Right . Whether Prince Charming turns Sleeping Beauty into a circus attraction , Galileo needs help with a scientific experiment , or whichever dastardly scheme Snidely Whiplash is plotting , it's one of the greatest shows of all time . The " Simpsons " of its era , if I may say so . So , June Foray has every reason to be proud of her work on this . I'll always love it . I never saw the 2000 movie , but every review said that it sucked .
" it wouldn't be make believe " . . . and it isn't	Peter Bogdanovich - who turns 68 today - created a troika of nostalgia pieces in the early ' 70s with " The Last Picture Show " , " What's Up , Doc ? " and " Paper Moon " . The last one puts an interesting spin on things . I remember when I saw it , I had just seen " The Sting " and noticed that the two both dealt with conning . But boy do they have something in store for you here . The movie opens with Bible salesman Moses Pray ( Ryan O'Neal ) adopting Addie Loggins ( Tatum O'Neal ) in a Midwestern town during the Great Depression . It doesn't take her long to figure out that the guy's a con artist . However , she turns out to be cleverer than he . I remember hearing about how the novel ( which I've never read ) was simply called " Addie Pray " , and didn't feature the scene in which Moses and Addie sit on the title object at the fair . It's debatable as to whether or not it changed the quality to add that object and change the title . But either way , you can't deny that this movie remains a timeless masterpiece . Personally , I think that Peter Bogdanovich deserves a lot more credit as a director than most people give him ; he has made some really good movies , even if some came out a little lower than we expect . This one is just great . Also starring Madeleine Kahn and Randy Quaid .
music to anyone's ears	Like " The Commitments " and " O Brother , Where Art Thou ? " , " Songcatcher " focuses on music in a way that you shouldn't miss . It tells the story of musicologist Lily Penleric ( Janet McTeer ) who travels to an isolated village in the Appalachians and gets to hear the music of the Scottish-Irish people there in the early 20th century . Can this really be the whole plot of a movie ? When the movie has such great music , it definitely can . Because what Lily hears does many things : aside from just being great music , it shows how the people in this village may not be educated or anything like that - and could even be inbred - but they still have their culture . I definitely recommend this movie . Also starring Aidan Quinn ( happy birthday , Aidan ! ) and Emmy Rossum a few years before she played Sean Penn's daughter in " Mystic River " .
Not only does he share a name with Jeannie's master , but Helen Keller appears !	Ah , the ' 50s . When we could always find a cool sci-fi flick in the local cinema . Whether it was " Them ! " , " Godzilla " or " Forbidden Planet " , there was no shortage of neat movies ( never mind that they usually starred really hot women ) . And we had the Cold War to thank . One of the lesser known flicks is " 4D Man " , in which some scientists ( Robert Lansing and James Congdon ) break down people's molecular structures and make it possible for them to walk through walls . Totally outlandish , you say ? Well , what do you expect from these sorts of movies ? ! I , for one , don't like it one bit when stuffy jerks say that all movies should be the " important " kind . This flick is pure entertainment , and doesn't pretend to be anything else ; if anything , it's proud of being pure entertainment ( and justifiably so ) . And then , there's the end . Maybe it's showing that we can't always be sure of how certain things will turn out in life . Or maybe they came up with the end for no discernible reason . I don't actually know . But anyway , this is a really cool movie . It makes one long for that era . Also starring Robert Strauss and a very young Patty Duke ( happy 60th , Patty ! ) .
What an empty life we live !	Watching " Repo Man " , one gets a sense of just how empty our modern world is . The movie has disaffected punk Otto Maddox ( Emilio Estevez ) becoming a repo man , meaning that he repossesses cars of people who missed payments . Through this , he gets to know the wacky punk world even further . But there's one car that may be harder to repossess : not only do various other people want this car , but there's something in the car . . . " Repo Man " may be known as a cult movie , but it deserves more recognition than that . Aside from being a window into the early-'80s punk culture , it shows the disintegration of American society . Alex Cox created a real gem here . Estevez is perfect in his role , as are Harry Dean Stanton as a detective , and Tracey Walter as the strange car's driver .
down here . . . ( but up with the cartoon )	Maybe there's nothing particularly new in " My Favorite Duck " , but how can you not like to see Daffy irk Porky ? True , we see this so many times , that this may come across as boring , but Daffy's antics - ranging from zany to sadistic - and Porky's reactions more than make up for it . In my opinion at least , the highlight is the " down here " scene . But the surprise ending is also pretty cool . They sure must have had fun filming this cartoon . " That , my friend , is a matter of opinion . " Well , I don't see how someone could not consider this cartoon a masterpiece . Another great one for the crowd behind the Looney Tunes cartoons .
Jon Stewart is the best host ever !	It's not often that I give the Academy Awards ; after all , what is it except self-congratulation ? But Jon Stewart was the perfect host . He was exactly right in his question to Steven Spielberg when referring to " Schindler's List " and " Munich " : what will happen to us Jews next ? The only problem this year was the final award : " Brokeback Mountain " was something new , while " Crash " was a little too safe . But other than that , I liked " The 78th Annual Academy Awards " . Back in the days when only big , overblown , pompous musicals could receive nominations for Best Original Song , who would have guessed that there would be a winner called " It's Hard Out Here for a Pimp " ? But , as Jon Stewart noted , it just got a lot easier for a pimp ! Anyway , I agreed with most of the winners , even if there were some predictable ones ( but don't get me wrong : Philip Seymour Hoffman and Reese Witherspoon both did very well in their performances ) . And I laud George Clooney for encouraging Hollywood to make more movies about what's going on in the world , such as " Syriana " . Knowing what a great host Jon Stewart was , I would like to see Stephen Colbert host the Oscars one year ; in his persona , he could rant against Hollywood for hating America ( let's face it : how many movies has Hollywood made saying anything good about the US of A ? ) . All in all , a great ceremony , especially with Meryl Streep and Lily Tomlin overlapping their dialogue to award Robert Altman ( RIP ) his Honorary Oscar .
sequel . . . good . . . pompous remakes . . . bad	" Bride of Frankenstein " is one of those rarities : a sequel that actually ends up being worth something . It portrays that Dr . Frankenstein ( Colin Clive ) and The Monster ( Boris Karloff ) are still alive and still doing their stuff . The Monster continues unintentionally scaring people , while the doctor wants to marry hubby Elizabeth ( Valerie Hobson ) , but quirky Dr . Pretorius ( Ernest Thesiger ) gets him to create a mate for The Monster . In a career-defining role , Elsa Lanchester plays the title character ( assuming that we refer to The Monster as Frankenstein ) . Admittedly , Universal's horror flicks from the ' 30s weren't really horror flicks ; they were kinda silly . But , this one did actually go so far as to humanize The Monster : they let him speak while he was with the blind man . Oh , and in case any of us were wondering whence the James Whale biopic " Gods and Monsters " got its name , we learn .
This shows that movies can be stupid and funny at the same time .	Okay , so " Police Academy " is probably the ultimate manifestation of the word " witless " . But it doesn't pretend to be anything other than what it is : nice , silly fun . The plot basically has a series of goof-off misfits enrolling in the police force and turning it topsy-turvy . Steve Guttenberg , as Cadet Carey Mahoney , may have to remember this as his peak in movies , and he does a pretty good job here . Anyway , the movie is pretty much an excuse to be silly . And they do just that . With hilarious one-liners and one gag after another , you won't be disappointed . Of course , I advise you not to watch it if you're the type who only wants to see " important " movies .
One of the few sequels that equals the original's quality .	With the fellowship in splinters , Frodo Baggins ( Elijah Wood ) and Samwise Gamgee ( Sean Astin ) continue on their quest to destroy the corrupting ring . Meanwhile , Aragorn ( Viggo Mortenson ) has his own duties to attend to , as does Gandalf ( Ian McKellen ) . Peter Jackson's midpoint of the trilogy is as great as its predecessor and successor . Every shot is beyond impressive ; there isn't any adjective that I can use that would do the movie justice . And Gollum ? Now there's an intriguing character , precious . An awe-inspiring , if pitiful , being , he makes you really want to see part 3 , just to see what will happen . " The Lord of the Rings : The Two Towers " is truly one movie that will continue to inspire people for years . A masterpiece .
Let's stop beating around the bush and just admit that the USA and USSR were the same .	Even with all the recognition that " Das Leben der Anderen " ( called " The Lives of Others " in English ) has received , I would say that it deserves even more . The movie depicts the spy network in East Germany and how it targets a group of people including a state-approved playwright . One issue that the movie brings up is whether or not the events portrayed could happen in any other country . . . including our own . If so , then it wouldn't be a surprise , as the United States and Soviet Union were basically the same sorts of societies . What the USA did in Latin America , the USSR did in Eastern Europe . They claimed to be enemies , but it was all for show ; they just wanted to build empires and spy on dissidents within their own borders . But anyway , this is a very well done movie , and I recommend it to everyone .
3rd time's the charm ( don't get me wrong ; the first two were equally good ) .	It all comes down to this . The humans and hobbits now have their final battles to fight with the forces of evil . I can't actually say anything about " The Lord of the Rings : The Return of the King " that does it justice , except to say that it is a great movie in the true sense of the word . Everything that we've awaited in life is summed up in this piece of cinematic history . Every one of the cast members does a masterful job . Therefore , it makes sense that this movie was nominated for 11 Oscars including Best Picture , and won EVERY SINGLE ONE OF THEM . " LOTR : TROTK " is THE movie that you have to see to believe . It is everything that we like about movies .
Franz Kafka , meet French cinema	" La cite des enfants perdus " ( called " The City of Lost Children " in English ) is a movie that I will probably have to describe in several ways . The movie is set in an ultra-surreal French city and the plot involves elderly scientist Krank ( Daniel Emilfork ) kidnapping children to steal their dreams so that he won't age . That is , until orphan Miette ( Judith Vettit ) joins up with strongman One ( Ron Perlman ) to try and stop him . Obviously , if this was a Hollywood movie , we can guess how idiotic the whole thing would be . But this is a French movie , so it is very creative . For starters , there's the look that they give the city : it's surreal beyond what Franz Kafka could have ever imagined , and thus very dark . What we have here is the sort of situation where you literally are always wondering whether what you're seeing is real , much like what director Jean-Pierre Jeunet accomplished in " Delicatessen " . A previous viewer noted that Miette is as mature as an adult , while One is a muscle man but with a childlike innocence . All in all , I can't really do this movie justice by trying to describe it . " TCOLC " is not the sort of movie that you can just watch ; you have to feel like you're experiencing it . Also starring is Dominique Pinon , whom Jeunet always casts . Specifically , Pinon plays several roles at once . Very impressively , I might add .
Fight the power !	1967 may go down in history as the year that really changed movies , what with " Bonnie and Clyde " , " The Graduate " and " In the Heat of the Night " . With the younger generation growing displeased with authority , it made sense that " Bonnie and Clyde " should identify with the title characters running from the law . Bonnie Parker ( Faye Dunaway ) and Clyde Barrow ( Warren Beatty ) may have been violent , but they were a challenge to the power structure . A scene that may or may not have been inserted for comic relief is the scene where tag-along C . W . Moss ( Michael J . Pollard ) meets Clyde's Bible-thumping sister-in-law Blanche ( Estelle Parsons ) while in his underwear . And of course , the final scene is beyond mind-blowing . Just imagine how it must have seemed when the movie first debuted . The point is , this movie shows why the word " masterpiece " exists . Just an extra thing . My mom always tells me about how , after she saw this movie when it first debuted , she plucked out her eyebrows so as to look like Faye Dunaway . As it is , looking at Faye Dunaway in this movie , who wouldn't want to look like her ?
Don't shave this one off of the list of movies to see .	This time , Wallace and Gromit take in a lost sheep named Sean , and get drawn into a sheep-rustling conspiracy . As always , there's a plethora of wacky inventions ( namely the motorcycle sidecar ) . I think that my favorite scene was when Gromit was reading " Crime and Punishment " ( check out the author's name ) . Nick Park certainly always knows how to come up with something clever in these cartoons , and you'd better believe that he does just that in " Wallace & Gromit in A Close Shave " . Park showed the talent that he previously brought to " Creature Comforts " and would later bring to " Chicken Run " . You just might think twice about using wool after seeing this movie . Really cool .
I never would have guessed .	Narrated by Lily Tomlin ( herself a lesbian ) , " The Celluloid Closet " looks at how gays and lesbians have been portrayed in movies over the years . Featuring a careful balance of interviews with actors and actresses , and footage from various movies , the documentary does a very good job giving the viewer an impression of how cinema wanted people to view homosexuality . Obvious representations include the " sissy gay man " and the " bitchy lesbian " , but other portrayals have made them look unstable . Particularly interesting is how , during the years of the Hays Code ( part of which forbade portrayals of " sexual perversions " in movies ) , directors often sneaked in references to homosexuality in movies , such as " Ben-Hur " . I guess that if " The Celluloid Closet " has any problem , it's that it's now eleven years old , so there have been so many other portrayals than what the documentary shows . Examples include " The Birdcage " , " In & Out " and " Brokeback Mountain " . But other than that , it's a great documentary . Definitely something that everyone should see . Tom Hanks , Susan Sarandon , Harvey Fierstein and Tony Curtis work just as well in documentaries as they do in regular movies . Speaking of Tony Curtis , when he first appeared , I thought that he was Rodney Dangerfield !
Dick Miller in a lead role : perfect !	If you've seen Roger Corman's and Joe Dante's movies , then you probably recognize Dick Miller . That husky scowling guy with a heavy New York accent appeared in many of Corman's movies and has appeared in all of Dante's movies . In " A Bucket of Blood " , he gets what may have been his only lead role . He plays Walter Paisley , an envious-of-the-beatniks waiter who kills people , covers their bodies in clay , and presents it as art . Yep , that sounds like a Roger Corman movie , and he made a neat one here . It's hard to tell whether they were idealizing beatniks or mocking them , but the movie's enjoyable nonetheless . And there's one scene which I bet that all the teenage boys really liked when the movie first came out ( you'll know it when you see it ) . A really cool flick . FYI : Dick Miller often plays characters named Walter Paisley .
what we have become	While Chuck Jones remains best known for his Warner Bros . animated shorts , he also directed a couple of interesting pieces after he left WB . Probably best known are " The Dot and the Line " and " How the Grinch Stole Christmas " , but another one is " The Bear That Wasn't " , an eerily prophetic look at the industrial age . Based on a short story by Frank Tashlin ( also a former WB director ) , it portrays a bear hibernating , only to wake up and discover that there's a now a factory surrounding his cave . While the cartoon maintains a lighthearted tone , it does get fairly serious - if inadvertently - when the bear tries to explain his predicament . Representatives of each successive echelon tell him that he's just a man who needs a shave and wears a fur coat . At the very least , we see the invasion of the natural world by industry ; one might interpret this cartoon as a precursor to " The Lorax " . But inside the factory itself , not only do they force the bear to perform labor similar to what Charlie Chaplin did in " Modern Times " , but there's the hierarchy displayed when we see the president in his throne-like chair . Not to mention the fact that they do everything possible to berate the bear out of knowing that he's a bear . But even beyond all this , the cartoon brings to mind the fact that these factories have since shut down and moved production to the Third World . Michael Moore's " Roger and Me " is a prime example of what resulted from such a situation . In other words , first the factories destroy their natural settings , then they abandon the areas and let them rot . This is what we have become as a society . All in all , I certainly recommend this cartoon .
Sergio Leone's grand ambition .	After so many years of westerns , Sergio Leone made " Once Upon a Time in America " , about several friends forced to abandon their loyalty as they age . This is one of those movies that's too hard to simply describe ; you really have to see it to understand it . And you may be disappointed if you expect something exactly like " The Godfather " ; they are gangsters , but they're Jewish , so that changes things a little . If absolutely nothing else , this disproves the notion that we have nowadays that historical epics are always pieces of drudgery ( blame " Alexander " for that stereotype ) . " OUATIA " is the sort of movie that could only star people like Robert DeNiro . It also stars James Woods , Joe Pesci , Elizabeth McGovern , Treat Williams , and Jennifer Connelly ( in her debut ) , and they all do a great job . This movie is a masterpiece in every way . But don't take my word for it ; see for yourself .
She may have little faith , but there's lots of faith to be had in the movie .	One of the major aspects of " Malenkaya Vera " ( called " Little Vera " in English ) is that it was the first movie from the Soviet Union that featured a sex scene , albeit a short one . The title is important : Vera is the Russian word for " faith " , identifying that punk Vera ( Natalya Negoda ) has little faith in the Soviet system . And as the movie shows , there's not much faith to be had in it . The opening scene shows the bleak industrial town of Zhdanov , nearly a hell on earth . When Vera's lover Sergei ( Andrey Sokolov ) moves in with her family , it leads to some unexpected events . Like in many Russian movies , people's names describe their characters . For example , there's Viktor ( remember that " victor " means winner ) . All in all , this is a good look at the Soviet Union while it was collapsing - and we can see why it was collapsing . Really good .
More creative than the average horror flick .	OK , Ronee Blakely's acting is more like something out of an Ed Wood movie , but " A Nightmare on Elm Street " is truly a horror classic . Specifically , it's more creative than most of them , due to the fact that Freddy Krueger ( Robert Englund ) has to go inside peoples ' dreams to kill them . His blade-fingers are like a character in and of themselves . This is one movie that no horror-fetishist can afford to miss . One day , I think that we're all going to look back on these horror classics like we nowadays look back on the sci-fi / horror flicks of the ' 50s and early ' 60s . Just try and go to sleep after watching this movie .
words of Wisdom	Following up on the zaniness of " Up in the World " , Norman Wisdom returned as witless Norman Pitkin in " The Square Peg " . In this case , he joins the army in WWII and gets dropped into Nazi-occupied France , where he's a dead ringer for a Nazi general . I will say that I didn't find this one quite as funny as the previous movie , but the scenes where he's in the general's headquarters are just a hoot - you could turn the sound off and it would still be great . This is one movie that you're sure to love . Also starring is Honor Blackman ( that's right : Pussy Galore ! ) and Edward Chapman . And to think that I'd never even heard of Norman Wisdom until yesterday when I watched " Up in the World " !
Always " bee " yourself !	That's if you like campy ' 70s schlock , for everyone else . In this case , woman in a small California town are turning into queen bees and screwing their husbands to death ! You read that right . Needless to say , there's everything that we expect in a campy ' 70s flick : big-breasted babes , men wearing ugly ties , and old-style computers . I gotta admit , I wouldn't mind mating with some of those bee girls ! There are some hot ones there ! Of course , in keeping with decency , I would have to avoid the old woman walking around in her bra and panties . I know , it makes me a chauvinist pig for liking a movie full of buxom women . Well , at least these women look like real people . All in all , a real treat for B-movie fetishists .
Send in the " Klowns " !	Everyone loves a so-bad-it's-good movie , and " Killer Klowns from Outer Space " is the ultimate example : it's so campy , that it's comparable to " Citizen Kane " and " The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie " ! The title pretty much explains the whole plot . John Vernon , as the police chief , was the only cast member whom I recognized , but this movie isn't about the cast . . . it's about the Klowns . Those evil , curly-haired wackos are turning an all-American town into a Hell on Earth , and only Mike Tobacco ( Grant Cramer ) and Debbie Stone ( Suzanne Snyder ) can stop them . Of course , one thing that no horror movie can lack is a " Psycho " - esque shower scene ; in this case , Debbie gets attacked by a Klown while taking a shower . Too bad that they didn't show a little more of her in that scene . Either way , you're sure to love this movie ! And you might be a little suspicious the next time that you go to the circus . . .
Sex really does sell !	One of the most innovative comedies that I've seen in years , " The 40 Year Old Virgin " rips up everything . Portraying quadragenarian Andy Stitzer ( Steve Carell ) trying to have sex for the first time , it really gives you an " oh no . . . oh yes " feeling watching the movie . I had some favorite scenes , but I probably can't repeat them here . One thing that was really interesting about the movie is that I think that Andy is supposed to have Asperger's Syndrome ( which would impair his ability to start up relationships with women ) . But believe you me , they did a really funny job showing that ! Anyway , it's a great movie . There isn't a dull moment anywhere in it . Also starring Catherine Keener , who shows herself to definitely be one of the best actresses of our time ( especially considering that last year , she also starred in " Capote " ) . You gotta admit , the recent slew of comedies ( this one plus any movie starring Jim Carrey , Jack Black , Ben Stiller , Owen Wilson , Vince Vaughn and / or Will Ferrell ) is really something else !
absolutely awesome	In recent years , the American assumption about Hong Kong cinema seems to be that their movies consist of chop-socky wackiness . In that respect , " Kung Fu Hustle " does not disappoint . It tells the story of the Axe Gang , who rule 1940s Hong Kong mafia-style . One of their members is Sing ( director Stephen Chow ) , who joined them because , as he puts it , when he was young , he wanted to be a good guy , but found out that it was easier to be a bad guy . Anyway , the Axe Gang descends on a slum known as Pig Sty Alley , which hides some treasures . But of course , the people who live there aren't going to let the Axe Gang run roughshod over them . From that point on , the movie becomes a cross between Bruce Lee and Chris Farley , especially with the harp-playing scene . Stephen Chow is clearly showing himself to be quite a director , with this movie and with " Shaolin Soccer " . Admittedly , " Kung Fu Hustle " is not any kind of masterpiece ; as far as I can tell , it exists for the sole purpose of entertainment . But let's face it , that's the case with most martial arts movies ( you might recall that " Enter the Dragon " really had no reason for existence except to show off Bruce Lee's impressive skills ) . There is one scene in this movie where Pig Sty Alley's landlady ( Qiu Yuen ) chases one of the gangsters in what appears to be a spoof of / homage to the Road Runner-Wile E . Coyote cartoons . 100 % cool .
that era may be gone , but the music never will be	The Band plays its final concert in Martin Scorsese's documentary " The Last Waltz " , recorded in San Francisco . Aside from getting to hear the Band and numerous other great performers ( Bob Dylan , Joni Mitchell , Ringo Starr and Neil Young , to name a few ) , the documentary is also a look back at an era gone by . Among other things , the layered hairdos that they have look a lot better than the spiked hair that we see nowadays . It just goes to show that even if that specific era has passed , the music will never die . This documentary is nostalgia in its best form . May the Band's work be remembered forever ! I recommend " The Last Waltz " to everyone .
Cool or uncool to go into the armed forces ?	Jack Nicholson and Otis Young play Navy cadets Billy " Badass " Buddusky and " Mule " Mulhall , respectively , who are hired to take cadet Larry Meadows ( Randy Quaid ) to jail after he stole some money . So , they decide that if he's going to have to spend time behind bars , then he should have a good time before it , so they show him the time of his life . That's this movie's plot , but it has greater implications . When the movie came out , it was very uncool to go into the army . " The Last Detail " portrays two men whose only access to a better life was by going into the Navy . Obviously , we have to wonder whether or not that would apply today , but it remains an important aspect in this movie . See it at all costs .
a good intro to John Waters	Knowing that John Waters likes to make outrageous movies , " Hairspray " is an easy introduction to his movies . It portrays chubby teenager Tracy Turnblad ( Ricki Lake ) trying to help bring about integration in 1962 Baltimore , all in the context of hairstyles . Watching the movie , one gets the feeling that Waters long had a thing for beehive hairdos - I mean , look at Velma Von Tussle's ( Deborah Harry ) . But overall , it's the sort of movie that you really wish that you could experience , especially when Penny's mother gets freaked out in the ghetto . Anyway , you gotta love John Waters ( who appears briefly as the psychiatrist ) for making these kinds of flicks . Also starring Divine , Sonny Bono , Jerry Stiller and Mink Stole .
more proof of Crowe's talent	We most likely would find it hard to stomach a movie that humanizes skinheads , but " Romper Stomper " does just that . The plot centers on a group of Australian skinheads terrorizing the Vietnamese immigrants , but ironically , we sort of end up sympathizing with the skinheads . Russell Crowe plays the lead skinhead , Hando . A far cry from his clean-cut good guys in " Rough Magic " , " LA Confidential " , " Gladiator " , " A Beautiful Mind " and " Master and Commander : The Far Side of the World " , he almost makes you forget that this skinhead is an actor . Like so many other actors and actresses , Crowe seems able to play literally any role perfectly , even making us root for a seemingly undesirable person .
laughter IS the best medicine , especially for war	Gen . Sherman said that war is hell , but if he had seen " What Did You Do in the War , Daddy ? " , he would have eaten his words . The movie focuses on an American platoon that captures an Italian village in WWII . The Italians are willing to surrender as long as they can have their festival . This creates a problem for the Americans , who have to look like they're fighting . Meanwhile , one of the commanding officers gets lost in the catacombs and goes crazy . Dick Shawn displays the same type of wacky humor that he employed in " It's a Mad , Mad , Mad , Mad World " , and we even get to see Carroll O'Connor , pre - " All in the Family " . Perfect .
What's up , tiger lily ? Whoa-o-o-o-o-oh	Ever seen a Japanese man with a Jewish name ? Now you will ! Making his directorial debut , Woody Allen takes a Japanese spy movie and re-dubs it into being a search for the world's best egg salad recipe . You read that right . This is , after all , from the man who brought us " Everything You Always Wanted to Know About Sex . . . " . The dialogue mostly sounds like the sort of comments that we would expect to hear on " MST3K " , with a few exceptions . As for the Lovin ' Spoonful , you'll just have to see what you think of their appearance in the movie . But overall , " What's Up , Tiger Lily ? " is really funny . An interesting follow-up to " What's New , Pussycat ? " .
Quoi est up , Doc ?	Bugs Bunny gets caught between two snooty Parisian chefs trying to turn him into their main course . Once again , the team behind the Looney Tunes cartoons created a clever , irreverent litany of wackiness . If " French Rarebit " has any problem , it's that the cartoon stereotypes France . But hey , this is a joke here ! The point is to luxuriate in Bugs's antics . And believe me , you're sure to have a good time . As we should all know by now , nothing is sacred to Bugs , as he trashes the rules day in and day out . It's a hoot from start to finish . In conclusion : Vive la France ! Because we might just all be the pickle . Moan-sirs and madame-oizels . Ha !
My mother and her friend interviewed Dith Pran .	When I was seven , my mother and her friend were working on a radio project about the Cambodian genocide , and they went to New York to interview Dith Pran . Through all of this , I learned about Cambodia . It wasn't until I was fifteen that I saw " The Killing Fields " , and I was horrified at the Khmer Rouge's brutality . You can't even begin to imagine the awful things that they did until you see the movie . I also read Haing Ngor's autobiography " A Cambodian Odyssey " . What he experienced was basically the same as what " The Killing Fields " portrays . But the really surprising part is that of all the groups who were in power in Cambodia during Haing Ngor's life there , the Khmer Rouge were the most honest . The French were the colonizers , Prince Sihanouk was a royalist who suppressed the insurgent movements , Lon Nol was a military ruler installed by the CIA , and then the Khmer Rouge . When US planes started bombing the countryside after Lon Nol came to power in 1970 , the Khmer Rouge explained to the Cambodian people what was going on . So , the people began supporting the Khmer Rouge . So whether or not anyone wants to admit it , the Khmer Rouge were driven to their actions ( although that's still no justification for their atrocities ) . The whole issue is so complex , that it takes a while to think about . But either way , you have to see this movie .
In many ways , Los Angeles is changing for the better .	For years , many people viewed LA as the most worthless place on Earth : a cultural wasteland full of rich white people doing white people things , with nothing to show for itself except self-righteous movie stars . I guess that such a description was probably fairly accurate . Well , " Quinceanera " shows that such a description may be fleeting . The movie focuses on fourteen-year-old Mexican-American girl Magdalena ( Emily Rios ) about to have her fifteenth birthday when she discovers that she's pregnant ( despite never actually having engaged in intercourse ) . While this throws her giant extended family into flux , it forces her parents and relatives to reassess things . Along with this , Magdalena's hoodlum cousin Carlos ( Jesse Garcia ) turns out to be gay , and the extended family's patriarch gets evicted . Things just may never be the same in this family . What I mean about LA changing entails several things . In one scene , Magdalena's friends propose taking the bus ; rich white girls would never do that ( as working-class Hispanics , these girls have no other choice ) . In fact , Hispanics are the largest ethnic group in the City of Angels , comprising 48 % of its population ( Asians are second ; LA has the highest Japanese population in the US ) . So it should come as no surprise that two years ago , LA elected its first Latino mayor - I mean Antonio Villaraigosa - in 133 years . As for the overall negative reputation that Los Angeles often has , I get the feeling that that reputation springs from the suburbs ; if you visit LA proper and then its suburbs ( populated mostly by rich white people ) , LA looks like total paradise . All in all , a very good movie .
what a wonderful world it is with John Belushi being a P-I-G	Everybody knows the story of Faber College's wild Delta fraternity making their own rules while the law-and-order-obsessed dean tries to expel them in 1962 . But you still have to see it ! Whether it's John Belushi's whole skit in the cafeteria , the toga party , or the grand finale , " Animal House " is a laugh riot from beginning to end . How anyone was able to come up with something so damn hilarious shows what geniuses some people are . As for some of the characters , we'll first focus on the Deltas . Belushi's John " Bluto " Blutarsky is in a class all by himself , Eric " Otter " Stratton ( Tim Matheson ) is a new kind of pervert , Donald " Boone " Schoenstein ( Peter Riegert ) toes too many lines for his own good , Larry " Pinto " Kroger ( Tom Hulce ) tries but fails to play it straight , and Kent " Flounder " Dorfman ( Stephen Furst ) is a dork . Then , there's the vicious Omega house . Gregg Marmalard ( James Daughton ) is the creepiest of the creepy , Sgt . Douglas Niedermeyer ( Mark Metcalf ) represents the army's nastiest aspects , and Chip Diller ( Kevin Bacon in his debut ) shows that new doesn't necessarily mean good . Next , the older characters . Dean Vernon Wormer ( John Vernon ) is almost a Nazi , Prof . Dave Jennings ( Donald Sutherland ) is a proto-hippie , Marion Wormer ( Verna Bloom ) seems unfulfilled in life , and Mayor Carmine DePasto ( Cesare Danova ) likes to extort . And then there's the women . Katy ( Karen Allen ) is dating Boone but is often displeased with him . But especially noticeable are Mandy Pepperidge ( Mary Louise Weller ) and Babs Jansen ( Martha Smith ) . Maybe it's Babs ' sweet-talking accent , or maybe it's the camera angle on Mandy when Otter is talking to her in the cafeteria , or maybe it's the scene where Bluto is looking up their dresses , or maybe it's the scene where Bluto watches Mandy undress . But whatever it is , those two babes each deserve their own chapters in the Encyclopedia of Hot Women , if there ever is one ! Anyway , " Animal House " is beyond hilarious . Not even the grouchiest , most miserly person could resist laughing . Every time that I hear " Wonderful World " , I think of John Belushi piling the food onto his tray . On that subject , the soundtrack rivals " American Graffiti " in terms of how neat it is . SEE THIS MOVIE AT ALL COSTS !
Da-a-a-a-angerous and hila-a-a-a-arious !	As has been the case with all of Mel Brooks's recent movies , " Dracula : Dead and Loving It " is a big excuse to be silly . Aside from the fact that the count ( Leslie Nielsen , who else ? ) is the world's biggest klutz , a Gypsy man has an excessively long moustache , Drac's brides look and act like prostitutes , and Dr . Van Helsing ( Brooks ) strangely resembles a rabbi . That's Mel Brooks all right ! So , this is the sort of movie that you watch knowing full well that you're in for something totally goofy and maybe even stupid . But it's meant to be stupid . Because remember : you're eyes are getting sleepy . . . Also starring Peter MacNicol , Steven Weber , Amy Yasbeck , and even Anne Bancroft as a Gypsy woman with an apparent throat problem .
What was it about ? You're not supposed to ask .	The fact that you most likely won't be able to figure " Mulholland Dr . " out during the first viewing is what makes it so great . David Lynch throws in so many twists and turns that it'll make your head spin . . . if you're not too transfixed already . The plot has Betty Elms ( Naomi Watts ) arriving in LA hoping to become a star , when she becomes in the most bizarre series of events that you could ever imagine . . . or does she ? The answer doesn't just lie with Betty's new roommate Rita ( Laura Harring ) , but rather in that which isn't too obvious . . . or does it ? I can't even try to describe the movie further ; you have see this movie to understand it . In fact , you might want to watch it twice ; there's a lot that you probably won't pick up during the first viewing . Anyway , David Lynch has created here what may be his most interesting movie ever . Granted , his movies are usually bizarre , but " Mulholland Dr . " is in a class all on its own . So all that I can tell you , be prepared to be shocked .
not corny at all ; quite good , actually	One of the great things about the classic Looney Tunes cartoons is how they introduced children to elements of culture . " What's Opera , Doc ? " was probably their most famous cartoon involving opera , but there was also " A Corny Concerto " . Elmer Fudd - having some trouble with his clothes - presents two short films with opera music in the background . And both come out very well . The one with Porky Pig hunting Bugs Bunny had ending that seems like it would have been a little risqué for 1943 ( especially in a cartoon ) , but that's what makes these cartoons so good ; they weren't afraid to push the limits . But the one with a black duckling - possibly Daffy Duck - is truly the highlight ; but how could it not be , featuring " The Blue Danube " ? One scene there gave the cartoon a real feeling of WWII . So , this is truly one of the classics . Up in that great animation studio in the sky , Mel Blanc , Bob Clampett , Chuck Jones , and that whole crew can take pleasure knowing that their work continues to impress us to this day .
I guess that the threat of nuclear annihilation always made for some great comedy with Peter Sellers in multiple roles !	Any film buff remembers Peter Sellers playing three roles in the Cold War comedy " Dr . Strangelove " . Well , " The Mouse That Roared " was a sort of prequel to that . A tiny , backwards nation on France's Mediterranean coast has no way of moving forward economically . So , the queen and prime minister ( both played by Sellers ) make a decision : the country will declare war on the United States , lose , and collect foreign aid . There's just one problem : when they arrive in New York , there's no one around - the threat of nuclear annihilation has driven everyone into hiding . The army decides that this calls for drastic measures - with hilarious results . Some people might say : " If you've seen one zany comedy , you've seen ' em all . " Be that as it may , you've still gotta see " TMTR " . It's just so funny . And one scene that's likely to open any teenage boy's eyes is when Peter Sellers walks into Jean Seberg's room and she's . . . well , I won't spoil it for you , but I will assert that it seems like it would have been risqué for 1959 . Classic .
" Nothing is what it seems . " You'd better believe it .	In my opinion , " Don't Look Now " constitutes a real collision of different kinds of careers . Nicolas Roeg had already directed the surreal " Walkabout " , Donald Sutherland had starred in the humorous " MASH " , and Julie Christie had won an Oscar for the bleak " Darling " . So this one must have really blown people's minds when it came out . Portraying a couple losing a child to a drowning , and thereafter experiencing some rather unexplainable occurrences , the movie might make you question your own sanity . I will say that it's not outright scary , but those scenes on the river . . . well , just see if you can keep breathing normally after watching those . Anyway , this is definitely one that I recommend . I did not see that ending coming ( although I doubt that anyone could predict it ) . So do look now , and watch the movie . . . if you dare . Because he's right : nothing is what it seems .
My introduction to Jackie Chan .	Before I'd seen " Rumble in the Bronx " , I'd heard of Jackie Chan but never seen any of his movies . Well , when I saw this , I practically died laughing . Basically an hour and a half of him bonking people in every direction , the movie is physical humor at its best . The plot has Hong Kong cop Keung ( Chan ) coming to New York for his uncle's wedding and having to battle street gangs and a crime syndicate . By battle , I of course mean pulling every crazy stunt imaginable . I really liked the early scene in the store , and then the whole hovercraft sequence . I gotta ask : how did we get by before these kinds of movies ? There was once a time when movies all followed the Disney formula , and Jackie Chan-style plots were unfathomable . Thank God for Bruce Lee ! As it is , Jackie Chan often seems to be spoofing Bruce Lee . Hilarious .
B ( e ) C ( ause ) of various factors	OK , having seen many movies about the Stone Age , we should know that the men were all buff dudes , and the women were all buxom babes . That's certainly the case here . Obviously , no part of " One Million Years B . C . " really makes sense - humans and dinosaurs never existed contemporaneously - but that doesn't matter . The movie was intended as entertainment , and it's very enjoyable . Maybe that's just because we get to see Raquel Welch in a bikini , but the dinosaurs are also pretty cool . The movie makes us nostalgic for the era , even though we never experienced it . So , it's brain candy to the max , and it doesn't pretend to be anything else . You're sure to like it , if only for the thought of Raquel Welch dressed like that .
The best Vietnam War movie ever .	From the opening scene - with " The End " playing while helicopters are attacking a village - to Col . Kilgore's ( Robert Duvall ) admiration of napalm , to the Playboy bunnies , to the final scene , " Apocalypse Now " always hits you like a brick in the face . As Capt . Benjamin L . Willard , searching for renegade Col . Walter E . Kurtz ( Marlon Brando ) , Martin Sheen has what was probably the best role of his career . Above all , the movie is staunchly anti-war , even more so than " The Deer Hunter " ; " Apocalypse Now " condemns the fact that we were in Vietnam to begin with . The Playboy bunny scene not only shows that the GIs were shown the most despicable stuff for entertainment , but it shows that if you expect to create such emotions , don't expect to be able to control them ( in that scene , you can see Vietnamese people outside the compound , and you can only imagine how disgusted they must be at American " entertainment " ) . Col . Kilgore is of course the ultimate rah-rah military type . Among other things , this " patriot " ignores a wounded man , preferring instead to go surfing . He doesn't even flinch when there's an explosion . As he cynically notes : " Charlie don't surf . " All in all , " Apocalypse Now " is one of the greatest movies ever made . With top notch performances by the stars and great support from Frederic Forrest , Laurence Fishburne , Dennis Hopper , Sam Bottoms and Harrison Ford , this is one movie that everyone should see .
Don't believe anyone who says that we don't have political prisoners .	With " Incident at Oglala " , Robert Redford and Michael Apted exposed how American Indian Movement activist Leonard Peltier was unjustly convicted of murder . It was obvious that the whole thing was politically motivated . And regardless of who committed the murders , they were intimidating the Indians . And anyway , the white people stole the Indians ' land to begin with , so the Indians had every right to stand up for themselves . The point is that any time that the US government talks about freedom and democracy , it's pure hypocrisy . An innocent man sits in jail while thugs rule the White House . This is an important documentary for everyone .
so Truffaut started here	Francois Truffaut made his mark on the cinematic world with " Les quart cents coups " ( called " The 400 Blows " in English ) . Semi-autobiographical , the movie tells the story of Antoine Doinel ( Jean-Pierre Leaud ) , a misunderstood schoolboy . Everyone hears rumors about him and assumes things about him . Finally , at the end of the movie , Doinel escapes from a seaside cottage and runs out to the shore , and an ambiguous future . The movie was very well done in every aspect . The black and white helps to emphasize Doinel's somewhat dreary existence . I recommend this movie to everyone .
With Bugs Bunny wrestling , who needs The Rock ?	Almost half a century before everyone got really obsessed with wrestling , that carrot-chomping rascal engaged in it . . . with a vengeance . After belligerent wrestler The Crusher clobbers a challenger , Bugs Bunny quickly enters the fray . At first , The Crusher has the upper hand , but of course Bugs has some tricks up his sleeve . Some of Bugs ' antics seem a little risqué , especially for 1951 , but there's nothing offensive here . These sorts of cartoons are the REAL definition of " family fun " . As Chuck Jones once noted : " Bugs Bunny does what most of us would like to do , but don't have the nerve to do . " Splendid .
Pacino and DeNiro , together at last	More than simply a cops-and-robbers story , " Heat " allows us to understand the characters more than the average crime story . In the first place , Lt . Vincent Hanna ( Al Pacino ) and thief Neil McCauley ( Robert DeNiro ) are good friends before they realize that they have to be enemies . And even when it becomes clear to them that they're on opposite sides of the law , the viewer still can sympathize with both men : we understand that McCauley doesn't want to be a criminal but has no choice , and we understand that Hanna finds law enforcement unpleasant but is trapped in his position . Never going overboard on violence or degenerating into silliness , " Heat " is a modern classic and a triumph for all involved . It was , in my opinion , director Michael Mann's best movie ever , and a very interesting look at Los Angeles . This is one movie that won't disappoint you .
Sympathy for the devil on ice , folks ! And what is it about the name Damian ?	My mom said that when " The Exorcist " first came out , she thought that it was the scariest thing that she'd ever seen ( " The Shining " later overtook it ) . When I saw the 2000 re-release . . . well , let's just say that you don't know intensity until you've seen that version ! Since everyone knows what happens , I'll just talk about a few aspects . Nowadays , it's a little shocking to us that the opening scene happens in Iraq . Fr . Karras ' ( Jason Miller ) first name is Damian , which was later the boy's name in " The Omen " . I believe that it was around the time when this movie came out that Ellen Burstyn was active in the campaign to free Rubin " Hurricane " Carter from jail . Linda Blair later spoofed her own character in " Repossessed " , co-starring Leslie Nielsen . Anyone hungry for pea soup ?
Long live Bruce Lee ! Even in the hereafter . . .	Before Bruce Lee came along , it was like Hollywood movies still had what I like to call the Grace Kelly Syndrome : an obsession with European ( particularly Northern European ) kings , queens , princes and princesses gushing over their status as rich white people . Then , along came Bruce Lee and his incredible movements , and blew the Disney mold off of the map . In " Enter the Dragon " , he plays Lee , who enters a contest on an island where reclusive kingpin Han ( Kien Shih ) is running a bunch of illicit operations . Lee is not only spying on Han ; this is a case of revenge , as Han was responsible for the death of Lee's sister . The movie is mostly an excuse to show off Bruce Lee , but believe you me , there's plenty to show off . Whether it's the scene where he defeats all the guards , the scene where he battles bad-ass Bolo , or the final showdown with Han , Bruce Lee always has something to show for himself . Americans John Saxon and Jim Kelly provide some neat support as financially strapped Roper and doesn't-take-crap-from-anyone Williams , respectively . By using this name , I do not mean to speak negatively of Grace Kelly . I just associate her roles with this image .
There was an article about Joel David Moore in The Oregonian two days ago .	" Dodgeball : A True Underdog Story " is just plain old goof-ball-ism , and it doesn't pretend to be anything else . It has the Average Joes gym going up against Globo Gym in a tournament . The Average Joes gym is clearly a working class gym , while Globo Gym's slogan is " We're better than you , and we know it ! " Maybe for the most part , this is a recycled triumph of the underdog story - where against all odds the ragtag team defeats the big guys with all the money - but the performances carry it to excellence . Ben Stiller , as Globo Gym owner White Goodman , makes a really funny slime-ball . Vince Vaughn , as Average Joes gym owner Peter La Fleur , creates a very commendable character . Christine Taylor , as reporter Kate Veatch , is what a reporter should be . Rip Torn , as trainer Patches O'Houlihan , is one acerbic SOB ( Hank Azaria plays his younger self ) . And I now realize that Fran Stalinofskivich ( from Ramanovia ) was played by Missi Pyle , who also starred in " Bringing Down the House " and " Charlie and the Chocolate Factory " . Oh yeah , and about that article . Joel David Moore is here in his native Portland shooting the indie flick " Spiral " with Amber Tamblyn ( of TV's " Joan of Arcadia " ) .
The first time that I ever watched this movie , it scared me ( don't worry ; I later found it funny ) .	When I was about 3 and 4 , I used to watch " The Real Ghostbusters " on TV . When I was 7 , I noticed that my parents had a video tape that said " Ghostbusters " . I asked them if I could watch it , and they said yes . The first thing that threw me off was that it was black and white . Moreover , it was clearly not a cartoon . The lion statue outside the library probably confused me further . Then , after the woman saw the ghost in the library basement , I could only interpret the movie as scary . Literally every scene invoked fear in me , especially the monster in the refrigerator . By the time that it was over , I thought to myself " I'm never watching that again . " Then , when I was 9 , my mom convinced me to give it a second chance . So , I watched " Ghostbusters " again , and I laughed my head off . I felt so idiotic for having gotten scared by something so hilarious . As everyone knows , the story has Peter Venkman ( Bill Murray ) , Raymond Stantz ( Dan Aykroyd ) , Egon Spengler ( Harold Ramis ) and Winston Zeddemore ( Ernie Hudson ) battling spooks in New York , and they have to go up against an ancient evil god . Among the supporting characters , one finds musician Dana Barrett ( Sigourney Weaver ) and dorky Louis Tully ( Rick Moranis ) . Probably what embarrassed me the most about getting scared by " Ghostbusters " was the fact that I didn't even interpret Louis Tully and his mishaps . The first time that I watched the movie , I literally did not realize that his character was there . Anyway , this is a veritable comedy classic . It was like nothing that had ever come before . With a catchy theme song ( that I play every Halloween ) , this is a movie that's impossible not to like . Oh , and I should probably explain the " black and white " part . When my parents taped " Ghostbusters " off of the TV , it was in color on the TV but it came out black and white on the tape . My parents have never been able to figure that out , so their only explanation is that the tape was haunted . If so , then this was the perfect movie to record onto it .
In space , no one can hear you scream . . . but in the theater / TV room , EVERYONE will !	There may be debates over whether movies should portray aliens positively or negatively , but " Alien " shows that all bets are off . This is possibly THE perfect sci-fi / horror flick ; in fact , it doesn't even suffice to call it such . From the moment when the egg attacks Kane ( John Hurt ) to Ellen Ripley's ( Sigourney Weaver ) battles against the title character , this movie has you tensed up every second of the way . You may be very suspicious of every movement around you after watching this movie . Obviously , what made " Alien " so great was that it had a woman going all bad-ass on a big ugly creature from another world . You probably know about the " chest " scene ( or maybe you've seen a spoof of it ) , but you have to see it to believe it ! All in all , this is a great movie . Weaver turns in a top-notch performance , and great support from Hurt , Harry Dean Stanton , Yaphet Kotto , Ian Holm , Veronica Cartwright and Tom Skerritt , add to the movie's high quality . " Aliens " was also pretty good , " Alien 3 " was tolerable , and " Alien : Resurrection " was . . . well , that's debatable . But this one remains the best . 1979 was truly a great year for movies , what with " Alien " , " Apocalypse Now " , " Being There " , " The China Syndrome " , " 1941 , " . . . And Justice For All " and " Nosferatu " .
train he rides	If " The General " is Buster Keaton's best known movie , I can see why . An explosion of wackiness with some human emotion here and there , it goes to show why Keaton was such a great comedian . It's always great to see him with a deadpan expression - and even a mop-top hairdo ! - despite the craziness surrounding him while driving the train . But amidst it all , we understand that he has a solid , perfectly good reason for taking the locomotive down the railroad . Of course , even if he didn't it would still be a great movie . It's one that you just gotta love . They must have had fun filming it . And the best part ( for me , at least ) is : they filmed it here in Oregon !
he may think he's gonna die , but you'll feel like you'll live forever	In this most unusual musical , Bob Fosse offers a scathing look at his own career as a Broadway director / choreographer . Roy Scheider plays Fosse's alter ego Joe Gideon , a drinking , smoking , pill-popping , womanizing creep who doesn't know when to stop . Although this movie is usually called a musical , this is about as far from " Oklahoma ! " as can be : it's gritty and overtly sexual , especially during one dance number . I would say that the two most effective scenes are : when Joe smoking and pops pills while taking a shower before wryly proclaiming " It's show-time ! " ; and the whole hospital sequence . The latter shows just what sort of person Joe is at heart ( pun intended ) : disconnected from reality , but ever joyful . Of course , his song " Bye Bye Love " is to be taken seriously . Fosse himself suffered a fatal heart attack a few years after the movie came out . Anyway , " All That Jazz " is a movie for the ages . You'll never want to forget it . Also starring Jessica Lange and Ben Vereen . " I did f - - - him and he still didn't give me the job . " Yeah , I bet that it's probably like that .
it's not just Cary Grant getting chased by the crop-duster . . .	A common theme in Alfred Hitchcock's movies was chaos : collapsing innocence in " Shadow of a Doubt " , getting drug into a murder plot in " Strangers on a Train " , the possible murder in " Rear Window " , the shower scene in " Psycho " , or the avians ' unexplained killing spree in " The Birds " . But more specific than simply chaos , is getting falsely accused of something , as happens in " North by Northwest " . Cary Grant plays Roger Thornhill , an executive who gets mistaken for someone else . When he tries to avoid involvement , they set him up by murdering someone at the United Nations . Now he's on the run , and can trust only Eve Kendall ( Eva Marie Saint ) . Almost as famous as the crop-duster scene is the Mt . Rushmore scene . The way that one might interpret that scene is not what happens there , but what the monument itself represents . It shows past presidents , as if to represent the highest authority , as the UN scene might have been doing . Another interesting scene is the auction . If you look at how Eve is dressed and how she is seated , you notice that she is sort of like the colorful halfway point between two drab points , represented by two men ( maybe that's just my interpretation ) . And of course Eva Marie Saint was one of Hitchcock's " icy blondes " , much like Grace Kelly , Doris Day , Kim Novak , Janet Leigh and Tippi Hedren . Once again , Hitch proved himself to be a master director .
Spasibo , Gospodin Jewison . . . vy khoroshiy kinorezhissyor ! ( English translation : Thank you , Mr . Jewison . . . you're a great director ! )	It looks like the Cold War just froze ! When a Soviet submarine gets lost at sea , they dock and realize that they've landed on American soil . Not sure what to do , they go to the Whittakers , a family on vacation . Of course , as soon as the Whittakers realize that these strangers are Russians , the Russians have to take them hostage . Commanding officer Lt . Rozanov ( Alan Arkin ) orders his men to venture into town , looking for a way out . But , once even the tiniest unverifiable report gets out that the Russians have " invaded " , the townspeople just flip . What was especially funny about " The Russians Are Coming , the Russians Are Coming " was the way that every time someone spread the news that the Soviet Union was " taking over " , the story got mangled , getting blown out of proportion every time ! Alan Arkin does a great job as Rozanov ( I can't believe that he still hasn't won an Oscar after all these years ) , along with great performances by Carl Reiner and Eva Marie Saint as Walt and Elspeth Whittaker ( listen to what Rozanov does with Walt's name ) , and Jonathan Winters as a cop ( uh-oh ) . It's a full-scale laugh riot from beginning to end .
Wouldn't politics be better if it was more like this ?	Bugs Bunny and Yosemite Sam run against each other for mayor in a small town . Needless to say , they have all sorts of dirty tricks to play on each other ; Karl Rove has got nothing on these guys . I wish to assert that politics would be better if it was more like what " Ballot Box Bunny " portrays . Sure , you may say , politics is already dirty enough - especially with George W . Bush getting us into the Iraq War and the recent revelations of Mark Foley's creepy activities . But seriously folks , wouldn't you prefer Bugs and Sam's actions to politicians running touchy-feely ads telling us how they'll lead us through prosperity and adversity ? All in all , a classic cartoon . And don't forget to vote on November 7 !
I came , I saw , I laughed	Transpose " It's a Mad , Mad , Mad , Mad World " to ancient Rome and you basically have " A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum " . This story of a slave ( Zero Mostel ) having to help arrange a romance between two people is worth watching just for the chase scene at the end . If you've been to Spain or Italy , it's neat to see the sites again . But above all , this is what 1960s humor is all about . They must have had fun filming this movie . And personally , I think that it's a good idea that they cut down the musical aspect and left it a straightforward comedy . You're sure to have more than a few laughs . Also starring Phil Silvers , Michael Crawford , Jack Gilford , Buster Keaton , Jon Pertwee and Ingrid Pitt .
Only the Coen brothers could create something so magical AND wacky	Most people would probably never imagine transposing " The Odyssey " to 1930's Mississippi , but the Coen brothers pulled it off perfectly . George Clooney , John Turturro and Tim Blake Nelson play three jailbirds ( named Ulysses , Pete and Delmar , respectively ) who escape from a chain gang and subsequently travel through a world containing a blind soothsayer , Sirens , a cycloptic Bible salesman ( John Goodman ) , and even Baby Face Nelson ( Michael Badalucco ) . Yep . You read that right . And to crown it all , Ulysses always needs some Dapper Dan pomade for his hair . Holly Hunter plays Ulysses wife Penny ( short for Penelope ) who has all but given up on him . Of course , the movie's real forte is its music . A litany of mesmerizing , folksy ballads , they truly could not have come up with a better soundtrack . And as a final note , " O Brother , Where Art Thou ? " gives new meaning to the idea of a " horny toad " .
Not a dog at all !	I can't believe that Disney wouldn't let Tim Burton release this ! They thought that it was too scary for kids ? ! Puh-leeze ! " Frankenweenie " is a really cool movie ! Basically a spoof of Mary Shelley's classic novel , the movie features suburban American boy Victor Frankenstein ( Barret Oliver ) resurrecting his dog Sparky , who got run over by a car . Needless to say , the reanimated dog creates some chaos once the neighbors meet him ! I would imagine that they probably had a lot of fun filming this . Shelley Duvall and Daniel Stern play Victor's parents Susan and Ben , respectively . Paul Bartel also stars , and there's even a very young Sofia Coppola . " Frankenweenie " is a real treat for everyone !
running on full	We got introduced to Franka Potente through " Lola rennt " ( called " Run Lola Run " in English ) about a young woman running all over Berlin , trying to get 100 , 000 Marks for her boyfriend ( Moritz Bleibtreu ) . But beyond that , it shows how various things affect other things , as shown by the people whom she passes . You can certainly tell that this is not a Hollywood movie ; if it was , Lola would probably look like Julia Roberts . But the overall point is that this is a great movie , another example of Germany's great film industry . And above all , it showed that - and I know that this is going to sound like something from the old " Batman " TV series - Potente has potential .
Lemmon and Matthau debut as a team	In this , the first movie starring Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau as a comedy team , reporter Lemmon gets injured at a football game , leading his lawyer friend Matthau to seek a massive settlement ( that is , if Lemmon can pretend to be badly injured for a long time ) . Like other movies of the era - such as " It's a Mad , Mad , Mad , Mad World " and " Who's Minding the Mint ? " - " The Fortune Cookie " shows how greed can send seemingly ordinary people absolutely nuts . I liked how they did the movie like chapters in a book ; a very clever device indeed . And who else but Billy Wilder could do it ? But above all , this was a sign of things to come , as JL and WM would co-star in another ten movies after this . All in all , we're very fortunate that " The Fortune Cookie " exists . Watch for a young Noam Pitlik as the man across the street .
turkeys of all time	" Blood Freak " is exactly the sort of movie to which " Grindhouse " paid homage . Portraying biker Herschel ( since when are bikers named Herschel ? ) eating some tainted turkey and gaining a turkey's head , the movie is totally silly and knows that it is such . Part of what makes this movie more interesting is the group of people on whom it focuses . Herschel hangs out with a bunch of hippies and develops a relationship with a young woman among them . . . which of course means that they have sex in one scene ( although it didn't go as far as I wanted ) . So , if you're a connoisseur of cheap ' 70s flicks , then this is the one for you !
No one should yell " Objection ! " at this movie .	I think that this is one of the funniest movies that I've ever seen . After two young men are arrested for murder in a backwards Alabama town , wise guy lawyer Vinny Gambini ( Joe Pesci ) and his sarcastic hubby Mona Lisa Vito ( Marisa Tomei ) come to the rescue . The only problem is , Alabama is a lot different from New York . Judge Chamberlain Haller ( Fred Gwynne , in his final film role ) can't understand Vinny's Brooklyn accent and doesn't like Vinny's clothes , the local hicks try to taunt the two New Yorkers , and other wacko things happen . As it is , this movie is sort of a good lesson about circumstantial evidence , but you still gotta wonder how anyone could come up with something so hilarious . A true comedy classic .
And then , Christopher Reeve became even more of a superhero in real life .	Obviously , everyone knows Superman , so I'll talk about a few aspects . It was sort of a shock to everyone when Christopher Reeve got paralyzed , seeing as to how we associated him with the man of steel . But his tireless crusade for people with spinal cord injuries showed him to be a sort of superhero in his own right . As Superman's father Jor-El , Marlon Brando seems subdued , but still shows why he was one of the greatest actors of all time ( as it was , he and Reeve died within four months of each other ) . As villain Lex Luthor , Gene Hackman makes a really interesting character : vile , but kinda cool , he's the bad guy who we all want to be deep down . Margot Kidder also has a great role as the title character's self-standing hubby Lois Lane , and Ned Beatty is really funny as Luthor's goofy sidekick Otis . Also starring is Marc McClure as Jimmy Olson . I remember a " Saturday Night Live " episode where they imagine what would have happened had Superman been raised in Germany : they conclude that the man of steel - played by Dan Aykroyd in that skit - would have joined the Nazis and been called Ubermann . As it was , Friedrich Nietzsche theorized an " Ubermensch " . All in all , " Superman " is an inimitable superhero flick . I agree with a previous reviewer that " Batman " and " Spiderman " owe a lot to this movie . Truly great .
Katharine Hepburn was the woman of every year .	In their first of nine co-star rings , Katharine Hepburn and Spencer Tracy play Tess Harding and Sam Craig , reporters at a newspaper who get married . Naturally , Sam assumes that Tess will " settle down " and just be a wife , but she is very independent , with events to cover all over the world . They sort of forget that they're married . You just can't beat a pairing like Tracy and Hepburn . " Woman of the Year " moves along like a . . . I can't even come up with a good comparison , but I basically mean that it's very brisk . It's impossible not to like this movie . You would have to be a full-scale sourpuss not to like this movie . A comedy classic .
What's supper , doc ?	" The Wabbit Who Came to Supper " gives one the idea of milking a situation to the nth degree . When Elmer Fudd - looking like a walking heart attack ( they were making him fat at this time so as to resemble his voice artist Arthur Q . Bryan ) - receives a letter telling him that he'll inherit $3 million as long as he doesn't harm any animals , especially rabbits , Bugs Bunny ( who overheard Elmer reading the telegram ) promptly invades Elmer's house and does everything possible to annoy Elmer . How I would love to try that ! It just goes to show why these cartoons were so great : they were never afraid to pull any wacky gag that they could think of . And this one has some great gags ! So check it out . You're sure to love it . And remember : don't go down there ; it's dark !
Gold is where you find it , unless a certain wascawwy wabbit tricks you	This time , Elmer Fudd - looking mighty chubby ( so as to resemble Arthur Q . Bryan , who did his voice ) - is looking for gold out in the desert , but Bugs Bunny keeps playing tricks on him . The gags with the dynamite were probably the best ( the crowd behind these cartoons sure had a way with dynamite , as much of their work showed ) . One can always see how various characters try to undermine Bugs's integrity , but poetic justice prevails . It just goes to show why these cartoons will never get old , no matter what happens . You'd better believe that Arthur Q . Bryan and Mel Blanc are the voices for all time ! So seriously Susanna , don't cry for me .
The Wolfman is everywhere , and so will this movie be forever . It really twists the night away !	In the movie that made him famous , George Lucas portrays several teenagers in Modesto , California , in 1962 . Various things happen to them , and they see all sorts of things . Of course , the movie's other stars are the songs that make up the ultra-cool soundtrack . With a total of 45 classic tunes , this movie is a great time from beginning to end . You'll never forget the prank that Curt Henderson ( Richard Dreyfuss ) has to pull with the police car . Maybe some people might complain that the movie didn't really have much purpose , but that's too harsh ; the point was for everyone to have a good time . And boy do we ! With the soundtrack , plus great performances by Dreyfuss , Ron Howard ( billed as " Ronny " for the last time ) , Charles Martin Smith , Paul LeMat , Cindy Williams , Candy Clark , Harrison Ford and Wolfman Jack , " American Graffiti " is a wonderful romp even today !
In memory of Philippe Noiret	Philippe Noiret's death yesterday brings to mind all his movies , including " Nuovo cinema Paradiso " . The first time that I saw this was right after I had seen " The Postman " , and I recognized him as the man who had played Pablo Neruda . Here , he plays an equally great role , of the operator of a camera in a movie theater in an Italian village in years past . His friendship with and advice to young Salvatore proves to be more than the boy could have ever dreamed about . In a sense , the movie seems to be a look not only at what Italy was , but also what going to the movies was . It's definitely a masterpiece that I recommend . There may be the issue of whether or not we should make Italy's past look so idealistic , given that Mussolini was in power at the time . But I would assert that this movie shows that even in times of oppression , people can find ways to escape it . A really good movie .
And they just keep on coming , don't they ?	The rating of course only applies to people who would desire to watch such a movie ( for anyone else , it's a zero ) . A spoof of " Scream " , " I Know What You Did Last Summer " , and other such movies , " Scary Movie " is another in the gag-a-minute genre associated with the Marx Brothers , Mel Brooks , the " Airplane ! " crowd , and so on . Some scenes were kinda gross ( they can't go without scatological humor , can they ? ) , but overall harmless . The end was a real surprise . I never saw " Scary Movie 2 " ( I assumed that it was the same ) , but I did see " Scary Movie 3 " . . . and it was pretty much the same . And there's a " Scary Movie 4 " coming out soon ( we can probably assume that it's the same ) .
everyone should see this	Sometimes , we seem to forget that apartheid was only eliminated in 1994 . " Amandla ! A Revolution In Four Part Harmony " tells of how the black South Africans used music to help them overcome the Draconian oppression installed by the white population . Naturally , we get to hear from Nelson Mandela , Winnie Mandela , and Miriam Makeba , but also from ordinary people , and how they individually used music . One of the most chilling scenes was the footage of Hendrik Verwoerd , who was prime minister of South Africa from 1958 until his assassination in 1966 . He said in the interview something to the effect of : " People have misunderstood apartheid . It's really a policy of good-neighborliness . " As you might imagine , the black population had plenty to say ( and sing ) about him . I actually used this documentary as one of the sources in a paper that I wrote for an assignment in German class in Lewis & Clark College in spring , 2004 . I had watched the documentary in a class called Introduction to World Music . In the German class , we were talking about various aspects of the Third Reich . I explained in the paper that apartheid's policies were basically the same as the Third Reich . I made double sure to cite the interview with Hendrik Verwoerd to show just how vile these people were .
1978 : the year of the anti-war movies	Nineteen seventy-eight saw the release of three famous movies dealing with the effects of the Vietnam War : " Coming Home " , " The Deer Hunter " and " Who'll Stop the Rain " . The last one doesn't actually focus on the war itself , but on some drug-running related to it . This gritty picture portrays a GI ( Michael Moriarty ) sending some heroin back home with a merchant marine friend ( Nick Nolte ) . When the marine hooks up with the guy's wife ( Tuesday Weld ) , they find themselves on the run from some thugs . The movie gives one a real feeling of the grimness not only of the war , but in the lives of the people returning home . The whole end scene just might freeze your blood . One thing is that when we watched the movie , my mom said that a lot of the music was changed ( originally , the whole movie had Creedence Clearwater songs , and only two of their songs remain on the video ) . But aside from that , it's definitely a movie that everyone should see . I understand that it's out of print , but surely it has to come to DVD eventually .
not a political issue , but for the sake of our survival	Above all , what we should learn from " An Inconvenient Truth " is that preserving the planet is not , as Bush would have us believe , a political debate ; it's a moral issue . The very fact that Bush didn't respond to it shows how out of touch with reality he is . I just would like to ask , as Al Gore does , what has to happen before there is any meaningful action to curb global warming . In parts of the movie , I wonder if Gore went a little overboard in trying to humanize himself by telling about his childhood . But he has more of an excuse to than Bush ever will . I was surprised to learn that the US can't sell it's cars in China . I wouldn't be surprised if GM and Ford have to get bought by Japanese companies . But back to the main point . I know that skeptics will try to present data showing various warming trends throughout history , but if they try to deny the data that Gore shows , I must wonder why they don't care about humanity . As Gore notes , with serious action , we can get warming below the 1970 level . But we don't have much time left . All in all , as Roger Ebert noted : you owe it to yourself to see this movie .
I'm ready for my review , Mr . Wilder	We've seen many movies about Hollywood's emptiness , unseemliness , and other undesirable qualities . " Sunset Boulevard " is one of the best . Norma Desmond ( Gloria Swanson ) is a faded movie star in a relationship with reporter Joe Gillis ( William Holden ) . Through his relationship with her , Joe not only sees Hollywood for what it really is , but he also comes to understand Norma for who she is . Billy Wilder always has a great story to tell , and this is no exception . The light / dark contrast in Norma's mansion could be a metaphor : Norma is an old movie star living in modern Hollywood . But as Norma reminds Joe : " I'm still big . It's the pictures that got small . " Outstanding . Erich Von Stroheim also turns in an ample performance as Norma's servant .
Spike Lee's best movie ever	Reaching his apex of greatness , Spike Lee created a perfect biography of the Black Nationalist leader . In the title role , Denzel Washington literally becomes the character . From the opening , when he accurately accuses the white man of all the injustices that the white man has perpetrated , to his conversion to Islam ( and rejection of his slave surname ) , to his eventual assassination , the movie is top-notch in every respect . Having read Malcolm X's autobiography , I can affirm that the movie followed it very closely . Reading his autobiography will actually help you understand him even further . As will his indication that African-Americans bled for the white man in Korea , Japan , Italy , etc . , so why shouldn't they bleed for their freedom at home ? Anyway , " Malcolm X " is a perfect movie in every way .
a more sadistic bird thou shalt never find	In this day and age , we have seemingly come to interpret Tweety Bird as " cute " . In his first appearance , he was nothing like that ; quite the opposite , he was a bad-ass . In " A Tale of Two Kitties " , wandering felines Babbit and Catstello ( spoofing Abbott and Costello ) find a bird's nest . Grouchy , straight-talking Babbit sends the nervous Catstello up to get the bird , only the tiny avian - whose name isn't actually identified - proves to be the nastiest mother ever . There's naturally an anvil gag . It's just great to see how the guys behind the Looney Tunes weren't afraid to show anything that they wanted . Definitely one to see .
It shall continue happening on movie screens forever onward .	Stories like this have become such a cliché that we might forget that they started here , but they did . And it worked really well here . When bored socialite Ellie Andrews ( Claudette Colbert ) runs away from her surroundings , she gets picked up by down-on-his-luck reporter Peter Warne ( Clark Gable ) , who knows exactly what to do in such a situation . This movie must be what people mean when they say " They don't make ' em like they used to . " Both Gable and Colbert have a great time with their roles . Apparently , the scene where Gable removes his shirt caused a bit of a stir since he wasn't wearing anything underneath . But that only adds to this movie's greatness . It's a gem in the real sense of the word . Also starring is Alan Hale ( yes , the Skipper's father ) .
Ed Harris should have won Best Actor	With " Pollock " , Ed Harris proved himself as adept as a director as he is an actor , playing splatter artist Jackson Pollock . We see Pollock as a talented artist who seemed to grow more and more messed up ( maybe even disturbed ) as the years went by . Equally as good as Harris is Marcia Gay Harden as Lee Krasner , for which she won Best Supporting Actress ( and unlike so many people , Harden can do a believable New York accent ) . All in all , a great movie . I would like to assert that Ed Harris actually did a better job here than Russell Crowe did in " Gladiator " . Also starring are Jennifer Connelly , Bud Cort , John Heard , Val Kilmer , Amy Madigan and Jeffrey Tambor .
you deserve a metal	Having seen " Daffy - the Commando " and " Scrap Happy Daffy " , I think that it's safe to say that that crazy duck was one of the best characters to fight the Nazis ( obviously , there was also Bugs ) . In this case , he collects scrap metal to contribute to the war effort , but Hitler sends a goat after him . If absolutely nothing else , it's just a total hoot to see what Daffy does to the goat . The idea of collecting scrap metal also brings up the point that in WWII , the government encouraged people to save resources as much as possible . I don't see any of that nowadays . In the future , they're not going to look kindly upon this . But anyway , it's a really funny cartoon . Definitely worth seeing . And just be careful what you dream about next time .
It should be the value of any family to see this movie if possible .	" Addams Family Values " accomplishes what " The Godfather , Part II " did : it equals , if not outdoes , the original . In this case , Morticia ( Anjelica Huston ) has a baby - whom they name Pubert ( you read that right ) , Fester ( Christopher Lloyd ) marries nanny Debbie Jellinsky ( Joan Cusack ) and Gomez ( Raul Julia ) decides that Wednesday and Pugsley should spend the summer at a camp . The best parts of the movie are the scenes at the camp . Run by airheads Gary ( Peter MacNicol ) and Becky Granger ( Christine Baranski ) , the whole camp is an excuse for airhead rich white kids to act nice to each other and perform a play about the original Thanksgiving . If there are any ethnic people . . . well , they can be dealt with . But that's all going to change now that Wednesday and Pugsley have arrived . Anyway , " Addams Family Values " is a movie that everyone should see . I certainly recommend it to everyone . You just never stop laughing , especially when you hear what Fester says after Debbie gives him a present .
there's no doubt that this was a masterpiece	You know that a movie is really good when you feel that you can't tell very much about it without giving anything away . " Shadow of a Doubt " is one such movie . Charlie ( Joseph Cotten ) is a man who goes to visit his relatives in Santa Rosa , California . He is so well respected by his relatives that they named their oldest daughter ( Teresa Wright ) Charlie . When Uncle Charlie first arrives , everything seems to be going very nicely and everyone is having a lot of fun . But then , Young Charlie begins to get suspicious . That's as much as I'm going to tell you about the plot , because I worry that any more information will give everything away . However , I will discuss some interesting aspects in the movie . For starters , duality . There are two Charlies , two bespectacled females , two trips to the train station , two trips to the restaurant , and even when Alfred Hitchcock makes his cameo , he is carrying a piece of luggage almost as big as he is . This all may have something to do with the idea that there are two sides to everything ( which turns out to be an important aspect in this movie ) . Also , Santa Rosa looks like a town in a Norman Rockwell painting , but then , everything changes . In one scene , Young Charlie is trying to call people on the phone , but can't reach them . Each time they show her again , the scene is shot from a higher angle , as though she is sinking deeper into desperation . I guess that overall , the movie is about how Young Charlie is forced to grow out of her youthful impression of the " good old days " , as represented by " The Merry Widow Waltz " , played during a repeated scene of a grand ball . The words " merry widow " also play a role in the plot . That is all that I can tell you . Any more would definitely give away the ending .
evil succeeds when good people do nothing	There is a saying that the only thing necessary for evil to succeed is for good people to do nothing . The events portrayed in " The Ox-Bow Incident " shows not only that , but could represent real things that have happened throughout world history . The movie portrays drifter Gil Carter ( Henry Fonda ) and his friend Art Croft ( Harry Morgan ) riding into an Old West town . The hotheaded Carter isn't exactly the most likable person . When news comes out that a rancher has been murdered , the townspeople lose what little sense they have . A mob mentality takes over , and the people want nothing except to take revenge on the individuals suspected of the murder . Not even the judge's urging to exercise restraint can detain the people's sudden rage . As for Carter , even though he doesn't seem like the most likable guy , he doesn't seem like the type who would participate in a lynching campaign . But even he gets caught up in the events . While not directly partaking in it - and at times even offering mild criticism - Carter nonetheless allows things to proceed . One might say that parallels were the " good Germans " ( German citizens during the Third Reich who knew what the government was doing but did nothing to stop it ) . As for the fact that the target of the characters ' ire is a convenient target , that's like how Iraq was a convenient target after the attacks . Above all , this is a movie that I strongly recommend , as an important part of cinema history , but also as a warning against letting one's gut instinct take precedence over due process . Also starring Dana Andrews , Mary Beth Hughes , Anthony Quinn , Frank Conroy , William Eythe , Jane Darwell and Margaret Hamilton ( aka The Wicked Witch of the West ) .
Oy gevalt , Gene Wilder wasn't meshugga to take this role !	Sort of playing off of his presence in " Blazing Saddles " , Gene Wilder plays rabbi Avram Belinski , who leaves his seminary in 1850 Poland to marry a woman in San Francisco and start a synagogue there . But naturally , the American West holds more than a few surprises for him , namely train robber Tommy Lillard ( Harrison Ford ) . " The Frisco Kid " may not be the most famous movie , but it certainly has its merits . Wilder and Ford are quite a pairing , and the movie never drags . I think that I did once hear that some of the first cowboys may have been Jewish , but that's just a possibility . The point is that you're sure to like this movie .
Supergenius : that describes the people who made these cartoons !	In a slight break from protocol , Chuck Jones , Michael Maltese , and Mel Blanc pit Wile E . Coyote - aka Supergenius - against Bugs Bunny . But , sure enough , Bugs has ways of avoiding capture . . . most of which involve Wile E . getting maimed somehow . The point is that no matter how hard he tries , Wile E . has no success in any field , whether going after the Road Runner or Bugs Bunny . And they play it to great effect . " Operation : Rabbit " is a classic just like the rest of the Looney Tunes cartoons from that era . Having Wile E . talk doesn't diminish the quality at all . Mud spelled backwards is dum . Exactly !
one of the most unpredictable cartoons	One of the things that I've always liked the most about the Looney Tunes / Merrie Melodies cartoons is their unpredictability . " Porky Pig's Feat " goes all the way , as Porky and Daffy come up with all sorts of elaborate schemes to try and escape from a hotel . You see , the effete manager has charged them for things like air ( for breathing ) , while Daffy gambled away all the money . The whole thing escalates into full-scale war . Aside from what Porky and Daffy do to the owner - and what he does back to them - the last segment was a surprise . Then again , movie studios and executives always like to advertise themselves ( Porky mentions Leon Schlesinger ) . Overall , a really funny cartoon . So , in conclusion , let's all help them get their " Feat " back on the ground ( apologies to the Beatles ) .
I saw Richard Dreyfuss in a bookstore while they were filming this .	In September , 1994 , my mom and I were in the checkout line in Powell's Bookstore in Portland , Oregon . There was a very short man in front of us . When we got up to the cashier , she identified the man as none other than Richard Dreyfuss . We turned around and sure enough , it was he . Needless to say , we wondered what he was doing in Portland . A little over a year later , we found out what he was doing when " Mr . Holland's Opus " got released . We thought that it was one of the best movies that year . We all really liked that it portrayed how sad he got when John Lennon got assassinated . A very good movie . About a year later , Richard Dreyfuss appeared at Grant High School again . He made a speech encouraging people to vote in the upcoming election . All in all , a great movie . I recommend it to everyone . Also starring Glenne Headly , Olympia Dukakis and William H . Macy . Strange that Stephen Herek also directed movies such as " Critters " .
C ( ool ) H ( ilarious ) U ( ltra-moronic ) D ( electable ) movie	Before John Heard and Daniel Stern co-starred in " Home Alone " , they co-starred in the much more interesting " C . H . U . D . " , about derelicts in the New York sewers getting exposed to toxic waste and mutating into Cannibalistic Humanoid Underground Dwellers . Heard plays George Cooper , who is looking into the strange murders , and Stern plays A . J . " The Reverend " Shepherd , who works at a soup kitchen . When Daniel Stern came to Lewis & Clark College in September , 2004 , I went to hear him speak . He talked mainly about his USO trip to Iraq the previous December , but also about " Home Alone " , " City Slickers " and such movies . I wish that he could have talked about " C . H . U . D . " . True , it's sort of a gross movie , but it's pretty neat for what it is . You probably won't want to venture into the sewer after watching it .
Leave it to the Brits to revolutionize the Count .	Everyone knows the Dracula story , so I'll talk about this movie's aspects . " Horror of Dracula " is particularly groundbreaking because it was the first Dracula movie that showed blood ( naturally , such a movie would have to come from England ; here in the US we still had tight censorship codes ) . Obviously , Christopher Lee remains forever associated with the Count , and he does a really cool job here . Peter Cushing is equally cool as Van Helsing , and it's maybe a little jarring to see Michael Gough ( who more recently played Batman's butler Alfred ) . The Hammer movies were always something admirable , and this is no exception . Perfect .
great part of world cinema	I just last night saw " Cinema , Aspirinas e Urubus " ( called " Cinema , Aspirins and Vultures " in English ) . It's an amazing story of a man who flees Nazi Germany and moves to Brazil , where he shows movies to the inhabitants of a destitute village in the northeast of the country and also gives them aspirin , thereby bringing them a new hope . I like how the movie not only develops the characters , but also shows world events affecting everyone's lives , as Brazil declares war on Germany and it becomes hard for the man to sell the German-produced aspirin . Looking very amateur , the movie has a particularly realistic feeling ; the desert setting might even make you feel like you're sweating as the characters do . But overall , the movie's a wonderful look at life and how we make decisions about our directions . As they say in one scene : " With this , you could sell the Devil a Bible ! " All in all , a very good movie .
never blame the victim	Jodie Foster broke out of her teenage persona in " The Accused " , in which she masterfully portrays a rape victim seeking justice . The movie shows how , as often seems to happen , the raped woman gets accused of bringing the rape upon herself because of how she dressed . But her character understands what she has to do . Equally as good is Kelly McGillis as her attorney trying to prove that not only did the men rape her client , but several other men encouraged the rape . A particularly effective scene is when Foster decides to take revenge on one of the men who encouraged the rape ; you can feel what she's thinking . All in all , this is a movie that I recommend to everyone . It shows how our society stigmatizes women , but also reminds us never to give up hope . Perfect .
I say : knight Heath Ledger !	A few years before Heath Ledger starred in " Brokeback Mountain " , he played a man pretending to be a knight in " A Knight's Tale " , chock full of deliberate anachronisms ( namely the soundtrack ) . I swear that it was one of the funniest movies that year . I just gotta wonder : who comes up with these things ? This movie is also interesting for an early appearance of Paul Bettany , who went on to play Russell Crowe's friends in " A Beautiful Mind " and " Master and Commander : The Far Side of the World " , and married Jennifer Connelly . All in all , this is one cool movie . It would be hard to imagine anyone not liking it . Hilarious . So I bid ye all to watch this film . . . ' twill not make ye bored one bit .
The top ten reasons that I like this show .	# 10 : David Letterman declared that 60 % of everything that Bill O'Reilly says is crap . # 9 : " Will It Float ? " . . . would any of those babes float ? # 8 : His musical guests have included Ringo Starr and The Temptations . # 7 : Nodody gets away clean on his show . # 6 : As a Bush supporter , he rips at Bush as much as possible . # 5 : Paul Shaffer and The CBS Orchestra always have some great music in store . # 4 : David Letterman once hosted the Oscars . # 3 : I haven't seen any of the episodes where other people host ( how can you fill in for Dave ? ) . # 2 : The jokes work , no matter which era we live in . And the # 1 reason that I like the " Late Show with David Letterman " : The top ten list .
How could I have never heard of the Zodiac Killer until this came out ?	Believe it or not , I had literally never heard of the Zodiac Killer until around the time that " Zodiac " got released in the theaters ( cut me some slack ; I was born many years after the killings took place ) . So , now I've seen the movie portraying everything surrounding the murders . I have to say that it's a really good movie . It focuses less on the murders themselves than on the investigations . The main character is actually Robert Graysmith ( Jake Gyllenhaal ) , a reporter for the San Francisco Chronicle . I , for one , was amazed at how he and the cops discovered the various patterns and clues . Therefore , maybe it helps if you nothing about the Zodiac Killer : everything in the movie is more of a surprise . As for the murderer's actual identity . . . well , in case you don't know the story , I won't spoil it . Aside from Gyllenhaal , there are other people doing great roles here . Robert Downey Jr . plays Graysmith's cohort Paul Avery . Avery sees his responsibility as a reporter , but personal problems impede his work ; he's the type of wretch whom you can't help but admire . Mark Ruffalo plays cop Dave Toschi . Toschi is intent on solving the case and doesn't want the press interfering , but understands that he has to put up with the media . Also starring are Anthony Edwards , Brian Cox , Philip Baker Hall , Donal Logue , Chloe Sevigny , James LeGros and Candy Clark ( I assume that she's the same Candy Clark who starred in " American Graffiti " ) . All in all , I recommend this movie very much . I got the feeling that the tension between Graysmith and Toschi mirrored the tension that must have taken over San Francisco surrounding the murders . And as a side note , we get to hear some great music ( e . g . , Donovan's " Hurdy-Gurdy Man " ) . A very good movie indeed .
How could people be like this ?	It's sad to think that people could actually be like this , but apparently there are such individuals . Lt . Col . Bull Meechum ( Robert Duvall ) is a military man without a war , so he uses all his energy to regiment his family . Immature and rather mean , Bull always gets his way . . . until they move to Beaufort , South Carolina . When Bull's son Ben ( Michael O'Keefe ) befriends African-American Toomer Smalls ( Stan Shaw ) , it sets the stage for what's going to follow . " The Great Santini " is very well done . Since this was written by Pat Conroy - who also wrote " The Prince of Tides " - we can easily conclude that he must have had an abusive father . Also starring Blythe Danner , David Keith , and Paul Gleason ( whom you may recognize as Clarence Beaks from " Trading Places " and the principal from " The Breakfast Club " ) .
That's what happens when you mess with the environment !	We humans may think that we can do anything without adverse results , but if only we knew ! Mangling the environment is bound to blow up in our faces ! And in " It's Alive ! " , does it ever ! Frank ( John Ryan ) and Lenore Davies ( Sharon Farrell ) drive to the hospital to have their baby . There's just one problem : the new baby looks and acts like something out of a Wes Craven movie . Not only is the infant one mean mother , but the people hunting him are equally brutal : they focus on killing him rather than looking into why he ended up a monster . I've never seen any other of Larry Cohen's movies , but if " It's Alive ! " is any indication , then he must turn out some neat movies . One more thing : I have to admit that the only cast member whom I recognized was Michael Ansara , who played a cop . He was married to Barbara Eden for some years . So Jeannie's husband had to battle a psycho killer baby . Hmmm . . .
victory through hair power	For people like me who were born long after the ' 60s ended , we can only learn about the era through cultural artifacts , of which " Hair " is one . This is certainly a well done tour de force . One can get a sense of how things were for the hippie culture . Probably the most impressive scene - for me at least - is when the group crashes the rich people's party . As for the movie's final scene , one might interpret it as the symbolic end of everything that the ' 60s represented . But no matter how one interprets this movie , it's important to understand that even though the ' 60s themselves may have ended , the movements that typified them still exist in small enclaves . It's a time that people won't soon forget . Anyway , this movie is one that I definitely recommend . Milos Forman scored another great one here , right between his two masterpieces " One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest " and " Ragtime " ( so why did he later make a piece of crap like " Man on the Moon " ? ! ) . Starring John Savage , Treat Williams and Beverly D'Angelo .
Can you imagine how many times this has happened ?	I'll admit that I'd never heard of Rubin " Hurricane " Carter before this movie came out . But watching the movie , I came to understand the whole case perfectly . Carter ( Denzel Washington ) grew up in the slums of New Jersey , forcing him to be strong ( and a hard-ass ) . The racism surrounding him caused him to develop a solid hatred of white people ( and he had every reason to ) . Finally , he was arrested , tried , convicted , and imprisoned for murder . But really , they imprisoned him for being a strong-willed black man ( and they claimed that he was convicted by a jury of his peers , despite the fact that every one of the jurors was white ) . So , after a few years , Canadian activists Lisa Peters ( Deborah Kara Unger ) , Sam Chaiton ( Liev Schreiber ) and Terry Swinton ( John Hannah ) start a campaign to reopen the case and free Carter . Bob Dylan wrote a song about the case , and Ellen Burstyn also campaigned for him to get released . Finally , in the early ' 80s , he got exonerated . As he affirmed : " Hate put me in here . But love's gonna get me out . " The overall point of the movie is that the racism of our society has been wrongfully imprisoning people for years . I think that it's appropriate that this movie - directed by Norman Jewison - came out in 1999 . In that year , I was as old as my parents were in 1967 , when Jewison released " In the Heat of the Night " - also dealing with race relations in this country . All in all , this is a movie that everyone should see .
Believe it or not , this is the first installment that I've seen .	I know that it probably seems pretty silly of me to watch the latest installment before watching the previous ones - and I never really planned to do it like that - but I've watched " 49 Up " , and I really admired it . All twelve of the interviewees provide strong incite into the present state of affairs . True , Michael Apted has interviewed them so many times that it very likely is getting somewhat intrusive , but I think that we do need documentation of what the world is like every couple of years ; I mean , just look at what all's happened in the world ( or even in the characters ' lives ) since 1998 . Anyway , I'm now very eager to see the other installments . And I intend to watch them chronologically . I definitely recommend this one .
an equal sequel	Everyone has probably heard that " The Godfather : Part II " is as good as the original , and it's true . Perhaps it's better , that's debatable . Picking up where the first film left off , we see the Corleones ' control over Las Vegas . Also , Michael ( Al Pacino ) gets involved with Hyman Roth ( Lee Strasberg ) , one of his father's former cohorts . Meanwhile , in flashbacks , we see young Vito Andolini immigrate from the town of Corleone , Sicily , to New York City in the early 20th century . As he ages ( the adult Vito is played by Robert DeNiro ) , Vito becomes increasingly involved in Mafia business . The climax ( at least in my opinion , it was the climax ) happens in Cuba on New Year's Eve in 1958 . You may recall that the Mafia helped prop up Fulgencio Batista and his reign of terror . Anyway , while Michael and Fredo ( John Cazale ) are at a party at the Presidential Palace , Michael angrily yells at Fredo " I know it was you , Fredo ! You broke my heart ! " At that moment , just as it turns into 1959 , the revolutionary forces enter Havana , proclaiming the revolution's victory . The combination of these two events shows that things won't be the same anymore , whether in the Corleone family or in Cuba . To be certain , Kay ( Diane Keaton ) has some unexpected news for Michael when he returns home . The point is , this movie disproves the notion that all sequels suck . This sequel is a masterpiece , with splendid performances by Pacino , Keaton , DeNiro , Cazale , Strasberg , Robert Duvall and Talia Shire . But of course , most of all , this movie's superbness owes to director Francis Ford Coppola . He knows exactly how to make a movie , and don't let anyone tell you otherwise . .
hilarious	There have been many comedies focusing on weddings , but " The In-Laws " may have brought the genre to its panacea . Featuring Alan Arkin ( as the bride's father ) and Peter Falk ( as the groom's father ) going on a series of crazy adventures right before the wedding , the whole thing's a laugh a minute . It just makes one happy that cinematic humor in the ' 70s shifted to the completely loony , and Arkin and Falk make a great comic team . I would imagine that everyone had a lot of fun on the set . Featuring Ed Begley Jr . and David Paymer in his debut . There was a remake , but I heard that it was pathetic . So stick with this one and you'll have a really good time .
I compose ( pun intended ) a message . . .	I guess that it's fitting that since I share a birthday with Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart , that the movie about him should win Best Picture for the year in which I was born . And is it a great movie ! More than simply focusing on the famous composer's life , it shows how rival composer Antonio Salieri ( F . Murray Abraham ) envied Mozart ( Tom Hulce ) and tried to get revenge on him . Director Milos Forman brings to " Amadeus " the same eye-popping realism that he brought to his other Best Picture winner , " One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest " , and also to " Ragtime " . I'll admit , maybe it's a little strange that Pinto from " Animal House " plays Mozart , but Tom Hulce does a masterful - and funny - job with the role . I recommend this movie to everyone .
Great TV !	" The Groove Tube " was one of only two Ken Shapiro movies , the other one being the equally zany " Modern Problems " . This one is just a full-scale parody of TV . Aside from Shapiro - who apparently didn't do anything after " Modern Problems " - the movie also stars Chevy Chase and Henry Winkler's cousin Richard Belzer . The three cast members ( plus some other people in smaller roles ) appear in various skits . One of the funniest ones features Chase in a Geritol-spoofing commercial , in which he's describing the medicine as his wife strips , and it ends with her humping him . There's also a pornographic news program , an irritating cooking show , and the epic tale of some drug dealers . Anyway , the whole thing's just a real hoot . In my opinion , the three best TV-spoofing movies are this one , plus " Tunnelvision " and " Kentucky Fried Movie " ( although I might also include " The Truman Show " ) . Really funny . I wonder what ever did become of Ken Shapiro .
You're a great one , Dr . Seuss / You're the king of children's books / They always are the best / In the east and in the west , Dr . Seuss !	" How the Grinch Stole Christmas ! " is a wonderful flick / with some truly great lines , it isn't a trick / It could only have come from the great Dr . Seuss / otherwise , the whole thing would've been loose / Narrated by Karloff and directed by Jones / this Grinch is one who elicits no groans / It's the story of one weird Christmas-hating man / who one Christmas Eve , came up with a plan / He'd steal the presents and everything else / where does this plan go ? I cannot tell / You must watch the movie , and then you will know / why this cartoon's still a tradition in the two-zero-Os / And one more thing that I should remind / avoid the live action , which I heard was unkind / They fouled it up , they fouled it down / every part of the story just came unwound / But this classic is always something to love / whether you're down below , or way up above !
We all know that two heads are better than one , but what about when one of those heads is inside the other ?	Ever seen a movie so zany that you just keep wanting more ? If not , then " All of Me " is it . Edwina Cutwater ( Lily Tomlin ) is a rich woman about to pass on , and Roger Cobb ( Steve Martin ) is the lawyer managing her estate . But just as she dies , something goes screwy and her spirit gets transferred into Roger ! Now , she controls half of his body and the two of them have a hell of a time trying to cooperate ! A particularly funny scene is when Roger is trying to go to the bathroom and . . . well , you have to see for yourself . One thing about Steve Martin is that I can never decide which of his movies is his best . " All of Me " is certainly up there . Martin always did quite well working with Carl Reiner ( previously in " The Jerk " , " Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid " and " The Man with Two Brains " ) .
That's the business world for ya !	While Hollywood got sort of stagnant during the few years after WWII , England developed a very prolific film industry . In " The Man in the White Suit " , inventor Sidney Stratton ( Alec Guinness ) creates a suit that never gets dirty . Unfortunately , this means that certain other businesses are now likely to go out of business ! How can Sidney deal with this and maintain his dignity ? This is an example of one of the great movies in which Alec Guinness starred before he became Obi Wan Kenobi . It's a good look at the overall absurdity of the business world . If you're planning to start any kind of business , you might want to consider watching this movie .
Space really is deeper than we think . . . and to think that I once thought that Marvin said a certain sexual organ when he said " Venus " !	When Bugs Bunny , after a miserable night's sleep , accidentally boards a rocket-ship , he inadvertently ends up in the domain of Marvin Martian , who wants to blow up earth . When Bugs steals Marvin's earth-shattering device , Marvin promptly sends some birdlike Martians after Bugs . Sure enough , Bugs is way ahead of him . Aside from Bugs Bunny's simple irreverence , it's always great how these cartoons weren't afraid to do whatever they wanted . Marvin sort of reminded me of a 17th century fop , how he talked . But either way , the cartoon is just one of many classics . Not to be missed . And you just might want to run to the hills . . . Silly-vization . Ha !
avian sadism	More of Wile E . Coyote - aka Famishus Vulgaris - coming up with an infinite number of unsuccessful traps to catch Road Runner - aka Birdibus Zippibus . Among the gags here are a shaft to carry a bomb down a hill , a brick wall , and bees . Needless to say , Wile E . always gets what's coming to him . A previous reviewer noted that in " Zoom and Bored " , we get to see more of Road Runner's personality : he is one sadistic mother ( is that better than just being indifferent to surrounding events , like he usually is ? ) . But no matter , this is another classic cartoon . Michael Maltese always managed to write something great . Really funny .
Everything that anyone's ever been awaiting .	For all who have spent their lives waiting for wacky , biting satire , wait no more . " Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back " is here and as funny as can be . Portraying the title characters ( Jason Mewes and Kevin Smith ) trying to stop Hollywood from making an illegal movie based on their lives , the movie is basically a joke every minute . Probably the funniest aspect is the way that various people appear in the movie making fun of their roles in other movies ( check out Matt Damon's and Ben Affleck's appearance ) . I should warn you that this is not a movie for prudes . The George Carlin scene will particularly rile such people , as will the whole part about the " clit " . But Kevin Smith's fans are sure to love this movie . Also starring in hilarious roles are Will Ferrell , Shannon Elizabeth , Carrie Fisher , Chris Rock , and several others ( I did what the movie commanded when a certain " Star Wars " cast member appeared ) . A real treat for all .
Grazie , everyone !	We all know that eventually , the children are going to want to do things differently from the parents . " Breaking Away " portrays that to the extreme . Having graduated from high school in Indiana , Dave Stoller ( Dennis Christopher ) is very much into bicycling , and specifically the Cinzano team in Italy . So , hoping to become a cyclist himself , he begins acting as Italian as possible - even putting on an accent for a female classmate . His parents are uncomfortable with this , but his friends ( Dennis Quaid , Daniel Stern , Jackie Earle Haley ) like it . Only Dave himself knows what to do with his life . This movie will probably teach you all that there is to know about the bicycle world . You might even feel like getting on a bicycle and riding around town yourself . Very well done .
Released in the same year as the Lewinsky thing , how could anyone not think about " hair gel " ?	You may not be prepared for some of the scenes in " There's Something About Mary " ( not the least of which is the zipper scene ) , but you're sure to like them nonetheless . The plot of course has loser Ted Stroehmann ( Ben Stiller ) trying to find high school sweetheart Mary Jensen ( Cameron Diaz ) . However , EVERYONE wants to find Mary , and a number of whacked-out incidents ensue . Most famous is the " hair gel " scene , but that's just one of many . With great support from Matt Dillon , Chris Elliott , Lee Evans , and others , this is one gross-out fest that you can't afford to miss . Those Farrelly brothers are truly something else .
You must witness this movie	I have never seen a Billy Wilder movie that I didn't like , and to say that " Witness for the Prosecution " is another example of his masterpieces does not do it justice ( pun not intended ) . In the movie , American Leonard Vole ( Tyrone Power , who died shortly after they finished filming ) is accused of murdering a woman in England . He hires Sir Wilfrid Robarts ( Charles Laughton ) , a reputable attorney , to defend him . To get more information about everything , Robarts consults with Vole's wife Christine . But that's where things take an unexpected turn . As the trial - and the movie - progress , we keep learning secrets that the characters have been keeping . By the courtroom climax , all bets are off , to say the least . This just may be the perfect movie . No matter what you suspect , I guarantee that you will be surprised . You will never look at a trial the same again . And above all , it confirms Billy Wilder as one of the greatest directors in history .
now this is what I call a western	It has been noted many times that " High Noon " was an allegory for people refusing to stand up to the McCarthy-era blacklist . And a masterpiece at that . Happening circa 1880 , Sheriff Will Kane ( Gary Cooper ) of Hadleyville , New Mexico , has just gotten married to Quaker Amy Fowler ( Grace Kelly ) and is retiring from law enforcement . Unfortunately , he receives news that a criminal whom he sent to jail has been released and will arrive in town at noon . Kane tries to enlist help to fight the criminals , but the townspeople are too cowardly to help out , forcing Kane into the showdown of his life . The movie is a masterpiece from any angle , but the haunting theme song ( " Do Not Forsake Me , Oh My Darlin ' " ) adds to the mood . Cooper won a well deserved Oscar for his role , and this in fact was probably the best performance for all involved . Everyone should definitely see " High Noon " . It may help us one day .
not a dog at all	Functioning as a sort of midpoint between " Waiting for Guffman " and " A Mighty Wind " , " Best in Show " portrays a dog show and the various people who bring their canine friends to participate . Some are weird , some crazy , and otherwise , but they all make the movie good . Director Christopher Guest is particularly funny as gay Harlan Pepper , very much trying to promote his dog . Eugene Levy , Parker Posey , Michael McKean , Catherine O'Hara , and Bob Balaban also do great jobs ( I can't imagine them not doing great jobs , at least not in a Christopher Guest movie ) . As someone who's never attended a dog show , this movie is my main exposure to them . They sure look neat .
haste doesn't make waste here ( or should I say that it doesn't make waste " hare " ? )	Part of what was so great about the classic Looney Tunes cartoons was their irreverence and how they weren't afraid to do anything that they wanted . In this case , Marvin the Martian has an assignment to bring back an earthling . Sure enough , he comes across Bugs Bunny , who warns of a mutiny on the part of Marvin's dog . After Marvin finally traps Bugs - by means of an Acme strait jacket-ejecting bazooka ! - Bugs has more stuff planned for the voyage back to Mars . What I mean is , if you thought that it was a major change in the Solar System when they stripped Pluto of its planet status , then you ain't seen nothing yet ! Yes , " The Hasty Hare " goes all out . How they buy Acme products in outer space is probably beyond most people , but the point here - I mean " hare " - is to have fun . And believe me , you definitely will . After all , a little space-out never hurt anyone .
at least I went scuba diving BEFORE I saw this movie	Why " Open Water " is so good is because it could really happen ( in fact , it was inspired by real events ) . It focuses on a husband and wife who are going scuba diving and get left behind by their tour boat . From there , the predicament only gets worse , as sharks begin to sense that the two people are floating around . Throughout the whole movie , you feel very nervous . You keep expecting something bad to happen , and some bad things do happen . I don't want to say that you feel for the characters ( that sounds mushy ) , but you basically do . The husband even explains that they paid for this ; the tour company took their money and left them . You will truly never look at the ocean the same after watching this movie .
family life	Obviously , weird / dysfunctional / neurotic families always make for interesting movies , but " The Royal Tenenbaums " may have brought the genre to its zenith . Gene Hackman plays Royal Tenenbaum , the estranged patriarch . Mother Etheline ( Anjelica Huston ) continued raising sons Chas ( Ben Stiller ) and Richie ( Luke Wilson ) and daughter Margot ( Gwyneth Paltrow ) on her own . Now , Chas has two sons , whom he is raising to be as neurotic as he is , Margot has hooked up with the pompous Raleigh St . Clair ( Bill Murray ) , and Richie is a tennis player who deliberately lost a game ( I got the feeling that he was obsessed with his sister ) . Meanwhile , Etheline has hooked up with the cultured Henry Sherman ( Danny Glover ) . And there's something up with friend Eli Cash ( Owen Wilson ) . In the midst of this all , Royal finds a way to get the whole family back together : by telling everyone that he has an illness . Getting back together , the entire family is forced to reevaluate their relationships with each other and how they've been living and . . . look , I can't do justice to the movie by trying to describe it . It's a masterpiece . You have to see it .
Why , we will ( hopefully ) never return to admiring nuclear power	" The China Syndrome " could not have been released at a better time : twelve days after its release , the infamous screw-up in Three Mile Island happened . But even if that ( and / or Chernobyl ) had never happened , this movie remains an important look at what could happen through mismanagement of nuclear facilities . Jack Lemmon turns in a five star performance as the supervisor trying to expose a cover-up at his nuclear plant , with Jane Fonda playing the reporter trying to investigate , and Michael Douglas plays her cameraman . I don't know whether or not the current threat of a terrorist attack makes " The China Syndrome " more disturbing , but either way , it's still definitely a movie that everyone should see . I hope that those people who spent years pushing nuclear power saw this movie just so that they could know that their views and ideals are completely defunct .
there are no WMDs	Since I was never a full-scale " LOTR " devotee - although I will agree that Peter Jackson directed a pretty impressive trilogy - I have to say that my favorite moment from " The 76th Annual Academy Awards " was when Sean Penn accepted his Best Actor award for " Mystic River " : he said ( I don't know whether or not this is verbatim ) " There is one thing that an actor knows , aside from the fact that there are no WMDs . . . " . Kudos also to Errol Morris for repeating the anti-war call when he accepted his Best Documentary Feature Oscar for " The Fog of War " . I guess that the rest of the show was pretty routine , although I liked what Jim Carrey did to present Blake Edwards with his Honorary Oscar . And although I'm not really a fan of Billy Crystal , you gotta admit that his songs at the beginning were a real hoot ( especially the Michael Eisner comment ) . New Zealand and South Africa ( Charlize Theron definitely deserved her Oscar ) both got widely thanked . Which other parts of the world are gonna get that in the near future ?
A Jewish Indian , a rescued handcart , excessive flatulence , and a very gay movie set ? Only Mel Brooks could do it !	Cinema reaches its all-time silliest with Mel Brooks ' comedy classic " Blazing Saddles " , in which African-American railroad worker Bart ( Cleavon Little ) becomes sheriff of all-white Rockridge . Governor's assistant Hedley - not Hedy ! - Lamarr ( Harvey Korman ) hopes that the townspeople will want to flee , opening the way for a railroad extension . That's the official plot , but of course the movie is really an excuse for a series of crazy gags . Whether it's Jim / Waco Kid's ( Gene Wilder ) " fastest hands in the West " , Gov . William J . LePetomane's ( Mel Brooks ) sexual follies , Lili Von Schtupp's ( Madeline Kahn ) songs , or the last names of Rockridge's townspeople ( pay attention there ) , this movie shows that infantile humor can be hilarious . And I must say that it's almost surprising how much they used the N-word , especially considering that this was a comedy . But anyway , you're sure to die laughing . Because remember , " Mongo like candy ! "
the title sounds a little bit like " Snakes on a Plane "	I expect Judi Dench and Cate Blanchett to play very good roles , but I couldn't have predicted the intensity of " Notes on a Scandal " . Portraying school official Barbara ( Dench ) discovering teacher Sheba ( Blanchett ) having an affair with a student and using it against her , the whole thing keeps you on the edge of your seat . Far from the kindly , aristocratic roles with which she's most associated , Dench creates a cold , vicious character . And yet , seeing the actions of both women , you can't really sympathize with either one . Not surprisingly , it all leads to some pretty ugly consequences . Anyway , don't start this movie expecting either woman to play the sort of roles in which you've seen them before . They both come across as kind of vile , even if they have good qualities . And they both do a great job with it . Judi Dench certainly deserved her Oscar nomination ( although I'm glad that they gave Helen Mirren the award ) . Also starring Bill Nighy . And yes , I thought that the title sounded a little bit like " Snakes on a Plane " . Just imagine Judi Dench saying something like " I've had it with these motherking notes on this motherking scandal ! "
all kinds of crossroads	OK , you've probably heard that Bob Clark's ( RIP ) " Black Christmas " is basically the original slasher movie , the inspiration for John Carpenter's " Halloween " . Well , let me just say that - in response to the tag-line - my skin did actually crawl a little bit during some of the phone calls ! Of course , that doesn't even begin to identify what makes this such a scary movie . Aside from not knowing the killer's identity , some of the scenes towards the end really catch you . But that's only one cool aspect . The cast includes Olivia Hussey ( Juliet in " Romeo and Juliet " ) , Keir Dullea ( Dave in " 2001 : A Space Odyssey " ) , Margot Kidder ( Lois in " Superman " ) and John Saxon ( Roper in " Enter the Dragon " ) ; no doubt when Olivia Hussey and Keir Dullea appeared in their most famous roles in 1968 , they never imagined that they would co-star in this sort of movie . Director Bob Clark is most famous for " A Christmas Story " and the " Porky's " movies ; seriously , what kind of person can lay claim to directing movies as different as these , plus " Children Shouldn't Play with Dead Things " ? But the main point is that this is the mother of all slasher movies . Like " The Jazz Singer " to sound , like " I Haven't Got a Hat " to the Looney Tunes , like " I Love Lucy " to sitcoms , everything started here . No matter how you look at it , " Black Christmas " , for lack of a better word , is DA BOMB ! Not only do the cast members truly have something about which to proud , but it goes to show what we lost when Bob Clark got killed in a car wreck earlier this year . PS : the special edition DVD includes an interview with Olivia Hussey ( and she still looks quite good after all these years ) . She didn't see the completed film until many years later , as horror flicks scare her . Well , I think that it's practically a guarantee that at least one scene in this movie will scare you . Because as Olivia Hussey notes , the idea of there being something creepy out there is scarier than knowing what's there .
when the brothers ( including Dick Hallorann ) fight . . .	Sort of picking up where " Enter the Dragon " left off , " Black Belt Jones " casts Jim Kelly as African-American martial arts expert " Black Belt " Jones trying to stop the mafia from taking over a martial arts training center once owned by friend Pop Byrd ( Scatman Crothers ) . Obviously , the Me Decade was partly known for blaxploitation movies , but that's one of the things that made the decade so great . Here , Jim Kelly really shows off his kicks ( presumably learned by his character in " Enter the Dragon " , also directed by Robert Clouse ) . Well , all that I can say is : fight on , brothers ! Never let The Man tell you what to do !
a person can do a lot with the Depression . . . especially when Capt . Kirk is present	Roger Corman reaffirms himself as one of America's coolest directors with the trashy-but-great " Big Bad Mama " . It's 1932 Texas , and Wilma McClatchie ( Angie Dickinson ) has just lost everything . No problem ! She and her daughters take to the road and go around robbing banks and messing with society , bilking the system for all that it's worth . Along the way , crook Fred Diller ( Tom Skerritt ) and gentleman William Baxter ( William Shatner ) join up with them , while snide lawman Bonney ( Dick Miller ) chases them . It's like " Bonnie and Clyde " taken to the next level ! Maybe this really isn't the sort of movie that could ever get ranked among history's most " important " , but it's a thrill every step of the way . And it's always great to see movies poke fun at religious wackos and focus on the important issues of the Depression . This is truly a movie that you won't want to miss .
This , ladies and gentlemen , is the " Citizen Kane " of camp !	Holy rusted metal , the Dynamic Duo started in a comic masterpiece ! This movie accompanied the wacky TV series . It has Batman ( Adam West ) and Robin ( Burt Ward ) battling Penguin ( Burgess Meredith ) , the Joker ( Cesar Romero ) , the Riddler ( Frank Gorshin ) and Catwoman ( Lee Meriwether ) . And of course , there's the ubiquitous alliteration ( " feline floozy " , e . g . ) , and the graphics whenever someone gets hit . You just have to agree that the 1960s " Batman " was a lot cooler than the 1990s version . Well , " Batman " and " Batman Returns " were pretty good , but " Batman Forever " started pushing it , and the less said about " Batman and Robin " the better . Anyway , you gotta see this version of " Batman " . It's a camp classic !
Sacha Baron Cohen make ultra-hilarious movie-film ! You laugh yourself to death !	I hear some stuff about " Borat : Cultural Learnings of America for Make Benefit Glorious Nation of Kazakhstan " some before I see it . Then I see it and nearly laugh myself to death . Issa so funny ! They do stuff most people never do in movies . They not worry about being PC , family-friendly , or no stupid thing like that , they just wanna be funny and succeed ! Borat Sagdiyev ( Sacha Baron Cohen ) wanna learn from America how to make Kazakhstan better , but he learn about Pa-may-la and wanna have sex with her . He pervert throughout whole movie , and I like it ! Listen , no read my review , just watch movie and laugh yourself to death ! And remember , Kazakhstan is greatest country in world / all others run by little girls . . .
the ' 80s , when greed reigned supreme . . .	The main theme of the ' 80s was a complete and total rejection of ' 60s idealism , replacing it with an obsession with money . " Wall Street " shows that . Bud Fox ( Charlie Sheen ) is an up-and-comer in the Wall Street scene . So determined is Bud to make it to the top , that he hooks up with Gordon Gekko ( Michael Douglas ) , a hyper-competitive , viciously corrupt corporate raider . Gekko lets Bud in on all the stock market's inside secrets . But , everything does have a price . Probably the movie's most famous scene is where Gekko stands up at a meeting and exalts greed . That sums up the whole ' 80s mentality . And " Wall Street " identifies that , showing how everything that goes on in these offices and trading rooms only benefits the people in the offices . Michael Douglas ' Oscar win could not have been more deserved .
A long , long time ago , in a country not too far away . . .	I think that it's especially appropriate that " Backbeat " was released right after the 30th anniversary of the Beatles coming to America : everyone was remembering them , and then a really good movie shows their early days . Specifically , it focuses on when they went to Hamburg and met artsy photographer Astrid Kirchherr . I should identify that this movie is for mature audiences only : aside from the language and sex , it shows how John , Paul , George , Pete , and Stu got addicted to speed so that they could keep playing ; as a result , they got little sleep and their eyes got all glassy as they laid awake . A really effective scene is right after Stu leaves the Beatles . Hoping to devote his life to art , he goes out and gets all drunk . Around this time , East Germany's government erects the Berlin Wall . Watching it on TV , Astrid and Klaus hold hands to be supportive of each other . When Stu sees this , he gets all violent . This scene - possibly more than any other in the movie - shows his mental breakdown . All in all , a great movie . We also see that they first met Ringo in Hamburg . I'm sure that we'll all be remembering " Backbeat " for years to come . Rock on , lads !
other gremlins , another Bugs	Whereas Joe Dante's holiday classic " Gremlins " portrayed its title characters as evil , conniving little monsters , " Falling Hare " shows a ( slightly ) different side . In this case , Bugs Bunny is reading " Victory Thru Hare Power " when he reads about gremlins sabotaging the airplanes . Naturally , he doesn't believe it . But when a gremlin starts sabotaging the airplane that Bugs is working on , Bugs suddenly changes . Usually the cool-headed , acerbic type , he becomes an impetuous , accident-prone twerp . And the gremlin knows exactly how to use Bugs's weaknesses against him . I guess that you could say that the little guy becomes Bugs , while Bugs becomes most of the other Looney Tunes . So , while the gremlin here is still conniving , he's clearly got his goals laid out . It's a pretty neat cartoon . And the soldiers ' opinions of the sergeant probably would have to get CENSORED ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! !
murkier and murkier	In case anyone thought that detective movies died when Humphrey Bogart did , " Chinatown " disproves that . Los Angeles Det . Jake Gittes ( Jack Nicholson ) is assigned to investigate millionaire Hollis Mulwray , but events lead him to a world of corruption and sleaze . Not only is Hollis ' wife Evelyn ( Faye Dunaway ) a major player , but Jake might not be as safe as he thinks . Everyone has probably heard of the famous scene where director Roman Polanski . . . well , in case you haven't seen it , I'll let you find out . But the point is , it doesn't even suffice to call " Chinatown " a detective movie ; it shows every nasty aspect of life that no one likes to imagine . You don't even know the definition of the word " gritty " until you've seen this movie .
As you can see , Steve McQueen was cool from the start !	You've probably heard the theme song . But whether or not you have , you still gotta see " The Blob " . It's truly a classic sci-fi movie . The acting isn't exactly top-notch , but this is a movie that you're bound to like . The plot goes like this : one night , teenagers Steve Andrews ( Steve McQueen ) and Jane Martin ( Aneta Corsaut ) are making out , when a strange mass from outer space attacks a farmer , and slowly but surely starts taking over the town , getting bigger with each victim . Sound simplistic ? Well we shouldn't expect ' 50s sci-fi movies to be anything else ! The movie is just plain cool . There are some things that we sort of know are going to be in a ' 50s movie about teenagers - namely that the stubborn adults won't believe them , and the kind of dress that Jane wears . Steve McQueen is cool as always , and it's sort of surprising to see Aneta Corsaut ( aka Helen on " The Andy Griffith Show " ) in this movie . Actually , a number of people who later became famous on TV shows started out in sci-fi / horror flicks from the ' 50s and early ' 60s . Frances Bavier ( Aunt Bee on " The Andy Griffith Show " ) starred in " The Day the Earth Stood Still " ; Alan Hale ( the Skipper on " Gilligan's Island " ) starred in " The Crawling Hand " ; Russell Johnson ( the Professor on " Gilligan's Island " ) starred in " It Came from Outer Space " and " This Island Earth " ; and Robert Reed ( the " Brady Bunch " dad ) starred in " Bloodlust " . It's surprising that Dick Van Dyke never had to battle 20-eyed gorgothoids from Planet X . But let's not get off the subject . If " The Blob " is a B-movie , it's one of the neatest B-movies out there . And the 1988 remake was actually quite good also .
they make each other feel like natural women	Yet another litany of Wile E . Coyote maiming himself while trying to trap Road Runner . One of the funniest gags involves Wile E . dressing up as a woman ( sure enough , Road Runner is already ahead of him ) . Sometimes , I wonder why Wile E . doesn't just give , knowing what always happens to him , but I realize that if that happened , the cartoons couldn't exist . All in all , " Going ! Going ! Gosh ! " is one of the many classic Looney Tunes cartoons showing why their cartoons from that era really set the standards . They'll always be marvellous , and you can watch them time and again and still laugh . Just great .
I never thought that Spike Lee could do comedy ; boy was I wrong !	Knowing what Spike Lee's movies have portrayed over the years , I always pictured him as a serious director , never one for comedy . Therefore , I was pleasantly surprised when I saw " The Original Kings of Comedy " . I'd never heard of Steve Harvey , D . L . Hughley , Cedric the Entertainer , or Bernie Mac when the movie came out , but they made me crack up . I think that my favorite line in the movie was the rip at " Titanic " ; I couldn't have agreed more with him . So , this may very well be a look at the possible direction of stand-up comedy in the 21st century . I hope that humor continues as " TOKOC " portrays . A very funny documentary .
Insurance companies are always trying to rip people off .	Daffy Duck , ever the shyster , tries to sell Porky Pig an insurance policy with a series of specific , virtually improbable conditions . When Porky doesn't buy it , Daffy tries to set up several hazards around Porky's house , but only succeeds in repeatedly injuring himself . What " Fool Coverage " portrays isn't exactly fictional . Insurance companies have been engaging in questionable practices for years . But it was inexcusable what they did after Hurricane Katrina . After many homes were destroyed , the insurance companies refused to pay to rebuild them , claiming that the inhabitants either had no water damage insurance or had no wind damage insurance . Think what you want about insurance companies , but they are truly some of the creepiest thugs . But I digress . This is a really funny cartoon . A great display of Daffy's greedy side .
the truth about cats and dogs	In a documentary that I saw about Chuck Jones , he talked briefly about " Feed the Kitty " , and the idea that this big brute of a bulldog gets so easily charmed by an innocent little kitten . It's certainly a fascinating idea , and the risk of the kitten getting discovered - or worse - by the dog's owner naturally raises the stakes . I would imagine that there might be some controversy about the portrayal of the dog's owner ( a housewife who spends her days baking cookies and vacuuming ) , but we can't blame the whole cartoon for that . The point is that this is the sort of work that you least expect , and it comes out perfect . And to think that the first scene shows some evil-looking eyes . . . that turn out to be the kitten !
Let's think about some contemporary analogies .	1993 saw two movies about AIDS . The famous one was " Philadelphia " , but " And the Band Played On " is also important , focusing on the virus spreading in the ' 80's and how the Reagan administration acted like it didn't exist . If the movie has any problem , it's the number and range of big names . Matthew Modine as Dr . Don Francis is the nominal star , but also appearing are Alan Alda , Phil Collins , Bud Cort , Richard Gere , Glenne Headly , Anjelica Huston , Steve Martin , Ian McKellen , and Lily Tomlin , to name a few . Maybe they felt that they had to make this movie do to the fact that gays were portrayed so negatively in movies for so many years ( see " The Celluloid Closet " ) . All in all , a very good movie . The way that Reagan denied AIDS mirrors how Bush denies global warming .
another triumph from Will Vinton	Everyone likes a horror spoof , but none are quite like " Claymation Comedy of Horrors Show " . When Wilshire Pig and Sheldon Snail coming across a map detailing the works of Dr . Frankenswine ( who apparently created a monster out of dead bodies ) , they decide to go to the castle where he worked . Sure enough , the castle's all full of monsters and things . . . meaning that Wilshire and Sheldon aren't lucky to be alive . But boy does everyone have a surprise coming ! This just goes to show that you don't need an hour and a half to make a good story . As always , Will Vinton has something clever up his sleeve at every turn . This is one cartoon that you're sure to like . It's too bad that Phil Knight fired Will Vinton from his own business .
This movie should give anyone a positive view of hicks .	Before Andy Griffith became a certain wholesome sheriff , he played some interesting roles on film . " No Time for Sergeants " is a prime example . He plays country bumpkin Will Stockdale , who gets drafted into the army . Once in the army , he just can't do things the way that they want . This may be the end of the armed forces as we know them ! You'll probably really like the scene where he gets to meet Don Knotts ( pre-Barney Fife ) . Or the whole monologue about the latrines . Okay , so how many movies can there be about some goof-ball entering the army and raising Cain ? Maybe more than we want , but this one is a hoot . If you ask me , Andy Griffith works best in these kinds of roles .
better than the original	This is , in my opinion , the best movie version of Bram Stoker's novel ever , mainly because Werner Herzog decided to give the Count a sexual side . I guess that I needn't explain the story , but I will tell you that Klaus Kinski does a perfect job in the title role . I will always associate him with this role . The opening scene was as fascinating as it was creepy , with what looked like shriveled up babies and a moaning soundtrack . Bruno Ganz gives Jonathan Harker assertiveness as well as vulnerability . Isabelle Adjani gives Lucy an inner conflict as well as strength . All in all , Werner Herzog's " Nosferatu " is perfect in virtually every respect . This is truly the Dracula movie against which all others should be judged .
always topical	People may think of " Wag the Dog " as fiction , but time and again , the movie has shown itself to be reality . Whether it was Bush Sr . coming up with the Gulf War to distract people from the Savings and Loans scandal , Clinton threatening military action against Iraq to distract people from the Lewinsky thing , Bush Jr . invading Iraq as a we-can't-find-Osama diversion , or the current threats against Iran , this movie is the hilarious but unfortunate truth . The plot of course has spin doctor Conrad Brean ( Robert DeNiro ) teaming up with Hollywood producer Stanley Motss ( Dustin Hoffman ) to fabricate a war , so as to distract the country from the president's sexual follies ( and to think that the movie came out around the same time as you-know-what ) . It just goes to show that truth really is stranger than fiction , especially when politics is involved . A great satire . Also starring Anne Heche , Willie Nelson , Kirsten Dunst and Woody Harrelson .
the only one that I know	I know that this was a remake of a 1942 Ernst Lubitsch movie , but I've never seen the Lubitsch version . So , the Mel Brooks version of " To Be or Not to Be " is the one that I know . And I really like it . Just as he did in " The Producers " , Mel makes the audience laugh hysterically at the Nazis ( also accomplished by Charlie Chaplin and Roberto Benigni ) . Like many movies , it goes to show that humor really is the best way to deal with political issues . . . and also that Mel didn't have to be completely silly to come up with great ideas . Too bad that Mel Brooks and Anne Bancroft didn't co-star more often , as they were definitely a cool team here . You're sure to love it . And just remember what to do the next time that you have to deal with chronic invaders . . . Also starring Tim Matheson , Charles Durning , Christopher Lloyd and Estelle Reiner .
Cher's last stand	Another masterpiece from Franco Zefferelli ( also the man behind " Romeo and Juliet " ) , " Tea with Mussolini " portrays several English and American expatriate women raising an Italian boy in 1930's Florence . Always ready to reject authority , these women know how to live . It's another great tale of civil disobedience at a time when it seemed impossible if not dangerous . Cher , Judi Dench , Maggie Smith , Joan Plowright , and Lily Tomlin all do great jobs with the roles . It's weird to imagine Cher in such a role ; I've always thought that she was kind of worthless . But even she does really well here . A splendid movie for all times . Definitely see it .
you can't go wrong with Daffy and Porky	For years , many of us have been entertained by the Looney Tunes . Part of those lovable cartoon characters ' repertoires has been the stuttering Porky Pig's endless efforts to trap the sneaky Daffy Duck . In " Duck Soup to Nuts " , Porky is hunting Daffy , but of course Daffy keeps figuring out ways to mess up Porky's attempts . I guess that these cartoons are meant to remind us that hunting will not net you desirable results ( think Bugs Bunny and Elmer Fudd ) . And it's so great to watch slender Daffy play tricks on overweight Porky ( think of them as Laurel and Hardy , or Gilligan and the Skipper ) . Marvellous .
7 is not the lucky number for some people	You have probably never seen a particularly ugly murder until you see " Se7en " . Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman play Det . David Mills and Det . William Somerset , respectively , who are investigating a series of murders involving the Seven Deadly Sins . No person can possibly describe how awful and vicious it is , what the murderer has done to these people . Some scenes are likely to make you squirm . To avoid spoiling the movie , I won't write about them , but if you watch the movie , you'll probably recognize them . What the murderer does to the gluttony victim is especially ugly ; you might not want to eat anything after watching that scene . " Se7en " may be one of the most disturbing movies that you ever see , but it's good nonetheless .
some people have to change roles	At its most basic , Andrzej Wajda's " Popiol i diament " ( called " Ashes and Diamonds " in English ) may seem to be a look at where Poland would be going after WWII ended . The plot involves young Maciek Chelmicki ( Zbigniew Cybulski ) , who has helped expel the Nazis from Poland . With the Soviet Union now taking over the country , he is ordered to shift his allegiance to them . Through Maciek's acquaintances with communist leader Szczuka and barmaid Krzystyna ( Ewa Krzyzewska ) , a potentially explosive situation arises . If you know nothing about how the movie got made , this seems to be the whole purpose . But there are other points . In a mini-documentary about the movie , Andrzej Wajda and his collaborators explain how the novel on which the movie is based had Szczuka as the main character . Wajda not only moved the focus to Maciek - and gave him sort of a James Dean look - but also stressed the scene where Maciek talks with the man who fought in the Spanish Civil War . Apparently , fighting like the man did is a Polish tradition . Therefore , the film likely appeals to the Poles in almost every way ; the perfect Polish movie , if you will . Although I've never seen any of Andrzej Wajda's other movies - hell , I'd never heard of him until the Academy Awards gave him an honorary Oscar - I staunchly recommend this one . One can clearly see how he used the movie to subtly challenge the Soviet domination of his country ( of course , they couldn't openly say anything against the USSR ) . Poland's pro-Soviet government had approved the movie , but didn't want to let it outside Poland . Wajda got some people to smuggle it out of the country , and it reached much of the world . Probably the most amazing scene is the end . I won't spoil the end , but I'll note that blood on a white sheet looks a bit like Poland's flag ( a nationalistic statement ) . All in all , a great movie . Andrzej Wajda has every reason to be proud of it .
Forget " Titanic " ; this is the one to see .	So the ship sank on its maiden voyage . We all know that , but " Titanica " is quite an impressive documentary . They not only talk about the actual sinking , but we also see the ship's remains on the ocean floor . It's neat and haunting at the same time . And believe you me , this is truly THE documentary that could only have been shown on the IMAX . Some of the information is hard to believe , but it all grows on you . All in all , if you want to know about that ship , this is the movie to see , not " Titanic " ( why were they using a disaster to try and advance someone's career ? ) . If possible , you should see this one . You may never want to go on a cruise .
You see ? Capitalism can be funny !	There exist so many movies about white yuppies teaming up with black ghetto guys , that the genre seems obscured . But " Trading Places " is the movie that started it all . When commodities brokers Mortimer ( Ralph Bellamy ) and Randolph Duke ( Don Ameche ) decide to test the old nature-vs-nurture debate , they switch the places of rising employee Louis Winthorpe III ( Dan Aykroyd ) and homeless Billy Ray Valentine ( Eddie Murphy ) . Needless to say , some great scenes ensue ! My favorite line was Eddie Murphy's tirade about the GI Joe with kung fu grip ( mind you , he was talking about pork bellies ) . Also , the scene where kindly English butler Denholm Elliott is driving Eddie Murphy around and Eddie Murphy spots Dan Aykroyd . . . well , let's just say that there's a stark contrast between their accents ! Oh , and if you've seen " Scream " then you probably heard about one of Jamie Lee Curtis ' scenes . Also appearing is Al Franken as a gorilla handler , and " Loco-Motion " used to great effect . It's good to see that Dan Aykroyd was able to continue , even without John Belushi . A truly classic comedy .
Actually , it's a good thing ( for us , that is ) that he didn't fly south earlier !	While flying south later than he should have , Daffy Duck accidentally crashes into Porky Pig's house . Inside , he meets an uncommunicative duck . One thing leads to another until Daffy vows to beat the stuffings out of the duck . The only thing is , he literally does , at which point he realizes that it was a stuffed duck . Taking the duck's place , he has to hide from the dog , while Porky doesn't believe the dog's stories that there's a new duck around . OK , so this probably wasn't the best Looney Tunes cartoon ever produced , but it definitely had the wit prevalent in all their cartoons from that era . In " Cracked Quack " , Daffy goes into his totally wacky persona , as opposed to playing second banana to Bugs Bunny ( whose integrity he always tried to undermine ) . But either way , this is still a great cartoon . I guess that the end was the opposite of Independents ' Day !
Could either of them have been her father ?	If it stars Leslie Nielsen , you know that it's just a totally silly spoof . In this case , they're spoofing " The Fugitive " , with Nielsen as a witless violinist framed for murder . Of , this is just a springboard for a nonsense gag every couple of seconds , often meaning that figures of speech become literal . Or something very erotic . True , the critics will say that these sorts of movies are completely ridiculous - maybe even worthless - but anything poking fun at " Titanic " as they do at the end gets an A in my book . " Wrongfully Accused " is a nice , silly excuse for a good time . And you're sure to have one . Also starring Richard Crenna , Melinda McGraw , Kelly LeBrock , Michael York and Sandra Bernhardt . And remember : nobody cares about the following people . . .
murder was nothing ; everybody killed someone ( but in some ways , things haven't changed much )	We've probably all heard of the period in European history between the Roman Empire and the Renaissance . But unless we see this documentary , we can't even begin to understand how unpleasant it was ( and what we see here is probably tame compared to how things really were ) . " The Dark Ages " shows how Rome's collapse led to the balkanization of Europe and the rise of the Catholic Church , then the Holy Roman Empire and the Vikings , and all the while a semi-successor to Rome was going on in Constantinople . Not to mention the Bubonic Plague . There is a brief look at how the Catholic Church and the monarchs were intent on forcing their religion on conquered people , but I think that the documentary could have looked more at how vile the Catholic Church got in its full-scale corruption . But the part about the Crusades was well done , in that it showed how the soldiers went over there with the aim of conquering the region but found a more advanced society ( the Arabs were keeping alive the knowledge that the Catholic Church suppressed in Europe ) . Anyway , we get a sense of how the Dark Ages - or Middle Ages , if you want to call them that - led to the Renaissance . Hearing about some of what happened during the Dark Ages , it seems like in some ways , things haven't gotten much better : we still have wars , oppression , and disease . Can technological advancements really mean anything ? Overall , I recommend this documentary .
something's fishy ( in a good way )	Portraying a heist gone awry , " A Fish Called Wanda " goes all out in every way possible . Maybe the whole thing is little more than an excuse for a bunch of silly situations , but they have some great ones here . Whether it's John Cleese's dance , Kevin Kline's rips at England , Michael Palin's stuttering , or Jamie Lee Curtis's deadpan performance , they know how to do everything here . I can't describe how funny the movie is ; you just have to see it . And you may very well die laughing - or if nothing else , you'll want to take a trip to England . Kevin Kline definitely deserved his Oscar . And of course , the cast teamed up again for the equally funny ( maybe even better ) " Fierce Creatures " . This is a comedy classic in every way . Oh , and in case Kevin Kline is reading this : Happy birthday ! You're my favorite actor !
What exactly is " Spaced " ?	I've read a lot about how " Shaun of the Dead " borrows a lot from a TV show called " Spaced " . I have to admit that I've never heard of " Spaced " . But even so , this movie is still really great . More than just a zombie movie - or even just a spoof - it's sort of a look at how various factors in our lives make us zombie-like . Everything has a very English feel to it , and the zombies themselves are almost hypnotic . I'd never heard of Simon Pegg before seeing " SOTD " , but I can certainly say that he does a hilarious job as the out-and-out Brit having to battle the living dead . Definitely worth seeing . Also starring Penelope Wilton ( Kevin Kline's wife in " Cry Freedom " ) and Bill Nighy .
We're all nuked and going to Hell .	Apparently , when " Silkwood " came out , Mike Nichols hadn't released a notable movie since " The Fortune " nearly killed his career eight years earlier . If we call this his comeback , then it was sure a good comeback . Donning one of her many accents from over the years - in this case Oklahoman - Meryl Streep plays Karen Silkwood , a plutonium processing plant employee who sought to expose the dangerous conditions in her workplace . . . and mysteriously died in a car wreck . This is the sort of opportunity to be idiotically preachy , but the movie never degenerates into that . It shows how the plant's owners poisoned her and psychologically berated her . This brings to mind the overall issue of how the nuclear age affected the whole planet . Nuclear tests by both the US and USSR left the whole world irradiated . Nuclear power may be discredited , but apparently NO PERSON ON EARTH has escaped nuclear fallout . So much for progress . All in all , " Silkwood " is a really good movie . It's surprising to see Kurt Russell and Cher ( as Karen's roommates Drew Stephens and Dolly Pelliker ) in this sort of movie ; we associate him with kick-ass roles and her with treacly roles . But they do a very good job . Also starring Craig T . Nelson , Diana Scarwid , Fred Ward , Ron Silver , and Bruce McGill .
For anyone who's ever wondered about geopolitics .	On September 11 , 2001 , we were all asking why they hate us . " Syriana " looks at why . Taking the same gritty approach to geopolitics that " Traffic " took to the drug trade , the movie portrays several intertwined stories all relating to events in the Middle East . There's CIA agent Bob Barnes ( George Clooney ) , energy analyst Bryan Woodman ( Matt Damon ) , CIA agent Bennett Holliday ( Jeffrey Wright ) , corporate CEO Jimmy Pope ( Chris Cooper ) , and some other characters who aren't really good or bad . " Syriana " pulls no punches , and I should identify that this is not a movie for the squeamish . But if you're interested in how everything in the world connects to everything else , then this is the movie for you . .
Adam and Bugs	OMG ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! They actually managed to stick in a nearly nude scene ! Yes , it's just one scene , but it's always amazing what they sneaked into these cartoons ( hell , Porky Pig walked around half naked ) . Bob Clampett's " Buckaroo Bugs " casts Bugs Bunny as an Old West bandit pursued by witless lawman Red Hot Ryder . Guess who always comes out on top ! I have to admit that I really only know about 1940s westerns through spoofs like this one , as westerns are one of my least favorite movie genres . Heck , I usually know parodies ( " Airplane ! " and " Weird Al " Yankovic's songs ) before knowing the original ; sometimes I see the parody without evening knowing that it spoofs something ( often I see something on " The Simpsons " , and then find out a few years later that it spoofed something ) . I can't tell you how many times when I was little that I watched Warner Bros . cartoons and naively laughed at them , only to later find out that they were parodies of movies or radio shows ( which made them funnier ) . But anyway , this is a hilarious cartoon . Another masterpiece from Bob Clampett .
Anyone can " bear " it . . .	You can tell that " Bugs Bunny and the Three Bears " was a pretty early Looney Tunes cartoon , but it has held up well through the years . It has the Three Bears trying to attract Goldilocks with carrot soup , but attracting Bugs Bunny instead . You can probably guess what sorts of things happen from there . A particularly interesting character here was Junyer Bear . Despite being the youngest cast member , he's the tallest ( almost twice as tall as Papa Bear , to be precise ) . Oh well , this is a cartoon , so there's no reason to obsess on something like that . You're supposed to just sit back and enjoy yourself . And enjoy yourself you will watching this cartoon . Doing the voices of the Looney Tunes for all those years , Mel Blanc was truly a man among men . And although Bea Benaderet wasn't credited ( she voices Mama Bear ) , her role in this and similar cartoons leads me to believe that she must have been a woman among women .
At first , I thought that Jodie Foster was a boy .	In what may be his most unusual movie , Martin Scorsese tells the story of Alice Hyatt ( Ellen Burstyn ) , a woman who is looking for a new direction in life . So , she and her son Tommy move to Phoenix , where she feels that she may have a shot at greatness . As a singing waitress , she struggles to make something of herself . Ellen Burstyn won a well-deserved Best Actress Oscar for this role ( it was especially interesting seeing her in this kind of a role , given that she'd most recently starred in " The Exorcist " ) , and Kris Kristofferson , Harvey Keitel , Alfred Lutter and an androgynous Jodie Foster offer good supporting roles . I recommend " Alice Doesn't Live Here Anymore " to everyone .
Long live rebellion !	" Rock ' n ' Roll High School " will probably have to go down in history as the ultimate rebellious party flick . Portraying a bunch of high school students using the Ramones ' music as inspiration to rise up against their despotic principal ( Mary Woronov , of " Eating Raoul " fame ) , the whole movie is a mile a minute . It's basically a big excuse to have fun , and I'm sure that you will . Bullied freshmen ? Check . A dorky music teacher ( Paul Bartel , also from " Eating Raoul " ) ? Check . Exploding mice ? Checkmate . Anyway , this is the sort of stuff that makes life worth living . Even for someone like me who doesn't know the Ramones ' music , it's pure pleasure . With Roger Corman executive producing and Joe Dante co-directing , how could we expect anything less ? Too bad that director Allan Arkush later degenerated into fare such as " Caddyshack II " . Also starring P . J . Soles , Vincent Van Patten , Clint Howard , Dey Young , Dick Miller ( who has appeared in every one of Joe Dante's movies , and many of Roger Corman's ) , Don Steele , and of course the Ramones . A real treat . It seems like Bartel and Woronov always co-starred . They also co-starred in Joe Dante's " Hollywood Boulevard " and the slasher flick " Chopping Mall " ( also starring Dick Miller ) . . . in which they reprised their roles from " Eating Raoul " .
Canada's " Crocodile Dundee "	Before I saw " The Adventures of Bob & Doug McKenzie : Strange Brew " , I knew nothing about Rick Moranis and Dave Thomas doing a comedy skit as a pair of archetypal Canadian brothers . But even if you don't know the comedy skit , the movie's still really funny , as the dopey McKenzie brothers try to stop nefarious Brewmeister Smith ( Max Von Sydow ( happy birthday , Max ! ) ) from carrying out an evil plot . I get the feeling that people in Canada might cringe a little bit at the portrayal of their country in this movie , much like people in Australia might cringe at " Crocodile Dundee " . But as long as we understand that this flick is a total joke , we can appreciate it . As far as I'm concerned , this movie corroborates what Michael Moore says : Canada is the greatest place on Earth . A really funny movie . I wonder what ever became of Rick Moranis ; it seems like he hasn't appeared on screen in a while . PS : did you notice who provided the voice of the brothers ' father ? It was none other than Looney Tunes voice Mel Blanc .
With " American Graffiti " ' s drag racer , " Carrie " ' s creep , Christina Crawford , a certain character actor , and Nurse Ratched , just guess .	It's " Back to the Future " meets " Invasion of the Body Snatchers " when a woman goes to her hometown in the Midwest but doesn't return . Her husband ( Paul LeMat ) goes there and discovers that aliens took it over 25 years earlier with the government's complicity ! To complicate things just a little further , we find out that " Men in Black " was right : the tabloids DO tell the truth ( in this case , there's an article about a town getting taken over by aliens ) ! It's just neat seeing that when he goes there , everything still looks like the 1950s , and then no one believes him . But overall , how they develop the story is pretty interesting . Louise Fletcher seems to be channeling Nurse Ratched as the government bureaucrat trying to keep the alien takeover under wraps , and Nancy Allen plays her usual kind of role as the tabloid reporter who wrote about the alien takeover . But really neat is Michael Lerner as a man whose family got abducted by the aliens many years earlier . Anyway , " Strange Invaders " shows that alien invasion movies can be really cool , especially since the aliens took on human form . You're sure to like it . Also starring Wallace Shawn and Charles Lane ( who's now 101 years old and still going ) .
one can see the possible inspiration for Gilligan and the Skipper	No one can deny that Laurel and Hardy were THE comic duo . " Sons of the Desert " is one of many movies showing this . This one has them as members of a Shriners-like society attending a convention against the wishes of their strict wives . While it was obvious that Stan and Ollie's wives were going to somehow discover what the two men were up to , I still couldn't have predicted what would result ! You gotta wonder how much fun they must have had filming it ! I once read about how , because Laurel's the idiot and Hardy's the straight man , their embarrassing situations always lead to greater shame for Hardy since it's more of a downfall for him . That's the case here all the way ! Watching the movie , I get the feeling that their mishaps may have inspired the antics of Gilligan and the Skipper . All in all , a really funny movie .
Oh that Cary Grant !	You have never seen anything like " Arsenic and Old Lace " . Mortimer Brewster's ( Cary Grant ) aunts Abby ( Josephine Hull ) and Martha ( Jean Adair ) have a most unusual habit : they like to poison lonely people with arsenic ( they're going to die anyway , the two old ladies remind us ) . Well , when Mortimer finds out about this , you can probably guess how he flips . But then , we discover that there's more to everything than meets the eye . I tell you , some of those expressions on Cary Grant's face are just going to make you die laughing . When people say that they don't make movies like they used to , this must be the movie that they have in mind . .
Really funny !	Stephen Colbert , in his persona from " The Colbert Report " , gets stranded in a cabin when he has to do a Christmas special , only to get visited by several acquaintances ( all the while trapped by a bear ) . While I wouldn't call this Christmas special quite as funny as Colbert's show , it's still a hoot . More than an hour-long version of the show , " A Colbert Christmas : The Greatest Gift of All ! " also pokes fun at every entertainer who makes a Christmas special every year . Stephen Colbert certainly does a really funny job . Not that I wouldn't expect him to . Anyway , I definitely recommend this special . It constitutes a true dose of yuletide truthiness !
the chase continues	OK , so in any Wile E . Coyote-Road Runner cartoons , we know that WEC is going to set up all sorts of traps for RR , but always maim himself in various ways . That certainly happens in " Beep , Beep " . Predictable ? I guess that it is , but when you think about it , these cartoons show how the more you try to harm someone else , the more you get harmed ; sort of like how Daffy Duck always tries to undermine Bugs Bunny's integrity but Bugs sees around it . Overall , this is another classic from the Termite Terrace crowd . Sometimes , I think that if we really had wanted to ease Cold War tensions , we could have just let the Soviet Union see Looney Tunes cartoons ; I'm sure that they would have loved them . Another great one . PS : I learned on " Jeopardy ! " that Wile E . Coyote's middle name is Ethelbert .
They're not conning you : this movie is hilarious !	Given how great " Dirty Rotten Scoundrels " is , it's surprising that Steve Martin and Michael Caine haven't collaborated a second time . They play con men Freddy Benson and Lawrence Jamieson , respectively , both vying for the heart of tourist Janet Colgate ( Glenne Headly ) in the French Riviera . But boy do they have a surprise coming ! There's some great sequences here , namely the whole part where Steve Martin's in the wheelchair , and I sure didn't see that ending coming ! All in all , not only do you die laughing here , you just might want to take a trip to southern France to see where they filmed this . Conning always makes for neat movie plots , but none like this . Also starring Ian McDiarmid ( yes , the guy from " Star Wars " episodes 1-3 ) as Lawrence's butler .
I saw Yuri Gagarin's grave in Red Square .	Based on Tom Wolfe's novel , " The Right Stuff " shows the lives and occupations of the astronauts involved in America's space race with the Soviet Union . Chuck Yeager ( Sam Shepard ) , Alan Shepard ( Scott Glenn ) , John Glenn ( Ed Harris ) , Gordon Cooper ( Fred Ward ) , and Gus Grissom ( Dennis Quaid ) all see fit to do their jobs , while occasionally taking the time to goof off and do things with their families . Their missions can range from exhilarating to dangerous , but they always see themselves as having a duty to their country . Sometimes it's hard to believe how far we've come , and at the same time wonder why modern missions never seem to work ; every famous mission since Apollo 11 seems to have had something go wrong . Apollo 13 had its famous disaster , the Challenger blew up , the mission in early 2003 blew up , and there was just a mission this year that had a snafu . Maybe all astronauts since Apollo 11 were too busy watching " I Dream of Jeannie " , and thus assumed that being an astronaut would enable them to own a beautiful genie ( no offense to " IDOJ " ; I love that show ) . Oh , yes , and I saw Yuri Gagarin's grave in Red Square , also the final resting place of Vladimir Lenin , John Reed , and some other famous people like that . I guess that you could say that the USSR beat us to space with Sputnik and then was the first country to send a person into space , but then we beat them to the moon , so it's a fair trade-off . And anyway , China sent someone into space two years ago , so everyone gets a part in this .
What a life !	Steve Martin plays Navin Johnson , a loser who hits it big when he designs an unusual set of glasses . I don't know whether this was Martin's funniest performance ever , or even whether this was his funniest movie Carl Reiner-directed movie ( the others are " Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid " , " The Man with Two Brains " and " All of Me " ) . But believe you me , IT WAS FUNNY ! A rags-to-riches story with a series of gags , you can't stop laughing , especially when you watch Navin's trouble keeping time when his family is playing music ( note : Navin's family is black , and he believes himself to be African-American , only to later find out that he's white ) , and later when you hear Navin's dog's name . There's some good support from Bernadette Peters as Navin's wife Marie , Jackie Mason as one of Navin's employers , and Carl Reiner as himself . Hilarious as only Reiner could do it .
I'd stay in that house	I guess that it's debatable whether or not Vincent Price was the greatest horror star ever , but " House on Haunted Hill " certainly suggests so . He plays Frederick Loren , who is offering five people $10 , 000 each to stay in a possibly haunted mansion overnight . Part of the deal is that no one is allowed to leave . To complicate matters , his wife Annabelle ( Carol Ohmart ) appears to have some slimy plans up her sleeve . Meanwhile , one of the guests , Watson Pritchard ( Elisha Cook , Jr ) , is adamant about telling the other guests of the evil things that happened in the mansion ( " This is where the girl was found . Whatever got her wasn't human ! " ) . As you might imagine , things get progressively weirder and creepier for the guests as the night drags on . 1959 may have been the annus mirabilis for both Vincent Price and William Castle , as they collaborated on this movie and also " The Tingler " . Some people may classify " House on Haunted Hill " as another one of the horror movies that dominated ' 50s cinema , but I beg to differ . This movie is Americana , far more than apple pie or baseball . It's not just that these sorts of movies were a life-saving alternative to the " family fun " . They WERE the ' 50s : 100 % campy and 100 % lovable at the same time . So are you ready to stay at this house ?
everyone needs to challenge every government	I had never heard of Sophia Scholl before I saw " Sophie Scholl - Die letzten Tage " , but I can say that the events portrayed in this movie should be interpreted as an allusion to the current state of affairs , whether or not they were intended as such . Sophia Magdalena Scholl ( Julia Jentsch ) was a student , staunchly opposed to the Nazi regime , in a German university during WWII . She , her brother Hans , and friend Christoph distributed some fliers questioning the government's moral authority and military capability ( this was around the time that Germany suffered major losses in Stalingrad ) . Unfortunately , they both got arrested , put through a show trial , and summarily executed . During the interrogations , many of the interrogator's verbal attacks contend that by reporting on troop losses , Sophie , Hans and Christoph were undermining the troops . I can't think of anything that sounds more like that than when George W . Bush and his people claim that political opponents questioning his modus operandi and media outlets reporting on troop losses help the terrorists ; sort of like Spiro Agnew's infamous remark about " nattering nabobs of negativism " . But either way , I consider this a great movie . All the cast members do a top-notch job , to the point where you really get a feel for what happens to them . As it is , when the interrogator tells Sophie about his life before Hitler came to power , it reminds one of why people joined the National Socialist party ( many of the members were outcasts and felt that this was their only way to get respected ) . I thoroughly recommend the movie , and would like to assert that Julia Jentsch is really showing herself to be a capable actress , with this one and " The Edukators " .
" knight " musn't fall	Continuing with " Tales from the Crypt " ' s campy approach to everything , " Demon Knight " portrays an evil weirdo named The Collector ( Billy Zane ) chasing a guy ( William Brayker ) to an isolated hotel , where he unleashes a demon army on the inhabitants . They're clearly having fun with everything , especially with the arm scenes . Of course , any movie starring Dick Miller - he plays Uncle Willy here ; you may recognize him from Roger Corman's and Joe Dante's movies - is bound to be really cool . I remember that when I first saw the movie , I recognized Billy Zane from " The Phantom " and Jada Pinkett Smith from " The Nutty Professor " . But even if you don't recognize any of the cast members , this flick is still a wonderful romp . It's a gross , silly film , and doesn't pretend to be anything else . And remember what the Cryptkeeper always tells us : hee hee hee hee hee ! That whole beginning sequence could have made a neat movie all on its own . Especially if they'd focused only on the woman in the bathtub . Hubba hubba . . .
Looks like gin and tonic requires gin !	More of Wile E . Coyote's perpetually unsuccessful , self-harming attempts to trap Road Runner in an unidentified part of the American Southwest . As can be expected , there's no shortage of dynamite here , but there's also boulders , a grenade , and even a form of tonic containing some most unusual vitamins . You gotta wonder why Wile E . doesn't just give up , but of course , then there would be none of these cartoons . " Hip Hip-Hurry ! " may not really add anything new , but it's always great to see what happens to these characters . The waterfall gag was great , as was the end . I guess that Wile E . doesn't have to reach for the stars anymore !
You can see why France had its revolution .	Stephen Frears directs a top-notch movie adaptation of Choderlos de Laclos ' novel about several manipulative Rococo-era French aristocrats . Marquise Isabelle de Merteuil ( Glenn Close ) is a seductively evil character who will stop at nothing to get what she wants . Vicomte Sebastien de Valmont ( John Malkovich ) knows how to trick the peasants into thinking that he's a good guy , despite his vampiric intentions . Madame Marie de Tourvel ( Michelle Pfeiffer ) and Le Chevalier Raphael Danceny ( Keanu Reeves ) may be only products of this vile society , but they are practically helpless to do anything about it . Maybe it's a little strange to see Keanu Reeves in a movie like this , but he makes the best of his role . All in all , " Dangerous Liaisons " is a movie that you can't afford to miss . Perfect .
this cartoon has the luck of the Irish	One stormy night , Porky Pig is hiking through the Irish countryside to Dublin , but it's still twelve miles . Then , he comes across a castle and decides to spend the night there . When he arrives , the owner warns him that no one has lived in this castle for hundreds of years except for . . . The Leprechauns . Needless to say , Porky doesn't believe this . But , he should have , especially since the Leprechauns are always worried about people coming after their Pot o'Gold which they will do literally anything to protect . Okay , so I admit that associating Ireland with leprechauns is a stereotype that seems a little out of place , especially given the situation in Northern Ireland . But " The Wearing of the Grin " is rather harmless ; just a funny amusement for children . A pure four-leaf clover it is , it is .
Would you imagine a sci-fi movie starring Woody Allen ?	In one of his coolest movies , Woody Allen plays Miles Monroe , who got cryogenically frozen in the 20th century , only to get brought back to life two hundred years later . The plot actually involves an organization trying to overthrow the government , but the movie is mostly an excuse to be zany . And I don't just mean the Orgasmatron . They've also discovered that smoking is very healthy . And that whole sequence with him pretending to be a robot is a classic . Above all , " Sleeper " shows that Allen does best when not focusing on neurotic rich New Yorkers . How he comes up with this stuff I'll never guess , but he does it . A hoot .
thank God that changing directors didn't diminish the movie's quality	Now that Harry ( Daniel Radcliffe ) is in his third year , he has new things with which to contend : Defense against the Dark Arts teacher Remus Lupin ( David Thewlis ) and escaped prisoner Sirius Black ( Gary Oldman ) , in jail for murdering Harry's parents . When I read the book , I realized at the end that there was a clue to one of the things that happens . Maybe it's harder for the movie to present that , but they still do a good job with the movie . The cast all does a great job once again . Part 4 was equally good too . It just goes to show how much the Harry Potter franchise is part of our cultural heritage . " Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban " is dynamite .
Rabbits of a round table .	We all know King Arthur , but what if Bugs Bunny was his court jester ? Quite simply , the king - disappointed at his knights chickening out ( in more way than one ) - would send Bugs to fetch the Singing Sword kept by the Black Knight , aka Yosemite Sam . And that's just what happens in " Knighty Knight Bugs " . Specifically , when Bugs finds the Singing Sword , it literally starts singing , and Sam comes after him with his pet dragon . But Bugs tricks them and takes over the castle , leading Sam to pull several embarrassing stunts attempting to re-enter . I really liked Sam's plan to " sail over the wall " . All in all , they created another classic cartoon here .
how he inhibits the role	Whenever they make a biopic , we have every reason to be overjoyed as well as doubtful : for every " Malcolm X " , there's a biopic comparable to , say , the movies in which Eddie Murphy starred in the early ' 90s . " Ray " is a masterpiece . Jamie Foxx pulls off the seemingly impossible task of playing Ray Charles . From Ray's impoverished beginnings - and the glaucoma that blinded him - to his success as a singer ( and heroin addiction ) , we almost forget that it's an actor on the screen . Foxx's performance was definitely the most deserving of a Best Actor Oscar . In short , after seeing this movie , Georgia probably will be on your mind , you'll want someone to unchain your heart , and you might want to hit the road to buy a Ray Charles CD .
You're such a doll	One of the many horror movies - spawning series - that arose in the 1980s , " Child's Play " is a true pleasure to watch . Obviously , it's not the most polished horror flick , but who watches these movies for that ? The point is to see the killer do his stuff , and Chucky does just that . The cast includes Catherine Hicks ( the whale scientist in " Star Trek IV : The Voyage Home " ) , Chris Sarandon ( Prince Humperdinck in " The Princess Bride " ) and Brad Dourif ( one of the patients in " One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest " ) . All in all , this is definitely an enjoyable movie . In my opinion , the Academy Awards needs to have a special category to honor classic horror flicks that they ignored in earlier years , just so that they can give this one an Oscar . Really great ! So yes , do give me the power . . .
Even drag queen movies know how to look at small towns without being mean .	When we went to the theater to see this , we had no idea how good it was going to be . More than just a " drag queen movie " , it shows how the three drag queens in question are able to help the people in this small town . I will say that of the three cast members , Patrick Swayze looks the most like he can play a drag queen - but don't get me wrong , Wesley Snipes and John Leguizamo also do a great job . Anyway , this just might be the perfect kind of movie dealing with this topic . Many people have likened " To Wong Foo Thanks for Everything , Julie Newmar " to " The Adventures of Priscilla , Queen of the Desert " , but I wish to assert that " TWFTFEJN " was actually better in that it showed how they help the people in this small town . Just great . Also starring Stockard Channing , Blythe Danner , Chris Penn , Melinda Dillon , Beth Grant , Alice Drummond , Robin Williams in a small role , and of course Julie Newmar ( I'd never even heard of her before this ) .
note : that translation couldn't have been Hawaiian	If you thought that you'd seen every stranded - on - an - uncharted - island scenario , think again . When a pair of castaways ( voiced by and resembling Tedd Pierce and Michael Maltese ) wash up on an island and find Bugs Bunny , they quickly try to turn him into a meal , only to have him play every possible trick on them . As with many of the Looney Tunes / Merrie Melodies cartoons , not only do the cast members break character in one scene , but there's a twist at the end . Oh , and Bugs cross-dresses in one scene . One thing that's worth mentioning about the translation . I think that they implied that it was Hawaiian , but it couldn't have been , as some of the words featured F sounds , of which the Hawaiian language has none ( to be certain , it only has about twelve sounds ) . I don't know whether or not any of the other Pacific island languages have F sounds . But let's not dwell on that . " Wackiki Wabbit " is truly a classic . It'll never be Aloha Oe as long as we have the classic Looney Tunes / Merrie Melodies cartoons .
" cop " an attitude	Hot off " The Godfather " , Al Pacino got the equally good role of New York cop Frank Serpico , who exposed corruption in the NYPD . The movie really gives one an insight into the Big Apple in the late ' 60s and early ' 70s , and we see how Serpico was basically the only cop on the force who took his job seriously . Eventually , of course , his cohorts took revenge on him . What's really interesting in the movie is the contrast between Serpico when he's in uniform and when he's undercover , looking like the ultimate hippie . But above all , " Serpico " shows why Al Pacino is one of the greatest actors of our time . And of course , this was when director Sidney Lumet was going through what was probably the best period in his career ( along with " Murder on the Orient Express " , " Dog Day Afternoon " and " Network " ) . A great movie .
Ave Monty Python !	This is , in my opinion , the best religious movie ever made . Monty Python's Flying Circus knows how to do everything hilariously . Focusing on Brian Cohen ( Graham Chapman ) , who gets mistaken for the messiah in Judea in 33 AD , the movie pokes fun at everything : Romans , Jews , imperialism , even extraterrestrials . With sardonic lines almost every minute , they play religious fundamentalism for what it is : silly . I don't even know which scene was my favorite ; every part was so funny . You'll never forget the song at the end . This is comedy in its greatest form , and it makes sense that it would come from the guys who brought us the " parrot sketch " . Absolutely a hoot .
Welcome to the CI	For years , I had read about the CIA's dirty tricks , but it never totally clicked in my mind what sort of people must work there . Robert DeNiro's " The Good Shepherd " shows what kind of people , and the movie does a masterful job at it . We start in April , 1961 , when the US is launching an the Bay of Pigs invasion of Cuba . When the whole operation fails , agent Edward Wilson ( Matt Damon ) heads to the CIA headquarters to help investigate . From there , we see his life story . They begin with 1939 Yale , and his initiation into Skull and Bones ( hmm , now who does that sound like ? ) . While we see that it's a vile , disgusting society , it can't begin to prepare Edward for the intrigue in which he's about to get involved . This includes discrediting his literature teacher ( Michael Gambon ) . Despite his shotgun marriage to senator's daughter Clover Russell ( Angelina Jolie ) , he immediately has to go to England to help them fight Germany . But when the war ends and tensions between the United States and Soviet Union arise , he sees it as his duty to help spy on the USSR . Moreover , Gen . Bill Sullivan ( DeNiro ) proposes a new agency to replace the Overseas Secret Service . So , the founding of the CIA in 1947 lays the ground work for sixty years of evil activity all in the name of national security . But one of the ugliest things that the movie shows is Edward's relationship - or lack thereof - with his family . Practically ignoring his wife and son , he always comes across as totally soulless ; then again , you have to be pretty soulless to work for the CIA . And in case it looks as though his son may have spilled a few secrets to a woman in the Congo . . . well , Edward has no limits . And his co-workers have no scruples about spying on him . All in all , this is surely one of the best movies of 2006 . Watching it , you may start looking around you , nervous about the people in your vicinity . It's that intense . When I first heard about what the movie portrayed , I got the feeling that it may have been loosely based on George H . W . Bush , although I then learned that he was never actually an agent . But overall , I definitely recommend this one . Also starring William Hurt , Billy Crudup , Alec Baldwin , Hanna Schygulla , Keir Dullea and Joe Pesci ( where have those last two been ? ) .
total political satire	I don't know specifically whether " The Werewolf of Washington " was intended as a political satire , but it sure comes across as such . It probably helped that the movie was released around the time of Watergate ( and at one point , we even get a glimpse of that very building ) . The opening voice-over monologue begins with something like " How could it happen here ? " , before White House press secretary Jack Whittier ( Dean Stockwell ) explains his predicament . I believe that Upton Sinclair wrote a book called " It Can Happen Here " , about the possibility of fascism coming to America . Anyway , after Jack has an affair with the president's daughter , the prez sends him to Hungary - ah , a jab at the Cold War - where he gets bitten by a wolf . When someone warns Jack about the pentagram , he thinks that the person says Pentagon ( what aren't those warmongers behind ? ) . When he arrives back in the states , the president is angry about how the media reports negatively on the current state of affairs , especially since it makes the nation's youth protest things so much ; the prez's solution : martial law ! If that isn't a rip at the Nixon administration , then I don't know what is ! But sure enough , Jack starts seeing the pentagram in people's palms , and . . . well , you know what happens once there's a full moon . So even if it was intended as a straightforward horror flick , this certainly elicits a sense of political satire . With comments about the Black Panthers and other stuff , it's just the sort of thing that we need nowadays . I totally recommend it .
The only way that I'll ever know Bill Maher ( and I have my own new rules ) .	I never saw Bill Maher's previous show " Politically Incorrect " , but I know that it got canceled when Maher stepped outside the party line in discussions about ( of course I consider it a credit to have gotten canceled for challenging the zeitgeist ) . So , I have been watching " Real Time with Bill Maher " - and seen one of his stand-up bits - and I love it . If absolutely nothing else , it's good to hear left and right be able to have an intelligent conversation , although I especially liked hearing Sean Penn's story of going to New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina . One of my favorite comments from Maher was right after a Republican debate held in the Ronald Reagan Library , and the candidates were talking as much as possible about Reagan : Maher said that it sounded more like gay men talking about Barbra Streisand . You gotta admit , his guy knows how to do satire . And now it's time for New Rules : 1 ) They can't give obnoxious movies like " The Poseidon Adventure " and " The Towering Inferno " special edition DVDs while cool movies like " The Corrupt Ones " and " The Treasure Seekers " remain available only on video . Because I know that Elke Sommer hasn't got much besides her looks , but the only part of disaster movies that I consider a disaster is having to watch them , and Elke Sommer's movies are quite pleasant . 2 ) Celebrities can't try to vindicate themselves from embarrassing situations by saying that they've found Jesus . Because if a tabloid-level scandal is the only thing that gets you interested in religion , then I only hope that all sensible religions will see through your game and reject you so that you can get involved in more scandals and continue making a fool of yourself . 3 ) Critics can't give musicals glowing reviews just because they're musicals , while slamming certain movies for being too " controversial " . Because " Oklahoma ! " , " Mary Poppins " and " The Sound of Music " are so full of themselves that they just beg to get mocked ; " Sweet Sweetback's Bad-ass Song " , while dealing with ugly subject matter , at least told the truth about things . All in all , I wholeheartedly recommend this show . For the record , it's been almost two years since Katrina hit and large numbers of people still haven't been able to move back to New Orleans .
meat's meat , and man's gotta eat . . . or rather , man's gotta watch " Meatballs "	Once upon a time , Bill Murray didn't play serious roles , just goofy ones . " Meatballs " is one of the best , funniest examples . It's basically and hour and a half of complete silliness , with Murray as a counselor at a Canadian summer camp . If the movie has any problem , it's that the movie spawned a seemingly infinite number of movies about summer camps - and a lot of those were about kids trying to save their summer camps . But anyway , this one is a real hoot , especially what results from Murray's telling of the hook - handed - killer - tries - to - attack - teenagers urban legend . And of course , director Ivan Reitman later directed Murray in " Stripes " and the " Ghostbusters " movie ( unfortunately , Reitman later backed Arnold Schwarzenegger for governor ) . A really fun romp . I wonder what ever became of Chris Makepeace .
raises some good questions	Focusing on murderer Neel Auguste's ( Emir Kusturica ) redemption while awaiting his execution , " La Veuve de Saint-Pierre " ( called " The Widow of Saint-Pierre " in English ) raises some good questions . The townspeople are forced to ask themselves whether or not it's a good idea to execute him now that he is making up for it . The movie never gets preachy , it sticks to asking the questions and shows that there's not necessarily a ready answer . Juliette Binoche and Daniel Auteuil play Pauline ( aka Madame La ) and Jean ( aka The Captain ) , respectively , overseeing Auguste's penance . All in all , this is a movie that everyone should see .
none of this or this or this ( but lots of the cartoon , please )	Few of the Looney Tunes / Merrie Melodies shorts dealt with physical activities more hilariously than " To Duck . . . or Not to Duck " , as over-energetic Daffy challenges gullible Elmer to a boxing match weighed heavily in his own favor . If you thought that the White Sox scandal of 1919 was screwed up , then you ain't seen nothing yet ! Quite simply , it's the sort of thing that only Daffy could do . I noticed in one scene that Elmer's pants fell down and it looked like you could see his butt ! They actually got that on screen in 1943 ! Of course , these cartoons were always looking for ways to push the limits . I'd better be certain of that or my name isn't Lee Eisenberg . . . and it isn't ! ( just kidding : it is )
If you thought that you knew scary , think again . . .	Fear plays a factor in most of Roman Polanski's movies that I've seen , but in none more so than in the blood-freezing " Repulsion " . His first English-language movie casts Catherine Deneuve as London manicurist Carole Ledoux . She lives a sexually repressed life in her sister's apartment . When her sister and brother-in-law go out for a few days , Carole irrevocably degenerates into a totally chaotic state . Some people may call this movie a psychological thriller . I would like to assert that calling this movie a psychological thriller would be like calling " The Graduate " a sex film or " 2001 : A Space Odyssey " a science fiction film . Without any special effects or gratuitous violence , they create an environment of fear like I've rarely seen in movies . It seems a little bit as if Catherine Deneuve as this beautiful young woman trapped in a horrific state sort of precedes Mia Farrow's role in " Rosemary's Baby " ( although this one induces much more fear ) . So just watch " Repulsion " and you'll see what a horror movie can really be . And it just might save your life .
I learned how to spell a certain body part by watching this movie . . . and I still remember the ad shown before " The Addams Family "	As Mike Myers is now best known as Austin Powers , it's easy to forget that he started out as Aurora , Illinois , goof-ball Wayne Campbell . " Wayne's World " is just as funny today as it was back in 1992 . I'd never seen the " Saturday Night Live " skit before the movie came out , but that didn't hurt anything ; the movie is a hoot whether or not you've seen the " SNL " skit . As for the other characters , Garth Algar ( Dana Carvey ) is my favorite . How he comes up with some of those things I'll never know . Maybe Cassandra ( Tia Carrere ) and Benjamin ( Rob Lowe ) weren't totally necessary , but even they had their moments . But the best scene is definitely when they're filming and Wayne is reading the questions off of the cards ; it's quite possible that you'll die laughing when that scene comes up . But the point is , this flick is a modern comedy classic . I still remember how everyone in school went around saying " Not ! " after it came out . I also remember when my parents and I went to see " The Addams Family " in the theater and there was an ad featuring Wayne and Garth promoting their own movie . We'll always have to remember these things . . .
This is what indies are all about !	This gem of a movie about a Brooklyn cigar shop , its owner , and various customers , is especially good because it shows how everyone has done something wrong , but they all atone for it . And they all have their own quirks . Owner Augustus Wren ( Harvey Keitel ) takes the same picture every day , writer Paul Benjamin ( William Hurt ) knows how to weigh smoke , and Cyril Cole ( Forest Whitaker ) is looking for his son . Among the other great performances are Stockard Channing as secretive Ruby McNutt . Probably the movie's best aspect is the soundtrack . Released right before Jerry Garcia died , it features some of his songs , plus music from various other artists , old and new . " Smoke " was truly one of the best movies of 1995 .
camera angle	It all begins when tennis star Guy Haines ( Farley Granger ) and Bruno Anthony ( Robert Walker ) meet on a train . Bruno suggests that they perform tit-for-tat murders , but Guy thinks that it's a joke . Unfortunately , it turns out not to be . And after Bruno carries out his part of the " deal " , he expects Guy to do likewise . " Strangers on a Train " makes interesting use of camera angle . The opening scene shows cars arriving from opposite sides of the screen , and then the two men get out of the cars and start walking in different directions , implying that they're not the same sort of people . After Bruno murders Guy's wife , he calls to Guy from behind a gate casting a shadow on him ; it looks as if he's in jail . When Guy walks over to where Bruno is , it is as if he has entered the same realm as the murderer . As for the possibility of whether or not Bruno was gay , that is a possibility ; I read something about the " murderous gays " in Alfred Hitchcock's movies ( they may or may not have been gay ) . But the point is , Hitchcock created another addition to his pantheon of masterpieces . Oh , and I guess that this isn't really related , but does it sway our opinion of the movie knowing Marion Lorne ( aka " Bewitched " ' s Aunt Clara ) played Bruno's mother ?
she's sick of these mother - ( censored ) snakes coming out of this mother - ( censored ) toilet	Bob Clark's untimely death in a car crash a few days ago brings to mind his career , including " Porky's II : The Next Day " . This one hilariously continues the get-laid-at-any-cost adventures of the teenage boys portrayed in the original movie . The actual plot has their school putting on a production of Shakespeare plays and getting threatened by the Ku Klux Klan , an angry clergyman , and hypocritical politicians . Of course , it's all an excuse for any crazy idea that they can dream up . I nearly laughed myself hoarse during the restaurant scene , not only at what was happening but also trying to imagine how much fun they must have had filming it ! Anyway , it's just a pleasure to watch , particularly with what happens in the cemetery , and the whole end sequence . This was a sequel that equaled its original . And if you remember the " electric sex " from " A Christmas Story " , check out the Shakespeare performance here ! Just hilarious . To play off of what another Porky famously said : th-th-th-that'll never be all , folks ! In conclusion : Bob Clark , wherever you are , we'll always remember you , if only for the " Porky's " movies . Bob Clark directed flicks as different as the " Porky's " movies , " Children Shouldn't Play with Dead Things " and " A Christmas Story " . The things that we see in life . . .
Happy 50th , Tom !	As today is Tom Hanks's 50th birthday , I thought it appropriate to review one of his funniest movies . " Big " portrays a boy who wishes to be big , and gets turned into an adult ( Hanks ) , thereby having to learn on his own how to navigate the adult world . As a previous reviewer noted , the movie also does a good job showing how he comes to realize that it is better to experience childhood before growing up . But even aside from all that , you gotta figure that Tom Hanks must have really had fun playing the role , especially in the scene right after the boy grows up overnight . It just goes to show what a great director Penny Marshall is ; in fact , she later directed Hanks in " A League of Their Own " . Also starring Elizabeth Perkins , Robert Loggia , John Heard , Jon Lovitz and Mercedes Ruehl . You know , it seems like ever since Tom Hanks got into serious roles , people have forgotten how great his comedic ones were . I can't understand why " Joe vs the Volcano " and " Bonfire of the Vanities " are regarded with such scorn .
God bless Ameri-Bugs !	Still in his relative infancy , Bugs Bunny becomes a superhero out to fight an anti-rabbit cowboy . I really liked the scene of the two of them on the horse . Maybe the wartime themes make us cringe a little bit nowadays , but they're not vicious by any stretch ( although I hear that some Looney Tunes cartoons were ) . Maybe this wasn't the greatest Bugs Bunny cartoon in history , but it's definitely worth seeing . Anyone can plainly see why the Looney Tunes cartoons from the ' 40s and ' 50s were some of the best cartoons in cinema history ( I can't say the same for their modern cartoons ; for starters , no more Mel Blanc ) . A real classic .
You usually don't expect to see some of these things .	The second Best Foreign Language Film winner from the Soviet Union was something impressive . " Moskva slezam ne verit " ( called " Moscow Does Not Believe in Tears " in English ) starts out portraying three college friends in 1958 , and picks up twenty years later . In 1958 , Katya ( Vera Alentova ) is motivated , hard-working and bright , while Liudmila ( Irina Muravyova ) is manipulative , shallow and scheming , and Antonina ( Raisa Ryazanova ) is shy and simple . They're all from the countryside , but all looking to get jobs in the city . Over the next few days , Antonina ends up with one Nikolai , and these two are the most traditional ; Liudmila ends up with hockey player Sergei . Katya , meanwhile , gets filmed for a TV project on the factory by cinematographer Rudolph , who ends up getting her pregnant . They try to talk things over at a park bench , but he just leaves . Twenty years later , the movie focuses on Katya's redemption , one might say . She is now the director at the factory ( and even gets to drive to work , practically unheard of in the USSR ) , and her daughter Alexandra is doing quite well . Granted , Katya's successful in her public life , but what about privately ? It looks as though her personal life will remain empty until she meets one Gosha ( Alexei Batalov ) , an honest , outspoken , perceptive fellow . She does meet Rudolph again - and this time he's going by his real name Rodion ( he called himself Rudolph because western names were popular in the ' 50's ) - but she leaves him at the bench . This movie makes an interesting use of duality . There are two meetings in the park ; Rudolph / Rodion leaves Katya the first time , but she leaves him the second time . Rudolph / Rodion makes two speeches about how TV is the wave of the future and will eliminate theater , movies , and books . There are two trips to the countryside . Katya twice falls asleep crying . Katya is twice filmed for a TV interview by Rudolph / Rodion ; she's working at the factory the first time , and she's the director the second time . And finally , there are two scenes where people dance to " Besame mucho " . And watch how they use the alarm clock in the middle of the film . Among other things , how Gosha and Rudolph / Rodion bond at the end is classic for Soviet cinema . And , we get to see remnants of the ' 50's and ' 70's that even we in the west can understand : as teenagers , the girls swoon over movie stars ( and their socks looked kind of like bobby sox ) , and people wear colorful clothes in the ' 70's . A classic in every sense of the word .
five'll get you ten	When " V for Vendetta " came out , maybe reviews called it the first pro-terrorist movie of the post - world . And seeing what kind of society the movie portrays , it's hard not to sympathize with the terrorist ( or is he a freedom fighter ? ) . The movie portrays an arch-totalitarian England sometime in the future . Because of the wars waged by the United States , the whole world exploded into war , the US got reduced to a third world country , and the fascistic Adam Sutler ( John Hurt ) seized power in England . Imposing devout Christianity on everyone , he rules with the slogan " England prevails ! " . However , Sutler's days just might be numbered . A masked man known only as V ( Hugo Weaving ) seeks to overthrow this dictator on November 5 , to commemorate Guy Fawkes trying to blow up parliament . V had gotten disfigured some years earlier from an explosion in a chemical plant where he was a test subject , and thus wears this mask . One night , V rescues young Evey Hammond ( Natalie Portman ) from Sutler's thugs , and slowly but surely draws her into his world of rebellion . As it is , Evey has a reason to go along with V : her parents were political activists murdered by Sutler's forces . So what will this all come down to ? I must say that this movie really draws you in . While uneasy about supporting terrorist activity , one realizes that there's no alternative . Naturally , that brings up the issue of the current state of the world . Is Sutler Bush , we may ask . ( No , Sutler actually has a brain . ) I think that my favorite line in the movie is " We report the news , not fabricate it . That's the government's job . " All in all , this gives movies based on graphic novels a really good name . I wholeheartedly recommend this movie . Also starring Stephen Rea , Stephen Fry and Tim Pigott-Smith .
Now this is life after death !	You gotta figure that only Tim Burton could come up with this ! An ultra-zany story of rural couple Adam ( Alec Baldwin ) and Barbara Maitland ( Geena Davis ) , who accidentally get killed and witness a tasteless couple moving into their house , forcing them to hire " bio-exorcist " Beetle Juice ( Michael Keaton ) , is truly something else . With a new joke almost every minute , the movie never gets dull . And how about that soundtrack ? " Day-O " in the most morbid comedy ever ? Yep , it's all here . Great support from Catherine O'Hara and Jeffrey Jones as the tasteless couple , Winona Ryder as their disaffected daughter Lydia , and Sylvia Sidney as afterlife counselor Juno , make this one of the coolest movies of 1988 !
Shelley Winters , RIP	In one of the many movies showing him as a morally firm black man , Sidney Poitier plays Gordon Ralfe , who develops a relationship with blind white girl Selina D'Arcy ( Elizabeth Hartman ) - much to the chagrin of her racist mother Rose-Ann ( Shelley Winters ) . Winters , who died today , won her second Best Supporting Actress Oscar for " A Patch of Blue " . She created a really nasty bigot in her role , and she certainly deserved the Oscar . Maybe Poitier got typecast from these kinds of roles , but that's better than getting typecast in ridiculous action movies . Maybe this wasn't his best movie , but it's still really good .
Keep rockin ' and rollin ' ! Speaking of which , why isn't the sequel available on DVD ?	Probably the best portrayal of the ' 50s rebel culture has working-class Brit Jim MacLaine ( David Essex ) with a chip on his shoulder - due to his father abandoning the family - and doesn't care about school ; he's into rock ' n ' roll . His friend Mike ( Ringo Starr ) is no more responsible but gets Jim some jobs . But after everything , Jim sees fit only - and I mean ONLY - to play music . Aside from the fact that this was a really good movie , I should identify that there was a sequel called " Stardust " . I've never seen that one , as it's never been released on DVD . WHY NOT ? ! Considering how good this one was , why can't the latter get released on DVD ? !
so much for changes in Russia	One unfortunate reality of post-Soviet Russia was that the people's welfare didn't change much from Soviet times . As we see in " Window to Paris " , most people are still as depressed as ever , while they are encouraged to go after money . Then , everything changes for music teacher Nikolai Chizhov ( Sergei Dontsov ) after he finds a window that leads to Paris . He and his friends are naturally quite amazed at what they find . This movie has one of the funniest discussions of Elvis Presley and Edith Piaf that I've ever heard . So watch this movie . You're sure to love it . It's sort of a precursor to " Being John Malkovich " .
Let's face it : the Russians do a better job at making war movies than we do	If you believe that any given war movie can make you really feel the war , you need to see " Letyat zhuravli " ( called " The Cranes are Flying " in English ) . It tells the story of Veronika ( Tatiana Samoylova ) and Boris ( Aleksey Batalov ) , who are in love on the verge of WWII . They are walking along the waterfront , watching the cranes fly by , when the war starts . Boris is promptly sent off to war . Veronika hides out with a family and ends up marrying the son , whom she does not love . Boris , meanwhile , continues trotting through the countryside , fighting the Nazis and experiencing all the horrors of war , until he he runs out of energy . When Veronika - working in a military hospital - receives this news , she refuses to accept it , until Boris ' body arrives home on one of the trains . Simultaneously , the radio announces that Germany has surrendered and the Allied Powers have won the war ; the Soviet Union lost 27 million citizens , but it's the start of a new era . This movie did a very good job showing the human impact of the war not only in the battlefield , but also how it affected the civilian population . This is definitely a movie that everyone should see .
A most unusual treat .	" The Silence of the Lambs " will have to go down in history as one of the most ingenious movies of all time . After a string of bizarre murders , FBI agent-in-training Clarice Starling ( Jodie Foster ) is hired to interview psychopath Hannibal " The Cannibal " Lecter ( Anthony Hopkins ) to find the perpetrator . In the process , we get to learn some very interesting things about both Starling and Lecter . The main thing is that , despite how vile Lecter is , we can't help but admire him . And I don't mean just because he's helping Clarice ; something about the guy , you just gotta love him . In case you're squeamish , I should remind you that this movie contains some very ugly scenes . But don't worry , director Jonathan Demme knows how to handle them . This masterful combination of acting , directing and writing helped " The Silence of the Lambs " win the top five Academy Awards , putting it in a league with only " It Happened One Night " and " One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest " . Watching the movie , you will agree that the movie deserved these awards . In fact , you just might want to have an old friend ( over ) for dinner .
Robert Forster before " Jackie Brown " , John Sayles before " Lone Star " , and other stuff	Fun , satirical horror flick reminding us of the dangers of flushing our aquatic pets down the toilet . In this case , a flushed alligator ends up in the sewer , where he gets exposed to a chemical and grows to behemoth size and moves above ground to look for people too stupid to pay attention to their surroundings . When will these dopey characters ever learn ? ! What I noticed when watching the movie was the presence of Robert Forster some years after " Medium Cool " and many years before " Jackie Brown " . I guess that he had to do something in between . And it may be surprising that John Sayles was involved with these sorts of movies early in his career , but I consider it perfectly justified ; there were far worse movies with which he could have been involved . Anyway , it's a nice way to pass time . The sequel was lower but not dreadfully terrible . I wonder whether or not Sue Lyon ( the ABC / NBC reporter ) was the same Sue Lyon who played Lolita .
for anyone who's ever hated their boss	Ever wanted to take revenge on a really creepy person ? Well , Jane Fonda , Lily Tomlin and Dolly Parton do just that in " Nine to Five " . After their undesirable-in-every-way boss ( Dabney Coleman ) threatens to have them arrested after a misunderstanding ( it's a long story ) , the three take him hostage and institute progressive policies in the office . Especially a hoot is the mixture of characters : Jane Fonda is the mousy newcomer , Lily Tomlin is the goof-off , and Dolly Parton is the hillbilly . No matter what happens , they always have a solution , even after a bizarre mix-up in a hospital . I recommend this to everyone .
See it , thou knave !	In " Rabbit Hood " , Bugs Bunny makes mincemeat of a guard after trying to steal some of Prince John's royal carrots while Little John idiotically claims that Robin Hood is coming . Knowing that this is Bugs Bunny , you can probably guess what sorts of tricks he has up his sleeve ( or wherever he keeps them ) . Cartoons like this just go to show that the creators really reached their apex in the late ' 40s and early ' 50s . I learned from " Bugs Bunny Superstar " that Bob Clampett , Chuck Jones , and that whole crowd liked to act out their cartoons during lunch breaks . I can imagine how much fun they must have had acting this one out ! All in all , a great cartoon . It shows that entertainment just needs to be clever .
So this is Louisville . . .	Okay , so this is a zombie movie . As we all know , that means lots and lots of gore . And in " The Return of the Living Dead " , they play it to real cool effect . The plot of course has a pair of chemical plant employees accidentally opening a container , and a series of events brings all the cemetery residents back to life , meaning that Louisville , Kentucky , is overrun by brain-eaters . As with " Army of Darkness " , you can't ( in fact , shouldn't ) take this movie seriously ; it's intended as a joke . I remember when Joe Bob Briggs ' show " Monstervision " showed this movie , he actually had Linnea Quigley as a guest ( she plays Trash , the girl who strips in the cemetery ) . All in all , one cool movie . Clu Gulager may be the most interesting B-movie actor of all time .
I'm talking to you-tah	After political documentaries were all the rage in 2004 , " This Divided State " looks at the result . A Utah college's decision to let Michael Moore speak there sparks emotions on both ends of the political spectrum . One of the professors tries to get the college to stop Moore from coming , and the college invites Sean Hannity for the opposing viewpoints . One can certainly see the polarization inherent in our society these days . You can also see what a creep Sean Hannity is . Michael Moore praises the college for not backing down . A protester noted that the police made them take the poles off of their signs , but allowed people to carry guns into the hall . All in all , one thing that I can say with absolute certainty is that I do not want to live in Utah .
vintage Bill Murray	Bill Murray plays goof-ball Wallace Ritchie in London to visit his brother Jimmy ( Peter Gallagher ) for his own - read : Wallace's - birthday . Since Jimmy is having guests over , he knows that he needs to keep Wallace out of the way . The only problem is , Wallace accidentally gets mixed up in an espionage ring , leading to some embarrassing situations for everyone - mainly because Wallace believes the whole time that it's a play . As with most of Bill Murray's movies , the plot isn't totally important - it's an excuse for Bill Murray to act crazy . And he does just that in " The Man Who Knew Too Little " . Joanne Whalley co-stars as secret agent Lorelei .
revenge . . . revenge	Some people just live their lives in agony , but few can compare to bored , abused Muriel Heslop ( Toni Collette ) . Things just plain suck for her . But that's all about to change . You see , she's getting married . . . and then some . I saw " Muriel's Wedding " in an Australian Cinema class . It's the sort of movie that you just have to see wherever you can . I don't just mean that it's interesting to see Toni Collette before she became famous in the States through " The Sixth Sense " and " Shaft " ; everything about this movie is great . Muriel is the type of woman who seems delicate , but she can get nasty if needs be . .
A bright spot in a summer of " The Lost World " , " Speed 2 " , and " Batman and Robin " .	When " Ulee's Gold " came out , it seemed as though Peter Fonda had been off of the radar for many years . But he made a comeback here as Florida beekeeper Ulysses Jackson , having to raise his granddaughters after their father gets put in jail and their mother can't take care of them . A triumph for all involved . This movie was truly a breath of fresh air when it came out in summer , 1997 . That summer saw such " scum-sucking corporate products " ( to use Peter Travers's description of " Armageddon " ) as " The Lost World " , " Speed 2 " , and " Batman and Robin " . Once again , we see that the small indie flicks are better remembered . Thank God .
No wonder people like drugs so much ! This movie makes them look fun !	My rating is of course because " Reefer Madness " is so bad that it's good . And boy is it ! Meant as an anti-marijuana propaganda film , the whole thing basically makes marijuana look fun . The plot has some wholesome teenagers getting duped into smoking marijuana and turning into lunatics ( thereby idiotically implying " One puff and you're hooked ! " ) . The first mistake that the movie makes is calling marijuana a narcotic ; anyone should know that marijuana is a weed . Obviously , the law-and-order types have always used this type of propaganda to arrest anyone whom they don't like . But anyway , " Reefer Madness " is unintentionally hilarious . " That ' 70s Show " once did a spoof of it , portraying Red imagining Eric getting addicted . For the record , there's no such thing as marijuana addiction ; people just like smoking it . And who wouldn't want to try some after watching this movie ? !
girls gone wild	As I'd never seen a Russ Meyer film , I figured that I might as well start with what is probably his most famous one . If Meyer believed that a movie just needed to have speed , sex and violence , then he sure accomplished it with " Faster , Pussycat ! Kill ! Kill ! " ( although it's quite tame by today's standards ) . Is there any real point to the movie ? No , not really . But the movie doesn't pretend to be " The Seventh Seal " or " 2001 " . This is all about the women and their tight clothes , the sort of thing that'll most appeal to teenage boys . Overall , I bet that they had fun filming this ; it would have certainly been fun to be around those babes ! . With movies like this , life will never get boring . A true classic .
disturbing equals true-to-life	In one of many great British movies , a man ( Bob Hoskins ) helps working-class youths try to make something of themselves in an economically depressed town in England . It is the first time that they can ever be anything greater . But then tragedy strikes and the whole thing falls apart . The gritty " 24 7 : Twenty Four Seven " is no ordinary make-something-of-yourself story . The grainy black and white cinematography makes you feel like there's sandpaper rubbing against your face , and they certainly don't sugar-coat anything here . It's a movie that I recommend to everyone . Just don't expect anything " nice " . A very good debut from Shane Meadows .
Orson Welles's 3rd great movie	" The Third Man " functions as a sort of half film noir , half look at post-WWII Vienna . The plot centers on Holly Martin ( Joseph Cotten ) learning of his friend's ( Orson Welles ) death in Vienna , meeting various and sundry strange people , and getting a big surprise at the end . Probably the movie's strongest aspect is the zither music . You can feel it moving the film along , almost as much as the mysterious setting does . But when they set up the trick at the end , it's especially neat how they set it up ! Even if you know what's going to happen , you still have to admire what they did . Anyway , it's one of Orson Welles's many great movies , along with " Citizen Kane " and " The Lady from Shanghai " ( I have as yet never seen " Touch of Evil " ) . Definitely check it out . Also starring Alida Valli .
this is what modern classics are all about	I may not know anyone named Thelma , but whenever I meet someone named Louise , I will probably be tempted to remember " Thelma & Louise " . This story of two women ( Susan Sarandon and Geena Davis ) who have to go on the lam after one of them kills a rapist in chauvinistic Texas truly shows the potentials of life . I guess that the main question is not whether or not " Thelma & Louise " is a women's empowerment story ( although it certainly is ) . Really , it looks at our deep-down capabilities . Solid performances by Sarandon and Davis , not to mention Harvey Keitel and an up-and-coming Brad Pitt , and solid direction from Ridley Scott make this one of the best movies of 1991 .
1980s time capsule	In this ultra-gross-and-proud-of-it B-movie , some people discover a strange substance bubbling out of the ground . They taste it ( yes , they find something on the ground and just eat it ! ) , like it , and decide to start marketing it as The Stuff ; it quickly becomes the most popular food of all . But , sure enough , a detective ( Michael Moriarty ) hired by the candy companies discovers that The Stuff turns people into obedient zombies before completely dissolving their innards . So , only he , an advertising executive ( Andrea Marcovicci ) , and a boy ( Scott Bloom ) can stop The Stuff from taking over the world . A completely ridiculous idea ? Absolutely . But one might interpret " The Stuff " as a parable about excessive consumerism brainwashing people into brand loyalty . There's also a scene in which Paul Sorvino's right-wing yahoo of a colonel claims that in the case of the Vietnam War , we lost the war at home ( so it was perfectly OK to invade their country ) . But I mostly saw the movie as a 1980s time capsule . There's the over-synthesized music for the TV commercials , the impossibly polite suburban family , and more . Of course , most people into these kinds of movies will probably agree that the coolest scenes are when people spit The Stuff out after it dissolves them . Director Larry Cohen ( who also directed the killer baby vehicle " It's Alive " ) pulls no punches . All in all , this is quite a treat . Sort of an updated " Invasion of the Body Snatchers " . Also starring Danny Aiello and former " Saturday Night Live " cast member Garrett Morris .
Who says that blondes have to be dumb ?	If you've never heard of " Legally Blonde " and you only see a few ads for it , you'll probably get the wrong impression . This is not some half-formed , oh-I'm-so-totally-hot story . This is Reese Witherspoon showing that she can be hilarious and biting in the same movie . It all begins when fashionista Elle Woods ( Witherspoon ) is about to get married when groom-to-be Warner Huntington III ( Matthew Davis ) jilts her and heads off to Harvard law school . Not about to get railroaded over , Elle follows him there , and decides to enroll herself . At this point in the movie , we can safely assume that the SoCal , vegetarian , pink-clad Elle probably won't totally fit in with the stuffy Harvard people ; however , she's not about to let anything stop her . Elle has certain plans , and she'll do whatever she has to in order to carry them out ( don't worry , it's nothing illicit ) . You can tell that everyone had a great time with their roles . And you'll have a great time with this movie . Part satire , part pure fun , they pull out all the stops . And there's one part that , in my opinion at least , says that in fact it is a good idea to allow fashion fetishists to participate in trials . All in all , Reese Witherspoon has acted in some great movies in the past few years .
Is he Armenia's most famous director ?	In case you've never heard of Sergei Paradjanov - 1924-1990 - he was an Armenian movie director in Soviet times who was imprisoned for " same-sexuality " . " Paradjanov : A Requiem " features him talking about his movies ( I saw it on the B-side of " The Color of Pomegranates " ) . Like many directors , he goes to great lengths to talk about the artistic aspects in his movies . I thought that it was fairly interesting , but maybe all these years of famous people being hacks and blow-hards have desensitized us to any commentary . Among other things , when Paradjanov won an award , he dedicated it to his recently deceased friend Andrei Tarkovsky . Sergei Paradjanov was truly an interesting man .
Holy mother of . . . ! They said it !	In case you've ever doubted just how in-your-face the Looney Tunes cartoons were , just check out " Gonzales ' Tamales " . In this one , Speedy Gonzales - who , as you may have noticed from other cartoons , is a total playboy - is seducing the female mice , and making the male mice very angry . So , they get Sylvester to go after him . Needless to say , Speedy knows just how to avoid getting caught . Anyway , the real " gotcha " moment comes towards the end . Speedy was singing " La cucaracha " . Since I knew what the lyrics were , I listened to see if the people making the cartoon would use them . Sure enough , it ends with " marijuana que fumar " ( meaning " marijuana to smoke " ) ! To think that in the midst of the strict McCarthyism world of the 1950s , they sneaked in something about Mary Jane ! Only the Termite Terrace crowd could do that ! Overall , a really funny cartoon .
a " signs " of " rings " to come	My rating assumes that you decided that you like " Scary Movie 3 " before you saw it . And it doesn't disappoint . Spoofing " Signs " , " The Ring " and " 8 Mile " ( among other things ) , it's another gag-a-minute comedy from the director of " Airplane ! " . But how could it not be , starring Leslie Nielsen ? I think that my favorite scene was either the part with Simon Cowell , or the news room scene ( I'd like to try that someday ) . In conclusion , just remember that " SM3 " is a joke . Anna Faris reprises her role as Cindy Campbell ( so she has these movies to her resume , as well as " Brokeback Mountain " ) . The rest of the cast includes Charlie Sheen as the farmer discovering crop circles , and various people have small roles . Remember , all completely silly .
Yeah , what is the deal with John Wayne's teeth ?	For years , Hollywood movies portrayed Indians as bloodthirsty savages who deserved the genocide that the white people committed against them . Then , there was the " Little Big Man " and " Dances with Wolves " mold : going a little overboard on portraying them as virtuous , even if they showed what the white people did to them . With " Smoke Signals " , Native Americans finally got to speak for themselves on the silver screen . The movie portrays young Victor Joseph ( Adam Beach ) traveling to Phoenix to retrieve the ashes of his deadbeat father ( Gary Farmer ) . He has to travel with Thomas-Builds-The-Fire ( Evan Adams ) , with whom he has never been particularly friendly , but they realize their friendship along the way . Overall , this movie is like a kick in the groin to the John Wayne mold ( the Duke even becomes the butt of jokes in one scene ) . Around the time that I saw this movie , I read Sherman Alexie's novel " Indian Killer " ; it had the same sort of humor that this movie has . Strange that even after the indigenous people see their land stolen and most of their people exterminated , they can still laugh , but they can . More than anything , it's just great that the Indians are finally getting their say in movies . Also starring Irene Bedard , John Trudell ( happy birthday , John ! ) and Tom Skerritt .
You'll be having the time of your life watching this movie !	" Drop Dead Gorgeous " implied that beauty pageants can make for great humor , but " Miss Congeniality " takes it to a whole new level . Starring Sandra Bullock as a sarcastic FBI agent participating in the Miss America pageant to thwart an attack , the movie pulls no punches . I think that my favorite part is when her trainer ( Michael Caine ) asks her why New Jersey is called the Garden State . I couldn't have come up with a better answer myself ! All in all , it's great to see them mocking the Miss America pageant . I agree with a previous reviewer's scathing comments about it ( a bunch of stupid models saying how they're going to save the world ) . You're sure to love this movie . Also starring Benjamin Bratt , Candice Bergen , Ernie Hudson and William Shatner .
it would be just like a corporation to do this to someone	Truman Burbank's ( Jim Carrey ) life is a TV show . Nothing about his idyllic small town is real , but rather created for him to live in . And he doesn't know about any of it , because a cabal of slimy people have successfully kept him there his whole life . Until one day when he starts to get suspicious that there's something going on . The movie not only shows the corporation completely manipulating someone's life , but might also be interpreted as a metaphor for being a prisoner of TV . I've never seen a Peter Weir movie that I didn't like , and " The Truman Show " further backs that up . This movie really deserved an Oscar .
Hedy Wamarr ? Bawbwa Stanwyck ? Owivia de Haviwand ? Did children recognize those names in 1940 ?	On one level , " A Wild Hare " is a historical reference as it was the first teaming of Bugs Bunny and Elmer Fudd . But even ignoring that , it's still a hoot , with that " wascawy wabbit " making mincemeat of Elmer . There's just one thing that raises my eyebrows nowadays . Elmer asks about Hedy Lamarr , Barbara Stanwyck and Olivia de Havilland . Did six-year-old children in 1940 know who those women were , cuz I sure didn't recognize those names when I was six . Oh well , it's still a great cartoon . Always a classic . And it sure wasn't the wast time that that wascawy wabbit twicked Elmer Fudd . Olivia de Havilland . Just yesterday , I saw " The Adventures of Robin Hood " , and let me tell you : she looked hot in those dresses !
If this is what happens , then kidnap me !	In what may be his funniest role to date , Denis Leary plays kidnapper Gus , who takes wealthy Connecticut couple Lloyd ( Kevin Spacey ) and Caroline Chasseur ( Judy Davis ) hostage one Christmas Eve , only to have them drive him absolutely nuts due to their bad marriage ! As Gus puts it : " I kidnapped my f - - king parents ! " We might say that Spacey's role here was a predecessor to his character in " American Beauty " - I can certainly see a similarity - but that's missing the point . The point is to watch how the people here go from one embarrassing situation to the next . The dinner scene really blows everything out of the water . Overall , " The Ref " is looking at the falsity of the suburban lifestyle , but they do some hilarious things to show it . I would say that " The Ref " and " Gremlins " are my two favorite Christmas movies ever . Also starring Glynis Johns and Christine Baranski .
I will assert that I prefer Andy Griffith's movie roles to his TV show .	Everyone probably knows about the dangers of fame and / or fortune . " A Face in the Crowd " does a really good job with it . Lonesome Rhodes ( Andy Griffith ) is a nobody in a backwards town who gets turned into a superstar almost overnight . But as time goes by , his burgeoning greed and egotism begin to take over , possibly irrevocably . Griffith turned in a top-notch performance here , as did supporting players Patricia Neal , Anthony Franciosa , Lee Remick and Walter Matthau . Elia Kazan's direction and Budd Schulberg's script are beyond superb ( it almost makes one forget what a creepy thing Kazan did to get into movies ) . This is a movie that everyone should see .
Like " Dude , Where's My Car ? " , it shows that movies can be stupid and funny at the same time .	Just imagine every dopey duo ( e . g . , Bill and Ted ) and imagine them trying to get into a cool club , and you basically have " A Night at the Roxbury " . I had never heard of Will Ferrell before this movie came out , but he did a hilarious job here and has of course seen his career proliferate since . He and Chris Kattan play slacker brothers Steve and Doug Butabi , trying to get into a club . Well , that's the official plot ; but like other such movies , it's basically an excuse for a bunch of crazy situations . I've seen some of the " SNL " episodes that had this skit . My favorite one was the one with Sylvester Stallone . It ended with something that I'm probably not allowed to write here .
I guess that school just sucks for some people !	OK , I don't mean that seriously . It's just that when you see what Max Fischer ( Jason Scwartzmann ) goes through , you're truly going to be shocked . He's a student in a prep school in Houston whose life is about to get irrevocably turned upside down , more or less through his acquaintance with the school's main benefactor Herman Blume ( Bill Murray ) . With " Rushmore " , Wes Anderson started what proved to be his troika of great indie films - followed by " The Royal Tenenbaums " and " The Life Aquatic with Steve Zissou " - which of course all starred Bill Murray . Murray's character here is much like his characters in " Lost in Translation " and " The Life Aquatic " : a burnout on the verge of a major shocker in his life . A real treat of a movie .
Bugs Bunny is the best	When I try to decide which is the best Looney Tunes cartoon ever , it's a shoo-in between " Long-Haired Hare " and " What's Opera , Doc ? " . In " Long-Haired Hare " , Bugs Bunny is singing some songs and playing instruments to accompany them , when overstuffed opera singer Giovanni Jones smashes Bugs ' instruments and ties him up . Bugs affirms to the camera " Of course you realize this means war . " So , when Jones is performing at the Hollywood Bowl , Bugs plays all sorts of tricks on him . Best of all are the hand directions . This is a veritable triumph-of-the-underdog story . You just can't go wrong with the classic Bugs Bunny cartoons . Perfect .
buddy comedies ever after	Obviously , " Rush Hour " is mostly just another buddy comedy , but there's so much hilarious dialogue between Jackie Chan and Chris Tucker , that it's all worthwhile . When a consul's daughter gets kidnapped , Tucker gets hired to take the case , but Chan gets brought in from Hong Kong to assist . Naturally , they have a very hard time cooperating . I guess that a major aspect of these movies is that you shouldn't try to take them seriously ; just accept them as completely crazy . With Chan doing his martial arts and Tucker being a loudmouth , it's a great time from start to finish . Also starring Elizabeth Pena , Chris Penn , and Tom Wilkinson . I liked the sequel equally .
The West just gets wilder and wilder !	Before she became a political activist / Oscar winner , Jane Fonda starred in the wacky " Cat Ballou " , as the gun-slinging title character . Seeking to avenge her father's murder , she hires Kid Shaleen ( Lee Marvin ) and gets a lot more than she bargained for ! That's the plot , but more important is the movie's pace ; it's basically an excuse for a series of wild gags . Maybe not as wild as " Blazing Saddles " , but zany nonetheless . Narrating are Professor Sam the Shade ( Nat " King " Cole , in his final role ) and The Sunshine Kid ( Stubby Kaye , whom you may remember as Marvin Acme in " Who Framed Roger Rabbit " ) . Dwayne Hickman also co-stars as loser Jed . . . who might not be a loser after all . A very funny movie in every way .
There's nothing fictional about this movie's high quality .	" Pulp Fiction " has partly gone down in history as the movie that revived John Travolta's career , but it's more than that . A look into the lives of several criminals , it's likely to shake up almost anyone . The first time that I ever saw the movie , my dad ( who'd already seen it ) sent me out of the room for the scene where Bruce Willis . . . well , I won't spoil it in case you haven't seen it . Also , while we were watching it , I was cracking up at the language - I can't even count how many curse words they used . This is one movie that will probably never get shown on network TV - they would probably have to cut more than half the movie ( including Samuel L . Jackson's wallet ) . All in all , director Quentin Tarantino created a real masterpiece here . Top-notch acting ( that spawned some famous lines ) and a great script combined for a real treat . Uma Thurman's scene might make some people's skin crawl , but if not , then enjoy .
You'd better believe that these vampire babes bite . . . hard !	To the pantheon of erotic 1970s horror flicks we can add " Vampyres " , about hot lesbian vampires Fran ( Marianne Morris ) and Miriam ( Anulka Dziubinska ) who thumb rides from unsuspecting travelers , take the travelers to the English estate where they dwell , and go into full orgy mode . In a way , much of the movie seems like an excuse to show Fran and Miriam naked . . . but believe me , there's every justification for that ! Especially that shower scene ! Sure enough , those goddamn censors the world over decided to cut the coolest scenes . Shame on them ! How dare they butcher a movie about vampire vixens having sex with unsuspecting men before making a meal of them . All in all , I would consider it an honor for these two babes to drink my blood . . . particularly if they would drink it out of certain areas ! This movie is a must-see for fans of 1970s Euro-horror . Also check out the interviews with Marianne Morris and Anulka Dziubinska in the special features ; aside from offering insight into the movie's production , they're still really hot thirty years later !
You won't end up saying " Good grief ! "	Charles Schulz's death a few years ago ( in fact , a few weeks after " Peanuts " ended ) , brought to mind his creations . Obviously , " A Charlie Brown Christmas " was one of them . And it remains a classic to this day . The plot of course has Charlie Brown getting put off by the commercialism surrounding Christmas and looking for the holiday's true meaning . I really liked the tree scene . With the way that Bill O'Reilly and company like to claim that there's an " anti-Christmas " war going on with people trying to replace " Christmas " with " holiday " , it's good to know that Charles Schulz and company could always find something meaningful to do .
Might " Jeopardy " be rigged ?	I was rooting for " Quiz Show " to win Best Picture for 1994 ( although I've since sided with " The Shawshank Redemption " ) . Portraying the real-life story of a rigged 1950s game show , the movie captures 1950s TV the same way that " Good Night , and Good Luck . " does . We also see how after they get tired of letting one person win , they switch to another person . It makes one wonder whether such things might happen on " Jeopardy " . As it was , this movie came out right after I had first heard of Robert Redford ( I had just seen " Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid " ) . This one certainly affirmed what a great presence he is one the screen , whether in front of the camera or behind it . Ralph Fiennes , Rob Morrow , John Turturro , Paul Scofield , David Paymer , Hank Azaria and Mira Sorvino are all splendid in their roles ( Martin Scorsese and Barry Levinson also make guest appearances ) .
Forsooth ! Friz Freleng hath created another hilarious cartoon !	Halt thee , knave ( or wench ) ! I shall tell thee a story of a classic Looney Tunes cartoon . OK , I'll cut the Medieval talk , but my point is that " Knights Must Fall " is just great , as Bugs Bunny torments Sir Pantsalot in a Medieval jousting contest . As you may imagine , there's a dynamite gag , but Bugs also does lots of stuff with various kinds of metal . He makes jousting look as fun as " A Knight's Tale " made it look , maybe more so . All in all , this is one of many cartoons showing that they don't make ' em like they used to . It's a pleasure watching these time and again . Forsooth !
drooling and drooling more	Johnny Depp may be the most interesting actor of his generation , and " Charlie and the Chocolate Factory " reaffirms that . The story of course has destitute Charlie Bucket ( Freddie Highmore ) winning a trip to confectioner Willy Wonka's ( Johnny Depp ) factory . Probably the neatest aspect is how they've reworked Willy Wonka . Due to an overbearing , anti-candy dentist father ( Christopher Lee ) , Willy has resulted a socially awkward wacko who looks like Jim Morrison and Tina Louise had an illegitimate son and occasionally utters aphorisms that may or may not appeal to everyone . As for the other characters , the Oompa Loompas ( Deep Roy ) just love to sing about spoiled children getting their comeuppances , and Charlie's grandfather Joe ( David Kelly ) makes an interesting counterbalance to the young cast . My favorite scene ? Gee , that's a tough one . I guess that any one of the other children getting their comeuppances made for something cool : the perpetually obese Augustus Gloop gets sucked into a pipe , the overachieving Violet Beauregarde turns into a blueberry , the spoiled-beyond-repair Veruca Salt gets thrown down a garbage chute by a bunch of squirrels , and the video game-obsessed Mike Teavee gets transferred into a TV . Anyway , " Charlie and the Chocolate Factory " is one movie that's bound to please everyone . Tim Burton really knows how to handle this sort of material .
Lasse Hallstrom shows shades of his later movies	After I had seen " The Cider House Rules " and " Chocolat " , I took some interest in Swedish-born director Lasse Hallstrom , and so I decided to check out one of his movies from his native country . " Mitt liv som hund " ( " My Life as a Dog " in English ) really impressed me . This story of abandoned boy Ingemar hits the perfect balance between sentimental and gritty , with one scene that was probably there for a little comic relief ( you'll know what I mean if you see the movie ) . Probably the most effective scene is when Ingemar talks about Laika , the Soviet space-dog . Just as happened to Laika , Ingemar didn't want to have to go through this , it was done to him . And both Laika and Ingemar got left in limbo . Both were victims of cold , abstract forces . Anyway , this is definitely one that I recommend . In my opinion , Hallstrom's American movie most like this one was " What's Eating Gilbert Grape " , about a destitute family in Iowa . Both are worth seeing .
southern comfort	I knew almost nothing about Phil Morrison's " Junebug " when I started watching it ( save what I read on the DVD case ) , and I would say that knowing nothing made the movie all the more impressive . Embeth Davidtz plays Madeleine , an art dealer in Chicago . While visiting a client in North Carolina , she and husband George ( Alessandro Nivola ) decide to visit George's family : father Eugene ( Scott Wilson ) , mother Peg ( Celia Weston ) and brother Johnny ( Ben McKenzie ) . This , in my opinion , is where the movie takes a major turn . I would expect this situation to result in a clash of cultures story , but there's something new here . What we see is that , although George's family pretty much ignores Madeleine , Johnny's pregnant wife Ashley ( Amy Adams ) immediately befriends her . Trapped in an unhappy marriage , Ashley always tries to maintain a sense of optimism , which increases upon her acquaintance with Madeleine . But eventually , something has to change the direction that things appear to be taking . Seeing everything from Madeleine's point of view - as the outsider in this family - creates for me a sense of voyeurism . Madeleine sees everything happen , all the while understanding that she can't change how the family is . The film has a slow pace , but that's appropriate for this sort of movie : the characters need time to develop . And above all , the characters aren't clichés ; far from just being a gaggle of ignorant yokels , the family has its issues to deal with , doing what they can to get by . Anyway , this is certainly one that I recommend . All the cast members do a great job , not to mention fine direction and writing . Perfect .
sooner or later , we're all eighteen with a bullet	Guy Ritchie made his mark on the world with the madcap " Lock , Stock and Two Smoking Barrels " , about organized crime in London's underbelly . I remember that when it came out was right after Columbine , so some people got irked by the violence , but I suggest that you ignore that and luxuriate in the pure hilarity . As great as the plot - maybe better - is the soundtrack . The song " 18 with a Bullet " may have also reminded people of Columbine . But anyway , this is a movie that you're sure to like . Ritchie followed it up with the equally great " Snatch . " , but unfortunately followed that up with the dreadful " Swept Away " remake . But this one is a hoot .
Pronounce it right , Herr Doktor !	Can you imagine the first time this movie came out ? Everyone must have died laughing ! The plot of course has self-deprecating Dr . Frederick Frankenstein ( Gene Wilder , and you know how to pronounce the name ) suddenly deciding to carry on his grandfather's work with the help of wisecracking Igor ( Marty Feldman , and you know how to pronounce it ) and the very sexy Inga ( Teri Garr ) . Peter Boyle is a hoot as The Monster , as is Cloris Leachman as Frau Blucher ( cue horse sounds ) , Kenneth Mars as Police Inspector Hans Wilhelm Friedrich Kemp ( you may recall the screwy arm ) , and of course Gene Hackman as the Blind Man ( espresso , anyone ? ) . Mel Brooks really pulled off a great one here , spoofing every Frankenstein movie from the ' 30s . " Young Frankenstein " is a classic !
One ring - and three great movies - to rule them all .	A pop culture phenomenon , " The Lord of the Rings : The Fellowship of the Ring " is unlike anything that you've ever seen . The plot of course has several hobbits and humans joining up in Middle Earth to destroy a ring that corrupts whomever possesses it ; in the process , they have to fight off evil beings . The movie is beyond impressive . In fact , there isn't any adjective that can do it justice . You have to see it to believe it . Peter Jackson adapted J . R . R . Tolkien's novel to the screen as a work of art that would otherwise be unfathomable . I've never read the novel , but I can say that Elijah Wood , Ian McKellen , Viggo Mortensen , Sean Astin , John Rhys-Davies , Liv Tyler , Cate Blanchett , Christopher Lee , and Ian Holm , interpret the characters with a style and quality that we usually associate only with history's most distinguished actors and actresses . This is THE movie to see , and parts 2 and 3 were equally good . A masterpiece in the true sense of the word .
I did not have sex with that woman , but I am wearing her underwear .	My rating assumes that you're not actually going to bother looking at this page unless you've decided that you like " Jane Austen's Mafia ! " before you've seen it ( I found it pretty funny ) . For anyone else , it's the sort of spoof that - as many reviews said at the time - is destined to sleep with the fishes . A gag-a-minute send-up of history's most famous mafia movies , there's clearly nothing sacred to the people behind this flick ; the whole Sicily sequence makes that clear ( well , what can you expect from the director of " Airplane ! " ? ) . Where Leslie Nielsen seemingly would be is Lloyd Bridges ( in his final role ) as the aging , clumsy don . So , in conclusion , you'll only take interest in this if you accept any kind of humor , no matter how low . But you may be hungry for Italian food after watching it . Also starring Jay Mohr , Billy Burke , Christina Applegate , Olympia Dukakis and Vincent Pastore . And remember : soup is good !
Burning Patience	Right after I saw " Il postino " in 1995 , I got really into Pablo Neruda , and I read the novel " Burning Patience " , on which the movie is based . While I will say that I liked the book better - they set the movie twenty years earlier than the original story happened , and they set it in Italy - I won't deny the movie's power . Not just in showing the friendship between humble postman Mario Ruoppolo ( Massimo Troisi , who died the day after they finished filming ) and Neruda ( Philippe Noiret ) , but also how it looks at post-WWII Italy and how the people were trying to put their lives back together . In that sense , Mario's burgeoning love for Beatrice may be a sort of allusion to Italy's eventual resurrection from its destruction in WWII . I think that my favorite scene was Mario recording the various sounds ; I would say that it displayed his full artistic potential that he had developed through his friendship with Neruda . But anyway , it's a really great movie , the sort of thing that gives you new faith in life and love . What happens at the end certainly mirrors what happened in Chile right before Neruda died . I recommend it to everyone .
It stars Chevy Chase . What else do you need to know ?	Chevy Chase returns as goofy reporter Irwin Fletcher . This time , he inherits a Louisiana mansion and decides to move there . On the way , he expects the mansion ( and the South overall ) to be a " Zip-a-Dee-Doo-Dah " world , but finds just the opposite when he arrives . To complicate matters , he finds himself involved in a murder plot , gets chased by the Ku Klux Klan , and various other mishaps . Oh come on ! I shouldn't have to explain " Fletch Lives " to you ! The very presence of Chevy Chase should identify that it's a hilariously wacky good time ( remember , he was funny before his failed attempt at a TV show ; and he did play a good role in " Orange County " ) . I don't care what anyone says ; Chevy Chase is truly one of the funniest people in history .
In nomine Jay , Silent Bob , et spiritus . . . uh , I mean everyone else in Kevin Smith's movies . . .	Everyone likes a movie that irks religious people , but " Dogma " is beyond that . Matt Damon and Ben Affleck play Loki and Bartleby , fallen angels who plan to reenter Heaven and thus undo all existence . So , some loyal angels call upon Bethany Sloane ( Linda Fiorentino ) to stop them . From there , Jay ( Jason Mewes ) and Silent Bob ( Kevin Smith ) have some great lines , as do thirteenth apostle Rufus ( Chris Rock ) , Metatron ( Alan Rickman ) , Serendipity ( Salma Hayek ) and Cardinal Glick ( George Carlin ) . Jason Lee plays Azrael , the evilest demon imaginable . Mostly , the movie is an excuse to be wacky and have references to comic books . I think that my favorite scene was in the restaurant right after Serendipity tells everyone that she was responsible for 19 of the top twenty highest-grossing movies of all time . You will probably be blown away by what follows . I haven't seen the DVD , but apparently , one of the special features is a Sunday School teacher telling us that we'll go to Hell if we watch " Dogma " . Well , if that's the case , then tell Satan that I'm on my way ; I LOVED this movie !
" The Philadelphia Story " vs " High Society "	In the role that affirmed her as possibly the greatest actress of her generation , Katharine Hepburn plays heiress Tracy Lord , about to get married yet again . When her ex ( Cary Grant ) reenters her life , it throws everything into flux , but when a reporter ( Jimmy Stewart ) enters , all bets are off . Above all , I wish to assert that " The Philadelphia Story " is more interesting than the musical remake " High Society " ( which I just saw two days ago and reviewed on IMDb . com yesterday ! ) . The latter is good as a reminder of how hot Grace Kelly was , but this one is all about the craziness factor . A real classic .
After hearing Charlie Dog say " shut up " , who wouldn't want to go around saying it ?	Watching " Often an Orphan " , it's surprising that Charlie Dog didn't become a regular Looney Tunes character . In this cartoon , he gets abandoned by his master and starts pestering Porky Pig to adopt him . When Porky refuses , Charlie launches into an emotion-manipulating monologue about the horrors of city life . It later turns out that Charlie is smarter than Porky . So , maybe this wasn't the best Looney Tunes cartoon ever , but it's great just because of how Charlie says " Well then shaddup ! " Only Mel Blanc could create a voice like that . Worth seeing . And I guess that you could say that Porky puts on a few " pounds " at the end .
How many movies has the MPAA censored today ?	John Waters continues his trashing of " traditional " Americanism with the raucous " Cecil B . DeMented " , in which an indie filmmaker ( Stephen Dorff ) kidnaps an air-head actress ( Melanie Griffith ) and makes her star in his anti-Hollywood flick in which they go around attacking anything associated with Tinseltown - especially family-oriented stuff . And the best part : he's working with a budget of zero ! It's like the Patty Hearst story taken one step further ( Ms . Hearst even appears in the movie ) . This seems like the sort of movie that had probably been in the works for years . Regardless of anyone's opinion of " Forrest Gump " and " Patch Adams " , we can likely agree that they don't need to get extended . A really funny , great movie . Also starring Mink Stole and Kevin Nealon . Choosing the " Flintstones " sequel over a Pasolini movie . I bet that some people would do that .
Elke Sommer . . . hubba hubba	My rating of of course applies only if you're a horny teenage boy . Considering that the movie stars Elke Sommer , I probably don't need to explain the plot ( the sexual exploits of a bunch of women ) . I can also note that Virna Lisi , Monica Vitti and Gina Lollobrigida co-star , and . . . you know something ? Let me explain in the next paragraph . The skin flicks of the 1960s were cool , but what they should have done in , say , 1966 was make one big movie starring Marcello Mastroianni , Dick Van Dyke , Audrey Hepburn , Steve McQueen , Sean Connery , Buck Henry , Tippi Hedren , Larry Hagman , Robert Reed , Elizabeth Montgomery , Tina Louise , Barbara Eden , Paul Naschy , Sophia Loren , Bob Denver , Connie Hines , Jack Nicholson , Natalie Wood , Elliott Gould , Elke Sommer , Faye Dunaway and Sandra Dee all having a big orgy ( if you don't know who some of those people are , then shame on you ) . I would have paid to see that kind of movie ! Just kidding ! It's probably sort of weird that I know who every one of those individuals is ! But I still would have paid to see that kind of movie .
She's still my favorite artist .	Salma Hayek does a perfect job playing Frida Kahlo . We see her tortured life and manage to feel it . Like " Ray " and " Walk the Line " , this is a warts-and-all portrayal . Maybe the movie didn't go into her politics as it could have ( her last public appearance was protesting against the CIA's overthrow of Guatemala's Pres . Jacobo Arbenz in 1954 ) , but it did a really good job otherwise . " Frida " certainly deserved its Oscars for Makeup and Original Song . I think that Hayek should have gotten Best Actress . Also starring are Alfred Molina as Diego Rivera , Ashley Judd as Tina Modotti , Antonio Banderas as David Siquieros , Edward Norton as Nelson Rockefeller , and Geoffrey Rush as Leon Trotsky . A truly great movie .
. . . vs " Apt Pupil "	Ian McKellen had never been part of my cinema vocabulary before 1998 . That year , he played two very impressive - and dissimilar - roles . The first was the role of a Nazi fugitive in " Apt Pupil " ; in that case , you fear his character , but at the same time can't help but admire him . The other role was in " Gods and Monsters " of homosexual movie director James Whale , the brains behind " Frankenstein " and " The Invisible Man ( although the movie stresses " Frankenstein " and " The Bride of Frankenstein " ) . Specifically , " GAM " focuses ( apparently in a fictionalized way ) on Whale's last few days alive , and his relationship with his gardener Clayton Boone ( Brendan Fraser ) . We might assume that since Whale was gay , he may have tried to directly come on to Boone . This doesn't happen in the movie , although there are scenes where it looks as though Whale is more than a little interested in Boone . How a certain scene tenses you up a little bit is a testament to the movie's strength . " GAM " also goes so far as to show different periods of Whale's life . At one point , he is recounting to Boone his childhood in abject poverty in England , and we get to see it . Another scene shows his service in WWI ; as Whale affirms , no war movie can ever accurately depict the battlefield ( " They never got the smell . " ) . There is also a memory of him directing " The Bride of Frankenstein " . These all add to the movie's quality . Overall , this is certainly a movie that I recommend . McKellen affirms himself as one of this era's greatest actors , and Fraser shows that he can do a good role when he tries . Also starring are Lynn Redgrave as housekeeper Hannah , and Lolita Davidovich as Boone's wife Betty . Definitely worth seeing .
things work when mother and daughter co-star	Probably the main reason that we can hold " Halloween H20 : 20 Years Later " in high regard is simply because it brings back Laurie Strode ( Jamie Lee Curtis ) . But there's something else : it takes a cue from " Scream " , going for a mildly campy approach ( in one scene , they even watch a scene from " Scream 2 " ) . Unlike most horror flicks , there's no gratuitous sex . They definitely chose to focus on Laurie - even going so far as to include some character development . As for Michael Myers , he still goes around killing anyone who gets in his way ; watching him , I almost wanted to root for him . An obvious difference between this one and the previous installments is the absence of Sam Loomis , as Donald Pleasance had passed on . Well , they still know how to make the movie come out good . As for the rest of the cast , Josh Hartnett as Jamie Lee Curtis's son didn't really catch my attention . Michelle Williams catches my attention now more than she did when the movie came out , due to her roles since then ( namely " Brokeback Mountain " ) . But one of the most impressive people in the movie is Jamie Lee Curtis's horror veteran mom Janet Leigh , driving her car from " Psycho " ( and she still looks hot after all these years ! ) . Also starring Adam Arkin , LL Cool J and Adam Hann-Byrd . So anyway , you're sure to like this movie . And it just might save your life . Because we're all entitled to a scare . . .
This was the last movie that I saw in 1999 . . .	. . . and I'd say that it was a perfect way to end the 20th century ( unless you say that the 20th century ended in 2000 ) . For years , movie adaptations of Stephen King novels bungled everything , but with " The Green Mile " in the hands of the man behind " The Shawshank Redemption " ( also about a prison ) , it clearly had to be good . In case you've never read the novel - which I highly recommend - the plot has prison guard Paul Edgecombe ( Tom Hanks ) overseeing death row in a Louisiana penitentiary in 1935 . When a very large African-American named John Coffey ( Michael Clarke Duncan ) arrives , Paul witnesses some events that no one could ever imagine . This is the only which comes to my mind that I would classify as both haunting and heartwarming at the same time . Haunting because the prison's bleak environs drain all hope ; heartwarming because of what happens in this particular prison . Both Hanks and Duncan turn in pitch-perfect performances , as do the other cast members . Bonnie Hunt as Paul's wife Jan , trying to cope with the effects that her husband's job has on their personal life ; James Cromwell as Warden Hal Moores , doing everything to carry out his job but depressed by numerous factors ; Doug Hutchison as despicable guard Percy Wetmore , who likes nothing more than to be as cruel as possible ; David Morse , Barry Pepper , and Jeffrey DeMunn as fellow guards Brutus " Brutal " Howell , Dean Stanton , and Harry Terwilliger , respectively ; Sam Rockwell as vicious inmate " Wild Bill " Wharton ; Michael Jeter and Graham Greene as fellow inmates Eduard Delacroix and Arlen Bitterbuck , respectively ; Patricia Clarkson as the warden's wife Melinda , afflicted by an awful disease ; Harry Dean Stanton as loopy janitor Toot-Toot ; and Dabbs Greer as the elderly Paul Edgecombe . Gary Sinise all appears as Coffey's lawyer . An .
incredible	I had only heard a little bit about " Wandafuru raifu " ( called " After Life " in English ) when it came out , but I was blown away by the movie . Focusing on some people in Japan considering what will be the memory that they take with them when they die , the movie really holds you . The story is somewhere between metaphysical and psychological , but incredible nonetheless . I don't know director Hirokazu Koreeda or any of the cast members , but if this is any indication , they all must be masterful . All in all , you have to see this movie . You may never feel the same about life or death again .
And did what corporations always do . . .	When " 54 " got released , many critics claimed that it was just another attempt to get into the ' 70s nostalgia that had swept the country . It's more than that . The movie shows New York's Studio 54 , an unusual club where young people danced to disco and could meet celebrities , as seen through the eyes of employee Shane O'Shea ( Ryan Phillippe ) . At the end , he talks about , how after the government closed the place down , a corporation took it over and did what corporations always do : make the place safe and sterile . Steve Rubell ( Mike Myers ) built it up into a most unique hangout , and the corporation drained the life out of it . So don't trust the critics . This was a really good movie .
the devil made him do it	In case people have forgotten the Tasmanian Devil , " Bedevilled Rabbit " reminds us of him . When Bugs Bunny gets parachuted into Tasmania ( where's that ? ) , Taz quickly gets hungry and sets his sights on Bugs . Sure enough , Bugs is way ahead of Taz , and always can pull anything seemingly out of thin air to play all sorts of tricks . If these cartoons were nothing more than excuses to pull all sorts of crazy gags , then they played it to great effect . It's great to watch them go all out time and again . Truly classic . There will never be any cartoons like these again . Oh , and in case you don't actually know : Tasmania is the island south of Australia .
Hitch comes to Hollywood	Alfred Hitchcock's first Hollywood movie won Best Picture and Cinematography ( unfortunately , he didn't take home a Best Director Oscar ) . " Rebecca " portrays widower Max de Winter ( Laurence Olivier ) and an unnamed woman ( Joan Fontaine ) getting married . But on their honeymoon , she discovers that the memory of Max's first wife is apparently haunting him in multiple ways . And servant Mrs . Danvers ( Judith Anderson ) isn't exactly what she seems . The possible common Hitchcock theme that one can see in this movie is the murderous gays : there's the possibility that Mrs . Danvers is a lesbian . I don't know whether or not Hitch was a homophobe , but one can see the theme . Either way , " Rebecca " remains a classic .
Termite Terrace's folks needn't be anonymous ( especially since AA is essentially a religion )	" Birds Anonymous " is one of the many classic Looney Tunes cartoons that comes across funnier when you're an adult than when you're a kid , as you understand what it's spoofing . In this case , the target is Alcoholics Anonymous , as Sylvester enters an organization that helps cats break their bird addiction . But it's not that easy for him to think about anything other than Tweety ( it's hard to deny that felines really develop dependencies on avians ) . They hit it right on the nail with this cartoon . The meeting early on shows cats talking about how their bird addictions were running their lives into the ground until the organization saved them . And when the organization's rep Sam catches Sylvester trying to eat Tweety , Sam goes off on a speech about how this one snack will open Sylvester's addiction back up ! I actually think that it's really good that they spoofed Alcholics Anonymous . Once , I was watching Penn & Teller's show , and they said that AA is basically a religion . Aside from the fact that a " 12-step program " is a rather dogmatic idea , AA apparently hasn't changed it's modus operandi since its creation in 1935 . But if AA helps people break their addiction , then it probably balances everything out . Anyway , this is a really funny cartoon . Like I said , it becomes funnier once you're old enough to understand it ( as do many if not most of the classic Looney Tunes cartoons ) . It certainly deserved its Oscar .
" Sophie's Choice " transferred to the post-slavery era , and unfairly ignored	Clearly , the racism of this country led people to ignore " Beloved " ( to add insult to injury , 1998 had a piece of Hollywood crap like " Armageddon " as one of the top grossing flicks ) . This one tells the story of Sethe ( Oprah Winfrey ) , a former slave in 1877 Ohio who many years earlier killed her daughter ( Thandie Newton ) rather than let the girl get sold into slavery . The girl's aura has haunted Sethe's house ever since . But things might be different now that Sethe's former lover Paul ( Danny Glover ) has arrived . When the movie came out , a review said that the cinematography made the house look like it was moving . I would agree with that . I would also add that much of the movie might make you feel like your blood is freezing . But there is an element of hope : at the end , we hear some people talking about Jesus , but it could be any Jesus ( maybe they're returning to their African roots ) . Although I compared " Beloved " to " Sophie's Choice " , I would say that this one is better , in that she's stronger . Anyway , this is a movie that I recommend to everyone . We Americans have an obligation to deal with our racist history , and this movie shows it . Also starring Kimberly Elise , Beah Richards , Irma P . Hall ( of " The Ladykillers " ) , Jason Robards , and even Wes Bentley in a small role . Oh , and by the way , I saw this the same day that I saw " Shadrach " , which also deals with slavery . I think that " Beloved " director Jonathan Demme executive produced " Shadrach " .
So his name is Claude . . .	I never even knew that the cat in " Mouse Wreckers " was named Claude until I read about it on this site . But either way , Claude really suffers here , as New York-accented mice Hubie and Bertie pull a series of tricks to scare him out of the house . Probably the coolest gags are the stunt with the rope , and then the whole end sequence . Still , I can't help but wonder why it is that cats always have to bear the brunt of abuse at the hands of cartoon characters . It seems like there should have been some cartoon in which a cat makes mincemeat of a dog or something . But still , this is a great one . Claude really could have used some pineapple upside down cake at the end !
Just why did Shirley Temple's ex star in these kinds of movies ?	My rating of course only applies because I assume that only ' 50s-B-movie fetishists would even take any interest in " The Brain from Planet Arous " . But previous reviewers have noted that this movie takes a slightly different approach : criminal brain Gor comes to earth to inhabit a man's body and thereby rule the universe , while police brain Vol arrives in search of the criminal brain ( meaning that most of the brains on Planet Arous are good guys ) . Therefore , even non-fetishists should take some interest in this movie . The characters are pretty much what one would expect : the men are all hot-headed , while the one woman is desperate . The main character Steve March is played by John Agar , aka Shirley Temple's first husband . I also saw him in " Journey to the Seventh Planet " ( although I paid slightly more attention to the hot babes in that one ) . Maybe he starred in ' 50s and ' 60s B-sci-fi movies because his reputation as Shirley Temple's ex limited his opportunities ( actually , I don't know whether that limited his opportunities ) . Also starring are Joyce Meadows as Steve's hubby Sally Fallon , Thomas Brown Henry as her father John , and Dale Tate as the voices of Gor and Vol . If this had ever gotten shown on " MST3K " , Mike or Servo or Crow probably would have said " If Planet Arous has a brain , why didn't the people behind this movie ? " But I personally didn't think find this a bad movie . Like any ' 50s sci-fi flick , you have to accept it for what it is .
American history , French-style	Marco Ferreri's " Touche pas a la femme blanche " - " Don't Touch the White Woman " in English - could easily be an extension of " Little Big Man " or a movie version of " A People's History of the United States " , although it came out a few years before Howard Zinn published his famous book . It portrays the US government's crusade to exterminate the Indians , reenacted in 1970s Paris ( complete with references to Pres . Nixon , and even Watergate ) . Marcello Mastroianni makes a chilling Gen . Custer , but Michel Piccoli is quite funny as Buffalo Bill : he sounded as though he was trying to put on an American accent while speaking French ! I read about how Marco Ferreri played a major role in the changing Italian cinema of the ' 60s and ' 70s . Certainly this film shows that . Specifically , as the United States had been taking a different look at its own history - our own glasnost and perestroika , you might say - Europe was also challenging the American cultural myth ( no surprise there ) . I definitely recommend the movie . Also starring Catherine Deneuve and Ugo Tognazzi .
One day , when I'm an old man , I'll still be telling about when I saw this movie .	Yimou Zhang continues his saga of super-impressive , mind-blowing fantasies with " House of Flying Daggers " , about a man releasing a warrior from prison so that she can . . . well , I don't think that I can do the movie justice by trying to describe it . This is one of those movies that you actually have to see . During these few years since she broke out in " Crouching Tiger , Hidden Dragon " , Zhang Ziyi has really had a great resume , and this movie is another magnificent addition . The climactic fight scene is beyond what anyone could imagine , but that's why these movies are so great . Like I said , you have to see this movie to believe it . . . and believe it you will . .
Even for someone who doesn't like Mel Gibson .	As I have a very low opinion of Mel Gibson , it is especially noteworthy that I liked " Chicken Run " . Made by the same people who make the " Wallace and Gromit " cartoons , it portrays a gaggle of hens trying to break out of a British farm - some scenes even spoof " Stalag 17 " and " The Great Escape " - with the help of American rooster Rocky ( Gibson ) . With the perfect blend of humor and suspense ( and in a cartoon no less ! ) , this is one movie that's sure to please everyone . I really liked the constant " holiday " comments , and that end sequence was a hoot . Also starring Julia Sawalha , Miranda Richardson , Jane Horrocks , Imelda Staunton , and Timothy Spall .
one of those movies that you don't usually expect	In the early 20th century , the English government moved several people from India to Uganda to build the railroad . Some of the Indians stayed and became lawyers , physicians , etc . When Idi Amin came to power in the early 1970s , he expelled all non-black Africans . Some of the Indians moved to Mississippi and began running motels . " Mississippi Masala " focuses on this . Mina ( Sarita Choudhury ) is the daughter of an Indian family who fled Uganda for Mississippi . She develops a relationship with Demetrius ( Denzel Washington ) , a local man . Her family does not approve of her dating a black man , and Demetrius ' friends don't like him dating an Indian woman . The movie shows many things , in particular how both the blacks and the Indians were displaced from their ancestral lands . Also , it shows how the blacks are racist towards the Indians and vice versa . As Demetrius reminds Mina's father : " Your skin is just a couple of shades from mine . " Regardless of whether or not these sorts of things happen a lot , the movie does a very good job with it all .
This may very well be the best Bugs Bunny cartoon ever .	At first , you can't quite figure out what's going on : lightning flashes , the clouds open , and a menacing shadow moves majestically . Then , we see that it's just Elmer Fudd dressed like a Germanic warrior . He sings gracefully : " I'm hunting wabbits . . . " When he finds a hole in the ground , he belts out ( to the tune of " Ride of the Valkyries " ) : " Kill the wabbit , kill the wabbit , kill the wabbit , kill . . . " Naturally , when Bugs Bunny hears this , he's quite nervous . So , in his typical fashion , he dresses up as Brunhilde and proceeds to seduce Elmer . It's working until Bugs ' wig falls off . Elmer promptly summons the weather to " stwike the wabbit " . What is so great about this cartoon is the way it exposes young children to classic opera . I certainly got exposed to Wagner through this cartoon . Regardless of how you look at it , " What's Opera , Doc ? " embodies , manifests and exemplifies what classic cartoons are all about . Excellent .
events that led up to other unpleasant things	Part of what makes " Rosewood " so hard to watch - but I recommend it very much - is not only that it really happened , but also the thought that the events portrayed may have partly been the root of what happened in Florida in 2000 . With this vicious racism so deeply ingrained in our society , it's no surprise that Florida's government deprived a number of African-Americans of their right to vote . For more information about these sorts of things , read James Loewen's book " Lies Across America : What Our Historic Sites Get Wrong " . But anyway , this is a great ( and I would say under-appreciated ) movie . Jon Voight , Ving Rhames , Don Cheadle , Michael Rooker and Muse Watson all do a great job in their roles . Definitely one of John Singleton's really good ones .
So will Steve Martin be able to equal Peter Sellers ?	The upcoming release of the " Pink Panther " remake brings to mind the original series , including this one . When the famous diamond gets stolen for a second time , Insp . Jacques Clouseau ( Peter Sellers ) gets put on the case , and I shouldn't have to tell you what sorts of things he does , especially since this movie turns him into an even bigger doofus than previously . As Sir Charles Litton , Christopher Plummer does approximately as good a job as David Niven did . But the movie is all about Clouseau . One can only imagine how the people behind the camera must have cracked up watching him do these things . " The Return of the Pink Panther " is a comedy classic . Oh , and there's also that scene in the bedroom ! Hah !
this shows why the great movies always come out at the end of the year	Before " Walk the Line " came out , some people thought that Joaquin Phoenix and Reese Witherspoon would be miscast as Johnny Cash and June Carter . They were not miscast at all . Not only do they both do a great job playing the roles , they do their own singing . This movie does as great a job with its subject as " Ray " did . It makes perfect sense that Phoenix and Witherspoon have received Academy Award nominations ; I'd say that they deserve to win . This movie is a masterpiece in every way . Up in that great music house in the sky , Johnny and June must be proud to know that this movie did such a great job portraying their lives . Perfect .
seri ( al ) ously cool	John Waters continues his trashing of " traditional " Americanism with the dark but masterful " Serial Mom " . Kathleen Turner plays Baltimore housewife Beverly Sutphin , who loves her family but also likes to kill people who don't adhere to certain social norms . You read that right . After all , this is coming from the man who gave us Odorama . Anyway , Beverly doesn't like it that a neighbor doesn't recycle , or that a boy doesn't wear his seat-belt , or that some neighbors interfere with her husband's birdwatching plans , or that the principal objects to her son's admiration of horror flicks . What a great way to trash the suburbs . But after all this , the movie starts looking at how we can use the media to get our way . The point is , this is something that could only come from John Waters . If it's gross , then Waters is doing his job . Also starring are Sam Waterston , Ricki Lake , Matthew Lillard , Mink Stole , Patty Hearst and Suzanne Somers . A camp classic .
How do they come up with these things ? !	This one has Lt . Frank Drebin ( Leslie Nielsen ) trying to stop villain Quentin Hapsburg ( Robert Goulet ) from kidnapping a solar power advocate . That's the plot , but the movie is of course an excuse for a series of gags , many of which just pop out from the sides . And of course there's Frank's relationship with seductive Jane Spencer ( Priscilla Presley ) . One of their scenes might make you recall a certain scene from " Ghost " , and then what follows . . . well , all that I can say is : HOW DO THEY COME UP WITH THESE THINGS ? ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! I guess that the movie's only weird aspect is seeing O . J . Simpson as Nordberg . But if we can ignore that , the rest is a hoot , especially the opening sequence , the outlines of people's bodies , and the zoo scene . Just great .
many ways to look at Ireland	I have liked every one of John Sayles's movies that I've seen , and " The Secret of Roan Inish " is no exception . The movie mainly focuses on ten-year-old Fiona going to live with her grandparents in Donegal , Ireland , and learning family stories . But there were two aspects that I found particularly important . One was the focus on how England sought to destroy the Irish culture . Students weren't allowed to speak their native language in school , and Fiona's grandparents have to give up their house to an English family . But there was also the focus on seals . Aside from the story about the woman who could turn into a seal , there's Fiona's disappeared younger brother : might the seals be raising him ? Rarely have I ever seen such a mystical and edifying look at the relationship between humans and animals . All in all , this is the sort of movie that could only come from John Sayles . It's about as far from a Hollywood movie as you can get , and I recommend it to everyone . You just might want to take a trip to the Emerald Isle after watching it .
