What a disaster .	Infamous for being " brought to you by the digital effects team behind Independence Day , " Coronado is even more of a spectacular failure just from being juxtaposed with ID4 . This ridiculous mess of a film starts off with a brainless premise and goes completely downhill from there . A wealthy , soon to be married couple in Beverly Hills are the subjects of this idiotic story . Claire's fiancée has taken off on a business trip right around Christmas , so she decides to spontaneously fly to Switzerland so they can spend the holiday together . I especially love that her initial reason for wanting to go was because he had left some documents at home that she thought he might need . She grabbed them up and yelled after him while he drove away , concluding that her best bet would be to fly to the other side of the planet rather than call his cell phone . I refuse to believe that a couple living in such a cavernous mansion as theirs were unaware of the existence of mobile phones . So up until this point , the movie is unbelievably bad , but check this out , THIS is where it starts to get bad ! She gets to Switzerland and when she can't find her husband she gets some cake and calls her friend to whine about how unfair it all is . This woman is not an action hero , and she is DEFINITELY not a German Indiana Jones , for crying out loud . She is an overgrown cheerleader , a pampered sorority girl whose outdoor experience is probably limited to digging her spike heels out of the ground when she gets tipsy enough to wander onto the lawn during a wine and cheese party out on the bluffs . She gets a tip that her fiancée is in South America , so she , like , totally flies there to get him . Once there , this moron thinks she's going to go into the jungle by herself , sniff out the enemy base and rescue her poor helpless boyfriend . She laughs off a comment about the danger of going in there , then freaks out later because she finds out that there are battles going on . " You never said anything about battle ! " There is one point where Claire and some journalist that she met up with drive this huge truck across a bridge that is hundreds of feet high and hundreds of feet across and suspended by two by fours . Literally . There are thousands of thin pieces of wood tied together with twine , and these morons decide to drive over it . Not only does it crumble under the weight of the truck , but Claire manages to fall off of it , falling hundreds of feet and landing on her back in the shallow river below . Later she recalls the event , laughing it off like , oh maybe it was only a hundred . At least she wasn't twirling gum on her fingers . What is truly sad about this catastrophically bad movie is that they even managed to coax a terribly performance out of the tremendously talented John Rhys-Davies , a REAL Indiana Jones veteran . There is a lot of nonsense about an uprising at the end of the film , where we meet an extremist rebel leader who , when we first meet him , has such a thick accent that he rolls his r's like he thinks he's in a Ruffles commercial , then later he talks like some guy they pulled off the streets of Venice Beach . Unbelievable . The special effects are negligible . The team that brought you Independence Day , by the very fact that they were involved with ID4 , was simply going through the motions , throwing together some matted and blue screen shots , I have to believe because they just had nothing better to do . The story is astonishingly bad , and Kristin Dattilo , who many other IMDb users cite as the only reason to see the film , doesn't put the slightest effort into her performance . Maybe she thought the digital effects team behind Independence Day could superimpose some meaning into this mess . And given how far they've fallen , maybe they thought they could , too . They could at least have tried .
An absolute disaster just like the first two .	Now , my bitter disappointment by this time in the ridiculous Scary Movie saga is no surprise , and I have no one to blame but myself for going to the theaters to see it in the first place , and the only weak excuse I have is that I heard from someone that it was much better than the first two ( really , could it possibly have been WORSE ? ? ) because it had a different director . So I figured that since it wasn't TOTALLY a production of the abysmal senses of humor of the Wayans brothers , I would give it a shot , and the only good thing that came of it was that I learned once and for all how important it is to consider a film's target audience before paying real money to sit in an entire theater full of them . So , that being said , if you're the kind of person that would really get a kick out of seeing an eight-year-old boy beaten repeatedly about the head , face , and body with a baseball bat , please , go see this movie . If it would really please you to see that same boy get hit by a car TWICE , you're sure to enjoy this idiotic mess of a film . If , on the other hand , you like to have the slightest speck of actual thought put into a film , you might want to avoid this one , or at least wait until it comes out of video so you don't have to surround yourself with the kinds of people who answered yes to the first two questions . Believe me , I surrounded myself with them a couple nights ago and wished the entire time that I had a pot to put over my head and a wooden spoon to hit it with . That would have been more enjoyable than the movie . When I write my IMDb reviews , I usually try to keep from getting too upset by how bad a movie is . After all , I'm the one that went to see it in the first place , right ? And I don't believe in that ' I want my money back ' crap . Nowhere at any movie theater in the world does it say at the ticket booth ' Satisfaction Guaranteed . ' When you buy a movie ticket , you spent the money whether you liked the movie or not , that's not a hard concept to figure out . I have no problem with a movie being offensive . Quite the contrary , offensive movies tend to be the ones that are most remembered because they made an impression , even if it might have been a relatively bad one . Movies that make you a little bit uncomfortable are the ones that you notice , the ones that make a lasting difference . And I'm not only talking about massively important examples like Schindler's List or American History X or anything like that . Consider this , if every single movie was happy and fun like something like Indianan Jones or Toy Story or Back to the Future , movies would be pointless , they would be little more than pretty things to look at and something to make us laugh and to entertain us for an hour and a half . But when a movie makes us uncomfortable or is offensive to our beliefs or our way of life , maybe just because it shows us something that we don't normally or have never seen and probably don't WANT to see ( like death ) , that's when they gain a new kind of power over us - the power to affect our view of the world . Unfortunately , obtaining this kind of constructive discomfort is not only difficult to capture , it is also VERY easy to screw up , especially when you , as the director / writer / etc , of the film clearly do not care about getting it right and / or do not understand the importance of getting it right . And this is not just true of dramatic war films or deadly serious films , it's also very true of the comedy and even the spoof comedy . The spoof comedy even more than the rest is expected to make fun of the movies that it spoofs and to do it RESPECTFULLY . Granted , some of the jokes in Scary Movie 3 are funny , some of the spoofs are done in relatively good taste ( although , compared to the rest of the material , that's not saying much ) , and some of them I laughed out loud at . But where the Scary Movies go seriously and unforgivably wrong is that they do not understand when they have gone too far , when they've crossed the line , when they've crossed from being childishly amusing to being seriously offensive . And not the good kind of offensive either . I'm not just talking about jokes that are too gross or boobs that are almost popping out or too much profanity , I'm talking about the fact that there WILL be people seeing this movie who have had a brother or a cousin or a SON who has been killed by getting hit by a careless driver , and these people will have walked into this movie having no idea that they are going to see this happen onscreen and have to suffer through an entire theater-full of morons laughing their idiot heads off . Scary Movie 2 featured a character with a disfigured arm , and everyone groaned and yelled and said ' Oh God gross ! ! ! ' when he ate mashed potatoes off his hand as though he were performing fellatio on it . Clearly , Mawn and Sharlon Wayans , or whatever their names are , have no idea that there are people like this in real life , who want to be able to go to the movies and have a good time just like everyone else . So like I said , I have no problem with movies being offensive . I encourage it . But it becomes a problem when the makers of the film have no idea about how the mechanics of offensive material work , and the Wayans brothers are clearly clueless . This is not something that's ' all in good fun , ' this is the absolute bottom of the scale of bad taste , stuff for which there is no place in mainstream entertainment . I hope that I've avoided offending anyone who enjoyed the movie by things I've said in this review . I support constructively offensive material in movie reviews just like I do in the movies , as I described above , and I do not try to offend anyone with what I say in my reviews . So that being said , honk if you love the Scary Movies . Then drive into a tree .
This is absolute garbage . There is no reason to watch this movie . Ever . If you can only avoid watching one movie in your life , this should be it .	Nightmare Weekend stars a cast of ridiculous actors with even less of an idea of what is going on than the director had , if you can imagine that . There is no decipherable plot or story , the special effects are a joke , and even the sound is terrible . This film was directed by Henry Sala . It was the only film that he ever directed , and the reason is obvious .
Wow . I never cease to be amazed .	RPM would seem to be a rip-off of Bruckheimer's ridiculous Gone In 60 Seconds , until you realize that it was made three years earlier but didn't generate any attention ( and for good reason ) until Gone In 60 Seconds came out , and hardly even then . David Arquette is spectacularly miscast as a car thief who steals cars not for the money , but for the rush ( and for the all but pulsating cliché ) because , he believes , all the right things end up with the wrong people . That turns out to be true in RPM , since there are such a wide variety of beautiful cars getting stolen from complete morons . One man , for instance , meets Famke Janssen's Claudia on some remote mountain road , attempts to get her drunk on his champagne ( on the shoulder of the road , of course , not at home or anything ) , and then she ties him up and steals his car in front of his very eyes . He is , as would any thinking person , completely incapable of removing his own belt from around his ankles ( or even thinking to do this ) in order to save his precious car . He doesn't deserve it anyway . We learn early on that Luke ( David Arquette ) has a way of getting around the police , since his father is able to pull some strings with them ( mainly with his massive checkbook ) , which he does only because Luke keeps coming up with cool little gizmos that make him a lot of money but that he uses to help him in his stealing adventures . There is a particularly belligerent scene early in the film where a female officer comes to arrest him , and he sneaks out of the building and casually flees the scene in her cruiser , with the siren on . Because that's the safest way to escape , of course . IN a police car . With the SIREN on . Let the forehead slapping begin , but don't get your palm too sore yet , it gets much better . The plot of the film is a pathetically thin spider-webby clothesline of a thing that is barely strung together with a lot of awful , awful scenes , each seeming to try to outdo the last . I've seen James Bond do a wheelie in the cab of an 18-wheeler , and I just about fell out of my chair at the stupidity of THAT , but it's WAY outdone here . Luke is in Nice , France ( evidently for no other reason than to pack the film with bad accents ) , with the hopes of stealing the greatest discovery in automotive history ( the RPM , which runs on a gasless engine ) , and after stealing a Bond-style car , he makes a quick stop on the side of the road to rescue a damsel in distress from some street punks ( which he does just as casually as if he were picking up a friend who was waiting for him ) . As he's running from the police for stealing the car , he drives UP the side of a tunnel , and lands it on the roof of an oncoming big rig ( commenting , ' I haven't done this in a long time . ' ) This is , all joking aside , a serious contender for the most jaw-droppingly ridiculous thing I've ever seen in a movie in my LIFE . Later , Claudia goes to steal a fancy red car , and after flirting with it's idiot owner , she decides that , instead of ditching her Jeep and jumping into the sports car , she'll just grab the wheel and drive away with both of them . Yeah , you know how sometimes people will ride a bike and hold onto the handlebars of a second one ? Evidently this can be done with cars , too . It makes you wonder if anyone read the script before the movie went into production , or if anyone actually watched the sad , belligerent mess that it became before they released it . Cars are hard things to push , I've done it . For the most part , they're pretty heavy machines . But I suppose that in some mythical world where the police jump off of their motorcycles and into moving vehicles before those vehicles show any signs of attempting to escape and where mechanics slide under the cars they're working on feet first , women as skinny as Claudia can push a car while driving another car and only holding it by the steering wheel . Arquette simply cannot handle the role that he is given in this movie . An ever present cigarette is not enough to make him able to play a hardened criminal , he's too much of a lovable goofball . This may be , by the way , how he can steal a car , get caught by it's naked female owner , and turn her into a car thief as well the same day , and then convince her to help him steal the RPM . In one of the most laughable lines in the film , he informs the audience , ' The place was like Fort Knox , holding the biggest automotive breakthrough in history . I was gonna have to be good . ' Well , luckily for him , the replica of Fort Knox was of the kind that doesn't notice low-flying aircraft dropping off red-flag car thieves wearing bright blue jumpsuits and cute white roller-blades , unconscious guards laying just outside the wide-open main entrance and , my favorite , that employs technicians and mechanics that flee the scene like frightened cattle when the lights go out , leaving the greatest breakthrough in automotive history alone with a couple of car thieves that have made their way into the central vault with little to no difficulty whatsoever . It's amazing no one has tried to attack the real Fort Knox after watching this , if it's that easy to get into . ( spoilers ) RPM is a bad movie that is not likeable as a bad movie , the way films like Death Race 2000 are . This is not enjoyable camp , it's ridiculous garbage . The prize for stealing the RPM is a ludicrous one billion dollars , but of course when he's close to getting the money , Luke decides that it would be cute to demand TWO billion dollars ( which he demands in true Dr . Evil form , except without any sense of amusement and , luckily , without holding his pinky to his mouth ) . There is , of course , the obligatory idiot romance , which turns out to be with the woman who caught him stealing her Viper , but also the suggestion that there is a frustrated romance between Luke and Claudia ( who later turn out to be brother and sister ) . Just after all of the mechanics flee the RPM like scared children , Claudia asks Luke why they can't ever be close , and he responds with a line the grammatical correctness of which reflects the sheer lack of intelligence in the rest of the movie . ' Because every time I turn my back on you , you stole everything I ever had . '
No stars .	The third sequel in the Texas Chainsaw series is now more famous for starring Matthew McConaughey and Renée Zellweger , neither of whom , at the time the film was made , knew better than to accept such trashy roles . The film begins by asking us to care about a group of teens who leave their prom due to a couple having a fight and end up lost in the woods . This mere minutes after having driven away from their high school , which presumably resides in their hometown . Clearly they have not learned their way around much , but no matter . Before too long , they very soon find themselves running for their lives away from the famous freaky family , not only lost in their home town but , before long , also without their car . One of the biggest gripes that people have with this film ( which is saying a lot , because there is nothing but stuff to gripe about ) is that Leatherface seems to have become a transvestite . You can almost watch the transformation in the film , which seems to me to be sort of the result of trying to make Leatherface too complex . There is a point in the film where the trapped Jenny ( Zellweger ) tries to get Leatherface to help her escape , talking to him exactly like a psychiatrist would talk to a disturbed child . Come on , we know Leatherface is disturbed ; I just don't understand why cross-dressing had to be added to his impressive list of deviations from the pattern of behaviors generally associated with reasonably well-adjusted people . On the other hand , Kim Henkel did co-write the original Texas Chainsaw Massacre with Tobe Hooper , and has thus been granted at least some right to tamper with the character . What you see in the movie , however , is a lot of tampering gone horribly , horribly wrong . If it ain't broken , as they say , don't fix it . You may end up making it worse . What is amazing to me is how far McConaughey and Zellweger have both come in spite of this film . As I was watching the film , I couldn't believe I was watching the same actor who had turned in such wonderful performances in movies like Bridget Jones ' Diary and Cold Mountain , as well as another actor who displayed strong acting presence in movies like EdTV and U-571 . Why the focus on Leatherface being a transvestite ? Leatherface is a side character anyway , it is Vilmer ( McConaughey ) who is the star , which is sad because he plays such a belligerent , disgusting character . If you don't believe me that he's more the star than Leatherface , count how many people Leatherface , or anyone else , kills with a chainsaw in the movie ( hint : none ) . Vilmer is the new head of household in the backwoods family , working as a tow-truck driver / reckless murderer and who has the fascinating addition of an electric leg that is operated by remote control . At one point , a high school kid pleads for help , then when he realizes Vilmer's one of the bad guys , he runs away from the truck ( running straight down the street rather than into the woods to relative safety , of course ) , Vilmer gleefully chases him down , laughing and hooting and hollering all the while , and then runs him over five or six times before stashing his body on the back of the truck to later taunt one of his little friends with . As is to be expected , there is never any motive given behind any of the random killings , this is all just the sickening actions of an insane family in the woods , evidently comfortably separate from any sort of law enforcement or even the most tenuous interaction with greater civilization , waiting for unsuspecting teenagers to stumble into their midst . Interesting that the movie starts out as such a gigantic horror movie cliché , and still manages to go downhill from there . Horror movie sequels are first faced with the usually daunting task of justifying themselves . A horror movie sequel has to have a premise that gives it a reason for having been made , otherwise it is clearly a cash cow made to cash in on the success of the original film . Texas Chainsaw 4 , instead , simply passes itself off as something of a remake of the original , rather than another sequel , and turns from the more plodding and slow-moving original to the mindless , completely over-the-top belligerence that you see here . The scenes at the house are peppered with stupid violence , at one point Vilmer throws Darla to the ground and steps on her neck with his powerful leg , nearly killing her by suffocation or by breaking her neck , clearly not caring which . Naturally , she gets up and complains that she could easily leave him and go back to her husband . Charming . Add cannibalism to the mix and you have a hilariously bad movie . Jenny spends much of the latter half of the movie trying to escape from the hungry hungry hicks , as we are constantly bombarded with the stupid , stupid characters and plot twists that the movie makes as it ineptly tries to combine the horror and comedy that even the most mildly competent horror film can display . This is exactly the kind of thing that really makes me wonder why , every time a new movie comes out in a certain series , I always go back and watch the whole series before watching it . I'm still working on The Friday the 13th movies , the Nightmares on Elm Street , and the Child's Play films , which are decidedly more fun than the Texas Chainsaws . And to make matters worse , I have heard nothing but bad things about the 2003 Texas Chainsaw . And given how right all the bad reviews of this movie are , that is certainly a sinking feeling .
Jesus with fangs .	This stupid , stupid religious horror film starts out with an arbitrary premise and goes precipitously downhill from there . Evidently there is some sort of demon that has been held captive for thousands of years , and for some unexplained reason it is set loose every thousand years . To stretch its legs , I suppose . One girl gathers together a bunch of devout college age believers to witness the demon and prevent its escape , and what we get is a ludicrous mess of a movie that does no justice to the enticing cover box , which should qualify as false advertisement . Let me tell you a little secret about that demon on the cover box , by the way . It is by leaps and bounds the most interesting thing that the movie has going for it , and it is literally on screen for less than one second . That should give you an idea of the intelligence level of the movie . I made the mistake of watching this disaster two days after watching The Passion of the Christ , arguably one of the most powerful religious films ever made , so when I saw Jesus with fangs in this movie I almost fell over backwards at the sheer , overwhelming dumbness of it all . Even without the fangs the guy who plays Jesus looked like some slob that got up off his couch just long enough to put on some sheets and make a pathetic attempt to play Jesus . This guy blew it that badly and he was only playing Jesus in some girl's nightmare . Then again , he fits right in with the rest of the actors , who deliver some staggeringly bad performances . One IMDb user makes the astounding claim that this movie is beautiful , then goes on to suggest that the acting is not as bad as other reviewers claim . Well , in that regard he's right . It's worse .
You might enjoy this if you enjoy garbage television and have never seen a Japanese game show .	I think the title " I Survived an Idiotic Americanized Version of a Japanese Game Show " might be more appropriate . I had high hopes for this show , having recently been enjoying several episodes of one of my favorite game shows of all time , Most Extreme Challenge . Sadly , this is stupid , stupid American television of the lowest order . " Survived " is really a sad joke , because the only thing that is survived is the voting off of your fellow contestants , since the show is just another who-will-get-voted-off-next crapfest just like the hundreds that have been secreting from your TV set for the last ten years or so . The actual stunts and physical challenges , the nonstop fun of a real Japanese game show like MXC , make up maybe 15 % of the show , the rest of it being ridiculous bickering among the contestants , who are composed of the most ludicrous American caricatures you can imagine . Britney Spears would fit right in with this cast . It would be nice if the networks didn't insist on broadcasting meaningless and thoughtless sludge and passing it off as American culture . No stars . Avoid .
" Wait ! I think I hear someone ! I better go play the piano ? "	The above is not a direct quote , but a quote of the action . At one point , one of the girls is home alone , talking on the phone , and tells the person on the phone that she has to go because she thinks she hears someone . She hangs up the phone and walks immediately over to the piano and starts playing . Now , I normally reserve my votes of for movies that are absolutely incomprehensible on any level . Slumber Party Massacre has a definitely decipherable plot , but the plot is nothing but a flimsy clothesline along which are staged a lot of cheap thrills and boring murder scenes . And , ironically enough , even in the case of a movie that is obviously driven by nudity ( of which the film features remarkably little ) , I don't mean cheap thrills as far as shower scenes or lingerie scenes or any weak trash like that . You have the screeching cat scare , half a dozen or so friends sneaking up on people and viciously grabbing their shoulder from behind or something , only to throw up their hands like , What ? What ? I scared you ? Each successive one making this movie more and more of an endurance test than the weak horror , awful acting , or abysmal script-writing could ever do . And who's the killer ? No one . Some tool in cowboy boots and a lot of denim . Evidently he's an escaped mass murderer who went on a killing spree in the late 60s , which I guess would explain why he appears to be nothing but a middle-aged man with graying hair and a three foot drill . It's like they picked some jerk off the street and said Hey , hold this drill and let us film you running around this locker room for a little while . That should be good enough for this movie . I love all of the attempts to impose some deep women's lib meaning into this movie by commenting on the obviously phallic drill that this jean-jacket-clad maniac chases these women around with . Not that there's anything wrong with the women's liberation movement or implying that a film like this has any meaning in regards to the plight of women , I just think it's really funny to inject meaning into a film as meaningless as this one . ( spoilers ) There's one scene at the end of the film where there is a weak attempt to suggest the insanity of the killer as he mumbles his total of I think 21 spoken words ( not including the gibberish he screams after he gets his hand cut off ) , the first few of which are , " You're all so pretty , " and , shockingly enough , " I love you . " Very cute , it's too bad this sudden moment of character depth comes so far out of left field that it is memorable simply because of its separation with the rest of the film than any meaning it might carry . Joseph Ulibas ( my neighbor right over in Sacramento ) makes an interesting comment that Freud would have loved to psychoanalyze the killer in this movie . Sure , this last scene definitely implies some serious sexual anxiety , as this is apparently a man who gets his thrills by killing pretty women that he loves , but to be perfectly honest , I think Freud would have more of a field day analyzing the writers and , at least as much , whoever it was that read the script and decided that this would be a good movie .
Ruggero Deodato has truly achieved a milestone new level of depravity and meaningless violence ?	What you have in Cannibal Holocaust is a story about a group of people from NYU that go to document a culture of cannibals and never come back . Not that the story matters . Having watched I think three cannibal movies now ( this is three more than the average healthy adult's lifetime recommended dosage ) , it has become clear to me that they are nothing more than exhibitions of movie violence and sickness . And in that area , the movie succeeds brilliantly . It is so tasteless and so disgusting that it's amazing that things like this ever get made . And not just for the animal mutilations or the feces flinging ( yeah that really happens in this movie . It's not just a t-shirt for smartass teenagers ) or the orgies of misogynistic violence , but of course there are tons of naked natives in the movie , many of them obviously underage . But I guess that is just not a concern in whatever country the movie was distributed from . I am guessing we are meant to be impressed by the feeding scenes , since logic would lead you to believe that that is what a cannibal film centers on . If so , maybe that explains why all the natives must smear their food all over their faces before they eat it , although I am at a loss to explain why women are regularly mutilated , dismembered , fornicated with and THEN eaten . It becomes clear early on that surely someone in the group of NYU people must snap , unable to take what they're seeing anymore , and of course it does happen . One guy , since the natives ' distrust ' them ( maybe it was all that shooting ? ) decides to strip naked to " become like them . " Evidently this man has never seen the whiteness of his naked self before , but the island girls don't seem to mind . As soon as this awkward white guy strips off his khakis a whole group of naked girls run up to him and start grab-assing for a little while . Hey , maybe cannibals aren't so bad after all ? Oh , but minutes later , the group are forced to eat human , as is to be expected . The natives gleefully shove entrails in their faces as they inexplicably turn into savages for the purpose of this bizarre plot . Why the instant and total descent into barbarism ? I have no idea , the movie isn't intelligent enough to explain such a thing , all it knows how to do is show you something that you would be much better off never seeing . A giant turtle is torn apart alive with bare hands while the cameraman zooms in for an extreme close-up so as not to miss a single revolting detail , a monkey gets its face cut off , a backwoods amputation is cauterized with a hot machete and , when the poor amputee immediately dies , the rest of the crew forget seconds later , laughing and joking in the subsequent footage . This is , of course , all documentary footage that they're watching of a past film crew . It seems that these mental giants went into the village and started screaming and shooting their guns and burning the village , and then wondered why they were massacred . It is not exactly a massive intellectual surge when one of the new crew says " these people probably think WE'RE the savages ! " Yeah , what tipped you off ? The burning of their village or the fornicating in the ashes ? Clearly this is meant to be the movie's thinly disguised message . White people are savages at least as much as the people that we think of as savages . Oh and in case you didn't happen to catch that message when it smacked you in the head numerous times like a ton of bricks , at one point the " civilized " people grab one of the native girls and rape her , trying to show her the errors of her ways . Clever . These people are nothing like any manner of civilized people , they are absolute degenerates and should be imprisoned . They even shout for joy when they find a woman impaled on a pole . What the hell is this garbage ? But in watching a movie like this , it seems to me that it is the people that would make and distribute something like this that are the savages . At least horror movies are FUN , even bad ones . And this is not a bad horror movie . It's not a horror movie at all , I don't know what you would call it , but it is truly horrible . A mother gives birth to an infant in the movie , for example . The baby is taken away from it's mother , drenched in blood and then buried in the mud while the mother is beaten to death with rocks . There is a point in the movie where the utterly talentless writer , evidently unaware of how breathtakingly obvious his story is , has one of his characters spoon-feed you the real meaning of the movie : " Today people want sensationalism . The more you rape their senses , the happier they are . " This sentence betrays a staggering lack of understanding of film-going audiences , but at least it is a flawless description of the thought behind the movie . Too bad you have to watch it to learn that you should never have watched it ?
I normally reserve my votes of for those extremely few films that are absolutely incomprehensible . I made an exception for this disaster .	Doesn't it seem like just days ago that we were flogged with the FIRST Scary Movie ? What a pile of crap this movie was . There's just no other way to describe it . I hated the original , for obvious reasons , so I was shocked that this ridiculous sequel managed to sneak beneath the abysmal level to which the original sank less than a year ago . The Wayans brothers have returned to the spotlight to remind the world of their immaturity , their sickening sense of humor , and their absolute lack of any type of film-making talent . This is drivel of the lowest order and is completely devoid of redeeming values of any kind . On the other hand , there is a place for a film like this , even among educated people . For example , if you are a professional film critic , or even an average movie-goer who writes reviews for the IMDb ( a group of people with whom I proudly associate ) , then a movie like Scary Movie 2 is worth watching just because it is so much fun to shoot it down afterwards in a review . There's something morbidly satisfying about watching a dumbass movie like this and then tearing it up in a review , even if you already know that not too many people will bother to read it . I can't even begin to satisfactorily convey to you the absolute idiocy of this film , I can only say that there is a total absence of any kind of talent or thought behind it , and it results as nothing more than an hour and a half of blabbering nonsense . Did you ever wonder how many perfectly good careers are ended , some even before they've really began , by hideous movies like this ? Tori Spelling's flailing and altogether unenviable career is officially over , Tim Curry is too good an actor to be completely destroyed by movie like this , but this was clearly his version of Travolta starring Battlefield Earth . There can be no doubt about Anna Faris's talent as an actress , and she's beautiful , too , but she'll never be able to overcome the awful reputation that she has established for herself in the Scary Movies . Marlon and Shawn Wayans are the lucky ones here , because neither had anything to lose when they took on these crapfests . This kind of movie is a metaphorical handgun with which various actors can voluntarily commit career suicide . For shame . And one more thing , if any of the people behind the Scary Movies are reading this , I'd like to ask a huge favor for the greater good of mankind - " FOR GOD'S SAKE , NO MORE ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! "
Worse than every single one of the two other cannibal movies that I have ever seen .	One IMDb reviewer calls Eaten Alive a passable film for the " cannibal connoisseur . " Are there such people ? I didn't know . But if you are one of them , hey , have a ball . The rest of you might find this tripe a bit hard to swallow ( pun intended ) , even if , like me , you consider yourself a horror film connoisseur . I have been an avid horror fan for about 15 years now , although I never got around to the cannibal subgenre until a few weeks ago , and I guess I owe my short-lived interest in these groan-inducing movies , strangely enough , to China's total disregard for copyright laws . You see , I bought a two-disc DVD collection of all of Wesley Snipes ' films for 20 yuan ( about $2 . 75 ) , which turned out to include Last Cannibal World , Mountain of the Cannibal God , Eaten Alive , Cannibal Holocaust , Next , with Nicholas Cage , and something called Voodoo Lagoon , along with Blade 1-3 , in Chinese . Nice . Being a second sequel , I immediately got a sinking feeling when the movie opened with a cannibal in street clothes wandering around major American cities , shooting unsuspecting Americans with poison darts and then scrambling away at full speed . Having run out of ways to keep movie cannibals scary , it seems that now they have made their way to the mainland . Later , you may be shocked to learn that this guy is on a " training exercise . " Lock up your daughters ! Before long the movie settles into the old missing sister routine , as a young blonde woman named Sheila begins her own investigation of the disappearance of her sister , who looks nothing like her in any way , but she's willing to spend most of the movie naked so I guess that doesn't matter . It seems that , after shooting one of his victims , the hapless cannibal we met early in the movie , not used to big city life , ran into the road and was struck dead by a moving van . The brilliant police force find a mysterious bit of film on him showing Sheila's sister involved in some bizarre ritual behavior , but other than the film , the guy is a complete mystery . As the piteous police chief laments , " we know nothing about him except that he's dead ! " Poor guy , he must be getting a headache from all this . I recommend a nap . Luckily , Sheila is the kind of girl who can throw around tens of thousands of dollars like it's nothing in the search for her sister . Perfect for hiring a plucky backwoods guide caricature , since the police are clearly going to be no help . Obviously , nothing new is added to this miniscule sub-genre . Quite the contrary , cannibalism almost seems like a background to a completely different kind of bad movie , about the rescue of a missing person from the dangerous elements . Thickening the plot of that clothesline is not difficult , all you have to do is add in a cartoonish jungle cult of people who follow some guy who calls himself Jonas , who believes in using pain as a way to reunite man with nature , a process they call " purification . " Personally , I prefer just peeing outside occasionally . One of my favorite parts of the movie is when Sheila is caught by one of the cult members - an overweight guy who looks like he took a three-day weekend from the office to appear in this movie . As he pulls out his trusty medical kit to give her an injection , he warns her , " If you don't believe in Jonas and purification ( through pain ) , God help you . " He then gives her a shot and , when she winces from the tiny pinch , he politely apologizes to her . I sense a true believer in this guy ! As far as the gore , there are plenty of nasty sound effects over random shots of animals getting slaughtered and more than enough disgusting footage of women being cut up and eaten alive , so I guess right there the movie lives up to its name . The acting is astonishingly bad , as can be expected , and interestingly enough , the editing is also spectacularly botched but still strangely effective . Unfortunately , I think you have to be able to relate to people who believe in utterly insane cults in order to relate to anyone in the movie . There are plenty of outlandish religious ceremonies that take place , which make it more and more difficult to understand why Sheila's sister decided to turn her back on normal society . I'm all for individualism and doing your own thing , but come ON . After a while the movie descends even further into your basic , run of the mill escape movie , just before we witness the most wildly inappropriate rendition of Glory , Glory Hallelujah in film history . WOW . Note : in this movie , a woman is raped with a severed snake . If you need any more reason never to watch it , seek professional help . Avoid this mess at all costs .
Yawn .	This is supposed to be one of the greatest " bad " movies ever made . I don't see anything great about it . If ' great ' means that it is appreciable that a film was made that makes a complete mockery of the cinematic medium , then yes , it was wonderful . Everything about this movie was awful . They just did every little thing wrong , and it is understandable to me why the director reportedly attempted suicide after hearing the critics demolish this film when it was released . He had to have expected that , though , don't you think he watched the finished product before releasing it ? How could he have missed the impending annihilation by critics and audiences that he was inevitably going to be subjected to ? ! If you've never seen this film , you're way ahead of the game . If you have seen it , I respectfully offer my condolences .
I have not seen this movie .	If you look through my reviews , you'll notice that I've reviewed three Scary Movies , along with Epic Movie ( with which this movie deservedly shares a spot on the IMDb Bottom 100 ) not long ago , and in most of them I berate myself for being stupid enough to waste my time watching them . This is the first time I've ever written a review of a movie I haven't seen , and I do it only because I've thrown away so many hours watching the ridiculous tripe that these idiots continue to defecate into theaters . In this case , thankfully , the trailer alone was enough to show me that it was going to be more of the idiotic , nonsensical garbage we have come to expect from Friedberg and Seltzer . I'm willing to bet that their parents tell people that they haven't heard from their kids in years and don't know what they are up to because they don't know how to get a hold of them . Aren't they making those movies , though ? No , no , no , no , no , that's not my son . Definitely not . My son is , ah , anyone else . Have you seen those yellow warning signs that say " Caution : This is Sparta " ? THAT is funny . You don't even have to watch it to know that this movie is not . There are a lot of times when you can ignore the nay-sayers and watch a badly reviewed movie anyway and make up your own mind . This is not one of those times . No stars .
Liberate tute me , es en ferris .	Now , if my repeated viewings of Event Horizon have taught me correctly , the above statement , translated from Latin , means " Save yourself from Hell . " By " Hell , " of course , I mean the horrendous experience of watching this unbelievably bad movie , and by " save yourself , " of course , I mean for GOD'S sake don't watch it . is about ten times too high . Dear Mr . Roth , Listen , keep my $9 , you prick , just give me back my 95 minutes , my dignity , and my respect for horror movies . You have stolen from me . I happen to believe in the theory that whenever you see someone tied to a chair in a movie , you have a screenwriter that ran out of ideas . Following that logic , this movie never had a thought in its head from the very beginning . I have to admit that in the first act , I was positively beaming at the screen I was so interested in where the film was going ( because of the sexual element and an accompanying feeling that the movie was not going to cop out and go where every other horror movie involving sex went ) . Had I taken two seconds to see that this movie was directed by the same jerkoff who defecated Cabin Fever into theaters a couple of years ago I would have known not to watch it in the first place , but sadly I just checked the movie times and went out and paid $9 to be tortured through my eyes for an hour and a half . This movie seems to have been hugely popular at the Toronto International Film Festival , I can only theorize that the people who wrote glowing reviews on the IMDb are either closet sociopaths or were simply starstruck that the director was there talking about this film , pretending it wasn't the revolting sludge that it is . I promise you , this is one of the absolute worst films of any kind that I have ever seen . Some Americans go to Amsterdam for drugs and sex as Americans are wont to do , like it or not , and are advised to go to a certain hostel in Slovakia where beautiful women will just pounce on them . They find this to be startlingly true , until the girls drug them , big guys come and take them down into the dungeon and strap them to chairs in separate rooms , and for $25 , 000 , rich people can come in and torture and kill them in any way they can think of ( could it be for revenge against those dirty Americans for coming into our countries and dirtying the place up ? ) . Directed by an American , by the way . Of course , you can't really claim that the movie is racist against Americans , because you can buy access to other ethnicities as well ( for a substantially lower price ) . One creative individual decides to save some money and just go for a Japanese girl rather than an expensive American , and he proceeds to blowtorch her face until one of her eyes bulges out of its socket and hangs down on her cheek . Our " hero " has managed to escape his own torture and shoot and kill his tormentor , and goes into the room and shoots the guy torturing her , then displays a massive surge of brilliant intelligence by apologetically cutting off her eyeball , sending white pus running down her cheek , and THEN tries to get her out of there . Do you mean to tell me that you find this trash entertaining ? My GOD ! ! When the movie thankfully ended , I have never in my life felt the urge so strongly to find the manager and demand my money back , the film is that sick and that twisted and utterly without redeeming value . I am absolutely baffled at the people who praise this movie on the IMDb . This thing is so disgusting and so cheap and so stupid and so sick that it blows my mind that there are people who really think there is some social value to a movie that makes you wonder how you would torture someone . And to make matters worse , nothing is resolved at the end . We are handed this cardboard resolution that solves nothing at all , the fire is dimmed by dousing a flame here and there , leaving the smoldering source of the torturous blaze firmly burning . I don't even want to give this staggeringly pathetic mass of congealed stupidity and perversion the pleasure of a spoiler alert , so I'll just give you an analogy . The main character , Paxton , is a man lost in the woods , when suddenly he's attacked by a bear . Ultimately , he is faced with the possibility of picking up a gun and shooting the bear , but instead decides to stomp on the bear's foot , and the movie ends as he runs cowering into the woods . This film is absolute drivel of the lowest order , a pitiful attempt to do something new in the horror genre by removing all elements of story , character , reason , creativity , tension , depth , thought , and meaning , and reducing itself to nothing but a lot of people strapped to chairs and being mutilated alive . If this is entertainment to you , you have some real problems . This movie strikes me as the kind of thing that would be enjoyed by someone who gets a real kick out of those disgusting videos that have been coming out of Iraq . I feel violated just because I've seen this movie .
Total crap just like the rest of them .	Here's something revealing about Epic Movie . From a purely technical point of view , it has some truly impressive make-up and production values at many points . Some of the set designs and character re-creations from real movies are done in great detail and are actually pretty good . For this reason , the movie wins extra points , and yet it still deserves less than a . Like the other garbage regularly let loose from this group of talentless buffoons , Epic Movie is yet another barely decipherable shoestring of a plot draped carelessly over a bizarre series of idiotic skits lampooning current popular movies ( notice " popular " and not " good " ) , resulting in another romp through the asinine sense of humor of writers Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer . By the way , these guys remind me of strippers or porn stars . I always wonder what these people say to their parents about their " careers . " Likewise , how can Friedberg's and Seltzer's parents not be horribly humiliated by what their sons do for a living ? How difficult is it for them to keep secret what their kids are currently doing to the world ? I mean , can they really possibly watch a movie like this and think , " That's my boy ! " I should think not . I would wonder about them , too . But hey , these guys are laughing all the way to the bank . They spend all summer at the movies and then go home and rip off as many films as they can and throw in as many disgusting jokes as possible and they are making millions of dollars every time . My only consolation is that I live in China and , since everything is pirated here , those jerks didn't make a dime off of me because I watched it on a pirated DVD . Yeah , that's right . I bought a pirated copy of Epic Movie and I own it . I paid 10 yuan ( about $1 . 35 ) for it , which is about ten times what it's worth . What a ripoff . Actually I take that back . My other consolation is that they are running out of generic genres . What's next , Children's Movie ?
Will the real Spike Lee please stand up . . .	So the anti-Bush campaign that makes up the first 45 minutes or so of the movie are pretty clear . Even the attack on Bush's anti-gay tendencies are pretty clear . What's not clear is what the movie's trying to do . Jack is a corporate employee with serious potential who finds himself unemployed because of his refusal to ignore the massive corporate corruption with which he suddenly finds himself surrounded . So then he goes home to his fancy apartment , which he can no longer afford to maintain , and then has to deal with the torturous proposal of impregnating lesbians at $10 , 000 a piece . The most difficult endeavor that the movie takes on is in trying to make us believe that Jack was actually conflicted about all of this , and it fails miserably . There a nonsensical subplot about him still being upset about his ex-girlfriend , the lesbian who is bringing all of her lesbian friends to be impregnated by Jack , but only after her . Keep in mind that their breakup happened FOUR YEARS EARLIER , and not only was he belligerently furious to come home and find his sexy girlfriend having sex with another sexy woman , but he hasn't gotten over it four years later . They actually get into screaming arguments in the movie about this ancient history between themselves . I'm reminded of one of Julia Roberts ' many great lines from Closer ? " What are you , 12 ? " So while he's not busy acting like a junior high school kid who's heartbroken about some girl who cheated on him , he's having sex with whole lines of lesbians and trying to act like it's just hell to him . Please . At the risk of sounding like some typical jerk , for such a thing to be torturous to a man we need to have a real , real good reason for him to hate doing it , and still being upset about a relationship that ended nearly half a decade earlier isn't even close to reason enough . I can accept that the movie wants to suggest that this guy genuinely loved his girlfriend and truly feels like he has lost the love of his life , but let me tell you one thing . Showing a guy suffer through Every Man's Fantasy is not the way to do it . At all . Unless , of course , you have some ulterior political motive , but that's just not Spike Lee's style , right ? Right ? I won't spend much time talking about the ludicrous premise about the lesbians . Whether you've seen the movie or not , you probably already know all about it . The problem is that you also come into the movie already knowing what a socially and politically conscious filmmaker Spike Lee is . We know that he is going to be making political statements in the film , and some of them are clear while others are not , unless Spike has completely lost all sense of balance . There are scenes where it is increasingly obvious what social ills are being dealt with , such as the terrible scene where Jack has some wooden and massively unrealistic conversation with his friend , who is trying to make money donating sperm . It's a god-awful scene , but it's relatively clear what is being said . I could , of course , come up with some pretty solid theories about what is being said about the homosexual content of the film , how Jack the black man is forced to descend to that level , but it is such a gigantic portion of the film that it even overshadows that picture of Bush on the $3 bill at the end of the opening credits , and that's a difficult image to overshadow . Lee puts so much stock into the lesbians in this movie that it borders on low - grade soft porn . At one point in the movie , while bike riding together , Jack's brother gives him a bright , sparkling gem of advice ? get a vasectomy and call it a day . Now , there are two things that could lead a man to give such advice to his brother . First , it could be because he's been having too much sex , or second , it could be because he's making ten thousand dollars at a time doing it . Either way , it's a good reason never to take advice from your brother again . Jack , of course , reacts by throwing a temper tantrum like an 8 year old kid , resulting in one of the great many scenes that made me want to put a pot over my head and start beating on it with a serving ladle . One of the biggest problems with the movie is that not only does it bore and irritate but it deliberately insults the audience . Granted , I didn't know a lot of the details about some of the homages that are made in the film , such as the XFL player that inspired the title of the film and the security guard who exposed the Watergate break-in and ruined his own life in the process . I can understand if Lee wants us to be aware of what he's talking about , but he literally stops his movie to put these stories up on billboards and then hits us over the head with them . By the end of the movie I was literally standing up , pacing back and forth I was so irritated and desperate for it to end . There are times when I wish I didn't have this determination to finish watching movies , even the abysmally terrible ones . The really sad thing about She Hate Me is that it isn't even not very good for a Spike Lee film , this is just a bad movie overall . It's almost weird to think that it was directed by the same man that directed true classics like Do The Right Thing , one of my all time favorite films . She Hate Me is Spike Lee's version of Spielberg's 1941 , but worse . Much worse .
You would think that a women in prison movie would be an automatic disaster ?	And you'd be right . Black Mama , White Mama , also known as ' Women in Chains , ' is exactly the kind of trashy and crappy b-movie that the premise suggests . Pam Grier has been thrown into a prison on a small island with a lot of other women , and this place seriously makes the summer camp where Martha Stewart is locked up right now look like a maximum-security prison . It's not five minutes into the movie that one of the hottie guards utters the line ' Strip ' em and get ' em wet , ' and then we are introduced to a prison life that resembles some college freshman's fantasy of what the inside of a sorority house is like . The prisoners soap and rub and wrestle with each other in the shower like it's a Girls Gone Wild shoot , then they all hang out together in their dorm , openly smoking pot and discussing in a big group what would be the best ways to escape . I've never been to prison myself , but I have a feeling that escape plans are the kind of thing that you want as few people as possible to know about , prisoners or guards or otherwise . The biggest difference between this prison life and some fantasy sorority life is that the women in this movie all wear orange cardigans ( and no pants . Go figure ) that say PRISON on the back . Must be those generic prison outfits for prisons that can't afford pricey accessories like their prison name or prisoner numbers for their uniforms . And as is to be expected , a prison that can't afford to put prisoner identification on the backs of the uniforms can obviously not expect to be able to find guards that are interested in guarding the prisoners as much as they are in having sex with the prisoners and each other . The conflict of the movie's title refers to the fact that Lee Daniels ( Pam Grier ) spends much of the time handcuffed to a blonde prisoner named Karen as they are on the run from the cops after escaping from the prison . I won't go into details about how they escape except to say that you might have seen something like it in The Fugitive had they been unable to afford to stage a train wreck , and it leads into the muddled story of the conflicting interests also chasing these two women for different reasons . Karen and Lee both have their own gangs of people each hoping to rescue their respective escaped prisoner , and the cops are after both of them all the while . ( spoilers ) So Karen is involved with a bunch of hippies that want to Revolutionize Life As They Know It . Meanwhile , Karen just wants to get off the island , something she's been trying to do for years , and isn't it just perfect that they each need to go to completely opposite sides of the island in order to fulfill their goals . So we get this odd couple pairing and , since they are an odd couple , it's not hard to predict that they will hate each other for the vast majority of the film but grow fond of each other by the end . In a movie with so many conflicting interests , especially when those conflicting interests not only propel the two main characters in opposite directions as they pursue their goals , it is not unreasonable to expect that there will be a climactic moment involving the rival gangs at some point in the movie . Not about to leave anyone unsatisfied , they throw in a stupid gang standoff at the end of the movie , where everyone shoots machine guns at each other , killing each other en masse while the two women paddle safely and calmly across the river in a little boat . Nice . Even better , at the end of the movie , after a huge massacre in which lots of people get shot and spurt bright red paint all over the place , the Captain of the police looks over the masses of dead criminals covered in awful , awful special effects , and we learn that he will be a Major before dinner . Not a bad way to end the movie , the criminals all kill each other off and the cops get all the credit , but here is the last line in the film ? ' It's better to win , isn't it ? ' Is THAT why the Captain is going to get promoted to Major ? Because he figured that out ? ? ?
Actual quote deemed appropriate for kids 13 and up - " Eyes are the nipples of the face ! "	There's a scene in The House Bunny where a key character inquires as to whether Shelley is , in fact , " that dumb . " One of her fellow sorority sisters immediately stands up and says , indignantly , " She's not dumb ! " This is an important scene , and my immediate assumption was that we , the audience , were meant to shake our fists at the screen and say , " Yeah ! " But then I remembered that for well over an hour by then , the movie had been scrambling frantically to get us to laugh at how genuinely and spectacularly dumb she is . This is a contradiction that permeates the entire movie , with strange results . When I saw that scene , I was immediately relieved that I had found the movie up to that point so completely unamusing , otherwise I would have felt guilty for laughing at this girl , who , I understand , is " not dumb . " So , in order to flaunt my superiority , I turned around in my chair and shook my fist at the drunk , cackling teenagers at the back of the theater and yelled , " Yeah ! She's not dumb ! See ? You little punks ! " Strangely , this only brought more laughter . The House Bunny , by the way , is PG-13 , which should cause the majority of the male audience to lose interest entirely and confuse anyone over 17 as to why anyone would find such a movie interesting . The story is centered around the life of a Playboy bunny who is ousted from the Playboy mansion . Playboy's founder himself , Hugh Hefner , plays a sizable supporting role . Would one be out of line to expect a little gratuitous nudity ? In this case , yes , because this is a soft porn movie for kids age 13 and up . Nice . The story is basically Legally Blonde in a sorority house , so it's obvious that the movie's message must have something to do with superficiality and obsessions over appearance and other such nonsense . Shelly , played by Anna Faris , is booted out of the Playboy mansion and finds herself homeless , so she decides to shack up with a sorority of uncool girls and teach them how to turn themselves into male fantasies . It's sad that the movie fails so completely because there is so much potential there , but , unfortunately , they just don't know where to stop with the cartoonishly overblown outcasts . These are not your typical college nerds , these are girls that don't know better than to walk up to some guys in a bar and say , " Hey , where's the crapper ? I gotta drop off some timber . " Timber ! ! ! I feel like , in order for the comedy in a movie like this to be successful , we need to be able to point to a few characters and say , " Hey I know someone like that ! " Not in this movie . You don't know anyone like anyone in this movie . But you have , however , seen people like the people in this movie . Remember that goofy teen comedy She's All That ? One of the cool kids takes a bet that he can take the ugliest , most uncool girl in school and turn her into the prom queen . So we meet little Laney Boggs , the weird art student always covered in paint and unable to get a date to save her life . Zach , the cool guy choosing to accept the mission impossible , has his work cut out for him . But ? surprise ! ? she takes off her glasses and combs her hair and she's hot ! What a relief that the transformation was so easy ! When we meet the girls of Zeta Alpha Zeta , they are genuinely frightening social outcasts . Bitter , confused by social interaction , and more clueless about fashion than your average homeless person , they are quite a spectacle to behold . But , surprise ! Wouldn't you know it ? With the addition of the right , ahem , outfits , a little hip hop bumping in the background , and just the right amount of slow motion , they're all crazy hot ! Who would have guessed ? Interestingly , it isn't until the very , very end of the film that you will truly realize how purely and incredibly meaningless it is . The movie is about Shelley's efforts to turn a group of social outcasts into frat party favors , but then it tries to feed us this message about not worrying about what other people think and just being yourself . What the hell ? Beginning with the story about a Playboy bunny that just happens to be rated PG-13 , everything in the movie cancels out everything else . There's a scene at the end that is meant to tie everything together and make it all make sense , but it is one of the biggest forehead slappers I've seen in recent memory . I've noticed lately , particularly with movies like Pineapple Express and Tropic Thunder , that there are a lot of new things being done in the comedy world . The House Bunny is unsurprisingly unaware of these new ideas and experiments and is merely feeding us the same childish tripe we've seen countless times before . One can only hope that , since they are now resorting to a PG-13 Playboy theme , they must surely be running out of ideas ? .
Yawn .	Last time I saw Martin Lawrence in a movie , he was a criminal trying to be a cop , now he's a cop trying to be an old fat woman . This was an absolutely terrible film . The laughs were sparse and unconvincing , the plot was dropped into a blender and then reassembled in any random order , and the vast majority of the film itself consisted of scenes completely unrelated to the story which seemed to be thrown in just to take up time . If these scenes had been simply left out altogether ( the basketball scene , for one among many examples ) , the entire film would have been maybe 15 minutes long . Big Momma's House was so tedious that I probably spent more time looking at my watch during the film than I did looking at the screen . I can think of no redeeming values at all to mention about this film . I feel that it was a complete waste of my time , and I am shocked that Martin Lawrence agreed to act in such garbage .
This movie made my brain hurt .	Okay , before I say anything else , every time an ape smiled in this movie I wanted to put a pot over my head and beat on it with a serving ladle . But no matter . The Kongs have become a family of epic grinners , you just have to deal with it . The scariest thing is that that's not even the worst part of this movie . It is dangerous ground to make a sequel that involves a movie monster getting romantically involved . They did it with Child's Play and it transformed the early camp horror films into pure comedy . Child's Play was no longer even in the same genre as it started out in . King Kong Lives doesn't even deserve to be in the same GENRE , even of the 1976 film , which was very well made , much less the 1933 classic . The movie opens with the ending of the 1976 film , with Kong climbing and being shot down from the World Trade Center . This movie ( surprise ) takes place ten years later . I guess Kong has been in some sort of coma for ten years , and as the movie starts a lot of scientists are in the process of performing a heart transplant on him . Next thing you know , he's ripping electrodes off and jumping up for the windows in the roof , then lifting himself up bodily by the bars on those windows despite just having had his rib cage sawn open and a plastic heart the size of a Volkswagen installed . Now , this was hard , but I managed to accept that he was able to do that . I know virtually nothing about primates , much less 50 foot tall primates . Who am I to judge his healing speed ? But given that I had accepted his remarkable ability to recover from a barrage of anti-aircraft gunshot wounds from helicopters on all sides , then a fall that would have reduced all of his organs to mush , then a historic heart transplant , and THEN display a miraculous mending of the sternum , I found it more than a little odd how easily he was undone when he bumped his head on a rock later in the movie . One clever individual in the film tries to convince Amy ( Linda Hamilton ) to just forget about him because " outside his environment , he would not be able to acquire enough protein to survive . " PROTEIN ! ! Nevermind the fact that there's a 10 , 000-pound gorilla corpse floating downriver , let's just go home because he won't be able to find enough protein to survive ! That's OUTSTANDING science , my friend ! Then again , the Kongs have not only found love , but they have mastered the art of invisibility , so it's not surprising that he didn't want to be bothered with a search . The Kongs are like freaking ninjas ! At the beginning , Hank , the big game hunter that some nutcase refers to as Indiana Jones , lays down on some foliage to take a nap , not noticing that there is a 50 foot gorilla less than 20 feet away from him until she tries to pick him up . This guy is no Indiana Jones . Later in the film , some golfer hits King Kong in the face with a golf ball before he notices that there's a gigantic gorilla standing on the course . I'm guessing he wasn't looking where he was hitting the ball . Yes . It's true . King Kong . Gets hit . With a golf ball . It is odd indeed that it necessitates an entire army of troops , tanks , and helicopters to find King Kong and Mrs . Kong , who one guy in a helicopter with a searchlight could easily find since they tower over the trees . And you guessed it , Kong manages to sneak up on the entire Army , too . While they're standing watch . Looking for King Kong . Nice work , soldiers . These guys are dumber than the law enforcement in First Blood . At one point a lot of rednecks get into boats to go hunt down Kong , and some military jerk goes , " What is this , Deliverance ? " No , sir . The rednecks were in the woods in Deliverance , not the boats . This is far worse , this is Gator Bait ! And Hank , the golfers , and the military are not the only people suffering from vision loss in the movie . At one point Amy nearly falls over a waterfall while she and Hank are walking across a rickety wooden bridge ( in a sad , sad homage to the Temple of Doom ) , and when she gets back up she frantically asks , " Where's the heart rate monitor ? ? " Apparently unable to see its bulky mass sitting two feet away from her . Somebody get this woman some binoculars ! The movie almost gets meaningful when Kong is frantic to get out of captivity and get to the female that he can smell nearby . Forget about any stupid sex jokes , any ape is going to want to mate after being held in captivity . Then it turns out that they just want to go lounge in the woods grabassing and massaging each other . At one point Mighty Jane Young starts licking a wound Kong has somehow gotten on his knee , and he puts his arm around her and grins . The only thing missing is a barrel of beer in his other hand . Ultimately , of course , we are forced to meet Son of Kong , a human-sized ape which , having come from Mrs . Kong , makes about as much sense as a human woman giving birth to a child the size of like , a grape . In the movie's defense , we do get to see Linda Hamilton topless for exactly two fifteenths of a second , but director John Guillermin , who also directed the massively superior 1976 remake , has not even managed to produce a grape . He's given birth to a raisin . A rotten one .
No flash photography , please ?	After enough horrible shark attacks to fill three movies , it seems that the shark has decided it's going to go after the descendents of the man who killed its ancestors all those years ago . They were its ancestors , right ? Or is this the same shark that was killed in the older movies ? That would certainly explain why it swims lolling back and forth like its going to roll belly-up . And here I thought that was just jaw-droppingly bad special effects . Normally this would be pretty hard to believe , but the humans in this movie are so monumentally stupid that it's not so bad that they decide to add some extra cognitive ability to the shark . Lorraine Gary plays Ellen Brody , who was the wife of Martin Brody in Jaws 1 and 2 . She loses her husband and then her son to the shark , and swears that she'll never have another member of her family going in the water . She heads to the Bahamas and much fighting erupts between her and her son Michael because he happens to be a marine biologist . He loves his job and doesn't want to leave it , but his mother can't have him working on the water anymore . Clearly , it is quite understandable that she would not want members of her family going near the water , since they have been getting eaten by sharks for generations . Which begs the question , of course , of why she gladly allowed her granddaughter to go get towed around behind a boat with her friend . Oh , the girl's mother will be there , so it must be all okay . To make matters worse , after yet another Brody barely escaped being shark food , Ellen decides she better get onto a huge sailboat and go out in search of the shark alone , dressed in street clothes and completely unarmed . What did she plan to do ? Scold the shark to death ? Maybe smack it around for a little while with those gigantic , gigantic sunglasses ? ( spoilers ) Mario van Peebles , who you might remember from such crapfests as Solo and Sweet Sweetback's Ridiculous Mess , here giving a performance with a ludicrous fake accent that is not even closely rivaled by Don Cheadle in Ocean's 11 . The movie is packed with extreme close-ups of the shark , since the one they had to use as a prop was so badly made . This thing is not for a second convincing , and the ending is clearly no exception . It's bad enough that this is a shark that likes to hold its prey above the surface of the water while it eats , but asking us to believe that it will respond to electronic stimulation in the form of flashing lights by standing up vertically and waiting to be stabbed with a boat is entirely too much . Michael Caine does what he can with his terribly written role , which includes the beginnings of a romance with Ellen that disappears from the movie as fast as it was introduced . Maybe they figured people would forget about it anyway when he brilliantly decides to crash land his plane at sea when Ellen's boat is being attacked by the shark . In keeping with the logic with which the rest of the movie is completely devoid , the question that arises is this - why should Ellen sacrifice herself unarmed to the shark when three more people could also sacrifice themselves unarmed to the shark ?
# 1 Movie To Avoid This Week ( . . . and every week ) . . .	Holy crap . It's not often that a movie comes along that is so morally vacuous that it approaches a level of violent stupidity so intricately bad that it is absolutely not enjoyable on any level . But when it does happen , and it has happened with this movie , it makes my job seem incredibly difficult because I have to sit here and try to write a professional film review when I know without a shadow of a doubt that three simple words would suffice - DON'T WATCH IT . But if you would like to know why , please continue reading . First of all , let's brainstorm about what makes a violent thriller entertaining , shall we ? You need to have an engaging story , something that moves at a brisk pace and maintains interest without relying on the violence to push it along . You need to have not only believable characters but characters that we care enough about to invest our emotions in their well - being , and you need to have a catalyst operating beneath the surface that drives the characters on screen to commit whatever violent acts take place in the movie . Donkey Punch has none of these . Not even a little bit . There is , of course , a lot to be said about violence in the movies . Some say there's too much , some say movies are movies and no movie violence is going to change who people are or entice people to commit violent acts , and some people are just violent movie-hounds and can never get enough . Whatever your personal opinion , I tend to think that we can all agree that at the very least , movie violence should have a point , right ? Not this movie . Donkey Punch gives us a film populated with morons , perverts , rapists and idiot college girls , not a single character worth a scrap of thought or interest , and then asks us to care when they start killing each other off . A group of college-girls meet a group of college-age guys at a European resort and , hungry for some adventure stories to take home from their European vacation , immediately accept a shady offer to come touring the Mediterranean Sea on a luxurious yacht to which one of them happens to have access . Anyone with two brain cells working at the same time would have hesitated for at least a few seconds before accepting such an offer from a bunch of crusty guys like these , but no matter . If nothing else , the immediacy of the acceptance will pretty quickly and thoroughly paint the picture of what the rest of the movie is going to be like . Everyone wants to have sex with everyone else , and while taking turns with the blonde not far into the movie in a drug-crazed orgy , when one guy convinces another guy to try out a little sex move called the " donkey punch . " I won't waste your time explaining what it is . It doesn't matter , it's just a plot device needed to supply the cast with a dead body so that they can spend the rest of the movie killing each other off as they struggle to figure out who can be trusted and who should just be killed . There is not a scrap of realism in the movie , not an iota of clever dialogue or impressive acting , and the by-the-numbers ending does nothing to boost the mood of genuine depression that permeates the entire movie . This thing is a waste in pretty much every way imaginable . Avoid it .
The first time in my life I've ever consciously missed Bobcat Goldthwaite ?	Ah , so here we are . Rock bottom . The Police Academy series has been through a lot of ups and downs over the years . They seem to have been hugely popular during their times of release , and really , if you look at the numbers , it's not hard to see why such a prodigious stream of sequels was made . The first movie was made for a budget of around $4 . 5 million and brought in a stupendous $81 million at the box office . The second movie brought in $55 million , part 3 brought $43 . 5 million , part 4 $28 million , part 5 almost $20 million , part 6 a meager $5 million , and Mission to Moscow proudly raked in a whopping $126 , 000 . If nothing else , the Police Academy franchise stands as a perfect example of a film series that was played out until it was officially a very , very dead horse . The awesomely moronic plot this time involves a Russian mafia boss named Konstantine Konali ( played by none other than Ron Perlman , now better known as Hellboy ) , who is marketing a video game that he plans to use to secretly distribute a computer virus that will allow him to hack into government security systems and like , take over the world or something . The movie opens with a scene that is meant to show us how purely addicting this game is . We see a news report where a woman is giving her news report , and her co-anchor , a man in maybe his 50s or so , is sitting next to her oblivious what's going on because he's so entranced by the Game Boy he's playing . I imagine we weren't supposed to notice that there was no cartridge in the machine he's playing , but no matter . I'm willing to let that go in order to enjoy the avalanche of stupidity that was to follow . So why are the members of our beloved Police Academy in Moscow in the first place ? Well , it seems that the Russians need help in dealing with the Russian mafia , so they have recruited the help of the most famous police academy in America . And mostly the gang is all here except for Mahoney and Zed , both of whom I am sad to say are missed . Lassard , of course , is his usual self , so he has gotten himself lost and ends up at a Russian funeral within a few hours of touching down in Moscow , so the rest of the team occupies themselves with trying to compile evidence against Konali while Harris follows along two steps behind waiting to jump in at just the right moment and claim credit for everything . As usual this provides plenty of opportunities for bonehead comedy , but they just pulled out all the stops with the low brow humor this time . Harris and Tackleberry end up dancing in full make-up and costume in a Russian ballet in one of the movie's most embarrassing scenes , Harris attempts to spy on Konali and instead gets a dog peeing in his eye through a periscope , and Jones has developed the ability to open safes with his noise effects . Sigh . In the movie's defense , it does have it's moments . Well , it has it's moment , anyway . There is a scene where Tackleberry jumps at the opportunity to give a speech to the Russian authorities about American law enforcement tactics , and he launches into a vicious beratement of the piddly " excessive force " policies that are tying his hands back in the states . Yeah , the movie is spectacularly stupid , but this might have been one of Tackleberry's two or three best scorns in the entire series . If you ever find yourself watching this thing on DVD , make sure to watch the short supplemental video that's included ! I have to admit that I have found it particularly interesting and amusing to watch these videos for each installment in the series , where much of the original cast come back together and discuss the movies . I especially love G . W . Bailey ( who played Captain Harris ) , who clearly has grown weary of having ever had anything to do with the series . In the video for part 5 , he sarcastically mentioned people who would approach him years later and ask if he still had " Dork " tanned across his chest . For this one , it is noticeably difficult for him to conceal his resentment as he talks about his past in performing Shakespeare on stage , and now he's remembered for a dog peeing in his eye . Don't worry , Mr . Bailey , haven't you seen the box office for this movie ? No one's seen it !
There can't be much debate about why Kenneth Anger never became a famous filmmaker .	Granted , Fireworks is not the kind of movie that is going to lead to a very promising filmmaking career . In fact , it's more likely to END a promising filmmaking career than anything else . It is a perversely brutal depiction of the attack and rape of a young man , played by Anger himself , but you have to take Anger's purpose into account when you watch and judge this film . At a mere 15-20 minute running time , it is not entirely doubtful that Anger may not have made the film for profit at all , but possibly for his own sexual gratification . The question that remains , it seems , is whether he meant to derive that satisfaction during its making or during its viewing . Either way , it is clear that the film's distribution pertains much more to the latter and , assuming that Anger realized this , it can also be assumed that he did not have the hugest aspirations for tremendous commercial success for Fireworks . One of the first things that you learn in the study of Gay and Lesbian film is that films pertaining exclusively to the homosexual community generally do not have much commercial success , if only because of the relatively small size of its target audience . Even under those circumstances , however , I have to admit that I don't feel that the film would have had much of a chance even if it was directed at a more general audience . It is a hugely uncomfortable and un-enjoyable cinematic experience to a much greater extent even than films that are purposely meant to be unattractive and ugly , like Buffalo ' 66 . I spent about the first minute of Fireworks waiting to see something that would justify the fact that I was watching it at a screening for a film class at the University level , and then I spent about the next 19 minutes or so waiting for it to end . I did not enjoy a second of the film , but it is clear that there is a message to be derived from it , maybe about the plight of the young homosexual male in the late 40s or the fact that men get raped , too ( although , of course , also be men ) . In any case , the films of Kenneth Anger seem to have been relegated mainly to below even the status of bottom shelf oblivion , and quite frankly , I can't say so far that it's any huge loss .
A terrible forgery of Duel , one of Steven Spielberg's earliest films .	Wheels of Terror is exactly what it sounds like . A cheesy after school thriller special that is meant to be laughed at . At least I HOPE it's meant to be laughed at . You have a scary looking car that seems to be terrorizing kids at their school , so one of the staff members decides that , instead of calling the police , she'll take matters into her own hands and chase the man down herself . It's good to see a woman taking the initiative like that in the movies , but then what do they do ? They have the chase scenes take place with her in the ' short bus . ' A laughable story , routine direction , no acting , and an absolutely pathetic ending all come together to make Wheels of Terror a perfect movie to never watch .
When is this over ? !	How long was this movie ? 10 hours ? 12 hours ? That's what it felt like . What a terrible waste of time this was . First of all , this was an obvious and awful attempt to rekindle some of the inexplicable American Pie hype with Jason Biggs and Mena Suvari . Suvari knows how to act , as she proved in American Beauty , she just didn't do it here . Jason Biggs is the biggest mystery in the film industry right now . How did this idiot get on screen ? As far as the story , nobody gets treated like that in college . I don't care how small the town is that you're from . There are not as many college students with the mentality of a 9 year old that would be necessary to pull all of the stunts that were pulled in this movie . They were real creative with Biggs ' character , too . Dress him up like a geek and put a few obscure words into his vocabulary . And yes , they did manage to squeeze in a falling-down-the-stairs scene for him , what fun . Besides that , what about the housing ? Biggs gets kicked out of the dorms by his dumbass roommates and then what , he talks his way into turning one room in a veterinary hospital into his personal lodgings ? Are you kidding me ? ! Biggs and Suvari have no chemistry on screen , and she can't play the part of a reject like she tried to in Loser , it doesn't fit with her iconography . Terrible acting , a terrible story , and a director who did little more than point and shoot , all adds up to a ridiculous film whose stupidity borders on being offensive .
Unfortunately , the Internet Movie Database only allows 1 , 000 words , which is not nearly enough to sufficiently communicate how horrible this movie is .	The drawback of watching the huge amount of movies that I watch is that you find yourself watching the same previews over and over again . I saw the preview for Coyote Ugly so many times that I was sick and tired of the movie before it was even released . I was unable to decipher any kind of plot from the preview , and the reason is simple . If the producers had allowed the preview to reveal the extensively recycled and re-done and re-made and used up plot , no one would have bothered to watch the movie . From a business point of view , that's very understandable , and I respect the decision not to reveal how shallow this movie is too early on . However , after seeing the entire film , I have realized that Coyote Ugly is packed full of every cliche ever created by every unoriginal and boring film ever made in cinematic history . ( spoilers ) Young kid decides to leave home to pursue wild dreams in the big city . Encounters difficulties , gets robbed , decides to go home , father encourages her to keep trying , success is inevitably and laughably attained . I accurately predicted at least 80 % of everything that happened in this film . Did anyone not know that there would be a robbery at her new apartment in New York ? Was anyone surprised that she would have some sort of superficial problem getting her music heard ? Is it that hard to predict she would succeed at the end ? Okay , I'll admit that if she failed , the movie probably would never have been made ( what a relief that would have been ) . You can't put a Fight Club ending or an Arlington Road ending on a movie like this . But look at the way the entire movie panned out . Violet was completely isolated from reality during the entire film . Think about the logic here . Violet goes to New York to become a star , but obviously has trouble getting a record executive to listen to her music . She goes home one day to find her apartment robbed . This is the pathetic attempt to make it seem like the real world , but even if it did do that , this is where it stopped . For the rest of the film , everything worked out perfectly . The first guy she meets becomes her wonderful new boyfriend . The first group of girls she overhears in a diner are talking about the lucrative jobs they have , and how one is leaving and there will soon be a difficult effort to replace her . This very same bar happens to be the hottest bar in town , and when Violet inquires about the opening , she is hired within minutes . You gotta be kidding me . Besides all that , everything that happened in the plot is just recycled garbage that has been seen dozens of times before . Violet finds a cute new boyfriend . They get in the usual fight somewhere in the middle of the film , and when she tries to call thinking she wants to apologize or something , she hangs up a split second before he grabs up his receiver , anxiously saying " Hello ? Hello ? " to the usual dialtone . She goes to his house to make things right , and just as she shows up , he's got some girl walking into his apartment ( THAT was the most predictable element of all ) . But wait ! He's not sleeping with her , he's showing her the apartment to see if she might want to move in ! He's a sweetheart after all ! How about Violet's job ? Obviously some problem has to come up ( the suddenly lonely parent , as always , winding up in the hospital ) , and she has to get fired at least once . When she does , she decides to get a job at a quiet little restaurant ( which , for some reason , doesn't seem to have electricity ) , but eventually goes back to her old job . The bar scenes were both laughable and ridiculously exaggerated . No bar in the world looks like that , and even if one did , there would not be scantily clad female bartenders dancing on the bar every few minutes , and even if there were , there would be about 50 bouncers , not just one . You would think a policy or two would change when the airheaded blonde Cammie was pulled into the crowd and fondled by a bunch of drunks . I guess nothing came of that because she didn't seem upset about it at all . Every bar scene in this film was the result not of skillful filmmaking , but of audience manipulation . What a pathetic waste of time . Everything in this movie has been done before , and it has never been done worse than it was done here . Even though New York City is portrayed terribly , at least they thought to throw in an acute bit of stage fright for Violet so she would have a problem that coincides slightly with reality , even though this was also ridiculously unoriginal ( ever see Runaway Bride ? EXACTLY the same thing ) . Coyote Ugly is an awful movie . It follows a formula that is more easily decipherable than the script , and it is the kind of film that will probably be hugely entertaining to you if you have never seen a movie . If you don't like being jerked around at the movie theater , avoid this garbage .
There is something genuinely sad going on here . . . .	I am a big believer that quite often the supplemental documentaries included with DVDs can show you some things about the movie that you didn't realize , and even turn around your entire experience about the movie . In the best cases , these little featurettes can make even bad movies a little better , but such is not to be the case with Handmade Music , which is about the efforts involved in making the music for Dan in Real Life . Unfortunately I don't have anything nice to say about the movie , which was a depressing failure , and this little documentary is little more than a lot of people congratulating each other on a job well done on a project that just flopped spectacularly . I can appreciate the effort that everyone put into making the music just right and how strongly they believed in the movie , but there is something truly sad about watching so many artistically professional people talk about their undying devotion to what turned out to be such a bad movie .
Spectacularly bad .	So I was unlucky enough to catch this mess while on a 13-hour flight from Shanghai to Chicago , along with Fool's Gold and Jumper . Remind me never to fly United again . After the first hour I was ready to throw myself out of the plane somewhere over the Arctic circle . I'm not sure where exactly we were at that moment , but I looked out the window and the ocean below was frozen , and landing on top of the ice after a 35 , 000-foot freefall sounded more appealing than another 45 minutes of this tripe . It's yet another bonehead romantic comedy about weddings , where the protagonist is always a bridesmaid but never a bride , etc etc etc . She's great at doing things for other people but not so great at going after what she really wants or needs for herself . She has a collection of bridesmaids dresses filling one closet in her apartment to capacity ( no points for guessing how many she has ) , until one day her collection is witnessed by columnist Kevin Doyle , who sees this story about a wedding addict as his key to upward movement at his magazine . Charged with coming up with something fresh and interesting , he shocks his editor ( but not the audience ) when he gets too involved in the story and realizes that maybe there's something more to it , since she , his editor , feels that it's probably just some throwaway garbage that no one is really going to pay much attention to anyway . Sadly , the people who made the movie never realized that that is true of the movie as well . Anyway , Katherine Heigl stars as Jane Nichols , who attracted the attention of Kevin Doyle on a night when she was on a wedding marathon , shuttling between weddings at such at rate as to win the attention of the media . A lot of people complain about her performance , but I had no problem with her acting , or with James Marsden's , or really with anyone else in the cast . The problem is that the movie feels like a child's coloring book where someone just filled in the blanks and gave it a title and sent it to theaters . The formula here is so obvious that the laughs generated by its presence are the most effective part of the movie . James Marsden plays the part of Kevin Doyle . This is a remarkably versatile actor . He is still best known , I should think , as Cyclops from the X-Men films , but has also turned in effective performances in romantic comedies , including his satisfactory performance as a Mr . Right in this idiot movie , as well as his role as Mr . Wrong in the indescribably superior film The Notebook . Kevin is a young professional with movie-star good looks and is impossibly charming , while Jane , unfortunately , doesn't notice or appreciate his charm because she is too deeply in love with her dirtbag of a boss George , played with effective repulsiveness by Edward Burns . Later , Jane's little sister shows up , a bouncy , Barbie-ish blonde without a thought in her head who comes along and charms George off his feet , and we are asked to care when this jerk and this bimbo fall in love and ask Jane to plan their wedding . Oh , that really pulls the heartstrings , doesn't it ? These two shallow , superficial people getting together , leaving poor Jane with nothing but this stunningly handsome man with a good job and bright future constantly professing his true love to her . It is safe to say you can leave the tissue at home for this one . I suppose I don't have to explain how obvious the conclusion of the movie is . Probably the most difficult thing that a good romantic comedy has to overcome is that they are all so predictable , except for the really good ones ( The Notebook , as an example ) . In 27 Dresses , it is blatantly obvious from the first frame how the movie is going to turn out , except for the instant transformations that George and Tess , Jane's little sister , make in the last few minutes of the movie for the sake of the Hollywood ending . Everyone involved in the movie has done much , much better than this . If you want to see James Marsden in something worth seeing , please check out The Notebook . Edward Burns has an extensive list of credits and has had some hits and misses ( if , for example , you ever get a chance to see him in a movie called A Sound of Thunder , don't ) , and as for Katherine Heigl , she has done nothing but better films than this . Under Siege 2 is better than this , and that should really be all you need to know ?
This movie had so much potential , but it wound up being just another boring bad guy hero movie with cheesy special effects .	There was just too much corny tough guy stuff in this movie for it to be regarded as anything more than something to keep your eyes busy for a couple hours ( " He didn't know who he was fkin ' with " ) . Way to go Vin , you sure showed that alien who is boss . But who cares ? The special effects in this movie were a terrible attempt to make up for lousy acting , and they weren't even very good . The best effect they probably had was the extremely high-key lighting to give the effect of multiple suns . But the acting and even the story were definitely mediocre . If you find yourself sitting in the theater and Pitch Black is about to start , you might as well sit through it . It's worth that much . Just make sure you didn't pay real money to get in .
Maybe I'm too old , maybe I'm not old enough . Maybe I just can't dig it , baby . I can't get down with the funk .	Whatever the case , Sweet Sweetback's Baad Assssssss Song came off to me as a vibrant exercise in bad taste , bad acting , a barely discernible plot , VERY bad editing , and lots of stupid , stupid white people . The opening feeding scene , the one with the whole crowd of women inexplicably overflowing with lust from watching a dirty kid shovel food into his mouth , is reminiscent of The Hairdresser's Husband , the vastly superior French film that uses similar low-cut necklines revealing massive breasts to illustrate the formation of sexual taboos later in life . Sweet Sweetback's Baad Asssss song has no time for that . Nope . Next scene , that same dirty kid is naked and reluctantly ravishing someone that I assume is a prostitute , but who could just as easily be his babysitter , his teacher , his mother , or his sister . Doesn't matter which one , really . Even if it was his mother it wouldn't be as tasteless as the fact that what we're looking at is a 13-year-old kid completely naked between the legs of some woman who is equally naked . I have no problem with sex scenes , of course . It just strikes me as weird to see a movie that literally shows a 13-year-old kid having sex and then the movie ( Shocked ! Shocked ! ! ) gives itself a tagline like ' Rated X by an all white jury . ' What the hell ? I'm reminded of a classic Saturday Night Live skit in which Jim Carrey , Will Ferrell and Chris Kattan go to a nightclub and viciously gang-hump every woman on the dance floor and then when the security guards drag them to the exit they're all screaming ' What ? ? ! What ? ! ? ! What ? ? ! ? ? ! ' How do they imply that an all black jury might have rated a movie with a naked 13-year-old kid in it ? PG-13 ? That being said , the movie is basically about a lot of incompetent white cops constantly pursuing someone named Sweetback , who has enough connections on the streets to afford him a good deal of protection and , of course , who is generally too cool for spoken dialogue . We're brought into the dismal world of the inner cities , a plight for which the white man is endlessly blamed and , to whatever extent , this may be true , but for the most part this movie celebrates the condemnation of the white man for causing the black man to live such a terrible life , while at the same time celebrating the black man's inability or unwillingness to do anything about that life beyond blaming the white man for it . It's a controversial theory that the black community is more interested in blaming white people for their lot in life than they are in doing something to better their situation , but this movie does absolutely nothing to refute it , which is also the case in a disturbing number of ' blaxploitation ' movies . Blaxploitation itself , as a term , is wildly misleading . I suppose it means that black people are blaxploited by greedy white men , hence their dismal urban lifestyle , while white people are whitesploited by black people , hence their constant appearance as greedy , racist , and complete drooling morons in ' blaxploitation ' films . Pam Grier must be rolling in her grave . I've heard the editing described as quick to disorient the viewer , which is not the case at all . What you have here is obtrusive editing without reason , cuts simply for the sake of cutting . Like many 1970s blaxploitation films , the movie halts in its tracks half a dozen times or so to turn into a music video for a little while , but the rough and awkward editing does not disorient the viewer , it stops the movie completely because it is totally devoid of meaning . It takes your attention away from what is happening on screen and puts it into the weird colors and shapes dancing across the screen , which have nothing to do with whatever the meaning of the movie is . This is not how you infuse a deep meaning or directorial significance onto a cheesy sexy movie , this is how you make a feature length film when you don't have enough story or material to fill that much screen time . Sometimes lines of dialogue are literally played over more than once . The need for such things escapes me . In the movie's defense , it is very good at capturing the urban atmosphere in which the story takes place . When you watch the movie , you are there on the streets with the characters , you just have a hard time trying to follow what they're doing , what they're talking about , who's chasing who and why a black man is dancing on a stool while some idiot white guy stands directly behind him , staring at his backside and laughing hysterically . Wow . The street life is portrayed very effectively , you see how bad it is to live in these areas , but then you have to wonder about the suffering when you see scenes like the one where Sweetback is forced by a gang of hysterical bikers to endure the unending torture of making love to a white woman while they all sit around laughing . What the hell is going on here ? ( spoilers ) Maybe I just made the mistake of watching Dirty Pretty Things just before seeing this , so I came into this movie having just watched a movie that squeezes in the sex and violence because they are necessary elements of the massive plot , while this movie stretches out the sex scenes and throws in random bits of plot here and there just to fill out the rest of the screen time . There literally is a point in the movie where Sweetback is running from the cops through the desert , becomes so decimated that he kills and eats a lizard , and then when he reaches civilization he stops to have sex with a prostitute in the dirt and have a couple of white cops stop by to giggle at him . And not only that , if you make it through the movie you are not rewarded with the delivery of some message or cinematic meaning , you are literally rewarded with a series of shots showing a couple of dead dogs floating in a river . This normally is a figure of speech , but this is some of the stupidest st I've ever seen . Here's something to consider ? at one point in the movie the white cops chase and capture Sweetback , but wait ! He turns out to be just some guy , not Sweetback at all ! The guy gleefully explains that he was paid $5 by some guy to run from whoever chased him , and it just happened to be the police but hey ! It's five DOLLARS ! So the cops don't do a thing at all to this guy , even though he willfully evaded the police . I guess if you're paid to run then it's okay ? The thing that really gets me is that white people are portrayed as so stupid and incompetent and endlessly idiotic in these movies , and yet at the same time they are the people who's power and influence black people simply cannot escape . Given that , here's my question for you - Who do blaxploitation films really make look foolish in the end ? Oh , and yes I realize that Pam Grier is alive and well . Thanks for reading all the way to the end of my review . . .
Yes , that's exactly right . VERY wrong turn .	I am referring , of course , to the script , not necessarily to any choices the characters on screen made , although it would apply in that case as well . Wrong Turn is the latest in the ongoing stream of abysmal teen horror films cranked out by Hollywood since the mid-90s or so . The odd thing is that they chose to focus their plot this time around a man studying to be a doctor , as if there's a single solitary person in their target audience who could relate to this person . Anyone who knew anything about medicine would have a field day with the ridiculously exaggerated rednecks in this movie . Okay , so I realize that we live in the times of massive special effects and the wonders of Stan Winston and other things that lead to the Hulk being cartoonishly exaggerated to the point that the highly anticipated Hulk remake is rendered a camp comedy , but it's not hard to see how much better Wrong Turn could have been if only they had made the villains at least the TINIEST bit believable . It was rather disturbing for me to read through some of the reviews and posts on the IMDb and see how many people out there were considering what it would take for someone to be inbred to the point where they would look like the people in this movie . ' Are there really people like that ? ' And other such nonsense . Let me tell you what it would take for people to get like that - about five hours of make-up every morning before shooting . Take a movie like Deliverance . Granted , Wrong Turn never had a chance in the world to even approach the quality of a serious thriller , even one far below the status of Deliverance . But the point is that the suspense in Deliverance FAR surpassed anything that Wrong Turn ever even gets close to , because the mountain men in Deliverance were just a lot of backwards rednecks , they weren't monsters as they were in this movie . Deliverance went for scares through avenues of twisted , demented people , mysterious and dark woods , and the knowledge of impending violence in a mysterious setting . Wrong Turn takes the wrong turn of going for nothing more than the weak gross-outs . When Chris Finn finds himself in a rush and faced with a tremendous traffic jam , he turns around and decides to pull off and ask a gas station attendant if there's another way . The gas station attendant , by the way , provided some promise for the rest of the film , as he sits in front of rust pile of a gas station drinking Pepto Bismol with his three teeth and staring into the dust . There ARE people like THIS in the world . But here is the point where the movie does take its wrong turn . Finn decides to take a route that he notices on a map on the wall , and as he drives off , we get a close-up of this charming businessman muttering under his breath about the mistake that he was making . Because he's entering the badlands , as Stephen King might say . This is when the thriller halts and the goofy horror begins . The guy might as well have said something like , ' That ain't no good ah-dear , cityboy . We MOUN-tain foke . We ain't liven out here by yall's RULES and all . ' I sigh resignedly as my eyes glaze over for the rest of the film . What follows is the typical jigsaw puzzle of a modern horror film . Everything works JUST right for two people and completely wrong for everyone else . Finn slows to about 5mph to look at a dead deer on the side of the dirt road that he's decided to take around the traffic , and within the of one second between that shot and the next shot , he has sped up to about 50 , fast enough to slam into a big SUV parked right in the middle of the road , completely destroying both vehicles . Sigh . Anyway , the remarkably polite owners of the vehicle , obviously aware that cars could come FLYING THROUGH this particular section of this particular dirt road , are out of the car and in the underbrush , pondering the mystery of the spike strip that they just ran over . So there you have it . A lot of people ( two couples , one single girl and now , one single guy ) are in the middle of the woods with no phone , no idea where they are , and no idea that there are creations of Stan Winston waiting in the woods to devour them . Speaking of which , let's consider those creations , as they can be described in no other way . What you have are a lot of examples of evolution in reverse . Sure , inbreeding can do some serious damage to both the phenotype and the genotype of anyone odd enough to mate with their family , but generations upon generations of such inbreeding would create nothing even remotely like what you see here . But whatever , this is a horror movie and it's all in fun . The reason I point out these monsters is that their cartoonishly exaggerated nepotism ( I'm only about 60 % sure that's the right word , by the way , but you get the point ) prevented the movie from ever generating any real suspense , although there are plenty of scenes that will challenge your ability to finish your popcorn . It's too bad that they screwed these guys up so badly , because while the movie was going to be pretty bad from the outset , it could have at least been suspenseful . At any rate , my favorite of the monsters in this movie was the little guy , I don't know what his name was but he looked like a question mark with skin . That's some serious inbreeding . I won't go into the various forehead slapping scenes ( although I'd love to ) , but I really liked how the movie stops in its tracks long enough to shove the impending romance down our throats , as if there was a split second since all the characters were introduced that we didn't already know it was coming . And when I say the movie stopped in its tracks , I mean it very literally . Finn and Jessie , the obligatory love interest , pause under a WATERFALL long enough for her to forget that there are mutants chasing them and tell him about how she and her boyfriend broke up . This is ham-handed screenwriting at it's best . Or worst . Whichever is dumber . ( spoilers ) The rest of the movie , like all that which preceded this ludicrous scene , is an exercise in bringing about the very ending that you knew was coming all along the way . I will admit that there were some death scenes in the movie that were pretty creative ( I was going to say pretty GOOD , but that's hardly the right word to describe a depiction of a girl getting beheaded against a tree with an axe through her mouth ) , although such things are hardly enough to carry the entire film , which has little else to carry it .
Why Cheap Political Statements and Movies Don't Mix ?	Road of No Return is notable more than anything else for having signs of a great cast despite a pathetically awful script . The movie poster has some promise , with Michael Madsen and David Carradine posing opposite each other in a picture that seems to promise a gritty and powerful action drama , but such is not to be the case . This thing is so bad that it's amazing that it ever got made at all , much less that stars of such caliber as Madsen and Carradine signed on . The story concerns a group of hit men who have been hired by a group of shady businessmen . The hit men are all interchangeable caricatures , paper-thin stereotypes that are thrown together and spend the majority of the movie in close quarters getting to know each other and sharing their feelings . Soon it is revealed that the men that hired them are government officials who are forced to fly under the radar to take out some major drug dealers because those pesky liberal laws prevent them from really being able to do their jobs . The fact that the movie is based on a government agency that has to hide their dealings from Washington in order to avoid getting in trouble for doing their jobs does not speak well for the coherence of the script , since at one point David Carradine's character explains that Washington has authorized them to use " extreme measures " against drug traffickers . Complicating matters is the fact that the hired hit men noted one of their license plates during the hiring process and are looking into the backgrounds of their employers . A bunch of nonsense follows and ultimately everyone is put into a position where the hit men want to get paid and the men that hired them decide that the only way they can safely get out of the whole thing is to kill all of them . Clean the cleaners , as it were . Oh , and did I mention the kids ? Early in the film , two of the hit men pull off a multiple homicide which leaves two young girls stranded and with nowhere to go , so the hit men take them in and take turns being bizarre father figures for them . I love the thought that went into this . The girls were at one point about to be sold into sexual slavery by the bad guys , but the good bad guys take them in . One of the girls is killed ( or taken away or something , I can't remember and don't care to go back and find out ) , leaving only one of them , a young girl of about ten years old . Here's a little exchange that should reveal something about the kind of script that this movie comes from . One day , she's relaxing in a hotel room with two of the hit men , and one of them leans over and starts doing lines of cocaine off the bedside table . When the girl gets upset , he sits up , concerned , and asks , " What's the matter ? " He seems genuinely confused . The end credits of Road of No Return inform us that the movie is written and directed by " Dr . " Parviz Saghizadeh . I have no idea what kind of doctor this person is , but I can tell you that it is not a doctor of philosophy , otherwise he would have noticed the pathetic shallowness of the political nonsense that this movie tries to pass on . David Carradine's character ham-handedly delivers it in this charming bit of dialogue : " How the hell did we get into this mess anyhow ? It's those damn liberals . If we had tough laws and tough judges with balls enough to put these drug traffickers behind bars and throw away the keys ? " So you see , it's all the liberals ' fault that they were forced to hire hit men and that those poor kids got blown up in that car bomb and that the girls had no parents and were going to be sold into child prostitution and the whole world is just coming apart . I have a question though , who's fault is it that this mess of a movie got made ?
The worst one yet .	Contains Spoilers ! The movie starts out with a nightmare that Tommy Jarvis is having . You remember Tommy , played by Corey Feldman in Part 4 , evidently he's grown up to a fabulous future as a mental patient . Thankfully , this was a dream , since it features two nutcases whooping and hollering as they dig Jason out of his grave , where he is buried under about 3-4 inches of soft dirt , and apparently buried wearing his hockey mask and with a stabbing weapon in each hand . Brilliant . Tommy awakens on the way to the mental hospital , around which most of the rest of the movies revolves . In the movie's defense , at least it wasn't yet another slopfest about a lot of teenagers going up to the lake to be rebellious and end up getting killed just like we already knew they would . They are running out of inventive ways to cut up young people for that to drive yet another Friday the 13th installment . Unfortunately , they seem to have decided that since they added a few new gimmicks to the movies , like a mental hospital , a Jason impersonator , and some shockingly dirty rednecks , they didn't need to come up with any new death scenes . Not exactly the most intellectual necessity , but creative deaths are about 85 % of what has always driven this series , and in this one we get more of the same boring killings - a machete pushed through the stomach ( on two separate occasions in this movie , I think ) , slashes across the chest / face , etc . In one scene , Jason plunges a pair on hedge-clippers through some poor girls eyes , but then they screwed it up because we get a shot upwards of his hands holding the clippers and roughly pushing them together , indicating that he had beheaded her . Then we see her and she was just stabbed through the eyes . Why include that shot if it's completely wrong as far as what he did to her ? At any rate , the nutty people who inform the cast that they're all doomed are rather interesting as the above-mentioned dirty rednecks , except they run up to the cast when they're at the mental hospital surrounded by police ( to find out why you have to watch the movie yourself ) , and they run up screaming threats , upset that there is a mental hospital filled with punk teenagers so close to their home . Pretty funny scene , except the woman threatens to kill the next person who comes near their house , then she expands her threat to include the police officers , then she informs the lot of them that she is currently strapped with dynamite and would blow them all to hell if they don't watch their step . Just so you know , if you threaten to even punch someone and there is a police officer within earshot , consider yourself arrested . A verbal threat is assault , and can land you in jail . This woman threatened to kill the kids , the police officer , and then to blow herself up , killing everyone in sight , and the cops just smile as she jumps on the motorcycle with her nutcase son and rides off with him , taking with her the dynamite and any respect I might have had for these cops . Later on , we see these rednecks at home as she is chopping up a chicken , screeching all the while , to feed to her idiot son , and they are approached by a man who knocks on the door , asking if they have any work he can do for some food ( he hasn't eaten in two days ) , so she puts him to work cleaning out the chicken coop and then he can come back and get his stomach filled . Why was this guy in the movie at all ? He literally serves absolutely no purpose other than to inform the audience that these people have a chicken coop that needs cleaning and so that he can be another person for Jason to kill . If they didn't think they had a large enough cast of teenagers for Jason to plow through , I would have suggested just adding a few more characters rather than adding in some wandering oddball in a wife-beater looking for a meal . Instead we have this guy with no part in the movie except that of a hungry victim . ( spoilers ) One of the two most ridiculous scenes in the film concerns her son , who gets beat up down at the mental hospital by Tommy , so he rides home on his motorcycle , screaming that those damn kids made him mad . Rather than going inside to express his anger to his mother , this ridiculous moron rides around the yard on his bike , spinning doughnuts and doing wheelies and screaming at the top of his lungs all the while , flying recklessly around the yard until he either slams into a tree , killing himself , or gets beheaded by a butcher knife that pops out of the bushes . We get the latter , but either would have been satisfying enough , as long as it shut that idiot up . The second of the two most ridiculous scenes in the film is the one where Demon , the older brother of one of the younger but more prominent characters in the movie , takes turns singing ' Hey baby baby ' over and over to his girlfriend on the other side of the craphouse wall . VERY romantic . On the other hand , what the hell else would you expect from someone with a name like Demon ? I guess this was the only thing they could come up with I order to make Demon get concerned when his girlfriend stopped singing back to him . His death , however , was among the more interesting of all of the ones in the movie . Thus brings up a rather important plot point about this movie , that the killer in the hockey mask is not even Jason , but Jason being impersonated by someone , whose identity and motives are revealed at the end of the film after his pretty impressive death scene . Fans might be disappointed that it's not even Jason in this movie , since he was killed in Part 4 , but that doesn't really matter for the most part , because even though it's really just some guy doing all the killing , he is still just as relentless , stolid , and basically impervious to damage as the original . He makes no sounds , doesn't run , and of course can't be killed until enough people have been killed to fulfill an hour and a half running time . This should have opened up a lot of possibilities for the movie , since the last time there was any element of mystery was in Part 1 when the real killer was not Jason Voorhees but his mother , seeking revenge against the kids who brought about the death of her son . But nope , the only mystery is that the killer is not really Jason , who the films makers decided to leave dead for this installment ( viewers at the time of its release were probably expected to expect some sort of ' Evil Never Dies ' resurrection very soon to follow ) , but the ham-handed hints leave all but the most dense viewers very aware of the killer's real identity long before his mask ever comes off . This is surely one of the most hated of the Friday installments among the series ' fans , most likely because the real Jason does not appear , but only in name , almost . For the entire film except for the scenes that hint at the killer's identity and the scene where his mask comes off at the end , he is the real Jason . He acts and moves exactly like him , so the basic attraction of the movie is there , I suppose , but it reminds me of the popular failure of Halloween III , the one which completely departed from the premise of the first two films , having absolutely nothing to do with Michael Meyers or Laurie Strode . They wisely returned to the original story in part IV , even going so far as to attach the subtitle ' The Return of Michael Meyers ' and put a big picture of his mask on the movie's poster . The next Friday film does exactly the same thing , adding on the subtitle ' Jason lives , ' as though to say , ' Sorry about that last movie ! He's alive in this one ! ' I love the subtlety of these movies . So this movie is probably considered by many people , such as myself , to be the worst installment in the series , but not only because it wasn't really Jason as the killer . That's probably only about 90 % of the reason . The other 10 % is things like the ones mentioned above . Logic is abandoned even more than in the other movies ( Tommy , for example , is admitted to a mental hospital that not only exists in the exact location of the cause of his mental instability , but also allows him to keep such things as the horror movie masks that he made as a kid and , shockingly enough , a four-inch pocket-knife ) , a guy is introduced who has no part in the movie or the series other than to get killed , etc . But I think it remains a curiosity piece , in that it is so clearly an experiment by the filmmakers to try something a little different , have it fail miserably , and then promptly return to the general formula in the next movie .
If you need a good nap , check out The Rocker .	I think we've all been spoiled by good music movies , like Almost Famous ( which , incidentally , Rainn Wilson was actually in ) and School of Rock , or at least funny ones , if not necessarily good , like Tenacious D and the Pick of Destiny . From the trailer you can quickly gather that The Rocker is not a serious movie ; it's about as serious as Step Brothers . What you can't gather from the trailer is that The Rocker is also as dumb as Step Brothers . Probably dumber . It immediately starts out with intolerable goofiness , as Robert Fishman is kicked out of his 80s caricature band and turns into a movie monster . He chases his terrified bandmates down the street on foot at 60mph , jumping on top of the van and clawing his way across the roof using his drumsticks as hooks to pull himself along . When they slam on the brakes and send him flying into the street , first he appears to be dead but soon sits up like a zombie and turns his head like he's possessed . Thus is the tone set and your eyes can safely glaze over for the rest of the movie . Cut to 20 years later , where he is working a dead-end job sitting in front of a computer ( I'm just now realizing the irony of me sitting here writing that last sentence ) , while his former bandmates have gone on to massive superstardom . Luckily , he soon finds his calling when a bunch of whiny high school kids ask him to play with their band as the drummer for their senior prom . All of the typical scenes are thrown in , the auditions for the new drummer where you get a whole stream of bizarre lunatics doing something ridiculous on the drums or the electric keyboard , the drummerless bandmates whining and lamenting their terrible luck when their idiot drummer boy gets grounded for bringing hash brownies to a Spanish convention at school , the caricature characters , etc . The Rocker is a bland , flavorless combination of things like Youtube , MySpace , cheesy 80s rock , mind-numbing product-placement and , say , some kind of cardboard breakfast cereal . It is so uninteresting and so unfunny that it's amazing to me that the thing was ever made . I get the feeling that it is purely because of the success of other rock comedies that this one was even considered . What happens is , through his lack of understanding of modern technology ( despite having a 40-hour a week job working in front of a computer ) , " Fish " does a virtual rehearsal one day with his band completely nude , thinking the webcam is a microphone . The video winds up on Youtube and it's an instant hit . Record labels come knocking on the door , and the gigs start lining up . What follows is an exercise in coming up with scenes where Fish can act as inappropriately as possible , showing that he not only failed as a musician , but fails as a human being in understanding even the simplest things about interacting with other people . Does rock really corrupt the mind like that ? Almost without exception the jokes fall completely flat , like dominoes . Do you ever do that thing with dominoes where you stand them up all in a big line all over the house and then push one over and watch them all fall down and then you laugh and cheer and then immediately start looking dejectedly at the big mess you now have to clean up ? Well , I haven't done that for quite some time now , but I remember enjoying it much more than I enjoyed The Rocker . Of course the good looking but perpetually depressed lead singer in the high school band is going to eventually start to notice the brooding and perpetually depressed girl in the band in ways that he hadn't noticed her before . At a key moment in the film , he asks her if she'd like to have dinner with him , and he has to ask twice before she gets what he's saying . In response , she smiles for the first time in the movie , and I slap my forehead in disgust for about the 200th time . The development of their little crush is so goofy and so childish that it's almost weird . And no , I'm not going to apologize for ruining the kiddie romance at the end of the movie . If you don't watch The Rocker because you read this review , you should thank me ! As is to be expected , there comes a time when Fish and his new high school band must open for Vesuvius , the band that Fish was booted out of 20 years before . Incidentally , Vesuvius is headed by lead singer Lex , a Bret Michaels lookalike played by Will Arnett , who should have had the lead role in the movie . I'm sorry , but Rainn Wilson is just not funny . The superstar band has what their jerkoff manager calls an " Ashley Simpson situation , " and they're booed off stage . The subsequent chanting of " A . D . D . " ( the high school band's name , possibly the most creative thing in the entire movie ) over and over again is currently topping my list of Most Predictable Scenes of 2008 . Oddly enough , the only thing that wasn't flat-out stupid about The Rocker is Christina Applegate's character , who is well-written and performed , at least until late in the movie when she begins to adjust her behavior in order to adhere to the necessary Hollywood ending . She has clearly come a long way as an actress , but as is the case for just about everyone else involved , The Rocker is a huge step backwards .
All the gross-out warnings that I heard before watching Scary Movie gave me very high hopes about the movie . Maybe some put-to-sleep warnings would have been more accurate .	I saw Scary Movie expecting to see some better gross-out jokes than in both There's Something About Mary and American Pie . After seeing the preview , I expected that I was going to leave the theater holding my sides , and with my cheeks aching from laughing so hard . What I got was an hour and a half of the exact same jokes that I had already seen in the previews , with a few disgusting and boring sex jokes . The spoofs were put in almost verbatim from such films as the Scream trilogy ( obviously ) , Urban Legend , I Know What You Did Last Summer , the Matrix , and even the Usual Suspects for some odd reason . Because of that , what you get is not a film that stands on its own , but a conglomeration of skits based on the above horror films . Watching Scary Movie is almost like watching a sick version of a Saturday Night Live-type TV show . While I was watching Scary Movie , I found myself laughing at the jokes almost entirely because I WANTED it to be funny , but then I found myself feeling stupid for laughing out loud at something that was not even remotely amusing . This truly is a terrible film , and I can't say that I recommend it to ANYONE .
This film has no scope . It can really only be enjoyed by hardcore science fiction fans .	The previews made this movie look so good ! I guess most previews do , but Battlefield Earth was particularly disappointing . Most of the special effects and camera-work were fairly effective , and the character make-up was also very well-done , except for the tired concept of colored contact lenses . Those were getting old 1000 years before the film took place ! You'd think a superior race such as the Psychlos would be able to come up with something a little more creative than that . Although the acting was all very good , it was a mistake to put John Travolta in this film . This is a complaint that I have about numerous films like this , John Travolta is just too well known to suddenly play such an intensely evil character as he did in this film . One of the main problems with this film comes mainly from discrepancies in the believability of the plot . ( possible spoiler ahead ! ! ) The one that jumps immediately to mind is the fact that the ' man-animals ' managed to conquer a superior race like the Psychlos using primitive Harrier jets , which they learned to fly in a matter of days using a flight simulator which , along with the jets , they found to be in perfect working order after sitting for 1000 years ! ! The downfall of Battelfield Earth stems from this blatant disrespect for reality . True , this is characteristic of science fiction , but L . Ron Hubbard must realize that our current military is unable to build jets that could be left sitting until the year 3000 and still be made to work . You'd think at least the TIRES would have rotted away , if nothing else . Battlefield Earth is entertaining , but also ultimately disappointing .
What a joke .	The reviews of Heroes on the IMDb make perfect sense . Reviews written at the beginning of season 1 are absolutely glowing , people couldn't stop talking about how great the show was . Then as the season dragged on , the truth started to come out . You begin to notice that everyone has these super-powers but are all reluctant to use them , and for the dumbest imaginable reasons . One guy wants to pretend he can't fly because he's afraid it will hurt his political career . And it doesn't help that he is one of the most dislikable characters in the series . After only a few episodes you will begin to notice that the vast majority of the show is composed of one cheesy scene after another , all strung together along a flimsy clothesline of a plot , which serves as little more than a vague direction along which to bombard us with a horizonless barrage of pseudo-revelations that constantly lead nowhere . After ten episodes , you don't know any more about what is going on than you did when you first saw previews for the series , it's a classic example of always promising that in the next episode you will learn something , but you never do . This is some of the worst writing I have ever seen on broadcast television . The problem is that you have one single problem that the show needs to solve ? a bomb that supposedly blows up New York City ? a catastrophe dreamed up by a graphic artist who can paint the future if he happens to have enough heroin flowing through his veins ( I know , I know , this is great stuff to be piping into American homes but wait , it gets funnier ) . In order to stop this , a Japanese software engineer must use his ability to stop time to do something . Also , a young man who can absorb the powers of other must use his gift to do something . And an up-and-coming politician must ignore his power to fly so that instead of making use of his superhuman ability he can do something . Also , a cheerleader who can't be injured must also ignore her power to instantly heal even the most catastrophic injuries so that instead of using her power she can do something . Anything ? Nothing ? Save the cheerleader , save the world ? Am I really hearing this ? Well , get ready , because that is the whole series . One of the biggest problems is that there are no rules established . There are no parameters within which these people can use their powers . Their powers either work or they don't work , and there is no reason given . We are just as clueless as the characters , which makes it impossible for the show to generate any tension or even drama . In an atmosphere where anything can happen for any ( or no ) reason , it is impossible to know how to react or to react at all . The writers try to break all the rules with this show , only to learn that the rules are there for a reason . The part of Hiro Nakamura , the Japanese man who can stop time , is a breath of fresh air in what is otherwise a plodding and intolerably cheesy soap opera with an occasional special effect . It's like the show wants to attract the science fiction crowd and the daytime TV crowd , but not only doesn't realize that these two audiences are about as polarly opposite as audiences get . Not that they would know how to please either one individually anyway . What a mess . Every episode is book-ended with goofy , melodramatic monologues which serve only as vain attempts to impose meaning onto material which not only has none but couldn't possibly support any even if the writers weren't no-talent hacks . These rants are read by Mohinder Suresh , one of the show's goofiest characters , wildly overacted from start to finish and with an intolerable fake accent by Sendhil Ramamurthy . And don't try to tell me that accent is real , the guy is a frat boy from Massachussetts who was born in Chicago . I wonder if he has ever set foot in India . Couldn't they find an actor with a real Indian accent who couldn't act , rather than an actor with a fake Indian accent who can't act ? And it doesn't help that Suresh spends much of his time on feverish missions , desperately trying to " find these people . . . and warn them ! " He breathlessly seeks out a little boy who has been making appearances in his dreams , only to find him and hear , " You already have the answers you seek . " What a great way to string along your audience and then laugh in their faces . As an interesting note , Hiro is played by Masi Oka , a digital effects artist with Industrial Light and Magic who has an astonishing resume . He is great in this show , it's just too bad that nothing else is .
" April 2004 - American casualties at their highest since the war officially ENDED . "	This shocking statement ( shocking because now , four years later , the war is still clearly not over ) promisingly begins what turns out to be an astonishingly bad film about the ongoing Iraq war . I am always wary when I read extreme reviews of movies on the IMDb ( This is the best movie ever made , This is the worst movie ever made , etc ) , but in this case they are all true . This movie is so unbelievably bad that it's amazing it ever got released . Before I say anything else , I should admit that I bought the movie thinking it was some kind of documentary . I live in China so I bought a pirated copy that only had Chinese writing on it , so all I could read was American Soldiers : A Day in Iraq , which led me to believe that it was going to be something meant to inform the public about the reality of the situation on the ground , as they say . The reality of the movie , needless to say , was a tremendous disappointment . First of all , nothing is even remotely realistic . You don't have to be a battle-weary veteran to understand that war is not about occasional gunfights punctuated with casual breaks perfect for cheesy , D-movie bravado and beat-box dance sessions ( I almost fell off the sofa when I saw that scene ) , and don't even get me started on the " Iraqis " in the movie . The accents are so bad and the delivery so talentless that it is impossible not to laugh ( My home . . . is . . . your . . . home . It is . . . not . . . much . . . . but it . . . . . is . . . . ours . " ) , even when you think of the dismayed families of the fallen soldiers on whom the film is based , who must be shocked and insulted to see that their loved ones are being remembered with this ridiculous mess of a film . And by the way , did anyone else notice that all of the soldiers had backwards American flag patches on their shoulders ? This is patriotic sacrilege and any real life soldier in Iraq with such a thing on his uniform would be viciously berated by his fellow soldiers and I imagine severely reprimanded by his superiors . Didn't anyone involved in making the movie think that such blatant defamation of the American flag might not be such a good idea in a war film , even as consistently bad as this one ? Nothing is taken seriously in the movie at all ( " Nobody likes being occupied , it's like living with your parents ! " ) . The men all take turns with this idiotic schoolboy bravery ( " I would give my life for the sarge ! " " No I'M giving my life for the sarge ! " " No , ME ! " " No we'll ALL give our lives for the sarge ! " " YEAH ! ! " ) , meanwhile the sarge seems to have sustained a mortal injury that renders him sleepy and a little bit sweaty for the majority of the film , but seems to just kind of go away toward the end . The " sets " are also ridiculous in the extreme . Iraq is re-created so badly and so unconvincingly that it may as well have been filmed in Canada ( note : it was ) . There is some effort made to call attention to the fact that many soldiers joined the military because of September 11th and WMDs , but Iraq has nothing to do with either of them . This unjust inconsistency has cost thousand and thousands of lives and is even more disturbing when the film ends with this quote : " The greatest treasure our nation has is our enlisted men and women . When we put them in harm's way , it had better count for something . Their loss is a national tragedy . " Sean Penn , in All the King's Men , said " Time brings all things to light . " One can only hope this is also true about the reality of why we are in Iraq and who the real criminals are in the Bush administration . The only question is how high and how deep the corruption goes . In the meantime , let's stop making pathetic movies like this about the Iraq war . The news is depressing enough . . .
Since it is such the polar opposite of enlightening , I wish I could at least call it interesting .	I had heard so much about A Day Without A Mexican before its release , but I never got a chance to watch it in the theaters . Now that I've seen it on video , I get an idea of why it was gone from theaters so fast . They took a great idea and went nowhere with it . In fact , the movie is so unambitious that in retrospect I'm amazed I ever thought it was an interesting idea at all . It is no secret that the immigrant workforce in California and indeed of much of America is the foundation of our economy , which is why it should have been so obvious of how little there was to do with the premise of Mexicans disappearing and leaving all of the poor , helpless Americans to pick their own lettuce and tomatoes . The result that we get is a preachy joke of a mockumentary that takes America's tendency to look down at immigrants and turns it around , augmenting the snobbish tone that this places on Americans so much that it removes any sense of realism from the story and turns it into a schoolyard lecture peppered with stupid jokes and shallow stereotypes . Maybe it's because I live in California , but I like to think that the vast majority of Americans with two brain cells working at the same time already knew everything that this movie had to say . The only way you could not know the importance of the migrant workforce in this country is if you've lived on Mars for your entire life . In a cave . With your eyes closed and your fingers in your ears . It's clear how strongly the people behind the film felt about how overlooked migrant workers are in America and especially in California . I completely agree with them , but it doesn't change the fact that the movie is an absolute mess . It's badly written , badly shot , and full of cheesy caricatures of Americans , each one designed around a single common prejudicial view that so many Americans tend to have towards Mexicans , like that everyone who speaks Spanish is Mexican or that anyone who refers to themselves as " latino " is Mexican . The people behind the film feel so strongly about the points that they're trying to make that they can't help scrawling little factoids across the screen like this is an informational film or an educational film or one of those Pop-Up Videos on VH-1 . Remember those ? The problem is that this extra effort to slap the audience over the head with individual facts that point to a larger truth that the vast majority of the audience already knows causes the film to fall on its face . I've always said that I'm amazed at how the migrant workers are forced to work brutal , manual labor for wages that barely allow them to survive , while people like lawyers and actors are paid millions and millions of dollars . It's not that I think actors are overpaid , on the contrary , really , I think their salaries reflect the amount of money that they personally are able to generate , but if every actor in the world went on strike or if every lawyer went on strike , the vast majority of us would be unaffected . But if migrant workers all went on strike or all decided to go to their home countries ( like so many bigots in America stupidly wish they would ) , the country would almost immediately fall apart . Look at it this way , if truck drivers stopped driving , Los Angeles would be out of food in six days . Maybe that would have made an interesting movie , to have all of the migrant workers band together and decide to do something active to benefit themselves and each other . To leave the country that so misuses them and leave us to figure out how to fill the jobs that , ah , what was it Bush said ? " The jobs that Americans won't take . " Instead we get this stupid , stupid premise about all of the Mexicans simply disappear without a trace , only to magically reappear at the end unaware that they were ever even gone . It's a ridiculous way to bookend what could have been a valuable , introspective film . And don't get me started on The Fog That Surrounded California . No phones or Internet or even short wave radios could penetrate it , so Californians were left completely on their own . What about cars ? Could those penetrate the fog ? How about airplanes ? Oh wait , the talking heads on TV told us not to approach the fog , so I guess that was out of the question . The movie places that little warning in there just as conveniently as it forgets about how many millions of people are entering and leaving the state of California at any given moment by countless methods of transportation . Sadly , the movie has a great point to make , but it is a point that needs to be made in a way that can't be so easily written off as a stupid , childish joke . And a mysterious fog and the mysterious disappearance of millions of Mexicans is a stupid , childish joke . The only good part was how the movie showed that if millions of people disappeared all at once , those jerks in the little toy carts would still be driving around putting parking tickets on the windshields of the mysteriously disappeared . Evidently the filmmakers had a bone to pick with meter maids , too .
Well , at least they were nice enough to point out on the back of the cover box , by name , the very movies that Stranded shamelessly rips off .	The summary on the back of the movie box contains a sentence that says something like , ' a group of astronauts on a mission to mars get stranded on the red planet ? ' I can't remember what it was that made me rent this movie , but I got pretty much what I expected . Stranded displays a collection of actors famous from relatively obscure parts or films , such as Maria de Medeiros , who played Butch's whiny French girlfriend in Pulp Fiction , Joaquim de Almeida , who was Bucho in Desperado , and of course , Vincent Gallo who , despite an extensive filmography , is probably best known as Billy from the ugly but enormously well-made Buffalo ' 66 . Unfortunately , Gallo's talents as a hugely sarcastic and dislikable character are pretty much the only redeeming qualities of this film . The inexperience of the other actors , particularly the guy with the bleached hair and eyebrows , is all too obvious , as they deliver some of the worst acting I've seen in YEARS . The beginning of the movie plays like one of those bad educational videos I used to see in seventh grade , as the astronauts discuss the properties of Mars ' terrain and atmosphere , as though they are teaching it to people who are hearing of the planet for the first time . I realize that certain information needs to be delivered to the audience who , for the most part , are not familiar with all of this information about the red planet , but these people are ON THE SURFACE OF MARS . You just don't get that far without knowing the exact reasons for why Mars ' atmosphere is inhospitable to humans . So these people go to Mars and crash land ( sound familiar ? ) , the older astronaut obligatorily dies on impact , leaving the remaining five to figure out a way to survive . Needless to say , they find that they only have enough supplies remaining on the capsule to support two of the five astronauts ( sound familiar ? ) , so three have to walk out onto the planet and face death . It's a pretty emotional scene when they decide who lives and who dies , and the three who wander onto the surface of Mars to see what they can see as death rapidly approaches pack up some oxygen tanks and head outside ( sound familiar ? ) . Unfortunately , the educational video that is the first 25 minutes or so of the film is not the extent of the bad screenwriting . When one of the characters who left to die begins to run out of oxygen , he stumbles to the ground , panting for breath , while another of them runs to him and says , ' What's the matter ? ' Oh , I stepped on a sharp rock , genius . WHAT DO YOU THINK ? ? ! ? ! I'm knocking on heaven's door ! Not only is he asked what's wrong , but then he even responds by saying , ' I'd like to go with you , I swear ! ' As though they need convincing that he's not laying down because he'd just prefer to lay down and die than keep walking . Sigh . ( spoilers ) The red filter over the lens creates a pretty effective Martian landscape , except for the mildly cloudy day , which should have been enough to reveal to any thinking astronauts that there was something peculiar about the atmosphere on Mars on that particular day . There is the revelation of some sort of ancient Martian culture , with dead bodies laying around and buildings carved out of the rocky cliffs , and yet this seems to have been put into the movie for no other reason than because the astronauts would not have been able to survive long enough for a rescue mission otherwise . They find that there is breathable oxygen in the atmosphere and simply set up camp while the camera pulls out to show the whole planet and close the narrative , I suppose , with the suggestion that they're simply going to stay there and live happily ever after . But like I said , you get about what you expect . Granted , more emphasis is placed on the human and dramatic aspects of the film , but at the great expense of every other aspect . And when the setting and plot are not believable AND badly acted , any drama has a hard time getting noticed .
This movie is so bad it's almost weird .	I recently read Bruce Campbell's highly entertaining and informative first book , If Chins Could Kill , which served to instill within me a heightened interest in seeing his more obscure roles over the years , other than his role as Ash in the Evil Dead films , some of my favorite horror films of all time ( as well as some of my favorite horror performances ) . In attempting to check out some of those movies that I had never seen , I watched Crimewave which , being the honest man that he is , Campbell came right out in his book and said that no matter how you slice it , the film is a dog and everyone involved should line up for their forty whacks . And he wasn't kidding . Wow . One flaw that permeates the entire film is a nonstop barrage of stupid , badly dubbed sound effects that don't belong and don't work . They are the kind of sound effects that belong in Bugs Bunny cartoons , like gunshot sounds when someone makes a witty remark . Bruce plays the role of Renaldo the Heel who , given the feeble plot , need not be described as anything more than some jerk . The villains in this film are absolutely ludicrous , they are some of the worst bad movie performances I've ever seen . Remember that bully that roughed up Charlie Chaplin in Easy Street ? He was completely overblown and exaggerated in every way because he was acting in a silent film in 1917 , which explained his bizarre mannerisms and movements and behavior . In this movie , they took that exact villain and gave him a voice . Just as overblown and exaggerated , except now he talks like he acts and just comes off as goofy . His sidekick is even worse . The weirdest thing about this movie is the talent that was involved in it's production . It was written by the Coen brothers and directed by Sam Raimi , and starred , to some extent , Bruce Campbell who , b-movie virus or not , has a huge cult following . Unfortunately he was right , this movie is just a disaster , and I can understand why Bruce described this as their first taste of real failure . Keep your eye out for two jerks in the ballroom scene smugly sipping martinis . During production of the film , these two guys all but extorted $30 , 000 from the production team for the use of the ballroom , and demanded as an added bonus that they get to appear in the movie . Can you imagine that someone spent $30 , 000 just for a location for this movie ? ? Before I go , let me just say that I have all the respect in the world for the people involved in making the movie . Some things just don't work out , and this was one of them . Some of the performances are just unforgivable , but I actually think that Bruce performed well , the problem is that his character is badly written . He was asked to act stupidly , but at least he did a good job of it ! Too bad the story is virtually unintelligible ?
Eventually proves to be a slightly interesting story , but it is ridiculously presented in every respect .	If you can manage to sit through the first 60 to 70 minutes of this movie without turning it off in disgust , you will be presented with something that vaguely resembles an interesting story . However , despite the fact that Nightfall eventually begins to almost start to kind of possibly redeem itself a little tiny bit , every bit of the rest of the film is just a belligerent mess . Everything , even down to the smallest details , was awful . In the beginning , the two girls want to look in the mysterious hole , and the big beefy guard sounds just like a little kid as he pathetically pleads them not to . You almost expect him to start to say that they're mean for not listening to him . That dumbass guard even held their lantern for them while they began to dig deeper in the hole . Illyra finds ? artifacts ' in the hole that bear ridiculous resemblance to mirrored balls shaped like tin cans ( ' ? it appears to be some kind of alloy ? ' ) . She pokes around in the cave for quite some time before noticing that it is packed with snakes . And did anyone stop to think about what exactly those snakes might find to eat down there in this lifeless hole ? Sheerin suggested that Beta ( I guess that would be the biggest of the six suns ) was going to be eclipsed by an INVISIBLE planet . Some of the characters are fighting with ridiculous tin foil swords , yet Illyra has a freakin ' laser gun . What is this , The Gods Must Be Crazy meets Star Wars ? Besides that , the editor must have slept through the scene where one of the evil watchers was on fire and wandered on camera with his great big space helmet in plain view . What a joke . What was the deal with the planet Aeon ? Was this just Earth in disguise ? Illyra referred to her race as ' mankind , ' there is talk about ' God's will ' as well as the Book of Revelations ( not Earth , but they have the same Bible ? ) , and these bonehead girls even buy a CAMERA from a street vendor ( ' Wow ! A camera ! I've never seen one so advanced ! It's got some kind of filter on it ! ' ) . You can tell that these girls were real geniuses . At least they TRIED to portray the females as intelligent people ( even though they failed miserably ) . Metron was pretty ridiculous as the poor guy who finds himself among the bad guys as he modestly makes use of his laughable powers ( firestarting , mind control , HEALING for crying out loud ) . All of the acting in the entire film was pathetic , and so was the script . However , I loved the efforts of Sheerin to keep her promise to Illyra . That was probably the funniest part of the whole movie . ' Where is she ? ' ' I promised I wouldn't tell ! She went into the desert with a watcher named Metron ! They left yesterday ! ' Oops . What an idiot . Once the point of the movie eventually rolled around , it got interesting for a few seconds in a row , surprisingly enough . Aeon has never experienced nighttime , and every 1000 years , a gigantic planet eclipses her largest sun and plunges the planet into darkness . Maybe it wasn't so much that they were all afraid of the dark as much as they were just mystified about what happened to their other five suns . Besides that , did these people not have darkness in their houses ? Had they never escaped the sunlight even for a minute in all of their lives ? It seems that without darkness , they wouldn't even know to be afraid of the dark . Oh well , I guess it's a mass response to set fire to their own houses and then giggle hysterically as they watch them burn . Also , never mind the fact that a planet that size ( the one that caused the eclipse ) , with a 1000 year orbit , would probably have eclipsed Aeon for WEEKS , not minutes , as you saw in the movie . It is truly a shame that Isaac Asimov's name was associated with this horrendous insult to the cinematic medium . There is not a single good thing to be said about this movie . ' The Greatest Science Fiction Story of All Time ' should qualify as false advertising . Even hard-core science fiction fans would be hard pressed to find something interesting about this garbage . Avoid at all costs .
Wow .	Very rarely do you seriously come across a movie with no redeeming values whatsoever . I mean , there are tons of movies these days that are so bad that you say something like that about them , but it's a rare occurrence when you can apply that statement literally . Neon Maniacs is the story of a lot of creepy monsters that live under the Golden Gate Bridge , evidently for no other reason than to make people wonder why a lot of monsters who can be killed by water would choose to live so close to it . In thinking back on the movie , is there really any reason at all why they live under the Golden Gate Bridge ? Is it just so they can include a couple shots of the bridge at the opening of the movie ? Not only do we never find out why these creatures live to close to the one thing that can destroy them on contact , but we also never know where they came from or why they are killing people . Maybe they're upset because they're different . This is definitely an 80s horror film , so obviously you expect the acting to be just as bad as it is , and I think that Neon Maniacs really tests your levels of belief by trying to get you to believe that teenagers in the 80s thought it was the cool thing to do late at night to park their van in the middle of some park and play football and make out in the woods . Oddly enough , as dumb as that sounds , it looks even dumber on screen . I will not waste your time describing what kind of creatures these are , because they are little more than some make-up artists weak effort to make some disgusting monsters for a meaningless horror film and their exact descriptions are beside the point . There is everything from an alien to an ape-man , so you can just imagine for yourself what's in between , if you're lucky enough not to have seen this movie . If you've read any of the other reviews of this movie on the IMDb , you already know that the movie sets up for a sequel that was never made ( my good friend and colleague Christopher Brown makes a good point in his review , that the sequel may have never been made because Lightning Video went out of business , but he also makes a shocking miscalculation of the quality of the movie itself ? sorry Chris ! ) . It's true that the movie leaves the possibility of a sequel so open that it calls too much attention to the fact that one was never made , but this is not an uncommon way to end movies like this . Little Shop of Horrors , for example , had a very similar ending , with the grinning plant showing up in the cute garden at the end of the film . Personally , I am more concerned with the sheer lack of quality of any kind from top to bottom in this movie ( there's a scene at the end , during the ' climax ' of the film , where the hero and heroine are hiding from the approaching demons , and decide to lay down on the floor and make-out and just not worry about the monsters that are closing in , I guess hoping that they will just disappear ? as it turns out , they were right ) , and besides that , even if someone wrote a sequel to this mess , who in their right mind would want to direct it ?
Bruiser's Bill ? Are you kidding me ? ! ?	Legally Blonde started out as a half-way clever attempt at putting the super-serious law profession in perspective by suggesting that even the most cartoonish bimbo could get in , literally on looks alone ( along with the help of a significant amount of sheer , morbid curiosity on the part of the overwhelmingly male admissions board ) . The first film ended with Elle Woods , the ultimate sorority caricature , making her way through Harvard Law School and then wowing the audience by winning a huge case using nothing but her basic beauty salon know-how . Pretty sad way to conclude a film that must have been meant at least in some part to empower girly college girls , but at least they didn't pretend that Ms . Woods could giggle her way through one of the most prestigious law schools in America and come out on the other side as a serious attorney . Indeed , she graduates as exactly the same girly college girl that she always was , except now she has a license to practice law . Scary . The question is , what was good about the first movie ? Granted , it was definitely entertaining and certainly had its charming and amusing moments . I might even say that it was only the conclusion that was a major let-down . I always thought that one of the goals of a good story was to show character change , and there was none in Legally Blonde , from the beginning of the first movie to the end of the second . Oh wait , she dumped her boyfriend , that's right . Any human girl with two brain cells operating at the same time would have done that the second he told her that he was going to college and now needed to " be serious , " basically calling his relationship with her a big joke , but hey , at least there's something . . . Now , Elle is a law school grad and a real-life lawyer who has won her first case , so now it's off to the real world . And by that , of course , I mean it's off to a highly demanded private investigator to FIND HER DOG'S PARENTS . Yes , it's true . This movie exists because of Ms . Woods ' mission to find her dog's parents so they can come to her wedding . Good God man , when she said she wanted everyone that mattered to be at her wedding and her dog barked at her , I thought it was going to be a quick joke and then they would move on with the movie . Nope . The story comes to a grinding halt ( it wasn't moving much anyway ) , jumps the rails , and goes bouncing and jostling across the desert into the desolate horizon . Elle discovers with a shock that the people she works for are dirtbags , so goes to Washington with the mission of saving Bruiser's ( her purse dog ) mother from animal testing at the secret Versace testing facility . My guess is that Versace didn't pay for this name placement . . . In the first film , there was some half-hearted attempt at presenting the reality of law school , but all of that goes out the window here . Elle is seen as a joke when she first gets to Washington ( because she is a joke , of course ) , but wins credibility at the most bizarre circus of a Congressional hearing you can imagine . Indeed , the ridiculous skits that take place in this movie are outdone for absurdity only in the way that crowds of government officials , senators , and House representatives burst into tears or burst out laughing or clamor over each other in their belligerent rush to sign their names to whatever bill this group of childish lunatics was trying to push through . The one thing that we have to be thankful for is that the movie is short . At about 90 minutes it still feels a lot longer because it is something of an endurance test , but it could definitely be a lot worse . The real reason the movie is so bad is because of the entire premise of searching out Bruiser's parents ( no mention is ever made of Bruiser's father , incidentally - maybe he took off when he learned his son was gay ) , which might be one of the dumbest plot devices in film history . This is even worse than that computer in Lost where they have to type in some code every 108 minutes to prevent some unknown disaster ( or nothing ) from happening . Clever . ( spoilers ) The film turns a little bit scary at the end when Elle and her endlessly tolerant new husband are driving away from Washington . He asks her where she wants to live , and the film ends with Elle glancing mischievously at the White House as they pass by . Don't even think about it , Elle . You've already made a complete mockery of the American legal system , already fraught with corruption and crooks , and now you've made a complete mockery of the American government , a bloated , bureaucratic mess which is also already fraught with corruption and crooks . Let it stop now . . .
See the spectacular Poseidon do a spectacular belly flop .	Now , neither The Poseidon Adventure from 1972 nor Wolfgang's Peterson's 2006 version had any understanding of the physics of a large ocean liner sinking , but this version takes that lack of knowledge and places it under a microscope , seemingly in order to obliterate any sense of logic or physical understanding of our universe completely . As the first of many fatal errors , they decided for this goofy remake to change the catastrophe from a rogue wave , an event of sheer natural force actually capable of delivering enough power to capsize a full sized ocean liner into a terrorist bomb , probably the dumbest thing imaginable to have placed into a movie and expect the audience to believe that it could flip the ship over . Consider , if you will , the Lusitania , which was shot by a German torpedo in almost the exact same spot that the terrorist bomb exploded in this movie . A hole was torn in the hull very similar to the one torn in the Poseidon here , and despite having been much better built than the Titanic , which took hours to sink despite having been perforated all along one side by the iceberg , the Lusitania sank in less than fifteen minutes . When a ship experiences a breach in the hull like that , needless to say , it tends to sink because water flows in , making the bottom of the ship too heavy to stay afloat . This movie wants you to believe that the part of the ship suddenly pulling the ship underwater has miraculously decided to spin up into the air , submerging its lightest side . The logic here is the same that will allow a bowl made of solid lead and filled with marshmallows to suddenly flip upside down . Sigh . The groan inducing performances are equaled only by the astonishingly bad special effects , particularly the exterior shots . I'd rather they had gone with miniatures rather than such god awful CGI . Also , if you happen to get this from Netflix , pay no attention to the 2 hr . label . It's in two parts and each is 90 minutes long . Torturous .
Don't watch it ! It's a trick ! !	In the first Film Studies class I ever took back in 1998 , one of the first lessons that the instructor gave us was that , when composing film criticism , one of the worst things you could ever do was try to impose meaning onto material that doesn't have it . Evidently this is something that young film students did when they didn't really understand a movie , or missed the point . And be advised , by the way , that the people who are imposing meaning onto this one are going to be the ones who accuse everyone who was properly bored to tears of " not being intelligent enough to understand it . " Yeah , whatever . I don't need to be punched in the face to understand that there's violence around me . In perusing some professional film opinions of Blindness , by the way , I immediately got the feeling that there were professionals all over the country imposing meaning onto this thing left and right . But then I realized that they weren't imposing meaning , they were just pointing out a meaning that the film carries that is all at once stupid , repetitive , obvious , pointless , and ultimately offensive . At least offensive in lost time , although there is plenty of nonsense in this mess to offend in all sorts of other ways . Take your pick . So here's the story , should you care . During a routine traffic jam , a Japanese man panics in his car , having gone suddenly blind . But not real blindness , you see , instead his vision is just flooded with white . Anyway , a car thief happens by , drives him home , cases his fancy apartment , and then takes off with his car . The next day he goes to his eye doctor , who is completely baffled and promises a follow-up appointment where they will get to the bottom of what's going on . Soon , the car thief and the doctor are both blind as well , and it is determined that the disease is contagious and the best course of action will be to quarantine the afflicted in an old mental hospital . Nothing is known or understood about the disease , you understand . They don't know how it's spread , they don't know what causes it , if it's permanent , no one has ever seen anything like it . Nevertheless , it seems like a bad enough problem to break that unspoken American rule about internment camps that seems to have been in pretty good effects since the early 1940's . As with any disaster movie , Blindness focuses on a handful of people who have been quarantined in one particular mental hospital , and we are meant to take them as an example of how any cross-section of modern humanity would react in the same situation . The problem with this , of course , is that there's not a single character in the movie who is the slightest bit believable . And the least believable ones are the ones that are most crucial to driving the film's conflict . Gael Garcia Bernal , a veteran of brilliant films , plays a cartoonish movie villain pretty much on the level with Matthew McConaughey's head-smackingly stupid character in Texas Chainsaw IV . You haven't seen that movie ( or if you have hopefully you've managed to block it out of your memory by now ) , but trust me , the comparison is apt and I have the feeling that Texas Chainsaw IV is not exactly the kind of thing that director Fernando Meirelles wanted popping into peoples ' minds while they were watching his adaptation of Nobel Prize winning author Jose Saramago's novel . What the hell is this thing about , you ask ? That's a very good question . Maybe it's about Man's Propensity Toward Evil ? Man's tendency to revert to primal instincts when cornered ? The importance of having a " leader with vision ? " Human selfishness in times of crisis ? Women's place in society ? Take your pick , there are arguments for all of these clichés . The propensity toward violence one seems to be the most widely accepted , which is not exactly a good thin , because it's a dead horse that's older than the hills , something so obvious that it's the same as making a movie that spends two hours describing which direction is up and which direction is down and then thinks it's smart because it never mentions the word gravity . No thanks ! About the first 30 minutes of the movie are genuinely interesting , if not exactly pleasant . There's not a pleasant or enjoyable frame in the entire film , but it doesn't get offensively ridiculous until past the hour mark , so at least there's that . The conflict of one Ward violently taking control of their tiny society is so witless and unbelievable that it doesn't give the impression that these are man's natural instincts , it gives the impression that the Ward just happened to be filled with criminals . This is not a cross-section of modern society , it's a cross-section of the cast of a bad thriller . Oh , I forgot to mention that Julianne Moore's character is the only person in the world who is completely unaffected by the disease . No reason is given for her immunity , but no reason is given for the entire disaster anyway . Sort of like the phenomenally bad A Day Without A Mexican . Remember that train wreck ? All the Mexicans in California disappear for no reason , and we're meant to ignore that and focus on the aftermath to learn a valuable , meaningful , and long , long-since already understood lesson . Save yourself the time . Please . Blindness will assault your senses with a simplistic and repetitive cinematic style that anyone with an exposure knob will find immediately boring , it will torture you through violence and rape , and it will teach you nothing new . I love being a film critic , but there are times when I really feel like it's unpleasant work .
Feature length educational video with atrocious production values .	Now , when I say that this is an educational video , I mean that it resembles those god-awful videos that they make kids watch in sex education or in the classroom portion of driver's training , where everything is packaged and contrived in order to illustrate a specific point . Nobody cares if you signal 100 feet or 120 feet or 80 feet before a turn , as long as you do it safely . Nor is any police officer on earth going to pull you over because you turned your brights off 447 feet away from an oncoming car rather than the required 500 . Similarly , no kid on earth is going to be at a party with his high school buddies and respond with , " No , I'd better not . It's bad for my health , and I don't want to get involved in any kind of trouble , " when his friends say to him , " Say , Jim , wouldn't it just be swell if we passed around a marijuana cigarette or two ? " Unfortunately , this movie doesn't know any of that , and it's horribly misguided cast and crew think that they can string together a horizonless array of similar claptrap and pass it off as a lesson on family values and proper child-rearing . Every single scene is ridiculously manufactured , so the movie falls flat on its face because it doesn't ever display the flimsiest scrap of realism . Consider one scene in the film where Jenny and her friends are lounging around on the benches in a local shopping mall , and just before her father walks up to the group and demands to know what is going on , Jenny stonily says , " I am sooo stoned . . . " When I was in high school , I was a troubled kid , too . I ditched school and drank and smoked and got arrested a bunch of times and hung out with exactly the kinds of kids that are portrayed in this movie . I don't say that because it's cool , just because it happened . And let me tell you this if nothing else , those kinds of kids would not be caught dead in a shopping mall , that's exactly the kind of conformity that they think they are cleverly and originally rebelling against , and is a perfect illustration of how much about troubled kids this movie simply doesn't know . There are countless realistic films that deal with exactly the same subject matter and succeed brilliantly , because the people involved in their productions have lived those kinds of lives and learned the lessons that the accompanying trouble and mistakes carry ( see SLC Punk ) . Consider this , no matter how screwed up your teenage daughter is , she will never ever ever ever fall asleep with potato chips spread all over her face , but this happened in this movie , I suppose in order to illustrate a deepening sense of disconnection and lack of interest in responsibility , not to mention personal hygiene . I point out these specific scenes because they exemplify how every single scene is artificially put on , designed with the heavy and obvious hand of grown adults who see strange behavior in kids and immediately assume the worst . In the false world in which this movie lives , any kid who gets caught with cigarettes or fights with their parents is also having orgies with their drugged out friends , who go on to stash tens of thousands of dollars in heroin in their purse before getting stabbed by some junkie in an alleyway , continuing a chain of events that will lead to attempted suicide . This is exactly the kind of thinking that makes parents and teenagers unable to communicate , because the parents are stupid , just like both of Jenny's are . All of Jenny's mothers lines in the film can be interchanged with " Stop being exactly like me ! " and the movie would start making more sense . Secondly , Jenny's behavior is unbelievably erratic . It's not the behavior of a troubled teenager , but a psychotic one . And I don't mean uncontrollable - rebellious - teen psychotic , I mean schizophrenic psychotic . Her behavior changes back and forth so fast from polar extremes that the multiple personalities are clear as day . I have studied abnormal psychology , and I've seen this exact behavior in videos of schizophrenic patients . If you were to take the time to watch the several short video clips that are included on the DVD , you will witness Jenny Lee giving an interview in which she cheerfully reveals that she knows nothing about the lifestyle that she portrayed . She did , in fact , " try beer " in preparation for her role , because she " didn't even know what it was like to be buzzed . " Now , if you were to wonder how someone so completely and utterly unqualified for this role managed to be cast , you need only learn that the film was directed by her father , who also horribly miscast his other daughter in the film as Jenny's counselor , and also involved other talentless family members , such as the writer , the equally oblivious Jimmy Lee . That being said , consider the scene where Jenny and her friend decide out of the blue that they like each other's t-shirts , so they decide , in another spectacularly phony display , to strip them off and trade right in front of a bunch of boys in a crowded club , I suppose of the variety that let's in 16 - year-old girls , as long as they go topless at some point during their stay . Realistic , right ? Or consider the scene where she and her friend ( or friends , I forget how many there were ) have a sweaty orgy with a bunch of boys ( Jenny's line in this scene ? " Come on , let's rape these guys ! ! " ) . Or how about the one where her counselor ( her real life sister , you remember ) tells her what an " asian hottie " she is , and that maybe she might do a little porn . Yeah , that's her father behind the camera . The man trying to teach you about family values .
If you can't say anything nice , write a lot of books about it .	I'll tell you my problem with Ann Coulter . It's not so much that she disagrees politically with me or even that she condemns so many things that I believe in or just the way I see the world , it is that she cannot disagree with people like me in a civil way . So much of her platform is about how liberals are so childish and can't disagree with people on the right without reducing their argument to some goofy religious nonsense , they can't be friends with people on the right , they can't over look their differences with people on the right and just act like adults . Has she read any of her own books ? People like Susan Estrich and especially Bill Maher appear in this documentary to talk about how great Ann Coulter is because she has different views than they do but they are still friends with her . Interesting , because while this does speak highly of Estrich and Maher , the liberals in the situation , incidentally , the rest of the film is composed of footage of Coulter spouting hatred and prejudicial nonsense about liberals as though they were all copies of the same person . Odd that she would accuse liberals of being intolerant and childish , and then so incontestably describe herself through interviews and speeches as being exactly that herself . The amount of prejudice and blanket observations made about liberals is an interesting illustration of Coulter's massive hypocrisy , which might be rivaled only by that of her colleague , Rush Limbaugh , who has for years yammered on about how we need to clean up our streets , throw drug addicts in prison and throw away the key and whatnot . In her defense , at least she stays somewhat away from the naked , unapologetic racism of people like Michael Savage . Somewhat . I will say this in favor of Ann Coulter , she certainly knows what she believes and she will not alter her beliefs for anyone or for any reason . I actually do respect that a lot , because I have definitely been put off by the flip flopping that I have seen in politicians on both sides . Coulter doesn't however , plan on ever running for office , and thank god . That would be like Michael Moore running for elected office , an equally frightening prospect . Maybe I can put my thoughts in perspective in this way . Michael Moore is a left wing lunatic , and Ann Coulter is a right wing lunatic . They are essentially playing the same role on different teams . But I'll tell you the difference between them , and it's an important one . Michael Moore finds corruptions and lies and hypocrisies and other problems among Republicans , and he blows them wildly out of proportion and takes them out of context in order to further his own agenda . Ann Coulter , on the other hand , INVENTS lies and hypocrisies and other problems among Democrats and liberals , and blows them wildly out of proportion and takes them out of context to further her own agenda . Now , that's kind of a loose statement when I say further her agenda , because her agenda is really nothing more than getting attention . She is a shock jock exactly like Howard Stern , who openly admits that she comes up with the most shocking thing she can think of and then pushes the envelope even further . What validates her , frighteningly enough , is that she really believes all of this stuff she says , which she just admitted is the most extreme thing she can come up with . The problem is that she structures her arguments in a way that is impossible to take seriously on any intellectual level . Her arguments all too often take the form of stupid jokes aimed at getting a laugh and cheap approval from her audience , who just want to hear someone say something mean about the other side into a microphone . " Some illegal aliens were detained after September 11 . Some were detained so long they had to drop out of flight school altogether . " This quote comments on her utter disdain of illegal aliens in a pretty disturbing way , because she is showing her contempt for them as human beings , not as illegal citizens . She disregards them as though they don't exist because they don't have passports , and then gets a good laugh by suggesting that all illegal aliens are terrorists . And the laugh that she gets in response speaks volumes about her fans . It's really sad that Coulter is so over-flowing with hatred , it's kind of depressing to see someone like her pretend that she enjoys her criticism , because if you watch her reactions as she is faced with fans who ask her to sign their TRAITOR t-shirts or their copy of Mein Kampf , it becomes increasingly clear that she doesn't enjoy it . I guess because my views are so different , on some deep level I find it hilarious that she tries so hard to pass it off like she enjoys and is even amused by the negative reactions that she generates . It is truly pathetic , why say something like that in the same documentary that so clearly shows otherwise ? At any rate , my biggest problem with her is that she makes that idiotic claim that so many on both sides have made , " so-and-so hates America . " And it's not even just Michael Moore , it's LIBERALS . She literally states that half of America hates America . This might be the dumbest political statement ever made . Note : Coulter signs a liberal college student's t-shirt with the charming phrase " Have fun in Guantanamo . " A STUDENT . Ann Coulter doesn't hate America . She hates Americans .
AAAAHHHH no frickin ' way ! ! !	Just in case you missed it in the last movie , the Austin Powers series has completely fallen off a cliff . The third installment in the Austin Powers series accomplishes little more than proving that the first sequel was not the full depth to which the series planned on sinking . The second movie fed completely off of the success and original comedy of the first movie , recycling the same jokes and trying vainly to get people to laugh at the same things , with a few new tasteless and downright bad jokes thrown in between . MiniMe and Fat Bastard ( who , combined , provided about 20 seconds of amusement in the first sequel ) are both back here and neither provides anything new or even anything amusing . There are sporadic moments in the film that are funny ( even two scenes that made me laugh out loud ) , but they are so hidden in a slog of garbage that they are not worth the rest of the movie , and they're both only briefly funny anyway . There is a scene where Dr . Evil gets hit in the groin by a swinging object and screams out what you can find in the summary line of this review and , even better , Austin has a touching and lengthy flashback remembering his flaky father and how he was never there for him to see his accomplishments , and when he comes out of the memory and we see his emotion-stricken face , Dr . Evil ( locked up in a glass cage like Dr . Lecter ) says , ' Oh , boo-frickety-hoo ! ' That's funny , isn't it ? Well , I laughed at it . But then you have to deal with the rest of the movie . The old scene with Dr . Evil and his son Scott arguing at the table is brought back from the dead , this time so overdone and so tired that it literally dissolves to the point where Dr . Evil is simply grunting and groaning and making strange noises , which I assume are meant to be funny . They're not . If you haven't , in fact , gotten to the point where you're raising your eyebrows and looking around at the people next to you to see if they're as mystified as you are about how this has gotten so bad , you definitely will here . Beyoncé Knowles plays the part of Foxxy Cleopatra , coming off as one of the most nerve-gratingly aggravating characters ever to set foot in this doomed series , and vainly trying to fill the tiny shoes of Heather Graham from the first sequel , who provided probably the first thoroughly boring character in the Austin Powers movies . Her wooden acting and total incongruity to the character she was playing made me think that they would have simply taken out the heroine completely for any third movie that they might be greedy enough to make , but instead they throw in the exact same thing . Both are characters put into the movies for no other reason than to have a popular face playing a tasteless character in an Austin Powers film . I think that the trilogy is such a common occurrence in movies that it's safe to say that this will be the last installment made in the Austin Powers series , but I think it's also worth mentioning that this is the first time I have ever made a specific effort to hypothesize about whether or not they will ever bombard us with another crapfest from a series of movies that is so obviously dead and gone ( and I'm still terrified that someone is going to come up with the fool idea that they should make a third Scary Movie - I could stand about 25 more Austin Powers ' movies before another one of those ) . The second movie should never have been made in the first place , and the third one is more than overkill . And by the way , I saw this movie at Leicester Square in London when I was in England doing a study abroad program through the University of California , Davis , studying Shakespeare in the summer of 2002 . PLEASE believe that you have not the slightest idea of what I missed out on when I went to see this movie .
A relatively good science fiction movie , but of a different sort	Galaxy Quest is a film which is sure to be appreciated most by hard-core science fiction fans . I think that the overall meaning is likely to be overlooked by people who are not familiar with the likes of William Shatner and Leonard Nemoy . In many ways it was a spoof of serious science fiction films , namely the Star Trek series , and this is very likely to be overlooked as low budget or " cheesy " filmmaking . I have to admit that I was surprised by the positive reviews that I have seen people give Galaxy Quest . I think that the first half-hour or so of the film ruined it for me personally . As in real life , it is difficult to enjoy watching distraught actors pitying themselves and the ridiculous parodies that they have become . Because of that , I think I did not give the rest of the film a fair chance . I also found the leader of the " Termites " extremely difficult to endure , the voice was a little too much for me . I think that the casting could have been better . All of the actors involved did a great job , but some roles seemed a little bit disrespectful . Sigourney Weaver was reduced to a large-breasted woman whose only job was to talk to the computer , which is a terrible thing after her spectacular history in the Alien series . Although Tim Allen was by far the most amusing character , I kept expecting him to say " Welcome to Tool Time , " or even better , " Buzz Lightyear to Star Command , come in Star Command ! ! " The movie did have redeeming qualities , but as a result of my own lack of tolerance for the acting , even for good measure , I give this film 2 stars .
Yeah exactly . Not another one .	Not Another Teen Movie tricks you into thinking you're going to get a movie that makes fun of those idiotic teen movies because of it's title and because it's a spoof of them , but all it is is another teen movie , just like it calls itself , but at least it has the sense to make fun of itself . It's a spoof film about movies that desperately need to be spoofed , which should have led to a much better movie . That's why the first Austin Powers was so good ( the other two sucked , as you all know ) , because the James Bond films so badly needed to be spoofed . Unfortunately , there was not enough emphasis on making fun of teen movies as there was on making another one . Yes , the movie makes fun of all the standard teen movie clichés , but only enough to give it an excuse for having them all . Just like in Jeepers Creepers where the sister tells her brother as he crawls down the mysterious hole on the freaky guy's property , " This is the part of horror movies where someone does something incredibly stupid and the whole audience hates him for it ! " Needless to say , he crawls in anyway , and presumably the scriptwriters sit back and grin contentedly , another day's work done . Sadly , as is the case in Not Another Teen Movie , the direct admission of stupidity is neither an excuse nor the justification for it . That being said , the movie is at least entertaining in the way that all spoofs , even the really bad ones , are , you get a test of your movie knowledge by how many of the movies being spoofed you can name along the way . I have no interest in listing them , as I am sure you have no interest in reading a list of the movies I recognized . Most of them are stupid movies anyway . I have to say I enjoyed the scene at the end where Molly Ringwald showed up , for the same reason I liked the scene at Preston's party where the black guy from Save the Last Dance appeared . As Stephen King pointed out in Bag of Bones , people love seeing characters that they recognize from other stories make appearances in new ones . It's almost like seeing family again . Stephen King does this more than any other author I've ever read , and if you're going to make a movie making fun of a whole genre , it's certainly a good idea to get a couple of the major stars from that genre to come in and make fun of themselves . But sadly , other than that the movie is an almost complete waste . Even Jamie Pressly , who is hardly known for her respectable and powerful performances , is completely wasted here , forced to do such ridiculous scenes ( ridiculous even for a teen movie spoof ) like the cheer recruiting scene in which she talks about how she's the cheer captain and so she makes all the cheer-cisions and how she's all cheer-cited about getting a new cheergirl since they're one short and are in something of a cheer-mergency . It is certainly telling about the rest of the movie that this is meant to be funny . But like the rest of the movie , Not Another Teen Movie is an exercise in making fun of teen movies in ways that are generally so bad or so tasteless or simply so unamusing that they make you feel more uncomfortable than anything else . Oh , and how's this for a telling little factoid , the funniest scenes in the whole movie are the ones in which the main character cries . Go figure .
Yes . VERY bad .	First of all , I am a HUGE fan of Billy Bob Thornton . He is without a doubt one of my favorite actors working today , but with Bad Santa he illustrates , unfortunately , that even he is capable of providing a wonderful performance in an awful , awful movie . The abysmal script for Bad Santa calls for a relentlessly unlikable , distasteful person , and Billy Bob does more than necessary to fill that requirement . He is a remarkably versatile actor , I can't help being reminded of the diversity of such roles as the government official in Armageddon , the greasy mechanic in U-Turn , the intense racist in Monster's Ball , the rather slow brother in the shocking film A Simple Plan , and the peculiar character that he played in Sling Blade . Unfortunately , the fact that Billy Bob is among the most powerful actors acting today is not enough to add something to the empty script of Bad Santa , which scarcely has any more reason for existence than do the ridiculous Scary Movies , which are abysmally awful films which I am notorious for repeatedly badmouthing - and for good reason - in dozens of my other reviews . ( spoilers ) Billy Bob Thornton plays the part of a dedicated drunk named Willie ( who deserves no last name and so is given none ) who plays the part of the shopping mall Santa Claus once a year , with his sidekick Marcus ( Tony Cox who cleverly gets upset at being called " you people , " something which he hasn't done since Me , Myself , and Irene . These writers are so creative ! ! ! ) . Marcus and Willie do not do the job because they enjoy it or because they are interested in earning a little extra cash for the holidays , they do it because being employees at the mall gains them access to the mall after closing . Marcus hides somewhere , then jumps out of hiding as the last security guard arms the alarm and walks out of the mall . Marcus jumps out and disarms the alarm before it can arm completely ( thus eliminating the annoying need for a code or password ) , and he then lets Willie in from where he has been waiting somewhere outside . The two proceed to rob the mall blind . Thus enters the premise which allows room for the comedic content , if you can call it that , of the film . Willie's an alcoholic who apparently survives the rest of the year on the money that he steals from one mall after another on his nationwide bad Santa sprees . Since he makes all of his money from stealing from the malls , it's not hard to see that he's not going to really enjoy being surrounded by slobbering kids all day since he is not interested in the hourly wage in the first place . Thus follows lots of groan-inducing streams of profanity sprayed at unsuspecting kids and their equally unsuspecting parents . Now , the profanity is one thing . It got real old real quick , but it's still , as they say , just one thing . Then you have the fact that Willie is constantly falling over drunk , smashing empty booze bottles against fancy SUVs in the parking lot on his way into the mall , and a whole array of other hideous infractions of basic decency . When I think about the character of Willie from this movie , I'm reminded of Melvin Udall from As Good As It Gets whose communication with the world , as Roger Ebert noted , was ' limited to insults intended to harm . ' But Jack Nicholson provided a charm to the character that I believe Billy Bob could also have provided Willie , had this ridiculous script called for it even in the most distant way . I'm also reminded of Billy from Buffalo ' 66 , another hideously unattractive and straight-forwardly mean person who displayed the social skills I expect must have been common sometime around the Cretaceous Period , but Billy was an ugly person in a movie that was also deliberately ugly . It was a compilation of cinematic skill that made Buffalo ' 66 ( and Billy ) look and act the way it / he did . Bad Santa is ugly and mean because the humor is simply bad . If I were to summarize , I would just say that if you are entertained by seeing an aging drunk screaming streams of profanity at a preteen boy for a HUNDRED AND THIRTY FIVE MINUTES , then PLEASE watch this movie , you are sure to enjoy it . Personally , I think that there are some things that simply have no place in modern mainstream entertainment . Mostly all of them can be found conveniently compiled in the Scary Movies ( which collectively play like a ' What Not To Do ' list for aspiring filmmakers ) , but there are plenty more examples found here in Bad Santa . While I didn't HATE the movie , I can't help automatic feelings of surprise and disbelief whenever I hear anyone say that they enjoyed it , even on a basal level . The movie is so callous and so ugly and so uncomfortable that even the good elements , like the fact that Willie supposedly is ' changed ' for the better ( really , could he possibly have been changed for the WORSE ? ) by the little boy who inexplicably falls in love with him , are not enough to counter the intense ugliness of the character of Willie himself . Ugly movies can be successful and impressive ( epitomized most recently , I think , in the case of Buffalo ' 66 ) , but violence , alcohol , extensive criminal activities , and mass quantities of profanity mixed with the almost constant presence of young children is the absolute extent to which an ugly film can go horribly , horribly wrong . Personally , I always find it a little bit sad that filmmakers think that modern American audiences would be entertained by something like this . Even more than that , I find it sad that , a lot of times , they're right .
" Communism is a disease . It can destroy the world ! "	Powerful words for me to hear , having bought and watched this movie here in China . . . It is unusually interesting to read the reviews of professional film critics about Bernardo Bertolucci's wildly ambitious " 1900 , " which in my opinion stumbles in no small part because it resembles too much some of Bertolucci's other films , notably of the bizarre European sex drama variety . I have a secret theory that any legitimate film that portrays graphic sexual acts has sort of a glass ceiling , a level of quality that it can't surpass , no matter how spectacular the rest of the film is . That , like the graphic pig-slaughtering scene , is simply bad taste . 1900 is no exception , and the saddest thing is that the rest of the film is not even very good , it's just really long . In fact , at just over five hours , it's one of the longest films I've ever seen , second only to Stephen King's 6-hour The Stand , which was made for TV anyway . In all of the professional reviews I've read , I've noticed some unusually interesting examinations of what went wrong with Bertolucci's much anticipated epic film , and yet not one of them seems to have the nerve to come out and say what is so obviously the problem . And unfortunately , the horrendously bad taste doesn't end at the literally pornographic nudity . I can't think of any legitimate reason why we should have to watch a pig being butchered and then sliced in half , or ( and this one truly blew my mind ) see a man massage a horse's anus with his bare hands and then gleefully catch the steaming excrement in his hands . And to make matters worse , Bertolucci , in one of the short documentaries on the DVD re-release of the film , made the shocking claim that " I thought it was very innocent at the time . " It could very easily be said that he had no grip on reality when he made the film . Much of it is truly sickening . And the characterization is no different . Donald Sutherland is one of my favorite actors , and Bertolucci managed to coax a ridiculously cartoonish and offensive performance out of him . He is , of course , a Fascist blackshirt ( a bad guy ) , and we are most certainly not allowed to forget that . He has frightening , devilishly toothy grin , a cold , killers stare , and he wears a skull and crossbones on his shirt . He also , by the way , wantonly kills kittens and children . I only wish I could say that I was just being dramatic when I say that . . . The film tells the story of an era , not of its main characters , but it tells that story through the lives of the characters . DeNiro plays Alfredo Berlighieri , the son of a wealthy landowner , and best friend of Olmo Dalco ( Gerard Depardieu ) , a the son of a peasant who works for Alfredo's father . The scenes of their childhood are alternately fascinating and revolting , as we learn of their friendship despite their different backgrounds and yet are forced to sit through scenes of them as 12 or 13 year old boys examining and comparing their penises . There is no need for something like this in any film in any country at any time . Ever . From here on , respectable members of the audience may find it difficult to forgive this perverse nonsense and objectively enjoy the rest of the film . I also love the weakness of the characterization in the film . There is a scene early in the film where Olmo's father gives him a rousing speech about going off to join the military and maybe even learn to obey and take a wife but never forget that he comes from peasants , and just to make sure everyone in the audience has figured out that this is not a family of nobility , Olmo walks his dirty bare feet across a lengthy and crowded dinner table as his father gives him the speech . No one seems to mind . From a technical standpoint the film is a total , belligerent disaster . Everything is dubbed over , so no one's voice matches their facial movements , which are in turn exaggerated by the actors so they can try to more easily match up the dialogue later . It rarely ever works , and so their voices and the ambient sound is totally off from beginning to end . The photography , on the other hand , is brilliant , but as Ebert suggested , it comes across almost like an apology for the narrative mess of the rest of the film . Most interesting is that Bertolucci managed to make such an incompetent film with such stupendously talented actors as Gerard Depardieu , Robert DeNiro , and Donald Sutherland . Sutherland's character is so cartoonish that it's nearly impossible to take anything about his performance seriously , but DeNiro and Depardieu are both outstanding in their roles , which are mirror images of each other in more ways than one . Unfortunately , as becomes completely obvious in the film's closing scene , Bertolucci just had no idea what to do with them . 1900 is not a complete failure , but it is as close as I've ever seen a film this big come to being one . It is not a successful or even a respectable effort , but it is definitely an ARDUOUS effort , kind of like sitting through the whole movie . . .
I'm starting to wonder about movies like this .	Movies big enough for wide theatrical release are made by professionals . Whatever their motives in making movies , be it purely for financial gain as in the case of Jerry Bruckheimer or for artistic value as always in the case of directors of less popular films but far superior films like Christopher Nolan of Memento , these people have money and training enough to produce films with at least a vague idea of how they will turn out and how the viewing audience will react to them . Given that , I begin to wonder more and more with every modern horror film that's made . The horror genre has been reduced in recent years to idiot excursions by idiot characters into places that they should obviously not go into , and not because they're not allowed ( that would make for an interesting story ) , but because going there would be an exercise in pure stupidity . Dracula 2000 takes the old Dracula story and puts it in the modern day and throws in a few dumbass teenagers as in the case of The House on Haunted Hill and The Haunting of Hill House ( to a lesser extent ) , and we get to witness the ensuing routine madness . This time they even threw in the little addition that the movie takes place at Mardi Gras and is obviously funded by Virgin Records . At this point , the yawns that this formula induces are more satisfying than the movie itself . There's a scene around the middle of the movie ( when Dracula has made several of his first attacks and made vampires out of the people who stole his coffin in the opening of the film ) in which Simon ( Johnny Lee Miller ) and Matthew Van Helsing ( Christopher Plummer ) have just left an attack of these new vampires , and Simon asks Van Helsing ( the keeper of Dracula's coffin ) what the hell just happened back there . As soon as Van Helsing explains that it's Dracula , Simon moves to get out of the car right then and there , as we would like to do at this point , but he is pulled back into the car and forced to listen . It's good that we're able to relate to Simon's character in our own wish to escape , but not that great that we are just as uncomfortable as he is about staying with this thing to the end . ( spoilers ) We soon learn in direct dialogue that Van Helsing is a vampire himself who uses leeches to take blood from Dracula's corpse to satisfy his own bloodlust , which disgusts him and reminds us of the exact same thing that we saw in Blade . Now , the first thing that pops into my head after realizing that the movie is stealing directly from the premise of Blade is why the hell would anyone want to steal from that movie ? We have also just learned that Van Helsing has been searching for most of his life for a way to kill Dracula for good , but so far has had no success . Kind of like Michael Meyers . Or Jason Voorhees . We're getting , in other words , a very watered-down version of the old evil-can't-be-killed excuse for making another horror movie out of a successful classic . We just saw the exact same thing happen with the Friday the 13th series in the pathetic Jason X , we've seen it happen in the Halloween series with Halloween H20 ( and are about to see it again , by the way , in Halloween Resurrection ) , and now we're seeing it with Dracula . The evil that can't be killed , it seems , has moved from the movie screen and into the offices of Hollywood producers . The evil is their greed , and evidently it really can't be killed ! I love how the movie completely halts in its tracks long enough to show a Linkin Park video with the Virgin Records logo in the lower corner of the screen , and then we see Dracula 2000 himself walk into a Virgin Records store while all the women in the store start drooling and rubbing themselves . During the course of the movie , we are treated to a lot of color-filtered , talky nonsense punctuated with the occasional cheap scare , basically exactly the same thing you get in every other crappy horror movie that's released every few months these days . Every character in the film is instantly forgettable , you can almost forget about a character in between scenes , so obviously there's no way you could ever care what happens to any of them . Christopher Plummer presents the only character of at least remote interest , but the rest of the cast are on auto-pilot , delivering routine performances of characters that even they don't seem to connect with . One girl in the film comments just after being turned into a vampire that it's ' better than chocolate , ' illustrating the modern depths to which the Dracula story has been forced to sink . There are entirely too many scantily clad female vampires in this movie , reminding me of the awful Tales From the Crypt film , Bordello of Blood , and the closing scenes of the movie don't do much for it , either . There are extensive ties to religion in the story of Dracula at the end of the film , which do nothing but make us sit and endure it for a little longer , and we get the usual two heroes holding each other and breathing heavily , covered in blood and looking on at the destruction of their enemy . This is just a basic , basic horror movie that doesn't get scary or even tense at any time , but rather tries to cash in on an age-old tale by retelling it with modern characters and themes . Nothing new here , and really nothing much to see . I would suggest that you feel free to skip this one .
Note to everyone who saw this movie ( yeah you too , Mr . Rodriguez ) ? there is more to Mexico and Mexicans than blood , crime , murder , suffering , and death . Just so you know .	Once upon a time in Mexico , there was born a person named Robert Rodriguez , who later moved to the United States and began making movies . He became famous for making an ultra-low budget but high profit cult classic , which he later followed with a fairly higher-budget , fairly less relative profit , fairly less quality film about the same gunslinger , which he now follows up with a massive budget , low-profit , almost nonexistent quality film based on and in Mexico , the country in which he was born , and is yet a film that is about as Mexican as Taco Bell . Note : Robert Rodriguez was born and raised in Texas , and so presumably was not born in Mexico and never moved to the United States . Everything else up there is true , though . I was really saddened by the ridiculous spectacle that Robert Rodriguez's Mariachi movies have become . El Mariachi was a classic Mexican western that became famous because of its deceptively tiny budget and it's resulting dedicated cult fan base , Desperado was a lot of fun , even though the action and shootout scenes were so outlandish that they were funnier than they were exciting , but the story , the acting , the script , the characters , and the FEEL of the movie made it entertaining . Now we have this . Once Upon A Time In Mexico is Rodriguez's version of John Woo's Windtalkers , an awful action film that belittles the Japanese World War II soldiers by treating them like mindless pop-up targets , running onscreen and into oncoming fire seemingly just so they can get shot . They hold their rifles like batons , not making the slightest attempts to cover themselves before being blown away by Nicholas Cage , who is standing in a fixed position and spraying machine-gun fire at all the bad guys jumping out of the bushes . In Once Upon A Time In Mexico , while there are not massive amounts of violent Mexican deaths ( note : there are ) , at least the majority of them are not there just to get killed . Several of the bloody deaths apparently mean something . The problem is the way that Mexicans are presented ( I know , I know , gag you , right ? ) . Maybe I sound like a grumpy old lady , but being Hispanic myself , I tend to have a problem with a movie that presents nothing but Mexicans and seemingly the only person who never kills anyone is the 9-year-old kid that gets the bubble-gum he's trying to sell knocked out of his hand so he can help a characters new to the films curiously named Sands ( recently blinded by the bad guys ) to locate and kill his pursuer . The overall plot of the movie , much like the two that preceded it , is not all that important . There are times when the movie pauses between frantic shootouts to drop in a note about how the story is moving along , and then we get another frantic shootout . The essential points are clear enough ? El Mariachi is mourning ( often violently ) the shooting deaths of his wife and daughter , and Sands ( Johnny Depp ) , evidently a C . I . A . agent ( who uses irony to cover his identity , wearing t-shirts that say C . I . A . in great big letters ) , wants him to help stop a plot to assassinate the Mexican president by a drug lord named Barrillo ( performed by a horribly miscast Willem Dafoe ) . These little pauses for breath are overshadowed by such things as gunshots that result in clownish pyrotechnics , sending the unfortunate bullet recipients flying backwards as though hit by a truck , a remake of the famous scene in El Mariachi where Antonio and Salma ride a cable across a street and onto a moving bus ( this one obviously more expensive , given the scene's outcome ) , and genuinely laughable scenes like Antonio and Salma repelling down the side of a building , chained together at the wrist , while one person swings down , then the other person above lets go and swings down to the next level . Creative , but I generally tend to prefer at least the TINIEST bit of believability in the movies , whatever their genre . It's interesting to watch the way El Mariachi , Desperado , and Once Upon A Time In Mexico have evolved as their respective budgets have skyrocketed . Unfortunately , they seem to have changed more in the direction of explosive , bizarre action sequences that find themselves more and more removed from reality with each passing movie . The latest installment is an insult to the country in which is takes place , but at least there are lots of explosions and killing and torture . The El Mariachi saga is , unfortunately , heading downhill pretty quick .
Better than Titanic !	What's up with all these high schools in the movies having these insane senior trips ? The kids in Final Destination flew to Europe , and these kids go on a freaking cruise ? I went to Magic Mountain for my senior trip ! Oh , well , I guess the payback is that in the movies they all get killed . Magic Mountain sounds a lot better in that sense . By this point in the lengthy Friday the 13th saga , it's clear that even the writers of these movies ( generally the last people to catch on when they come up with idiotic ideas ) have noticed that a lot of teenagers going up to Camp Crystal Lake to be rebellious and get slashed all up is getting a little bit old , so in this installment they decided it would be a good idea to have the movie take place on a whole ship full of high school students . Moving someone like Jason Voorhees from his home on Camp Crystal Lake to an unfamiliar setting is actually a really good idea for generating more interest in the series , because although it's a given in a series like this , I think audiences always like to see familiar characters come back from other stories . So while you already know Jason is going to be in the movie because it's a Friday the 13th , you at least see him in an unfamiliar atmosphere , which removes a lot of the automatic cynicism that is now being generated toward the teenagers who are still stupid enough to go out to the lake . Now we see Jason killing all kinds of kids unsuspectingly on their school trip and then more people on the streets of New York . Amazing the things we find entertaining these days , isn't it ? There are a lot of fairly innovative deaths aboard the ship in the first half of the film , such as a guy relaxing in the sauna getting one of the hot rocks shoved through his stomach , a guy getting impaled on the communication antenna on the boat , and throat slit by a machete , an amazingly botched scene . You would think that since it was so obvious the knife didn't even touch that poor guy , they would at least not have done it in such a close-up . Ironically enough , the part that I was anticipating to be the most interesting was the least creatively done . After realizing what is going on on the boat ( meaning , after just about all of them had been killed ) , the surviving students on board get the life raft and escape , rowing out into the dark ocean in hopes of hitting land . Eventually , they see the New York City skyline and jump for joy . I was anticipating a creative and fun romp through the streets of New York , maybe with Jason confused at his surroundings and therefore going even more nuts , which would create havoc among the population . I mean , LOOK at the guy . He spent the time between the last movie and this one rotting on the bottom of the lake , and he certainly looks like it through this entire movie . Unfortunately , the filmmakers not only revealed the modesty of their budget through the lack of anything really interesting happening , they also displayed a massive lack of understanding of the geography of the city of New York . I've never even been there myself , but it seems like pretty much basic logic that they would not design the city so that the dirtiest slums had the finest waterfront property . Meaning , I doubt you could row up to New York from the ocean , right alongside the Statue of Liberty , and climb up onto land , finding yourself surrounded by endless alleyways full of things like gun-toting rapists and standing barrels of toxic waste . New York is a big city , and all cities throughout the world pretty much have to have things like this somewhere , but generally not right on the water and right next to major monuments . I happen to know , for example , that if you go to San Francisco , you won't find the crime-ridden slums right under the Golden Gate Bridge , and I doubt that you would find open barrels of toxic waste ANYWHERE . But anyway , they certainly find some room for effective comic relief ( although notably less than other films in the series ) , my favorite example of which is the scene where Jason looks curiously at a picture of a hockey player on a billboard wearing exactly the same mask that he has on , a sort of self-realization that has since been overshadowed by the T-1000 pausing to look at a metallic mannequin in Terminator 2 . I love that stuff , it gives even the most two-dimensional bad guys a sort of self-consciousness , so that they're not just mindless killing machines but have some semblance of actual thought in their heads , seeing and analyzing their surroundings and pausing when they see something that they don't understand . Makes the inhuman killers more human , you know ? Speaking of which , there was also a scene that was really funny for much the same reason , and feel free to make fun of me for seeing it this way . There's a scene pretty near the end of the film where Jason is pursuing the few remaining kids through the streets of Manhattan , and he passes by some street punks hanging out and smoking on the sidewalk and listening to some ridiculous 80s music ( ' Livin ' inna city ain't no big deal , livin ' inna city ain't no big deal . If the drugs don't getcha then the hooka's will ? . ' And so forth ? ) , and as Jason walks by , he kicks their boom-box across the sidewalk . Being tough gutterpunks , of course , they stand up and pull out their switchblades , informing Jason that he just dug his own grave . Jason's response is to turn and face them and lift up his mask so they can see his face . I liked that scene , because like the one above , it shows a self-consciousness . Jason KNOWS that he looks terrifying . He always has , and rotting on the bottom of the lake made it even worse . It also shows that he can deal with people in a way other than cutting them all up and still have it be pretty satisfying to the audience . The climax of the film is bogged down pretty badly by some heavily botched logic and another massive lack of understanding of the underbelly operations of a major city . First of all , none of the passersby up on the streets take a second look at this gigantic , wet , rotting man walking down the street with a hockey mask . I know New Yorkers can be cold and indifferent , but even THEY would not take something like THAT as normal . But even worse , as the kids escape into the underground sewage system ( which does not run through wide walkways beneath the sidewalks in ANY city that doesn't want to smell like it's own waste ) , they run into a sewage worker who informs them that the sewers ( in which they are currently standing ) fill with toxic waste every night at midnight ( ' Exactly ten minutes from now ! ' ) , and is then killed by Jason before being able to show them how to get out . I won't get into the fact that there is no imaginable reason for any underground pipe system to fill with toxic waste every night at a certain time other than to create false suspense for a movie like this , although that is most of the reason that this climax falls so completely flat . We do get something for the kids to run away from and a time-limit for them to get out of the sewer , and we do get a glimpse of Jason's hideous face as he melts into the waste , but it is a completely contrived setting that has no basis in reality , which is the one thing that always makes horror films ( or films of almost any genre , for that matter ) more effective . Friday the 13th VIII , obviously , is not very concerned with that , which makes it one of the less interesting installments in the saga , although at least it takes place in a different setting so we have a reason to slap our foreheads other than because there is yet ANOTHER group of morons going up to Camp Crystal Lake to taunt the legend of Jason Voorhees .
Just bad .	Rat Race is structured as a series of bad and tasteless jokes strung together by a flimsy clothesline of a plot dealing with a race of a bunch of random people trying to reach the same destination in order to obtain a huge stash of money that may or may not even really be there . Rat Race is disappointing from the very beginning , because it starts off by showing four or five of the exact scenes that we already saw in the preview and that have therefore lost all effectiveness . This is not a movie based on reality ? there can really be no question that even the most eccentric of casino owners would never seriously consider picking a bunch of random gamblers out of their casinos and sending them off on this all-expenses-paid excursion to find a duffle bag containing two million dollars . Sure , these casino guys are all ridiculously rich , but Rat Race doesn't acknowledge the fact that rich people didn't get rich by giving money away . There is no financial return at all in the rat race portrayed here , or even any publicity ! ( spoilers ? but does it really matter ? ) Rat Race is filled with actors who delivered goofy performances that are far below both their iconography and their reputations as actors . Cuba Gooding Jr . - after great performances in infinitely superior films like As Good As It Gets , Jerry Maguire , Outbreak , and A Few Good Men ? performs several idiotic and humiliating skits throughout the course of this horribly disappointing movie . John Cleese manages to deliver some of the only funny lines in the entire film through his comical dentures , but still sinks far below his talent in this borefest . Other bad career choices were made by Seth Green , Amy Smart , and even the more negligible actors , such as Whoopi Goldberg , Rowan Atkinson , and Jon Lovitz . Seth Green , actually , is mostly in a bad role by association . His brother in the film is one of the dumbest characters I've ever seen in a movie , and his disgusting tongue piercing only serves to enhance his tremendous stupidity . I've had my tongue double-pierced since early 1997 , have made little to no changes in my oral hygiene , and have never had an infection . If his tongue was that infected , it is entirely a result of his own idiocy ( as we soon learn , with the realization that his piercing is self-inflicted ) , and therefore commands no sympathy or respect . If he wants sympathy , Major Payne can explain to him where to find it . Incidentally , the way he met a girl on the freeway ( who shows up later at the Smash Mouth concert ) was a shocking move to an even lower level . The movie goes wrong at the very beginning . It's clear that a mass travel to a single location is not the foundation of a good comedy , so they decided to throw in this ludicrous scene where Duane Cody ( Seth Green ) and his idiot brother get their jeep dragged up the sonar station at the airport in an attempt to ground all flights so that their opponents will not be able to fly to the location of the money ( and if they had caught their flight in the first place , the movie would have been over in minutes and we would all have been spared ) . So at the expense of their remaining means of travel , they have successfully drowned out radio airwaves and grounded all flights . It's too bad the movie was released so soon , because if they had waited until after the September 11 terrorist attacks , the scene would almost certainly have been changed , and the movie could only have been better . This is one of the most moronic scenes in the entire movie , which makes you wonder why they didn't just have Cleese's character add in a stipulation that all transportation must be done on the ground . If the movie had been set for release after the catastrophic terrorist attacks , and they had decided to remove the scene , such a stipulation is almost certainly the thing that they would have decided on , both because it would be the fastest and cheapest replacement , but also because such a tragic event would surely make them realize how foolish the scene was to begin with . While Rat Race manages to avoid sinking to the abysmal level of other ludicrous comedies like the Scary Movies , it is clearly a mindless film that does not quite manage to redeem itself by having at least one or two things in it that can be taken seriously enough for it to be funny . The movie is bad enough even without the appearance of Smash Mouth at the end of the film , who are playing a concert for the poor . The way that all of the contestants in the movie stumble on stage with their newfound wealth at the end of the flim ( I typed that accidentally just now , but it strikes me as a better word ? ) , ultimately deciding to donate it to the poor , is both insulting and disappointing . Sure , it would be a bad idea to make a movie that did nothing but promote greed , but all that time and effort by the characters as well as the audience is completely wasted ( this is also one of the many things that ruined Titanic ) . It certainly is a good cause , but it is entirely uninteresting . You'd think that the virtually endless possibilities of the cinema would have inspired the film's writer ( or writers , could there possibly have been more than one ? ) to come up with something more creative than this . In reality , donating to the poor , especially such a huge amount of money , is truly honorable and earns you a well-deserved interview and article in the newspaper . In the movies , it is a cheap way to get out of being accused of advertising greed , and winds up as little more than a boring end to a bad movie .
Hollywire's Film Critic Suffers Terribly Through Intolerably Sappy Musical ? ' Mamma Mia ' Review ?	It was a very unique and specific kind of torture for me to sit through Mamma Mia , one of the most unendurable pieces of cinematic confection that I can remember ever having experienced ever since I was about ten years old and my mother used to punish my brother and I by making us watch Peggy Sue Got Married . I haven't seen that movie in nearly 20 years and there's a good chance I might enjoy it today , but as a kid it became synonymous with the worst movie ever made . Mamma Mia is not the worst movie ever made . It's not even a bad movie , it's actually pretty good , for what it is . But in order to enjoy it you have to be a fan of the musical and by God , you had better be an ABBA fan . Myself , I can't stand ABBA and I am notorious for hating musicals . There is nothing more distracting than an emotional love scene that is suddenly disrupted as the characters break into song . YAWN . There are a lot of people that will love Mamma Mia , and it is a well-presented adaptation of the successful Broadway play . The locations are stunningly beautiful , the story is well-told and the performances , despite an over-abundance of cartoonish over-acting ( mostly on the part of Amanda Seyfried as the afflicted Sophie ) , are wonderful in their own way . Unfortunately , I happen to agree unequivocally on the subject of musicals with the late Pauline Kael , who wondered about even The Sound of Music , one of the most enduring of musical classics ( and the Best Picture of 1965 ) if there wasn't at least one Von Trapp child who didn't feel like bursting into song and singing his head off along with everyone else . My thoughts exactly about Mamma Mia , and any other musical in which the characters break into song at no other provocation than the gradual rise of the orchestra . It just makes no sense to me . According to Kael , musicals are about " a freshness that is so mechanically engineered and so shrewdly calculated that the background music rises , the already soft focus blurs and melts , and , upon the instant , you can hear all those noses blowing in the theater . " " Whom could this operetta offend , " Kael asks ? " Only those of us who , despite the fact that we may respond , loathe being manipulated in this way and are aware of how cheap and ready - made are the responses we are made to feel . We may become even more aware of the way we have been turned into emotional and aesthetic imbeciles when we hear ourselves humming the sickly , goody-goody songs . " Amen to that ! The story of Mamma Mia , despite being shrouded in ridiculous sing-a-longs , is about a young lady who has never known her father . She discovers her mother's diary that names three possible , ah , suitors , and she secretly invites them to her wedding in Grece , believing that she will instantly know her real father on sight and can finally bring him into her life . Meryl Streep plays the part of the mother , now living a comfortable single life in an astonishingly beautiful little Greek villa overlooking the Aegean Sea , who has long since moved on from what can only be described as her flagrantly promiscuous youth . Through a series of misunderstandings , the three men who arrive at the wedding all simultaneously come to believe that they are Sophie's father , and each confides in Sophie , before she has a chance to argue , mind you , that it will remain their little secret until they can make the big announcement at the wedding ceremony . If you're wondering how she could manage to get three different men to think that they are her father and those three different men to engage in such one-way conversations with her that they could make exactly the same plans before she could argue with them , then you are wondering about one of the great many preposterous absurdities of the movie's plot . I will admit that I feel like a stick in the mud criticizing what is obviously a popular movie , but it seems pretty accurate to say that you can assume your opinion of the movie will hinge entirely on your opinion of ABBA's sing-writing repertoire , which I find insufferably cheesy and cloying . And the convenience of the ending , in which all loose ends miraculously fit together like jigsaw puzzle pieces , doesn't help . Note : I understand that this review is a bit of a rant , but please understand that this is a movie with a very specific audience in mind , and there won't be many fans of it outside that audience . I'm outside it . Also , I watched the movie with one of my gay friends , and he gleefully sang every song word-for-word in my ear throughout the entire movie . This also did not enhance the experience ?
Just looking around the plane was more interesting ?	Recently I have been studying a lot about ancient Chinese history , particularly their astonishing oceanic achievements in the early 15th century , when their great ocean fleets sailed around the world's ocean's and charted the entire planet decades and centuries before the great European explorers . In doing that they have left 600-year-old shipwrecks all over the world , many of which have yet to be discovered . The subject is endlessly fascinating to me , so I was hoping a story about a Spanish galleon sunk in 1715 ( which I caught on a flight from Shanghai to Chicago last week ) would be more entertaining , but unfortunately this little adventure is badly dumbed down by trying to cater to the lowest common denominator . Matthew McConaughey ( who probably has the most difficult name to spell in all of Hollywood ) has certainly done worse films , but unfortunately the only one that pops into my mind at the moment is Texas Chainsaw III , which has to be one of the worst and most tasteless films ever made , even for a chainsaw film . I have never been a big fan of Kate Hudson , ever since I was disappointed by the hugely overrated Almost Famous , but interestingly enough , she and McConaughey have chemistry enough here , it's just too bad that it's so obvious that the director has them running around half naked for the majority of the movie . Have to keep the audience interested somehow , and since the story isn't going to do it ? McConaughey and Hudson play Tess and Finn , a married couple whose marriage is long since broken or about to be broken or something . It doesn't matter , they are still madly in love with each other , they just need a sunken treasure adventure and a captive audience to bring them back together again . Finn is sure that he has found the location of the wreck of the ancient treasure ship , but has to convince Tess and the super-rich Nigel ( a bored Donald Sutherland ) that he's right , which is no easy task , given his history as more than a bit of a loser . As a group of rival treasure hunters closes in on the treasure ship at the same time , you have your routine , by-the-numbers movie treasure hunt , and your eyes can safely glaze over for much of the rest of the movie . Incidentally , Nigel has a daughter , Gemma . This is obviously the most outrageously pointless and idiotic role in the entire movie . Her job seems to be to pop up every once in a while wearing a tiny bikini and making another idiot remark . This girl doesn't have a thought in her head and looks like she's 13 years old . She is a pedophile's dream , and I can not for the life of me imagine why she would be put in this movie . What a waste . The last portion of the movie is composed of a bizarre climax , a series of descents into a real rock formation in southern California that shoots water up into the air like a cannon . When I used to go there in high school we called it the " toilet bowl , " but no one I know was ever brave or dumb enough to jump into it . ( spoilers ) For the purpose of the movie , there is a shipwreck that has manages to wriggle its way underneath the rocks , and now sits at the base of the toilet bowl , needing only a little jiggle from our heroine ( after having been tossed in by the bad guys ) to unleash a shower of gold every time a wave comes through . Right . This is the kind of nonsense that we get in the conclusion of an already disappointing movie , and believe it or not , it gets even dumber . Lately there seems to have been a nonstop onslaught of treasure hunt movies , no doubt started or at least boosted by National Treasure , which was also disappointing but at least entertaining , as was The Da Vinci Code . Fool's Gold , on the other hand , is just a little too self-descriptive .
Stephen King and George Romero team up to make a spectacular cinematic horror event , and instead they come up with this .	Although very faithful to the comic book series from which it was adapted , Creepshow delivers five mediocre stories of goofy horror . All five of these stories are transferred from the comic book to the screen virtually scene for scene , but the end result is nothing more than disappointing . If you were ever wondering why Leslie Nielsen became a terrific comedy actor rather than a horror move actor , watch Creepshow and you'll know . Stephen King , in a weird tale called " The Lonesome Death of Jordy Verrill , " displays good reason why his professional acting career never took off . Ted Danson delivers yet another all around pathetic performance in a story called " Something to Tide You Over " that simply should never have been removed from its happy home in the pages of a Stephen King comic book . Probably the biggest problem with Creepshow ( besides the ridiculous acting offered up by everyone involved ) is that it should not have been made into a motion picture . It was good as a comic book , but suffered badly in the transition to the screen . The fact that it is associated with Stephen King and George Romero probably made it worse , ironically enough , because people just expect so much from them that a flop like Creepshow seems to be that much more disappointing . They should have left it alone . King and Romero wasted their talent on this one .
Wesley Snipes returns to let the world know that Demolition Man was not the last ridiculously awful movie that he planned to make in his career , which seems to be headed precipitously downhill .	There's nothing worse that a well-known film actor or actress can do than star in a film where they deliberately and obviously alter their voice . Wesley Snipes not only does this ( terribly ) in Blade , but he also wears false teeth and BROWN colored contact lenses . Are his eyes just not the right shade of brown ? They had to be changed ? And what was the deal with the teeth ? There was never a single shot in the film in which he had fangs . Besides that , listening to Wesley Snipes talk like he's trying to scare a six-year-old kid gets real old real fast , and some of his lines were so pseudo-tough guy that they ruined the movie nearly single-handed , for the same reason that the idiotic Pitch Black was ruined ( ' There are worse things out tonight than vampires . ' ' Like what ? ' ' Like me . ' ) . Way to go , Wesley . That was so impressive that for a second I was almost fully awake . The kind of awful acting that this movie is full of belongs in cheesy action B-movies . I have barely even begun , and it's bad enough with just what I have mentioned so far , without having to watch the laughable efforts of Blade and his goofy female sidekick to periodically pop each other's shoulders back into their sockets ( ' It's dislocated ! ' POP ! ! ! ' Ahh , better . ' Are you kidding me ? ) . I won't mention the fact that when Blade popped hers back into her socket after having casually tossed her from rooftop to rooftop , he actually YANKED on her arm . Excuse me , Dr . Blade , but don't you think you ought to apply pressure in the other direction ? This may seem trivial , and I'll admit that it is , but keep in mind that it is a pure example of sheer stupidity , and I have an extremely low tolerance for stupidity in movies . These kinds of things about Blade make it clear that it is pulled along entirely by the special effects and the star power of Wesley Snipes as an action film hero . Besides , he looked cool , didn't he ? I sure as hell wouldn't mess with a man that big dressed like that , but don't you think that if a huge , tattooed black man wearing a trenchcoat , a bullet-proof vest and carrying a sword were to smack a police officer's head against the trunk of his own car on a crowded street in broad daylight , at least one or two passers-by would notice ? That would qualify as suspicious behavior , in my opinion . There were so many things thrown into this movie for no apparent reason other than to hold the audience's attention that it really took away from the movie as a whole . For example , what was this globular , vampire version of Jabba the Hutt ? Where did he come from ? How did he get like that ? All other vampires were in human form , and this guy hardly even resembled a human at all . Was there some reason that he was so tremendously fat ? It's amazing he was alive at all . Granted , I don't expect his life story . Frankly , I'd rather not hear it . But there was obviously no other reason for him to be in the movie other than to stimulate the gag response from unsuspecting audiences . But that's not all , remember what Blade said to Karen ( his goofy female sidekick ) as he went to check the nearby vault door ? He said , referring to the use of the UV ray gun with which she had been roasting his vampire skin , ' If he moves , fry him . ' Where the hell is he going to go , Blade ? ! He can hardly move ! ! What's he gonna do , run away ? If he stood up he'd probably crush himself with his own weight . Am I being too hard on this movie ? Good , because this is what it deserves . I'll admit that it had a few redeeming qualities ( by ' a few , ' by the way , I mean more than one but less than four ) . For example , it was cool how Blade exploded the two martial artists by the elevators by the hallway , and the BLOODBATH sign at the rave in the beginning was also pretty good . Aside from these minute moments of forced entertainment , everything about the film was terrible . The ' climactic ' fight scene between Blade and Frost was like watching a little white kid in a fight against a huge black bodybuilder , resulting in the utter absence of any excitement whatsoever . How about that Blood God ? Was he to convert the whole planet into vampires ( ' Anyone caught in his path will be instantly turned ? ' ) ? You'd think that if this vampire community had thought ahead at least a little bit , they'd realize that maybe it would be better if they tried to MINIMIZE the number of humans turned into vampires , because the more vampires , the less humans . And the less humans , the less FOOD . Thus , in taking over the world , they would inadvertently and idiotically bring about their own starvation and extinction . That's just another example of the stupidity with which Blade is filled . And of course , they couldn't have left out Blade in some other country ( the bitter cold of Russia ) speaking in Russian to a vampire in Moscow . How nice . What a tough guy . He killed all the vampires in the U . S . so now he's going global . What a piece of garbage this movie was . Granted , you probably won't be extremely bored throughout the entire movie ( even though I was ) , but keep in mind that this is the type of film that you really have to try hard to enjoy , particularly if you are no longer in junior high school . This is a brainless , pointless movie , with little to no forethought put into it , and the end result is pathetic .
Another movie about the lunatics that populate the Texas countryside ?	Exit Speed opens with a female AWOL Army soldier being caught up with by Sergeant Archie Sparks ( an underused Fred Ward , star of Tremors , one of my favorite b - movies ever ) , whose job it is to go after errant soldiers . It seems that this particular soldier , Meredith Cole , has a history of going AWOL , and that the Army has some pretty lax punishment procedures involving unexcused absences . I always thought this was a fairly serious offense , but maybe not . Back in the good old days of Mao Tse-tung's Red Army , they would just execute defecting soldiers on the spot . Sometimes in advance , for effect . But wouldn't you know it , as soon as Sparks turns his head , that darn Private Cole is off and running again , hopping onto a Greyhound bus on its way across Texas . Unaware of the dangers of such a trip because of lessons not learned from everything from the Texas Chainsaws to the moronic Jeepers Creepers ( or The Fast and the Furious , as it turns out ) , the bus is soon surrounded by a group of lunatic street bikers , who do wheelies all around the bus at freeway speeds and offer the passengers a series of alarming scowls . Before long , one of the idiot bikers makes a mistake and ends up under the wheels of the bus , and the rest of them take it personally . I'm reminded of the fascinating contents of that passenger airliner that crashed at the beginning of Lost . Man , they had everything , didn't they ? The same thing is going on here . There's the AWOL soldier , a girl who once dated a biker and so is an encyclopedia of knowledge about everything they all need to know about their new enemies , a girl who is rated a " Dark Elf " in archery , for crying out loud , a football coach with anger issues , even a bus driver who once drove the six miles into Baghdad airport , reportedly the most dangerous stretch of road in the world . With my luck , I would have been in a bus full of Japanese tourists and adventurous grandparents were we to be ambushed by a biker gang . Luckily at some point we are informed that bikers such as these guys have a history of being loaded to the eyeballs on crystal meth , because there is no explanation whatsoever of where they come from or why they attacked the bus in the first place . They are faceless villains with no motivation , and so are nothing but fodder for our heroes to dig deep inside themselves to summon up the courage needed to off them in spectacular fashion . And the movie does have that going for it , at least . It is awesomely stupid , but those of you looking for an action movie that makes up for the total absence of cleverness with an few extra levels of violence , this is your movie . But those of you who might be driven to smack your forehead when you hear a girl say she can't shoot an arrow at one of the men trying to kill her and all the other passengers because she's VEGAN , then you might be better advised to run for the hills , bikers or not . But at least there's some comedy is outlandishly bad characterization , right ? I don't know why this girl thought she might have to eat the man that she killed , but even better was the guy who mentioned that he once tried to get a job singing in a wedding chapel but was afraid he might screw it up . My thoughts are that if you can screw up a job like that then you had plenty of problems even before the bikers attacked your tour bus . But now you present a bigger problem for your female co-passengers , who can expect little to no help from you in avoiding a violent death at the hands of a bunch of meth-heads . There is something to be enjoyed here for people who really aren't looking for much , but the truth is that the biker that got run over is all we're ever given as far as a reason for why the whole movie is happening in the first place , which makes it feel like a pointless exercise in showing random people killing random bikers . If there was something real driving the movie it could easily have been much better , or at least if the protagonists weren't facing a group of faceless villains . As it is , it comes across like a tour bus barreling across the Texas countryside with no driver , and us stuck in the front seat looking through the windshield .
Okay , but why the title ? Because " The Orphanage " was already taken ?	A few years ago I saw a movie called Madhouse that was pretty good . Not as good as another similar one called Session 9 , but still a fairly entertaining horror thriller about a mental institution . I expected something of the same with The Sickhouse , but I suppose it is meant to describe an orphanage from the late 17th Century that had been infected with the Bubonic Plague . We get a brief history lesson at the beginning of the movie about how the Plague swept through London in 1665 , killing 15 % of the city's population in a single summer . An American archaeologist thinks she has uncovered an ancient black cult involving priests and the plague victims , but she is brushed off by a British colleague , who is indifferent to her interest despite frightening revelatory evidence that she has uncovered . Public health , she says , sometimes has to be put before archaeology . Enter a car full of British punks , screaming through the streets in a stolen car and filming themselves using a stolen video camera . Before long , midnight strikes , they run over someone or something in the street and come skidding to a stop , and we cut back to Anna , the American archaeologist , who has somehow stumbled upon a buried 17th Century street . This is where I got lost , and I stayed lost for pretty much the rest of the movie . We see clocks striking midnight a lot , so clearly something happens at midnight , but it's never really very clear what it is . And what is the deal with the buried street ? I guess the Plague was so traumatic that that just paved over the old streets and built modern London on top of it ? I have no idea . Anna is a huge problem in the movie . She claims to have this huge historical knowledge ( and also does that intolerable thing late in the movie where everyone is fearful for their lives and she is frantically giving history lessons ) , but is astonishingly clueless about how to handle the Plague . At one point , one of the characters is supposedly infected with the plague , so they put him in a wire cage and then Anna suggests that they all go wash their hands . Wow , all those primitive Londoners had to do was wash their hands ! Think of all the lives that could have been saved ! The movie soon leaves any story behind and descends into a shabby special effects display that reminded me of old Nightmare on Elm Street movies . And if the special effects weren't bad enough , they also throw in the " I don't think any of this is real " thing , so none of it matters anyway . The story , rather than having much of anything to do with a mental institution OR the plague , is about an orphanage in which a series of terrible thing happened to five of the orphans . Surprise , there are five characters in the movie and , as Anna explains , history " seems to be repeating itself . " No reason is given but none is needed . This is standard , 9th grade creative writing . Now we have the catalyst that introduces " death's design " which was kicked to death with three Final Destinations and provides a weak drive for the rest of the movie . There is a romantic moment at the very end of the film that is spectacularly out of place and dissolves immediately any character development that might have come before , and like much of the rest of the movie , it ends with a small child whispering some utter nonsense to us . We are told that the plague doctor will live on forever , " and you being a malignant host , an infant herald of doom . " What ? ! ? Well , let me give you a little chronology . The Sixth Sense - 9-year-old boy sees dead people . Ghost Town - annoyed British dentist sees dead people . The Sickhouse - American archaeologist sees dead British people . That would be really interesting if the movies were released in that order . . .
Hey , at least it wasn't WORSE than the first one .	American Pie 2 starts off its rehash of the first film with the ever-present trailer gag . The trailer gag , of course , is one of the many gags that was played and played and replayed in the film's trailer ( s ) and is therefore completely without effect when seen in the theaters . The barrage of teen sex films / thrillers of the last decade or so are plagued with trailer gags , and some of those movies ( Sorority Boys ) contain little else . Here , we see Jim's ( the unbearable Jason Biggs ) father walk in as he and his girlfriend ( if she could be called that , since they evidently have not even had ' friendly hello sex ' ) are having sex . This intrusion is followed by that of Jim's mother , who has the obligatory fit , and then , mysteriously , both of Natalie's ( Jim's ' girlfriend ' ) parents . So within the first minutes of the film , we are given a stolidly unamusing scene involving the exact same sexual awkwardness that was present in every scene that Eugene Levy ( Jim's father ) and Jim shared in the first movie , and we're left wondering why Natalie's parents walked into the room at all . The rest of the movie is more of the same . In the movie's defense , however , I must say that Seann William Scott was just as hilarious in every scene that he was in as he was in the first movie . The characters in both movies are hugely stereotypical caricatures of what , according to Hollywood producers , the typical college kid looks and acts like , and Stifler is the only one in either film that turns out even slightly amusing . It's no secret that films of this type tend to feed relentlessly off their original films in order to provide most of the laughs ( Austin Powers 2 ) , or lack thereof ( Scary Movie 2 ) , but it can at least be said that that was done at a minimum in the case of American Pie 2 . There is , thankfully , no ' pie , ' for example . On the other hand , the film does manage to feed off of other successful comedies . We see , for example , the introduction of Stifler's Mini-Me , as Stifler's younger brother enters the film , and is literally a miniature version of Stifler . For the entire film that doesn't contain Stifler , however , just about every single comedic scene falls completely flat , as was also the case with several of the scenes that Stifler WAS in ( anything involving urine or , theoretically , lesbians , for example ) . Jim is once again cruelly thrown into every kind of awkward and embarrassing situation imaginable , leaving the audience not laughing , but also feeling awkward and embarrassed . There is , for example , the completely tasteless scene in which he is mistaken for a retarded trombone player - did NOBODY at that damn band camp know what this Petey looked like ? ! And the statement that Jim utters at the abrupt end of his performance ( branding him by far the most moronic character in the film for the rest of the movie ) , will have your jaw on the floor in disgusted shock before you can say , ' Oh my good God , you're KIDDING . ' And all of the characters are back , too . Oz is back with his sickeningly sweet relationship with his insufferable girlfriend Heather , Finch is back in one of the more amusing roles in the film , having become so obsessed with his reunion with Stifler's mom that he meditates almost constantly , and Kevin is back again , having long since broken up with Vicky ( Tara Reid ) . There is a curious interaction between Kevin and Vicky throughout the film . It's obvious that there's a lot of sexual tension and weirdness between them , but it's impossible to care whether they get back together or not . There's a scene early in the film in which they almost kiss , and Vicky is put off , reminding him that they're just friends in what I hope to no end is the worst scene that Tara Reid has ever acted . If it gets worse that THAT . There is an interesting paradox that comes with movies like the American Pies and the Scary Movies and Road Trip and Sorority Boys that , logically , should reduce the films to complete failure almost immediately upon release . They are clearly jam-packed with the kind of humor that amuses 4th grade children ( and even THEM for no other reason than because they know their parents would hate it ) , yet they appear to be aimed at a late high school or ( gulp ) early college age audience . I was going to say that films like this can be watched just for a little fun , but then I wondered how much fun it is to watch a film in which a girl like Nadia falls completely in love with idiot after idiot , and I began to wonder what it is that made the film's producers and writers develop such an abysmally low opinion of their audience . Is it because we made their first film such a huge success ? Could it be that they are sending a message with this movie ? If they are , it's probably something like this , ' You LIKED that garbage ? ! Well , take THIS ! ! ' There is a clear lesson to be learned here , people , and I hope that everyone has been taking note of it . If we all keep paying to see this trash that is constantly cranked out by Hollywood , then we are only asking for more trash to be put on the menu . I think I said in my review of Scary Movie 2 that it's a lot of fun even to watch films that are so bad that they are virtually un-enjoyable , if only to tear them down later in my review . I won't say that American Pie delves to the unspeakably awful level that the Scary Movies both sunk to , but even writing reviews of the best bad movies gets old . A second sequel in this series is something that I would be more than happy to never see .
Interesting for the animation and almost nothing else .	Now , I have no idea how the animation was done in this movie , but the effect is so realistic that I have a feeling that it was filmed live and then an effect was layered onto the footage either while filming or during post production . At any rate , the effect gives the movie and entirely unique look that has never been done before , unfortunately as far as the story , there's just flat out nothing there . Keanu Reeves plays a super-secret agent for the Los Angeles Police Department , so super-secret , in fact , that his superiors don't even realize that they are assigning him to spy on himself . You see , not only does he work for the LAPD , but he is also an unemployed drug addict who associates himself with other addicts such as those played by Woody Harrelson , Winona Ryder , and Robert Downey Jr . Not a very challenging assignment for any of them , they basically play themselves in the movie . In the near future , there is a drug out on the streets called Substance D that is extremely addictive and performs bizarre abuses on the human mind , abuses which would make for some clever animation ideas were it to ever be featured on a half-assed , semi-animated , semi-intoxicated black comedy . I've heard it said that this is destined to become a cult classic . I guess . There are some conversations which are entertaining enough in their marked pointlessness , but a few clever bits of dialogue hidden within a 90 minute , convoluted mess do not a classic make . Not even a cult one . The film is based on the Philip K . Dick novel of the same name , which in turn is based on Dick's personal drug experiences . I can't imagine why you would need any more reason than that not to bother watching it .
A different villain may very well have made this worth making .	Darkman II is yet another example of how easy it is for a sequel to completely miss the mark , even when following up such a great comic book action movie . Darkman II starts out with the ludicrous request that we all believe Durant could have survived that massive helicopter crash at the end of the first film . Incredible . Anyway , so it starts out bad and is all downhill from there . We get an early performance from Arnold Vosloo who comes off of a ten-year film-acting career which had produced a series of forgettable films , this one among them . Now known almost entirely as High Priest Imhotep from the Mummy movies , Vosloo has certainly proved his ability to act with much of his face missing . So here was my problem with Darkman II ? first of all there's no way that Durant could have survived the crash and come out of it with nothing more than some scars on his face and neck . That crash destroyed and then incinerated his body . Larry Drake is a tremendously talented villain actor , but if anything they should have created another villain . That , after all , was Westlake's reason for living at the end of the first film , to fight crime . Another villain would have been a perfect excuse for another Darkman . Resurrecting Durant is not . That being said , another major problem is that Durant's casual smugness is no longer amusing or entertaining . It's not fun or interesting anymore to see him constantly talking to people that he's about to kill as though he thinks it's the funniest thing in the world . His whole sarcastic demeanor gets real old real quick . ( spoilers ) Westlake meets another scientist , David Brinkman , working on the same formula for synthetic skin that he has been trying to figure out , and Brinkman has made huge improvements , turning the 99 minute barrier into I think the 138 minute barrier , a huge step in their studies . Brinkman proposes a partnership , which Westlake eagerly accepts . Sadly , Brinkman happens to live in a huge warehouse that Durant wants to buy in order to set up the headquarters in which to pursue his endeavors for developing a nuclear handgun , but Brinkman doesn't want to sell . The expected ' convincing ' ends in Brinkman's death , and Westlake has to suffer through the loss of another partner . So not only do they resurrect the same villain from the first movie , they even cut and pasted the plot . Yawn . There's another subplot involving the death of a stupid , stupid TV reporter , eager to have a hit story to help her career but oblivious or indifferent to the dangers that it would put on her ability to remain alive . She doesn't believe at first that Durant is really alive , but when evidence seems to suggest that he is , she wants to be the first to break the story . My favorite little trick was how Durant managed to get a bomb into her car literally minutes after she breaks the story about him on live TV . She talks to the camera , then walks outside and explodes . A criminal who can work THAT fast DESERVES to monopolize all crime in the city . The movie is plagued with horrific acting , particularly on the part of Durant's idiot sidekicks , who act just as dumb as their characters are supposed to be . There is nothing new covered here other than the same villain pursuing a different avenue of high level crime , and Vosloo delivers a respectable performance taking over for Liam Neeson , but Neeson owns this character just like Sam Raimi owns the picture itself . His work is far too recognizable to be taken over without losing a lot of the original feel of the film , and it's too bad that Durant exploded at the end of the first movie but apparently survived unscathed , while Darkman suffered no injury other than that at the very beginning , and yet it's him that is an entirely different person . Given the extensive level of disappointment that this movie delivers , I'm curious as to why they bothered with a Darkman III . I guess SOMEONE must have liked it ?
Have a book handy ?	I bought a collection of movies somewhere in China , and otherwise may never have bothered with Fur , which seems to have been included for no real reason . It's another of the bizarre artsy films that Nicole Kidman seems to attach herself to , also for no discernible reason , which reminded me of the enormously bizarre and disappointing Dogville back in 2003 . What was that ? Sadly , I had the same question in mind after I finished half-dozing through Fur . It's about the wife of a professional photographer who is happily married until , one day during a particularly harsh bout of seemingly friendly questioning from a lot of uppity yuppy snobs , she realizes the reality of her low class life-style , and soon finds herself inexplicably falling in love with a man who just moved in upstairs , who suffers from a disease that causes extremely overactive hair-growth over his entire body . The one thing that I appreciate about the movie is that , even though it fails , it attempts to present Lionel Sweeney , the afflicted man , as a real person with thoughts and feelings rather than the freak that society has made him out to be . The movie tries to illustrate society's unfortunate tendency ( and need ) to relegate people who are different to the very edges of our communities , fixing them with neat labels and then constructing walls around them to remind them ( and us ) that we are " normal " while they are , ah , something else . Lionel's brooding demeanor and soft spoken mannerisms are meant to give the impression of someone who has suffered at the hands of the world around him because of a physical disease over which he has no control , but unfortunately , because the encounters he has with Diane Arbus ( a real woman whose life is completely and mysteriously changed for the purpose of the movie ) are so wildly unrealistic , he comes off as nothing more than a fantasy movie monster , like that giant teddy bear in Labyrinth and why isn't that movie on the top 250 list ? Labyrinth is one of the most spectacular fantasy films ever made , while Fur , I imagine , is not meant to be a fantasy film , but more an exploration of various parts of the human psyche , particularly those involving things like love , devotion , and societal acceptance . These are very serious topics and I always welcome a movie version of some kind of philosophical discourse on the real meaning of it all , but it's hard to concentrate on the significance of a movie like this as it applies to real life when we're watching an ass-shaving scene . Nicole Kidman is an enormously talented actor , all I can say is that sometimes I just don't get her choices . Dogville had its merits ( although entertainment value was certainly not one of them ) , The Stepford Wives was totally inaccurate and hugely disappointing , and I just don't get this movie at all . If you are looking for something off the wall and bizarrely artsy , you may enjoy Fur . Otherwise this will be one of Kidman's and Robert Downey Jr . ' s movies that you can safely ignore .
A little something slapped together for the DVD . . .	It's extremely rare that you will see any of these supplemental documentaries that are really anything other than short films where the main cast and crew get on camera and talk about how everyone was the greatest people that any of them ever met and they were like a family and they felt like they knew each other for their whole lives and they'll be friends forever and blah blah blah blah . In a good documentary , somewhere along the way there will be some insights revealed into the meaning of the movie or interesting stories about the making of the movie ( there are tons of these on , say , The Exorcist , for example ) or , in the most shining cases , things can be revealed about the intentions in making the movie that can make a bad movie seem a lot better than you thought after you finished watching it . The 2003 Willard remake and Texas Chainsaw III , believe it or not , come to mind . Unfortunately , in this one all we have is everyone getting on camera and talking about how great everyone else was , and there is also tons of talk about the extensive preparations that were done to make sure that everyone felt like a family around each other in this huge Rhode Island house . Not that there's anything wrong with that , except that Dan in Real Life is just such a drab , uninteresting movie with characters who have absolutely no chemistry with each other , so it was a little sad to see all of these talented actors get on camera and talk about how brilliant everything was . I'm sure they had a great time making the movie , but they just don't add anything to it with this short video , and in the case of this movie , a lot needed to be added . . .
Ah , the evolution of the movie monster ?	I admit first off that it is s surprise to me that the new Hills Have Eyes has a higher rating on the IMDb than Wes Craven's original film , a democratic oddity that I chalk up to more and more young people watching the IMDb , not only interested more in newer horror movies than older ones , but interested less in watching original , or even classic , films . I really hope the young people of today are not losing sight of the great films that have come in years past , because that would have a dire effect on the kinds of films that we can expect in the future . On the other hand , I could just be losing interest more and more with disturbing horror movies , although I still love the old ones , so I doubt it . In this remake of The Hills Have Eyes , the murderous people that come out of the hills are not just cut off from society and displaying the effects of generations of inbreeding , but are instead horrific examples of the effects of nuclear testing in the American deserts of the southwest . So everything needs to be bigger and faster and scarier than the original movie , which may be why the quality always seems to suffer so badly in modern remakes . The traveling family can't just break down , they have to crash , they can't just be on a vacation , they have to be suffering from almost universal internal strife ( no one can communicate with each other in a civilized manner ) , and of course , we can't just have dirty , depraved villains , they have to be cartoonish movie monsters that are barely human . It's sad the effect it takes to shock people these days because filmmakers have lost sight of what is scary and are just going for something grosser than the last movie . Here's another thing , there's a rape scene in the movie . I hate that . I'm adding rape scenes to my list of things I would be perfectly happy to never see in a movie again , right along with beheadings and anything involving any of the Wayans brothers . Anyway , as with just about every other wrong turn movie ( including the god-awful Wrong Turn ) , a group of morons take the advice of a degenerate gas station attendant and take a dirt road off of the paved road in the middle of the desert , idiotically believing that it is some kind of short cut . The sad thing is that the mutants ' indignation at having been subjected to " your " radioactive poisoning is eventually displayed , as the family is blamed for these peoples ' deformities and thus their massacre supposedly justified . Yeah , I have all the sympathy in the world for the people that suffered radioactive poisoning from nuclear testing back in the 1950s and 1960s , but I will go ahead and say right now that the people that are eligible for my sympathy did not think it best to set up residence in the fake town built by the government ( and intended to be destroyed ) at the bottom of one of the craters created by the bombs and then proceed for generations to mate with each other . We are then led off on a boring journey of the owners of the eyes doing the eating and the idiot family being eaten . There is no depth to a single character so it's impossible to care about a single one of them ( it also doesn't help that not a single one of them made one smart decision in the movie from beginning to end ) and we get to see some gore and some heavily made up movie monsters . Yawn . ( spoilers ) Oh here's something , why is it okay that a little girl dies in this movie ? Is it because she's saving one of the normal people from being killed or because she's deformed ? I'm curious as to the assumptions that can be made about modern moviegoers where that didn't kill the movie with controversy , because I can pretty much guarantee that this movie would not have been released if that girl's eyes were even .
Why the hell were there so many sequels ?	Did you hear that The Amityville Horror is a horror classic ? You heard wrong . The Amityville Horror actually starts off pretty good , with a fairly well done murder scene at the famous house with eyes . However , this is probably the scene ( perfectly placed right at the beginning ) that put so many people off , particularly the critics . I think that this is a film meant for a younger audience , because most people with families of their own are likely to be disgusted by the carnage that is presented in the opening moments of this movie . This effectively disturbing murder scene is soon followed by a scene where the prospective tenants ( some time later ) are given a tour of the house by the real estate lady , which makes for a good and well placed way to show the audience around the increasingly creepy house . On the other hand , this was evidently also taken as another opportunity to offend the more mature audience by editing some grisly scenes from the brutal murders into the tour , although it was a fairly effective technique . ( spoilers ) Once the family has moved in , the strange events begin almost immediately . When the priest , a friend of the family , comes over , he walks into the house , not knowing that the whole family is outside . As he calls out to see if anyone is home , he hears children laughing upstairs . The audience knows that everyone is outside , and this is probably one of the more chilling moments of the film . Why are the ghosts of children so much more unnerving than those of adults ? I can never figure that out exactly , but it gets me every time . This was one of the things that made for the scariest moments in countless other films , such as the more recent Blair Witch Project . Unfortunately , after that scene with the children's voices , the film seems to go precipitously downhill , and the ending is the nearly audible crash landing . There are so many cliched scares that were thrown randomly into this film with no forethought that they nearly ruined the entire movie single-handedly . You have the Waking Up Screaming scare , you have the inexplicable Screeching Cat scare , the slamming doors , the mysteriously locked windows and doors , the bumps in the night , the cold rooms , the empty rocking chair , the constantly sweaty father , the list goes on and on . And the things that were actually original made little to no sense at all . For example , we never get any explanation for why that one room upstairs is occasionally filled with hundreds and hundreds of flies . Are we to assume that the rotting corpses of the murdered family are somehow returning to the house ? At one point , the toilets in the house spout some sort of tar-like substance , which is also never explained . In another scene , it seems that the house steals $1500 from the oldest son , which he had planned to use to pay the caterer at his wedding ( that better have been a damn good caterer ) . Was this a crime of profit ? Committed by the evil house ? ! Then we have the one scene where the house viciously yells at the priest to " Get Out ! " This wouldn't have been so ineffective had it not been such a completely isolated event . And what exactly was that thing that George , the sweaty father , saw in the upstairs window near the end of the film , some kind of gigantic ghost-pig with glowing eyes ? Was that thing supposed to have been superimposed into a different film , and got into The Amityville Horror by accident ? I admit that most of this stuff can just fit into the category of the house itself , which is clearly alive in some way , trying everything possible to scare the people away . But on the other hand , why does it want some people gone and others to stay ? It tells the priest to get out , but then burns his hand and cuts the connection when he tries to call and warn the family about what happened while he was there . Maybe it wanted George there , because he looks exactly like the guy who killed his family in the house in the opening of the film . Or maybe that similar resemblance is just the first of many ideas that were taken directly from The Shining . The Amityville Horror is strikingly similar in many ways ( including the vast majority of the storyline ) to The Shining , which leads me to suspect some sort of plagiarism . Kind of makes you wonder . . . And not only that , but most if not all of the sound effects during scary scenes seem to have been taken directly from the Psycho soundtrack . The impression that The Amityville Horror gives is that of a movie that presents a good story that appears to have been taken from someone else and badly presented in a slightly altered form . Some scenes were unnecessary at best , if not completely exploitative . Did we really need to see the nun loudly vomiting in the middle of the road ? George is made to look like some sort of mountain man with no time to respect helmet laws , the guy looks like a freakin ' grizzly bear . Who cares that he nearly axed his wife to death in a fit of temporary insanity , he went back and heroically saved the dog at the end , so he's a good guy again , right ? That's crap . And how about that ending ? Was the script-writer hit by a truck ? They may as well have just said " They got away . " I'll admit that The Amityville Horror is not an utter failure . There were a few scenes ( emphasis on " few " ) that actually delivered chills , but unless you are absolutely determined to see this movie , you may be best advised to watch The Shining instead .
Teenage crapfest . . .	I think I'm starting to lose my taste for horror movies . For about the last ten years , horror has been a favorite genre for me , especially the old 80s slasher movies . I even enjoyed watching the bad ones , because it is so entertaining to see what kinds of new and interesting ways they come up with for killing promiscuous teenagers . But the whole Sleepaway Camp series struck me as so witless and boring that my only conclusion is that it must either be a prodigious disaster six movies long or I am just not into this crap anymore . The second sequel is not even as good as the first sequel , which in its entirety is not even as good as the last shot of the original film . Once again , the acting is astonishingly bad from beginning to end , and they knew this too . Notice , after all , that there is a teenage girl wearing nothing but panties less than a minute after the film starts ( with " Milk Shake " tattooed across her breasts , if you can believe that ) , then another one 15 minutes later , and rarely do you have to wait that long for the rest of the movie to see some bare breasted girl trying to act like it's perfectly normal for her to be hanging around half naked at camp . Maybe it's because I worked at a summer camp a couple years ago and so I know how ridiculous the idea of Camp New Horizons is . The big idea this time is to take a lot of poor kids and put them in camp with a bunch of rich kids for an " experience in sharing . " The result is a lot of ridiculous caricatures the likes of which would never survive in the real world , rich or poor ( Snowboy ? ? ? ) . As far as the motives behind the killings , one of the things that I first appreciated about good slasher movies ( even the good ' bad ' slasher movies ) was that there was always a reason the people were killed . It almost always had something to do with promiscuity or drugs or alcohol or something , but the audience was allowed some opportunity to figure it out . Not here . All subtlety is removed and replaced with a completely mechanical removal of undesirables ( " Are you a cheerleader ? " " Yes . " " Are you a virgin ? " " No . " " Have you ever done drugs ? " " Yes . " " Strike three . . . " ) . Admittedly , some of the death scenes are certainly original , like the kid who gets his arms pulled off by the jeep and the girl who gets pulled up the flagpole and then dropped . I hadn't seen that before . But then you have ones that are creative but that just don't work , like the kid who doesn't wake up as a lit firecracker is pushed up his nose . All in all , the first film is worth watching just for that ending , which is thematically disturbing but highly effective . Part 2 and 3 , however , both have yawn-inducing endings , and personally I have no interest in finding out about parts 4 , 5 , or 6 . . . .
" I'm completely cured ! If I wasn't they wouldn't have let me out ! "	So Angela has grown up and gotten therapy and an operation to turn her into a real life daughter , rather than the son that she was born , and now holds a job as - wait for it - a camp counselor ! How appropriate , right ? I know , I love it . Anyway , the first sequel to the Sleepaway Camp franchise obeys all the rules of horror sequels - more blood , more imaginative killings ( which aren't imaginative , but still more so than the original ) , more nudity , a more elaborate plot , and generally worse than the original . It is entertaining in the same way as the original was , in that the characters and wardrobes are so goofy and so authentically 80's that you can't help getting a good laugh . At one point , a guy asks Angela out , and she says " I'll call you , " and then quickly walks away . The guy says to himself , " How is she gonna call me ? I don't have a phone ! " and then he sniffs his armpits , wondering what turned her off ( it's the hair , dude ! ! ) . It is a well-known fact that in 80s slasher movies , the murdered teenagers were more often than not being punished by their killer for some kind of bad behavior , usually for being too promiscuous . When I first started getting into horror movies and saw the Friday the 13th movies for the first time in the mid 90s , I didn't realize this . I learned it in a film class a year or two later and was amazed that their was some method to the madness . I was pretty impressed , not only that the movies were passing on some kind of message , albeit a morbid one , but that there was actually some thought put into it . But not in this movie ! At one point just before Angela kills one of her victims , she says " Let this be a lesson to you . Say no to drugs ! " Real subtle screen writing there , guys . Then again , the dialogue is the most entertaining thing in the movie . Angela ( who , by the way , went through all that therapy and those operations and all that trouble to clean up her past and reinvent herself as a normal and well-developed person and then changed her name from Angela to , umm , Angela ) , says at one point , " I don't like being the wicked witch of the west , but I know what happens when things get out of control . " ( People start getting killed . . . by me ! HA ! ) Then later , she demands that one of the counselors , Mare , make an apology , to which the girl replies , " I'd rather die ! " Sorry , Mare , but you really walked into that one . . . Two years ago I was a camp counselor at a sleepaway camp similar to the one portrayed in this movie ( except the camp that I taught at had more than three kids to the 15 or 20 counselors and it also had rules , which the one in the movie doesn't ) . This made me notice the myriad of discrepancies in the movie from what camp life is really like . That's okay though , you can hardly make a movie like this with a lot of 9 year olds running around , although there were some 10 or 11 year old kids killed in this movie . I hadn't seen that kind of thing much before . Definitely bad taste , even for a cheesy 80s slasher movie . . . .
Dog will hunt !	Disclaimer : Do NOT try to remove your hemorrhoids with a chainsaw . It will NOT save you a trip to the hospital . ( spoilers ) OK , let me tell you why the Texas Chainsaw sequels don't work . The original film is slightly exempt from this , but when you have someone who is screaming and wiggling so much that you wish she would just get killed so she'll shut the hell up , you have lost your ability to scare . Doesn't matter how good the sets or costumes or actors are , if the audience is holding their ears , you have a problem . The first sequel in the Texas Chainsaw series is meant to be nothing other than a bigger version of the original , this time fictionalized , and beefed up with the star power of Dennis Hopper . Not that the original was non-fiction . As you know , it was really based , very loosely , as it were , on the inhuman antics of Ed Gein in the 1950s , the same demented nutcase that inspired Psycho and The Silence of the Lambs . Sounds like a fun guy . Unfortunately , as is all too often the case with horror movies , this one comes off more as a sick comedy than a scary movie . Granted , there are horror movies that purposely come out like that , such as most of the Nightmare on Elm Street movies , but the original Texas Chainsaw Massacre was a movie that caught people off guard because of its simplicity , its unknown cast , and its rough , documentary feel . In Texas Chainsaw 2 , every single little bit of that is lost . The set , once we eventually get underground , looks like they rented the Indiana Jones set , festooned it with randomly placed naked light bulbs , furniture made out of human bones , and meat hooks , and had Leatherface run around swinging a chainsaw . The atmosphere of the movie has completely lost the claustrophobic feel of the original by vastly expanding the size of the set , much of which looks like a Christmas tree crossed with an esophagus , and there is just too much hooting and hollering for it to be scary . The only thing more irritating than the killers is their victim , ' Stretch . ' The movie starts off with a couple of high school caricatures zooming down a desert highway , screaming at each other at the tops of their lungs about the sheer magnitude of the party that they are on their way to . They decide to swing into oncoming traffic to play chicken with someone driving a pickup truck , instantly making me eager to see them get killed . Doesn't matter that Leatherface is in that truck , anyone who plays chicken with a random driver because they're driving around drunk deserves to get killed . And if it takes place in a movie , they deserve to get killed with a chainsaw . So not only do we have to endure the hooting and hollering of these two jerks , but they call a radio station and we are asked to believe that this station's phones get completely tied up if someone calling in refuses to hang up . Sure , this is rural Texas and 1986 , but are we to believe that even out there and back then , there were radio stations with a single phone line and without the ability to cut off the callers ? At one point the clueless tech guy is frantically pushing buttons and pulling levers , trying to figure out how to clear the line . Given something so stupid , however , you know it was there for a reason , so that they could record the phone call as the kids get chainsawed on the other end . Speaking of which , the same kid that swerved into oncoming traffic at full speed finds himself stopped on a bridge as that same pickup truck sits blocking both lanes , and he frantically screams ' Are you crazy ? ! ? ' out the windshield while his idiot friend in the passenger seat offers such heroic tips as ' Just keep driving ! ' and ' Get outta here ! ' Good thinking ' ! Speaking of driving , not only can they not outrun a pickup truck traveling in reverse while supposedly holding the pedal to the floor in their Mercedes , but in the shots that show Leatherface standing and swinging his chainsaw , they are literally traveling all of 5mph . Dennis Hopper plays the uncle of the kids who were killed in the original movie , sort of a rogue detective out of his jurisdiction and showing up at the scene of the two kids ' murder . The police refuse to jump to conclusions , but Lefty ( Hopper ) is sure that it's the same people who killed his nieces and nephews . Hopper makes a GREAT redneck . I generally am truly disappointed when actors take on fake accents , but Hopper does this one so well that you would swear he's lived in the south his entire life , it's just too bad that he's saddled with this idiot character . At one point , Stretch , the radio station DJ , shows up at his apartment , which , needless to say , is flooded with drunken rednecks wandering the halls with their arms around each other , and tells him that she has an audiotape of the murder because the kids called in just before they were attacked , and he sends her away ! What the hell is that ? Later he has a change of heart , but only wants to hear it if she'll play it on the air . The logic of the characters ' actions in this movie is not starting off on the right foot . Then later , as Stretch hangs in a pit about to fall into the demons ' lair , you might say , he tries to save her with a brittle , dried out arm bone . Clever . There is a lengthy horror scene inside the radio station , which looks like it doesn't know if it's supposed to be a radio station or a horror movie set , so better just be a little bit of both . It's got its vast storage of records stored safely behind an open door , with a heavy steel door guarding the cleaning supplies . A burglar's dream , you might say . We get a scene where Leatherface is assigned to kill Stretch , but when he finally gets through that steel door , he starts chainsawing a tub of soda cans sitting in ice , which have no reason for being there or for being chainsawed , until finally Stretch screams , ' Are you mad at me ? ? ' and my eyes glaze over for the remainder of the film . There's an effective scene where Leatherface puts Stretch's friend's freshly removed face over hers , supposedly to help her escape , but for the most part the underground portion of the film is a tired rehash of the original . Sure , it's bigger , there are more Christmas lights and more chainsaws , but essentially it's exactly the same thing , just without the surprise . They even replay exactly the same dinner scene from the end of the last movie , the most unpleasant scene in the entire movie . Lefty decides that he is so intent on delivering swift poetic justice that , rather than stock up on as many guns as he can carry , he buys three huge chainsaws and straps them to his body , and then runs screaming into the house , yelling and cutting down wooden supports as the family tortures Stretch . In Commando Arnold bulldozes into a weapons store and loads up on boatloads of guns and knives and explosives . In The Terminator he does the same thing , with the added bonus of killing off the proprietor before leaving . Lefty could have paid homage to both of those films , establishing Lefty as a good guy since he actually paid for his . But why saws and not guns ? The grandparents , as is to be expected , are a hideous , hideous spectacle . Grandpa's 137 years old and still likes to hammer young girls on the head , and grandma spends her time in a wheelchair upstairs with a chainsaw on her lap . We are treated to a finale atop a huge rock outcropping that is so fake that it almost turns the movie into a comedy all by itself . There is at least one or two shots where the underlying chicken wire is nakedly visible . We get some sort of variation on the ending of the original , since the conclusion is almost a mirror image , in that the girl becomes the chainsaw wielding maniac rather than looking at him out the back window of a passing motorist , but I'm not sure what line of discussion led to the conclusion that this would be a cool way to end the film . Is this supposed to be the setup for a sequel ? The family's dead , but now there's this girl who has caught chainsaw fever and will now carry on the legacy ?
Seemingly air-headed romantic comedy eventually reveals itself to be wiser than its years .	I say eventually because it takes about three quarters of the film before it appears to have a thought in its head , and even then it's not by much and only briefly . My problem with the movie is that for the vast majority of it , Doris Day's character Jenny is the typical stupid blonde , cheerfully grinning like a moron and twirling her hair , clueless to what is going on around her . I have a hard time getting over this kind of thing when I see it in the movies because I dated one or two girls that acted like that because they thought it was cute and it drives me out of my mind . It's incredible to me that the romance between Jenny and Mr . Templeton was ever considered romantic , it's so contrived and pretentious . The slapstick situations are shallowly manufactured , badly acted and thus not funny , but the heavy hand of the sixties is all over the movie , so at least it is a slightly interesting look at a different time as well as the kind of thing that was considered entertaining and romantic forty years ago . The movie takes a turn for the better when Jenny figures out what's going on by listening in on a phone call between Templeton and his military buddies and then decides to turn the tables on them , although it should be noted that during that phone call he insists that Jenny simply can't be a spy , she hasn't got the brains . She's offended and so are we , until we remember that he's right . Afterwards , she begins to display an intellect which had been largely absent thus far , but unfortunately , everyone else in the movie turns stupid in order to lead to a lot more goofy slapstick . It is telling that one of the first things that brings suspicion onto Jenny is a series of misunderstandings stemming from the fact that her dog's name is Vladimir . Strangely enough , the reason I watched the movie is because I took my girlfriend to Catalina Island recently for her birthday , and we took a tour in the exact same glass bottom boat which was used in this movie , and I thought it would be interesting to see the film shot in the boat I was sitting in , as well as to see what the astonishingly beautiful Avalon ( the tiny town on Catalina Island ) looked like in the mid 1960s . Needless to say , I was surprised to see that Avalon looks almost exactly the same , and that the glass bottom boat appears in the first five minutes or so of the movie and is never seen again . Odd that they would name the film after such an irrelevant plot device . Also don't miss the extra features on the DVD , one of which is a short video in which MGM claims that every girl's dream is to visit the MGM Studios in Culver City .
Ladies and gentlemen , I kid you not , they added a DUCK .	The addition of a duck to the journey to the center of the earth simply has to go down as one of the dumbest creative ideas that has ever made it to the big screen . I must say that I had high hopes for this version of Jules Verne's story , because the older versions , in my experience , tend to have healthier respect for the source material that they are based on , and they are less likely to succumb to the temptations of trying to push along a bad script and awful acting with special effects , which all too often are themselves not very impressive . The lack of technical capabilities in older films demanded better quality in acting , story , script , directing , editing , pretty much everywhere , which is why so many of today's films are sad , pathetic messes . Unfortunately , as was also the case in the 1999 version , a terrible little is paid attention to the original story in making this movie . Now , in this movie's defense , it at least tries to stick closely to the story itself , but all of the characters are changed completely , especially Hans , who is unrecognizable to his character in the novel . A pet duck , are you serious ? Granted , there are scenes in the book which would prove tremendously difficult to film convincingly , even by today's standards ( the sea battle , the storm , and the ultimate fate of the ocean and the escape back to the surface , for example , take place in a nearly unfilmable fashion in the novel ) . I also had a problem with the musical scenes . I expect that the sets are going to be bad , and they are , but I have always had a problem with characters bursting into song at random times , it's so hard to make it work right . Charlie and the Chocolate Factory is a rare exception . But in this case , when there is no reason whatsoever to have musical numbers in the movie , it is just distracting and calls attention to the lack of ability to bring the whole story to the screen .
Could have been good until the studio destroyed it . . .	My first reaction to Babylon A . D . was that it's not nearly as bad as its own director , Matthieu Kassovitz , has been claiming it is , although that reaction came to me before I got to the end of the movie . The movie has a cool set-up and a few good action sequences , although they suffer from that all too modern symptom of having been put together by editors who must have been on some kind of amphetamines . Like so many other recent action films ( Death Race , for example ) , the fight scenes and chase scenes and whatnot are cut together so fast that they fly by with dizzying speed , and you move on with the rest of the movie with only a vague impression of what just happened . Vin Diesel stars as Toorop , a hardened loner of a mercenary whose latest mission is to escort a mysterious young woman from a convent in Russia to America ( where he is listed as a terrorist ) , although like so much of the rest of the movie , we never learn why . Michelle Yeoh comes across as a bizarre casting decision for a bizarre character . She plays Sister Rebekah , Aurora's guardian . This woman I just don't get . She's Chinese and plays a kung-fu fighting nun in Russia . She and Toorop have an immediate power struggle , and then during the mission Aurora exhibits more and more strange powers and abilities . She can feel other people's pain , she can operate old submarines , and can predict the future . The rest of the movie is basically Toorop's mission to get her to New York alive , avoiding the mysterious figures pursuing her for their own agenda , and figure out what's wrong with her along the way . The movie moves along from one on-location set piece to the next , with action scenes and fights popping up out of nowhere and then wrapping up nicely as our heroes rush off screen to the next set . But I would argue that at least most of the action is fun along the way . Unfortunately , I happened to have learned before watching the movie that a 160-minute version would be released in Europe , compared to the 90-minute version I just saw , and let me tell you , you can really feel the blank spots . There is , for example , a major , major plot development revealed in the third act of the movie that is so bizarre that it's almost like someone slipped in a page from a completely different movie . It comes from nowhere and goes nowhere , and adds nothing to the movie except provides a spot to slide in the ending , which leaves you with the feeling that the writer was hit by a truck or they ran out of money or just lost interest . The end is so sudden and so witless that the movie immediately transformed in my mind into an endless maze of loose ends and confusion . There is a brief scene in the movie where Sister Rebekah explains hers and Aurora's history to Toorop , but it doesn't explain anything and doesn't really matter anyway , because the story is so clearly just a backdrop to the futuristic landscapes and the cookie cutter fight scenes , many of which are hilarious in their badness . There is one scene , for example , where the trio outrun not only a couple of what look like futuristic Stealth bombers , but also their missiles , and they do it on snowmobiles ! I don't think we ever learn the exact time period , but the futuristic element of the film is badly incoherent . New York City is jam-packed with neon advertisement , fold-out road maps are like Google Maps on paper and touch sensitive , and taxis have scrolling message boards on their sides , but Coke Zero is still around and advertising on passenger jets and the bad guys drive vintage , mint-condition 2008 Range Rovers . They must really like classic cars . I have to say that Babylon A . D . left me with the feeling that it could have and should have been so much better than it was , and I'm guessing that was the money-hungry hand of the studio that swept away all of the good parts of the movie . I'm hoping that when Babylon DVD comes along it will include the uncut , 160-minute version that the Europeans saw , along with an explanation of why it was so badly butchered before released to American audiences . At any rate , any Director's Cut is sure to be a different movie entirely . I recommend waiting for it .
Babe . . . Babe ? BABE BABE BABE BABE BABE ! ! ! ! ! !	Ah , nothing . Just like I thought . Let's face it , Pamela Anderson can NOT act . Barb Wire is so obviously nothing other than an excuse to get the most famous blonde on the planet into a bunch of chesty outfits and occasionally not even that much that that fact alone provides much of the film's comic relief . This movie reminds me of a similar crapfest that Anna Nicole Smith put out the year before , called Skyscraper , which was basically a remake of Die Hard but without the acting , the budget , the script , or the brains . Similarly , Barb Wire does not do much to cover up how extensively it borrows from Casablanca . And also similarly , this time without the acting , the budget , the script , or the brains . Whenever you have a film that stars someone like Pamela Anderson , who is famous more for getting naked than anything else , it's not hard to predict that at some point during the film , she will pose as a stripper or a prostitute or something in order for the film to get her out of her clothes , and I'm pretty Pam does both here . There's a thin storyline involving politics and secret weapons and Canadian money , of all things , and this , along with just about everything else in the film , is set on the back burner in favor of the emphasis on Pam's breasts , which are clearly more famous than she is . With movies like Barb Wire , I always try to look for a point where the film admits that it is not trying to be taken seriously . Bad movies can be highly entertaining when they come off as campy ( see any of the three Evil Dead movies , the funniest and most entertaining horror films ever made ) , but not when they pretend to be something that they're not . I think that the biggest problem in this area about Barb Wire is that Pam seems to take her role too seriously ( her reaction to the term ' Babe ' is a case in point ) . And I say ' seems ' because there is always the possibility that she is over-acting just for the overall fun of it . However , it's just hilarious how serious she appears and how she makes such an effort to sound threatening , when in reality it's totally obvious that it's all a joke . In this sense , it's difficult to judge this film because it's hard to know how it feels about itself . Personally , I think that the film has grossly overlooked the fact that the vast majority of itself as a whole is going to come off in theaters ( or , in this case , on video , seeing how this movie had been booed out of theaters before many people even knew it was there yet ) as comic relief . Barb Wire is not really an action movie that makes every excuse possible excuse to get Pamela Anderson out of her clothes , but rather a comedy that amusingly poses as an action film , and the strange thing is that the nude or semi-nude scenes don't lead to sex scenes or anything like that , but usually to violence . This , I guess , is in bad taste depending on your personal views , but it's interesting to consider how many people consider BOTH of these to be in bad taste . Okay , I have to add something here . I just re-visited the Barb Wire home page on the IMDb , and the tagline for the film , which I never noticed , is based on one of the dumbest things about the entire movie . ' Don't call me babe . ' Sigh ?
The original film was pretty weak , and this one is a bad remake of it ?	You will know almost immediately that this movie is going to be a flop , because it opens with a trendy rock song , and anytime a horror film starts off with a KROQ song you know you're in trouble . The original film was John Carpenter's first film after Halloween and a couple of television projects , and had to have been a massive disappointment . What made someone decide to remake it is beyond me , and in retrospect , what made me decide to watch yet another goofy teenage horror remake is also distantly beyond me . Directed by the director of such gems as Stigmata , Blank Check , and various M . C . Hammer movies , the remake of The Fog makes no effort to cover up or improve upon even the most obvious weaknesses in the original film . The odd character of " Stevie Wayne , " for example , remains about unwatchable , and the rest of the movie is not much better . On the other hand , I recently watched Hostel , Eli Roth's latest excrement , so this really looks like Shakespeare in comparison . It deserves its spot on the bottom 100 ( although I'd have to see Hostel rated as the worst movie ever made in order to really believe in any bottom 100 list ? ) .
Why did they have to change the music ? It was already perfect !	I guess I can understand , you have the first sequel to one of the most successful horror movies ever made , maybe using the same music would have come off as trying too hard to cash in on the success of the original . This is , on the other hand , a sequel , and an inherent quality of any sequel is cashing in on the success of the original . It's during the movie itself that it has to earn itself the right to exist , to show that it can stand on its own and not just in the shadow of its predecessor . So Halloween II tries right off the bat to try something new , it just wasn't done right . It's like they had the original simple but effective theme song played on a grand piano and then played the sequel's song on some cheap K-Mart electric piano with some goofy effects added on . Too bad . That being said , at least the rest of the movie was awful . Wait , I shouldn't say that . Not awful , just not good . It wastes not time at all , replaying the very last scene in the original film and then literally picking up the minute the previous film left off , as though the first sequel is not so much a sequel as much as simply a continuation , like Kill Bill . I'm guessing that it was a desired impression that the two movies want to look like one long movie that has been cut into two parts . Dr . Loomis shot Michael Meyers at the end of the previous movie ( famously seven times and then runs around yelling about how he shot him six times ) , pushing him off the second floor balcony with his hail of bullets , then walked to the edge of the balcony and saw that Michael had disappears . The first sequel in the series details the relentless quest to stop Meyers before he can kill again . Needless to say , he wastes no time . Of the three most famous slashers in horror history , Michael Meyers , Jason Voorhees , and Freddy Krueger , Meyers is by far the most relentless . Granted , they're all relentless , but Meyers ' tendency to move slowly but deliberately gives me the impression that he is the least stoppable . Krueger can only attack in dreams , and Jason at least takes time to go back to his cabin and regroup , you might say . Get his bearings and plan out his next attack , however much planning he is capable of , anyway . Michael just gets up , and as soon as he has his target in sight he's like the T-1000 . He just keeps moving toward his target , falling over when he gets shot a bunch of times and killing the odd teenager unfortunate enough to get in front of him , but never , ever stopping . Once the movie gets going , it's not long before we wind up in a Darkened And Deserted Hospital and the movie devolves into a series of creative death scenes . As you well know , much of the success of horror movies relies on the creativeness and originality of the death scenes . Kill enough people in enough interesting and new ways , and you have a good movie , in general . Halloween II has some creative scenes , but very few that are believable , and the cardinal sin of the creative death scene , many that make you slap your forehead at how stupid people can be . I'll tell you who I have no sympathy for , for example . At one point a hospital orderly named Jimmy comes across a nurse who has an IV needle in her arm , which Michael probably put there since it's just there to allow all the blood to run from her body and onto the floor . So this guy walks into the room , and doesn't notice that she has been bled to death until he kneels beside her and runs his hand along the tube from the needle in her arm to the end dripping all her blood onto the floor , and then he doesn't notice that he has been standing in a huge puddle of blood since the second he walked in the door until he stands up and slips on it , falling over backward and cracking his head on the floor . Let me just tell you this , I'll leave it up to Major Payne to inform him where he can go to look for sympathy . Then he shows up later , dazed and confused , to get into the car in which Laurie is hiding , act all dazed and confused , and then suddenly die . Here's another problem I had with the movie . It makes perfect sense that it takes place in the hospital , since that was where Laurie was taken after her encounter with Michael at the end of the last movie , it's the hospital itself that really bothered me . It is truly a cheap , cheap trick in a horror movie to have something like a dark and deserted hospital , which is something that simply does not exist . No hospital is EVER darkened or deserted as it was in this movie . The lights are never dimmed like that for any reason , at least in the halls , and there are always nurses and orderlies and the occasional doctor wandering the halls and seeing to patients . Hospitals are understandably not the kind of establishments that close for business at the end of the day . I guess I just wish someone could come along and make a good horror movie in a hospital without having to resort to things like no one being around and everything being dark all the time . I have great confidence that it can be done . I think that one of the main reasons that Halloween doesn't work nearly as well as its predecessor , even though it presents itself as merely the second half of it , is because it was guaranteed to be a box office success . The original film was a tremendous smash financially , and the filmmakers knew that just about anything called Halloween II was going to generate a huge amount of interest , so the movie comes off as having been slapped together and cheapened just to get something into the theaters . Michael Meyers was a brooding force in the original film , always near the edge of the screen or just out of sight , never seen very clearly . Now he's front and center and well lit , even in the hospital . We can even see his very eyes , and after Laurie has shot both of them out , if you can believe that . It's like the movie was made just so we could get closer and more personal with Michael Meyers , but that only serves to diminish his image . On the other hand , it's good that they didn't try to keep Meyers in the shadows , or , even worse , try to make him even more of a distant and dark character . Had they done that they might have lost sight of him completely , and as we all know , that kind of thinking will leave you with Halloween III !
Wow .	Okay , so I'm not a big video game buff , but was the game House of the Dead really famous enough to make a movie from ? Sure , they went as far as to actually put in quick video game clips throughout the movie , as though justifying any particular scene of violence , but there are dozens and dozens of games that look exactly the same , with the hand in the bottom on the screen , supposedly your own , holding whatever weapon and goo-ing all kinds of aliens or walking dead or snipers or whatever the case may be . It's an interesting premise in House of the Dead , with a lot of college kids ( LOADED college kids , as it were , kids who are able to pay some fisherman something like $1 , 500 just for a ride after they miss their boat ) trying to get out to this island for what is supposed to be the rave of the year . The first thing that comes to mind about House of the Dead after watching it is that it has become increasingly clear that modern horror movies have become nothing more than an exercise in coming up with creative ways to get a lot of scantily clad teenagers into exactly the same situations . At least in this case , the fact that they were on their way to a rave excuses the way the girls are dressed . They look badly out of place running around the woods in cute little halter-tops , but at least they THOUGHT they were dressed for the occasion . Clint Howard , tellingly the most interesting character in the film by far , delivers an absolutely awful performance , the greatness of which overshadows every other actor in the movie . I can't stand it when well-known actors change their accents in movies , it is so rarely effective , and Howard here shows that it is equally flat to have an well-known actor pretend that he's this hardened fisherman with a raspy voice from years of breathing salty air . He didn't even rasp well . It sounded like he was eating a cinnamon roll before shooting and accidentally inhaled some powdered sugar or something . Real tough there , Clint ! I expected more from him , but then again , he did agree to a part in this mess . Once we get to the island , the movie temporarily turns into any one of the Friday the 13th movies that took place at Camp Crystal Lake . Lots of teenagers played by actors who were way too old for their parts getting naked and then killed . The nudity was impressive , I guess , but let's consider something for a minute . These kids pay almost two grand to get out to this island to go to the Rave Of The Year , find NO ONE , and say , well , who wants a beer ! Even the guy who pulled that stack of hundreds out of his wallet to get them all over there didn't think anything of it that they found a full bar and not a single solitary person in sight . Here you have the input from director Uwe Boll - There's alcohol ! They won't notice that the party they came for consists of no one but themselves ! So not only do they start drinking , not minding the fact that the whole party seems to have vacated the island , but when one of the girls goes off into the dark woods to find out where everyone is ( dragging one other girl and one of the guys reluctantly along ) , the guy and the girl who stay behind to get smashed decide that it would be a great idea to strip down for a quickie now that they're alone . It's like they expected to find the island empty , and now that they rest of the people that they came over with were gone for a little while , they would have some privacy since there's no one else around . Brilliant ! Now for the things that everyone hated , judging by the reviews that I've read about the movie . Yes , intersplicing shots from the video game into the movie , mostly in order to show that , yes , the movie was being faithful to / directly copying the video game . Sure , it was a stupid idea . I can't imagine who thought up that little nugget , but worse than that is the Matrix-style bullet time scenes that were thrown in over and over and over and over . After the first time ( at which point I found it pretentious and cheesy for a movie like this to have a shot like that as though it was something original ) it is noticeable more for the technique of the shot itself rather than any dramatic meaning or creation of any kind of tension for the film . One of the things that makes a zombie film scary and gets you on the edge of your seat is to have them slowly but relentlessly coming after the living humans , who are much faster but getting tired , running out of places to run , and with a terrifying shortage of things with which to fight the zombies off with . The first two are done right in the movie , the kids are terrified and don't have a lot of places to run since they're on an island , but since they caught a ride over with a smuggler , they find themselves heavily armed . And I mean that very strongly . I mean , these people have everything from machine guns to hand grenades , which removes most of the tension of the impending walking dead . Then you have what I call the techno-slasher scene . Since the rave never happened , and I guess since Uwe Boll thought people were going to be disappointed at not hearing any techno music in the movie , there's one scene right in the middle where all the humans are fighting off the living dead , and amazingly enough it turns into something of a music video . There's techno music blasting as the shots are edited together faster and faster until it's nothing but a blur of gory shot , mostly only about 5 frames long ( which is about of a second ) flashing across the screen in time with the speed techno music . Clever , I guess , but it has no place in a horror movie because it completely removes any sense of scariness or tension of even the gross-out effect because you can't see any one thing for long enough to react to it . You're just watching these shots fly across the screen and wondering what the hell the director was thinking when he decided that it would be a good idea to put something like this in the movie . I've seen a lot of people compare this movie to Resident Evil , mostly claiming that it copies the premise of it , and they're exactly right . I appreciate that at least here , as was not the case in Resident Evil , it wasn't some man-made virus that turned people into walking dead that were able to infect other people , changing them the way vampires turn others into vampires . 28 Days Later was also clearly an inspiration for this movie , it's just too bad that House of the Dead didn't do a single original thing , except for the somewhat moronic idea of putting in quick shots of the video game on which it is based , just in case you forget . I really think that this should have been a much better movie . While obviously I can't say that I know much about the game it's based on , just the title and the movie poster deserve a much better movie , but unfortunately I think that's more often the case than not with horror movies . It's really kind of sad when a movie comes out that is so obviously advertised as a no-holds-barred horror film , and the scariest thing in the entire movie is the closing shot , which suggests the possibility of a sequel .
Doesn't even live up to the awful standards of the original .	? Gator Bait 2 picks up ten years after part one left off , and the little boy from the original movie has grown up and is marrying a girl from the city named Angelique . The wedding is a particularly amusing part of the film , because not only do the bride and groom inexplicably wear dollar bills on their outfits , but the fancy wedding feast consists of a huge pile of some kind of crustacean , poured carelessly onto a folding table out of a garbage can , for crying out loud . And then for their honeymoon , this true romantic takes Angelique out into the swampy woods and teaches her how to be a redneck . But then again , this kind of thing would be expected , because on one side of the aluminum boat that took the place of the post-wedding limo is painted the old saying , ' Just Married , ' while the other side bears the charming phrase , ' Pop that cherry ! ! ' ( spoilers ) As was the case in the first film , the script is absolutely horrendous , but here , the performances were pathetic as well . It's strange that Big T's ( the little boy form part one ) new bride would have an exotic sounding name like Angelique , because this guy can hardly speak intelligibly . And how did he meet a city girl , anyway ? This guy could not possibly have been out of the woods for more than a day of his entire life , and even then only to discover that he could never survive in the civilized world . It's weird that all of the evil rednecks in this film come off as more intelligent than the supposed hero . And , as was also the case in the first film , these are some SERIOUS rednecks . Again , these people are so ugly and dumb that it's difficult to believe that they're real humans . Yes , these are the true bottom feeders of the human race , a group of men so idiotic that the leader of them , Leroy , states that ' the only way to reckon with these people is to kill them . ' They are once again the brainless , horny rednecks that we saw in part one , and evidently their goal is to murder Big T and take his city wife out into the woods and rape her ? spurred on by the fact that it was Big T's sister , Desiree , that killed Leroy's brother in part one , and also left Leroy himself out in the woods to die . So they shoot Big T and , in true James Bond form , leave him alive for some unlikely force to finish him off . It's fine that we know he won't die , but all that happens is we see him thanking some witch-doctor looking man ' for saving my life , ' as he borrows the 80-something year old man's shotgun and heads back into the woods , paddling around in circles one-handedly in another aluminum boat . The chase scenes were entertaining enough , especially given the incessant banjo soundtrack , and Angelique's nudity is still exploitative but not as much as in the original film . At least here , she's half naked because the rednecks interrupted her while she was dressing and she was forced to run wearing what she had on . Also , the way that she killed one of the rednecks with a bag full of rattlesnakes ( by far the most inbred one of the whole bunch ? except maybe for Big T ) was pretty creative , but it's strange how heartbroken Leroy was about that , seeing how he had just ruthlessly cut the throat of one of his own men . With ? Gator Bait 2 , you pretty much get what you expect . Part one actually had several redeeming values , but this one had virtually none . Everything about the relationship between Big T and Angelique is totally unconvincing , and the sheer idiocy of every single character in the film , good or bad , prevents the development of any feelings for anyone , leaving you not caring about what happens to any of them , and even more disappointed at the ending .
Taking this stuff seriously anymore , George Lucas isn't . . .	Okay , so Star Wars is now officially a kid's movie . George Lucas ' newest cash-in on the Star Wars saga is a wholly unnecessary cartoon which caters to a much younger audience , but one that will find the majority of the story entirely incomprehensible . The Star Wars films made a sharp turn to the digital realm starting with the release of The Phantom Menace in 1999 , and they now have made the full transition to being fully animated . And by the way , I noticed that The Clone Wars is being advertised as the " first " fully animated Star Wars film . If they go nuts with the sequels , I sure hope they get better ! The story takes place between Episode II and Episode III . The Republic is at war with the Separatists and its access to the Galactic Rim is being threatened . Complicating the problem is that diplomatic relationships are strained to the extreme because Jabba the Hutt's son ( yes , he has a son now ) has been kidnapped , and due to some carefully orchestrated misinformation , he suspects the Jedi . Confused yet ? Imagine how the kids feel ! But it doesn't matter because everything else in the movie is there just for them . There's a cutesy little teenie bopper apprentice named Ashoka assigned to tag along with Anakin and learn all she can from him about the Jedi ways . Lending her voice to the character is Ashley Eckstein , who , get this , is probably best known as Muffy from " That's So Raven . " What the hell is happening here ? That's So Raven ? ! I have no problem with child stars moving on from their kiddie roles and into more serious acting , but the problem is that Eckstein takes that step in The Clone Wars , but doesn't do anything different . Her character is like a little kid running around through a story that is attempting to be a Star Wars movie , but it can't because she keeps re-naming things and people ( Skyguy ? ? ) , and ( barring the occasional bout of astonishing light saber moves and tricks with using ' The Force ' ) generally behaving as if she's still acting in a show made for girls under age 10 . For example , most of her role in the movie is not as a Jedi apprentice , but a babysitter of Jabba's offspring , the " Huttlet , " as he is affectionately called throughout the movie . A few years ago I saw a documentary about the history of the adult film industry , in which Ron Jeremy presented his hairy , pot-bellied self as proof that any guy in the world can get laid . Now , it seems that more recent evidence of this theory has come to light . Jabba the Hutt , in all his slithery , gelatinous glory , has managed to seduce himself a ' Hottie the Hutt ' and partake in that great wonder of procreation . It's strange to consider that if ' Mama the Hutt ' had been included in the movie , it probably would have made the entire film a complete joke . But not to let an opportunity to slip something asinine into the movie , Jabba refers to his beloved son ( during a serious negotiation meeting ) through a translator as his " little punkey muffin . " But fear not , the Huttlet is more than enough of a spectacle . He looks like a sperm the size and color of a watermelon with orange eyes and a mouth . Punkey muffin , indeed . And therein lies the problem with the entire movie . Everything in it is a stupid joke , like Lucas is just laughing at himself and the world he created . It's all just a story to him now and he's just goofing off . Here's a sample of dialogue between two of his idiot droids during a heated battle : Droid # 1 : " Concentrate fire on sector 11374465 ! " Droid # 2 : " Uh , 117 , um , 3 uh . . what ? " Droid # 1 : " Just shoot right there ! " I had been under the impression that droids were manufactured and therefore programmed . Do you mean to tell me that they are equipped with vague understandings of their battle commands and shoddy short term memories ? That's just poor planning ! But sadly , this interaction is representative of the rest of the movie . All serious story-telling is sacrificed for dumb laughs . Little effort is put into doing anything interesting with the animation , which isn't even very impressive , and the real Star Wars story is a distant backdrop to this goofy babysitting / kidnapping story about Jabba's babbling son . Oh and one more thing . The final nail in the coffin of The Clone Wars is Jabba the Hutt's uncle who , judging mostly by his voice , can only be described as a gay black nightclub owner with phosphorescent blacklight tattoos all over his purple body . What the hell ? ! I was unimpressed with The Phantom Menace when it was released almost ten years ago , but it was still a serious installment in the Star Wars series . The Clone Wars , on the other hand , never takes itself seriously , and is too obviously an advertisement for the television series and , possibly even more , the inevitable video game . Most of the battle sequences are so video game-like that my thumbs started twitching for want of a controller . Skip this one . Go see Tropic Thunder or Pineapple Express instead .
And Species hits direct to video quality ?	Many would argue that with part II the Species films had already reached a sufficiently abysmal quality level as to deserve to go straight to video . There was , however , too much money spent on the first sequel and too much interest in the series still left over from the 1st film for this to be an option , but with part III there are no theatrical shenanigans in sight . Species III is a direct to video mess from start to finish . It was hard enough to believe in Species II that they made a clone of Sil , but I suppose it can be believed since the scientists wanted to study her for weaknesses that could be used in case another outbreak of aliens occurred . So in the original film , Sil was created , escaped promptly and went looking for a mate . She was a vicious enemy throughout , and her pursuers were desperate to capture and kill her , knowing at least vaguely what she was capable of . In part II they make a clone and keep her in a huge glass cage , which is more like a living room surrounded by thick glass , and complete with everything from a treadmill to a television set . Dr . Baker , the lead scientist , even routinely went inside the cage with her and the two had civilized conversations . In part III there is a male scientist that seems to think that the new Eve , this time named Sara , is his daughter . He even tells her stories as he tucks her into a bed in his house . Part III starts where part II left off , with the fatally wounded Eve being transferred by military ambulance to be disposed of . I like that two low level guys are sent off alone with Eve's body , with not a single other vehicle along to make sure that the transport gets safely to its destination . Needless to say , all hell breaks loose in the form of two babies born from Eve's dead - then - alive - then - dead - again body , after which the movie has no idea where it's supposed to go . At least I assume they were both born in the ambulance , One of them was just kind of there . There is so little effort put into maintaining any linearity to the aliens in this film , since they grow and change so fast , that pretty soon you'll find yourself just accepting that there are a lot of aliens running around trying to mate , as well as lots of half breeds complicating matters further . Our hero may be the dumbest thing about the entire movie , and not by any fault of Robin Dunne , the actor who played him . It seems that Dean is working on a fission reactor , giving a tour of his team's progress at the beginning of the movie , only to rush out and arrive late to class , at which point he is scolded by his idiot professor as if he were in 3rd grade . His professor soon starts fantasizing about viruses , soon becoming furious that someone would be so inconsiderate to plan the destruction of the only remaining smallpox virus still in existence , which is kept contained for studying purposes . Not only does he almost get emotional about a virus , but when Dean points out some of the imperfections of viruses , his professor becomes furious with him once again , and then a student pushes past him outside of class , angrily calling him a " specist . " I had no idea that viruses had interest groups . It was nice that Natasha Henstridge made a notable guest appearance at the beginning of the film , although she only served to remind the viewer that no one else but her can play the alien in a Species film . The combined alien and human DNA has once again cooked up some more staggering hotties . Not only does this genetic combination consistently cook up hot blondes , but now breast implants have been added to the blonde and a brunette is thrown in for good measure . Yes , Sunny Mabrey is nice enough to bare her plastic breasts for much of her screen time . The brunette alien , who appears in the film out of nowhere , has a quick and wildly unsexy sex scene with a gas station attendant before speeding off in her $140 , 000 Ferrari , leaving a skewered carcass and the rest of the gas station employees just as clueless as us in the audience . Amelia Cooke , who plays the brunette alien , does offer a shining moment of interest well into the fourth half hour of this film and after an hour and a half of slogging through a lot of pus-filled , gooey sci-fi crap . This movie is so bad and so unforgivably long , however , that even her relatively shining performance has a hard time rising above the slop in which it is mired .
One of the weakest action thrillers I've seen in years .	Rising Sun is an exercise in bad screenwriting . It presents a story about big bad Japanese businessmen / gangsters and the crooked sale of a massive corporation called Microcon . The movie starts off with a goofball karaoke scene where Eddie Sakamura , the lead bad guy in another absolutely awful performance by Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa , singing a country song called Don't Fence Me In , in a scene that's probably one of the most pathetic attempts to develop a three dimensional character in cinematic history . Ted Danson ' Peter Lowenstein in Body Heat ( 1981 ) was three dimensional because he had an interest in dancing that went beyond his character's obligatory role in the film . Here , this scene is thrown in at random just so we can try to pretend that this is a real person and not the facelss , stereotypical bad guy that we see for the rest of the film . Just after this terrible scene ends , we are taken to the meeting about the sale of Microcon , and the movie again trips over itself by trying in pathetic vain to create suspense during nearly silent deliberations over this sale in a conference room , and if you manage to stay awake long enough , a seedy murder soon follows , the solution of which the rest of the movies tries to present . The worst of the screenplay writing comes in about when Sean Connery's John Connor ( real creative name , guys ) is introduced , and continues pretty much until the end of the film . Welsey Snipes embarrasses himself by taking on a role in which he serves no other purpose than to be Wesley Snipes so that his name can go on the cover of the movie and trick action fans into thinking this might be another fast paced Snipes film ( he's not the best action hero in the world , but he has certainly come out with better stuff than THIS ) , and to stand around and ask questions like a confused child . From the moment that Connor comes into the story , just about every time any character says anything , it is immediately followed by another character explaining what the hell is going on . There are two lengthy scenes that come almost one right after another where Web Smith ( Snipes ) and Connor are driving in the car , and Connor is explaining what is going on to the baffled Smith . LAPD nothing , this guy is more clueless than a dropout from Right Hand Roger's 24 Hour Junior Police Academy . The plot continues to jump through clichéd thriller hoops , with Connor all the while wowing Smith with his tactics and vainly trying to wow the audience as well , but it is somehow very difficult to be entertained by a movie that spends the majority of its running time explaining itself , and sometimes even badly . There is a scene early in the film at the murder investigation where Connor steps into the conversation ( because Smith , as he predicted , got himself into trouble ) and makes an unpredictable move , and then later when he's explaining to Smith what just happened , he ends by saying , ' Now Mr . Yoshida owes me a favor ? Deep , isn't it ! ' Well , since you asked , no , it's not deep . Not even a little bit . And neither is the rest of the movie .
Most overrated TV show since ? ah ? I don't know . Maybe ever .	When I first heard of " Prison Break , " I was a little apprehensive because I didn't understand how they could stretch out an escape from prison into a fully developed television series . Then I watched it and I was blown away completely . It is very easy , on the other hand , to understand how they could fill a television series with entertaining and fresh material with the concept of a lot of people stranded on a mysterious island after a plane crash . " Lost , " therefore , comes out of the gate at a gallop . The pilot episode , after all is certainly thrilling . But like " Heroes , " the show very soon falls off a cliff . I am truly amazed at how many glowing reviews I've read of " Lost " on the IMDb , and while I hesitate to criticize a show that so many people clearly love , I can at least try to clear up some misunderstandings . One user , for example , bob _ jones , complains about people who say the show is clichéd because the cast is diverse . No , we don't want to see an all-white cast , but it is truly undeniable that all of the characters are types . You have the people who can't speak English ( or can they ? ) , the token black guy and his son , the angry surfer dude , the young doctor whose training and movie-star good looks will surely be invaluable ( especially to the writers ) , the fun , relaxed fat guy , the silent , grieving wife , the drug addicted musician , the extremely pregnant blonde , even the brooding middle eastern guy who turns out to have been an Iraqi interrogator ! 3 years after September 11th ! ! I didn't know we were letting former Republican Guard interrogators fly into our country quite yet . How could you NOT complain about that cast ! ! ! Hey you want to know what I did notice though ? Despite the fact that this was a flight from Sydney , Australia to New York , I think , there was NOT ONE Australian in the cast . Go figure . Bob _ jones then says that it's only the people who " have a hernia " if every single detail in the pilot episode isn't exactly correct . Personally I could care less about every detail . Your average television series is a little too long for me to pay attention to goofs like in a regular film . The problem with the show is that there are no rules . A lot of people stuck on a desert island is a scenario that allows for countless different possibilities . I mean , the longer they are trapped on the island , the more you could tell about their lives . But instead , on " Lost " they create this bizarre world that has absolutely no connection with reality . It is therefore impossible to generate any real tension , because they are not on an island , they exist only in the writers ' unruly imaginations . The show never goes for any realism , so instead it comes off as just watching to see what kind of cockamamie situation they can dream up next . Consider , for example , the discovery of The Hatch , which provides some hope that there are other inhabitants of the island , or at least a fascinating mystery as to the origin of the hatch . Sadly , what they discover is a computer where you have to enter a series of numbers every 108 minutes or else , ah , something , um , might happen . This HAS to be a joke . When I saw that , the only thing I could think about was the writers conducting a little psychological experiment of their own , seeing how long they could keep people interested in such a witless concept . I think you can file that 108-minute thing away with the dumbest plot devices in film or television history . Near the top . Every single character is a cookie-cutter caricature , and the only one who is remotely likable is Hurley , because he seems to be just a likable guy in real life and , most importantly , he's just playing himself . Every single other character comes across as an over-rehearsed actor pretending to be someone else who , in most cases , is also in turn pretending to be yet someone ELSE . Contrived and boring , yes . Mysterious and fascinating ? Not in the least . The major conflicts on the show are that the cast are stuck on a desert island after surviving , for God's sake , a full-sized passenger airliner crash , after which NOT ONE SURVIVOR suffered any real injury , including the pregnant woman ( except for the cleverly named John Locke , who seems to have suffered a spinal injury which restored his ability to walk . Poor guy ) . There is a , ahem , " monster " on the island with astonishing strength but which is nice enough to keep to itself until the plot needs it . Even as full seasons go by . And then , worst of all , there is the discovery of a small population of shockingly vicious people living on the island . They pretend they are living in their own little utopia , which just doesn't explain their immediate hatred and anger at any other people on their island . The more you learn about these people , the more ludicrous the story becomes . It is clear that they are continuing the show because it's making tons of money . The result , obviously , is that they are throwing stuff up on the screen just because people are sitting in their houses watching it , thinking something good is going to happen . I wonder how long it will be before people figure out that the creators of the show are just as clueless as the audience ? .
When did this movie take place again ?	Okay , I'm not going to waste your time blabbering on and on about twelve-story ocean liners being made in the 19th Century , because I don't think it's something that needs to be pointed out . We all know that suggesting the existence of a cruise liner like that in 1899 is absolutely ridiculous , although it speaks volumes about the movie that such a massive break with reality needs not even be mentioned because it's already so obvious . The automatic suspension of disbelief can only be expected to go so far . On the other hand , The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen is not a movie that presents itself as intending to be taken all that seriously . It's clearly an adventure film made purely for entertainment purposes ( and not in the slightest way meant for any kind of cognitive or logical appreciation ) , so there are some goofball things in it that are certainly expected to be taken in good fun . Like , for example , the fact that absolutely nothing in the film makes any sense . Let's assume that you can overlook the fact that not only does an ocean liner of that sheer magnitude exist in the late 1800s , but it is also able to cruise casually through those miniscule canals in downtown Venice . You know , the ones that are spider-webbed with tiny pedestrian bridges every block or so . I hate to say this , but I've never even been to Venice and I still knew enough to slap my forehead when I saw that . If you're able to swallow THAT , you're probably not going to be ready for many more breaches of reality , in which case you better stop watching the movie . So this ocean liner , hundreds of years ahead of its time ( if it will ever have its time ) , zooms through the ocean ' like a sword , ' and we are later forced to watch as an escape pod , probably 75-100 feet across , pops out of the side of it and starts zooming away on its side , propelled by hundreds of huge blades that ring its circumference . Clearly , much of the technology in this film was produced by the same mysterious company ( and with the same intentions of distracting your attention away from the astronomical liberties taken by the films ) that must have been operating in the late 1800s and that made the 80 foot tarantula that we saw in Wild Wild West . So if there's an ocean liner like this in the movie , obviously no one will complain that a futuristic car is able to zoom through the streets in Venice ( note : there are no streets in Venice , as in many other major European cities which were also primarily built before cars existed ) . At least it's not amphibious like the ocean liner / submarine . Okay , sorry . I told you I wouldn't go on about the ship . I'll stop . The thing that really bothered me about this movie , besides the inability to apply even the slightest amount of logic to it , is that it is a Hollywood film that seems to deliver to the world the idea that the mainstream American audience would get a big kick out of watching the massive destruction of European cities that are many times older the nation of America itself . I liked that some band of villains start off by inflicting massive damage with this gigantic tank and robbing banks with it and whatnot in order to turn countries in Europe against each other ( since they each think the other is responsible ) , eventually driving all of Europe to the brink of continent-wide war . A fantastic movie could have been made with this premise . But then you have the entry of all of these characters from old movies and , mostly , classic literature , such as the invisible man , a vampire , the man who can't be killed ( not sure exactly where he comes from ) , Captain Nemo , Dr . Jekyll / Mr . Hyde ( the latter of which is magnified to almost the same cartoonish scale as the Hulk ) , etc . Sure , it was fun to see updated versions of these old characters . As Stephen King would say , people love to see characters from other stories return . It's almost like seeing family again . Sadly , computer generated special effects have made filmmaker's greedy , drunk on the theory that Mr . Hyde can simply be made into a gigantic monster to please the audience . No thought need be applied , just size . Oops . I would just like to say to those of you not in America that Americans do not think it's funny or entertaining to see the massive destruction of faraway cities . I know it's a movie , but the fact that major historical landmarks are defiled and destroyed , even only in computer generated images , speaks badly of our respect for the rest of the world . Oh and can I just say one more thing ? There's a scene near the beginning of the movie in which Sean Connery's character , Allan Quartermain , gets shot at by bad guys with machine guns . Still in 1899 . So he responds by exclaiming , ' Who in the world has automatic weapons ? ' I'd just like to point out that the idea of placing directly into the dialogue ( and using modern terms ) a line that points out a prop that has not yet been invented is just as bad as the scene in Jeepers Creepers where the idiot main character's sister is pointing out that what he's doing is the scene in scary movies where someone does something stupid and the whole audience hates them for it . Direct admission of stupidity is not an excuse for it .
Yes , they're still making them .	Saw 4 opens with John , the Jigsaw killer , dead on a coroner's worktable . As soon as the movie started , I saw a man about to perform an autopsy on the first movie , hoping that somewhere within its lifeless corpse he might find something , anything , with which to fill up another movie . And can you guess it ? He found it . Apparently John swallowed one of those little tapes sometime during part 3 , and the games , unfortunately for us , are not quite over . Maybe he owed the producers a favor . Saw 3 had no reason for being made , so we know that the series is as dead as a doornail by now , so unfortunately I have to say that anyone who sits through this thing can't really complain . Yes , the movie is pathetically bad , but you can hardly feel tricked . Personally , I was just curious to see how they would continue a series that is now so clearly being done only for the profit . There is still the same tired formula of this guy putting people in horrendous situations to punish them for certain moral crimes , generally for not " appreciating their lives . " It was easier to overlook the ridiculous irony inherent in that premise during the first two movies , which were original and fresh , if a little disturbing , but now we are two movies later , the guy is dead , and still there is nothing new . I don't expect to see something new and innovative in every single movie I ever see , but anytime someone makes a good movie , if they make threes sequels they had better be doing something new , and Saw 4 definitely is not . The first big torture scenario involves two men chained together . One man's eyes are sewn shut , the other man's mouth is sewn shut . The man who can see notices that in the middle of their chain is a machine which will slowly reel them in , ultimately tightening the chain and , I suppose , beheading them . He can also see that there is a key attached to the back of the other guy's neck , which he knows without being told will open the padlock around his own neck . He must have seen the previous movies . Immediately , they start fighting with each other with various metal implements lying around . Why do they start fighting ? I don't know , maybe they're evil by nature and respond to confusion with violence . It's their undoing though , all they had to do was twist their chains and the machine would have snapped it like thread . Then again , this would not have resulted in enough footage of two guys doing horrible things to each other , and the producers would have been unsatisfied . Are you catching on to who the real sadists are here ? Soon we see Karen , whose ribs were torn off in part 3 . It's a terrible sight to see her hanging there with all of her organs exposed , and I am frightened to consider the fate of the soul of the person who came up with that idea . Granted , all she had to do was pour out the acid and take the key out of the bottom of the beaker with minimal acid burns . Maybe she was too scared to think straight . Then again , I would have been more concerned about how the machine was attached to my ribs than how to get the key , which was a pretty simple riddle if I've ever seen one . I'll admit that I had no problem watching the fat guy in part 4 get his eyes put out and then get quartered . If anything new is done in part 4 , it's that it has one guy getting punished for a crime for which he deserves brutal punishment . He violently raped however many women and collected the bloody pictures of them . I didn't catch whether or not he killed them , but it doesn't matter . Seeing someone deserve their punishment was a unique experience in the Saw movies . Then again , later we see an abused wife tied together with four foot rods pierced through their bodies , holding them together . Punishing an abusive husband AND his wife ? Come on . All the wife has to do is pulls out the rods , which will leave her relatively unharmed but which are piercing crucial arteries and organs in her husband's body . Yes , abused wives often have a terribly hard time leaving abusive husbands . Making it this painful is not going to make it any easier . Maybe it's a message to abused wives in the audience , but I doubt there are many . The biggest problem with the movie is that at the end , instead of giving us a good twist like the first two movies did , the story folds back on itself and , in the space of about three seconds , the timeline of the story completely unravels and makes no sense whatsoever . You will be thoroughly confused by the time the end credits start , but the upshot is that you won't care , at least it's over ?
" Wait a minute , you're not a doctor - - ! "	So Seagal is Jonathan Cold , a high-level ex-CIA agent who is now a " freelance operative , " which sounds like nothing more than a title invented for cheesy action movies for a hero who takes matters into his own hands . " Operative " literally means secret agent , and freelance basically means someone who works for themselves , or someone who occasionally works for other people and organizations but is overall self-employed . Oh , and they all thought that Cold was dead . And in case you forget , notice the incessant repetition of the line " I thought you were dead ! " Anyway , you get the idea . Cold is a marksman and an expert in martial arts and nuclear weapons . What a resume ! Marksman doesn't really come into play much , but an expert in martial arts and nuclear weapons is just too perfect ! One for the action and one for the story , right ? This is Action Movie-making 101 . The story involves a group of bad guys which , like far too many of Seagal's recent movies , are stupid , boring action baddie clichés , who want to basically destroy the world and start " a new global economy . " Yeah , whatever . Black Dawn reveals to the world that there is a nuclear test facility in Pasadena , California . I didn't know that , but then again , I also always thought you had to wear some kind of foil suit to handle raw plutonium , but I guess that's not really true . In this movie , one of the bad guys handles it wearing no safety equipment other than a pair of gloves , and he's even smoking a cigarette . This guy is hardcore ! Seagal , unfortunately , just looks like he's not trying anymore . The goal is to get a nuclear weapon away from the bad guys and then away from the populace before it detonates and kills millions of people . We're asked to believe that it would take less than four minutes to get into a helicopter , start it up , take off , and fly out over the ocean and drop the bomb into the ocean and have it sink deep enough to explode without doing any damage . This is a hell of a stretch and is fraught with amazingly bad blue-screen work , but strangely it's the girl's shocked reaction ( " What ? ? " ) when Cold tells her to throw the bomb out the window into the action that seems the most ridiculous . Maybe she wanted to keep it ? We expect very little from a Seagal movie , especially recent ones . He started his career in gritty , hardcore action movies , peaking with Under Siege , but lately his movies go for more story than they can sustain , resulting in cheesy , talky action schlock with too much bad acting and not enough fighting , which is what Seagal's fans really want to see ?
I don't know if it is the single worst of the series , but it's down there ?	Friday the 13th Part VII starts off with a quick summary montage of the last few films , in case you've forgotten anything . It's always good to make sure you're up to speed . I actually appreciate it when sequels do that , to some extent , especially when there is such a long line of films that came previously . In this case , however , we get this montage of what we had seen before and then a whole movie of things that we had already seen before . There is literally not a scrap of originality in this entire movie , which is not a good thing in a series based almost solely on creative ways to kill people . Tina , the main character , gets mad at the beginning of the film because her dad hits her mother during a fight , so she gets into a boat and all sorts of weird things start happening . The lake starts to boil , for one thing , but more importantly , the dock that her father is standing on collapses into the lake , killing him . This is , of course , totally unique and invented for this movie , and doesn't remind me of Carrie or Firestarter at all . The movie is similar to its massively superior predecessor , Part VI , in that it starts off with characters returning to the scene of previous trauma , in this case Tina returns to the lake where her father died because , as her accompanying therapist claims , there is nothing left that they can do for her at the hospital . It just so happens that her father died at exactly the same spot as where Jason was " drowned " at the end of Part VI . At any rate , an undisclosed amount of time has passed , and ultimately Tina's riled emotions cause the water around Jason's body to start boiling , his eyes snap open , and the chain just falls off of him . It definitely rusted through pretty fast , given that it was in fresh water . But no matter , the movie wastes no time in piling on the horror clichés . The interesting characters from the last movie are replaced with more idiot kids who literally do absolutely nothing in this movie but have sex and get killed . YAWN . One genius opens a can of beer upside down over his face , then acts surprised when he starts choking . I couldn't wait to see this jerk get killed , but the characters are such cookie-cutter clichés that by the time he was killed I had lost track of who was who . And no points for guessing that the doctor is not really there to help Tina . It becomes quite obvious very soon in the film that he's not really going to help her much if he keeps insisting to her face that she's insane . But listen to this setup ? a guy is making out with his girlfriend in the woods ( people always found ways to end up in the woods alone at night in this movie ) . She says she's cold and will he go get some firewood . Why don't we just get in a sleeping bag , he says . Ultimately , he agrees to go get wood , gives a bad Terminator line and then , get this , he walks out into the woods WITH A MACHETE , leaving his girlfriend alone . She promptly crawls inside the tent , closes the flap , gets into the sleeping bag , and waits to get killed . Is this the best they could offer ? The sad thing is that the entire movie is filled with enormously clichéd horror movie setups exactly like this one . Later in the film , some blonde girl tells some geek to come skinny dipping with her in the middle of the night , to which he reluctantly agrees . Needless to say he not only doesn't make it into the water , he doesn't even manage to get undressed . Is there going to be a scrap of originality in this entire movie ? I can tell you right now , the answer is no . I just saved you an hour and a half . The most original thing that this movie does is that , after the Screeching Cat scare ( I'm willing to believe that the production team made it a point to put that dinosaur egg into the movie ) , they threw in some thunder and lightning , just in case the cat wasn't enough . In the movie's third act , Jason pulls the power out as he goes to enter the building where the remainder of the kids are . No one cares . Maybe because the lights didn't go out , they just changed color . There are , by the way , no camp counselors in this movie , just teens making out and having sex . No time for plot , character , or story . The movie is nothing more than a series of murder scenes , which also happens to be a description of all of the bad Friday the 13th films . At one point in the movie , some jerk goes to get some food after having sex with some girl , and then barely even pauses before reaching for the refrigerator when he starts slipping around in the blood all over the floor , and at this point all we have to look forward to is the ending , which is drivel of the lowest order . When Tina was flinging things around with her mind , I was waiting for her to twinkle her nose at things or maybe flip her ponytail . That would at least have fit with the level of originality in the rest of the movie . Avoid this one .
David Spade gets a beautiful French girl to fall in love with him . It seems that none of the filmmakers really stopped to think about that part .	David Spade is a very funny man , but his brand of comedy gets real old real quick . He admittedly relies largely on his weaknesses to be funny . You know , the sarcasm , the blow-dried hair , the all-around geekiness . Unfortunately , it seems that he never really tried to develop his acting skills . I have laughed myself to tears because of David Spade in his two best movies , Black Sheep and Tommy Boy ( in both of which he played virtually that exact same character ) , but Lost & Found just wasn't amusing to me . Too much reliance on fourth grade humor and not enough of anything new for anything really good to be said of the film . And what was Sophie Marceau thinking ? ! She went from playing a significant ( although relatively small ) role in the spectacular 1995 epic Braveheart to this garbage ? She must have been pretty desperate . Sure , she looked good in the movie , but the film itself is totally inconsequential and immediately forgettable . David Spade revealed in interviews just before the theatrical release of Lost & Found that he was worried about how the public would react to an actor with his iconography actually getting the girl , and frankly , I think he should have thought about that a long time ago . Watching David Spade kiss someone as stunningly beautiful as Sophie Marceau is like watching a junior high school kid make out with a 30 year old woman . Disturbing , to say the least . The entire film was a jumbled mess of goofy and pointless jokes and bonehead antics , mainly on the part of Spade , as he tries to keep his idiot dog-napping scheme a secret . The gay jokes , the making fun of the foreign guy ( whether he deserved it or not ) , the fact that Spade spends any amount of on-screen time at all running around naked all come together to form a boring comedy that should be blissfully ignored by everyone . Just look at the cover of the movie . David Spade is naked and covering himself with a small dog . This is not something that you want to purposely subject yourself to .
The Exorcism of Casey Beldon . . .	January is not such a good time for movies . The holiday season is over people are getting back to work and school and their normal lives , and the movie studios seem to take this opportunity to unload all their half-witted movies that probably no one is going to be interested in anyway . It seems that way every time I see a movie like The Unborn , anyway . This thing is so thin and weak it's like a cinematic version of weak tea , and weak tea is not something you want your audience to be thinking about while they're suffering through your scary movie . Brought to us by the director of Blade : Trinity ( and pretty much nothing else ) , The Unborn is the story of a girl who had a twin that died in utero because her umbilical cord had wrapped around his neck in the womb and strangled him , and she didn't become aware of it until decades later when his evil spirit decided that he was ready to be born now . Sadly , the movie relies almost entirely on endless shots of creepy kids with deadpan expressions and , occasionally , colored contact lenses . But don't go thinking the clichés stop there , the movie is so jam-packed with cheap horror techniques that it almost feels like an educational experience in everything to avoid doing in making a scary movie . The extreme close-up of the mutated babyface and the sudden screeching noise when the eyes flip open used to be a pretty scary effect . I can't remember when that was , it's been a number of decades now , but there was a time in the distant past when that shot had a cool effect . Now it's been so overdone and copied that it's no loner anything more than a big red flag that the movie you're watching is wasting your time ! In the movie's defense , it has a clear ability to create a tense atmosphere . Much of it is beautifully photographed , and the combination of the slow tracking shots and the moody music give a feeling of unease which , in a better movie , could easily pave the way for a genuinely freaky horror show . But unfortunately , every bit of the rest of the movie is as wispy and uninteresting as a pair of old underwear . Odette Yustman stars as the afflicted Casey Beldon , faced with a terrible situation in which she is slowly losing her soul to an invading demon , back for revenge for that one pesky sibling rivalry that they had before they were born . Poor Casey finds out at the most vulnerable time that she inadvertently killed her own brother , which has to have some kind of devastating effect on a person , even one who is not in such an , ah , emotional state as Casey is in . Oh , and speaking of emotional states , there is a point where Casey is absolutely certain that she is being pursued by an evil spirit , and even when the bizarre things that have been happening to her seem to leave no room for any other explanation , her lunkhead boyfriend says this to her ? " I don't think you're crazy , I just think you're hormonal . " A word of advice , gentlemen ? I don't claim to be any kind of all-knowing expert about the wonders and mysteries of the fairer sex , but I tend to have a natural feeling that if your girlfriend is upset about something , the suggestion that it's " that time of the month " is generally a pretty efficient way to make yourself single . Or bruised and swollen somewhere . And if she's upset because she's being pursued by demons , she may just cut to the chase and kill you . Besides , it's clear that Casey needs a lot of help , because not only does she make all of those breathtakingly stupid decisions that horror movie cannon-fodder generally make , but she also begins to appear more and more crazy to the people around her as she begins to believe more and more that this demonic possession thing is happening to her for real . Of course , making her look crazy is neither surprising nor interesting . It's an ancient horror movie technique intended to make the supernatural element seem more real by giving us someone to relate to ? the people who are looking at this girl like she's a total lunatic . Unfortunately , when the character is so undeveloped and uninteresting that it's impossible to care about her , this crazy element does nothing for the suspense . Except maybe reverse it . There are certainly some interesting visuals in the movie , even some of the clichés ( a good many of them involving the old bathroom mirror scare ) are older than the hills but at least look pretty cool . The spider-walk is lifted directly out of The Exorcist ( and it's such an obvious plagiarism that I'm going to go ahead and chalk it up to an homage ) , and there are some pretty clever manifestations of the demon , but the movie is so slow and plodding and full of half-assed performances ( even the great Gary Oldman is totally dismissable here ) that it feels like even the movie is sleeping through itself . And it doesn't help matters that the climax of the film is an exorcism that consists of a lot of strobe lights and big fans in a low-rent studio . Believe it or not , I didn't hate the movie , but I'm a long-time horror fan and I have a tendency to enjoy horror movies that most other people would punch me for suggesting . But whether or not you enjoy the lower half of the horror genre , it's definitely true that there are quite a few much better movies about demonic possession that would be a far better use of your time than The Unborn . Personally , I suggest The Exorcism of Emily Rose , which is one of the best I've seen ?
Yeah , more like " The Nothing's Happening ? "	So the tagline for The Happening is " We've Sensed It . We've Seen The Signs . Now ? It's Happening . " We've sensed it ? Sensed what ? Seen what signs ? Yeah , we've seen " Signs , " but THE signs of some mysterious coming disaster ? Maybe this " we " in the tagline is referring to the people that live in the parallel world takes place ? At any rate , the first half of the movie is a wonderful exercise in Shyamalan's ability to create an eerie atmosphere and to insert the unusual and otherworldly in an everyday situation . There are weird events taking place that are at first assumed to be the work of some kind of biological terrorist attack . There appears to be some kind of toxin that causes people to become lethargic and then suicidal , leading to some morbidly fascinating scenes such as one in which one construction worker after another silently walks off the scaffolding of a building , falling to their deaths on the ground below . But it is in the reality of the situation that Shyamalan is completely lost . He doesn't have the first clue about how to direct groups of people , which takes away any sense of realism that the movie might have had . There is a scene in a café early in the movie where a large group of people are huddled trying to figure out what to do . One person mentions that the incident doesn't appear to be affecting anyone in an area 90 miles away , so everyone immediately stands up silently and marches out of the café without a word . It is impossible to see these as real , frightened people and not the underpaid film extras that they clearly are . John Leguizamo turns in an outstanding performance but it overshadows his role , which doesn't command such a powerful actor . Mark Wahlberg is very watchable , as always , but it is sad to see so much character and plot development that literally goes nowhere . It's difficult not to think of Village of the Damned when watching this movie , but the movie really falls on its face when one guy starts talking about , get this , a mysterious ability that plants have to target and kill specific predators . I won't reveal the intricate details of what " the happening " is , but when it is revealed , the movie instantly turns irretrievably dumb and makes me pine for the time of the giant bug movies of the 1950s . All I will say is that there is a point in the movie where Wahlberg talks to a plant , asking it permission to be in a house . The goofiness is through the roof in this thing . I also love the use of dialogue in the movie . There is one scene near the end of the film where Wahlberg and his wife have reached a state of hopelessness , believing that their deaths are imminent , and they start talking about the mood rings they tried out on their first date , joking about how the color that turned up indicated that she was horny . Great conversation to have in front of your 9-year-old just before you all suffer a quick and mysterious death ! The " climax " of the movie is the perfect description of the reason for my summary line , and the film ends with an indication that it's not over , and with me sleeping soundly and indifferently on my sofa ?
And a Wayans brother has blown yet another movie .	The original Ladykillers is one of those rare comedy classics that's not really funny anymore , like The Odd Couple . But it is smartly made and it respects itself and its audience . It's a dark comedy but it's a smart one , it has colorful characters who move through the movie in pursuit of questionable goals and suffer through lots of hilarious mishaps along the way . Sure , they're not funny , but you have to appreciate the situational humor involved . Like the original film , the 2004 remake focuses on a strange ensemble of characters each in it for the money , no one knows anyone else outside the group , and the leader thinks he has everything planned out to the most minute detail until everything that can possibly go wrong goes wrong at every turn . I remember when The Ladykillers came out in theaters , where I never had the chance to see it , and I remember being genuinely surprised to see that the Dawn of the Dead remake was getting better reviews than this , the latest Tom Hanks movie . I just don't associate Tom Hanks with movies that get lesser acclaim than remakes of 80s horror films . Then I saw the Dawn of the Dead remake and I understood why it was getting better reviews . Now I've seen The Ladykillers and I understand even more . Tom Hanks , as is to be expected , delivers a spot-on performance as an intellectual from the deep south , brilliantly pulling off not only the accent but the demeanor and earthily classy mannerisms as well . Not that I'm some expert on the deep south , but consider his introduction into the film , when he knocks on Mrs . Munson's door and reluctantly pursues her escaped cat ( ' Won't the cat eventually pine for its masters affections and return of its own initiative ? ' ) . I love stuff like that . You don't just come up with dialogue like that , it takes a lot of talent to enhance the complexity of a simple sentence like that . The film has started off on the right foot . And then , of course , you have Marlon Wayans , the most catastrophic casting decision in the entire film by far . I'm confused by his impressive performance in Requiem For A Dream , because in every other movie I've ever seen him involved with he has been an absolute disaster . His ridiculous character screaming mind-numbing streams of profanity single handedly ruined this movie , the Scary Movies , which he wrote , are some of the worst , most sickening slop I've ever seen recorded on film , and Senseless and White Chicks are two movies that I am determined never to see . I'll watch a movie even if I know it's going to be a disaster ( I've seen all three Scary Movies , for example ) , but this time I'm putting my foot down . I can't even IMAGINE sitting through White Chicks , and no amount of curiosity about the formation of Marlon Wayans ' idiot iconography will persuade me to watch Senseless . I'm struggling not to swear off on sight anything that he is ever involved with again . Look at Jamie Foxx , for example , another actor whose career sprung from the dregs of television , In Loving Color . He's certainly been in his share of tasteless roles , but has built up his career to the point where he is generating Oscar buzz for his massive performance in the upcoming Ray , not to mention other great films like Ali , Collateral and , to a slightly lesser extent , Redemption . Wayans is still running around acting like a complete moron in ridiculous roles like this one , single-handedly destroying what should have been a classy and clever remake of a classic . Then again , maybe it's unfair to compare Jamie Foxx and Marlon Wayans , since Wayans could never hope to possess the tiniest fraction of the talent that Foxx has , but you have to have your limits . Never in my life have I seen a Tom Hanks movie that made it so easy to picture him trying to hide his face at the premiere . What kind of a turn is this for the Coen brothers , who generally have characters so rich and interesting that they overshadow most of the rest of the film ? Their movies are not about their stories , they're about the characters . In this film , every single character is a cliché . The stolid general , the idiot jock literally without a thought in his head , the ludicrous MacSam ( Wayans ) who is nothing but a spewing fountain of profanity and a direct insult to the African American audience , one character is even defined by his having irritable bowel syndrome . I really expect more from the Coens , who we have to thank for such masterpieces as Raising Arizona , Fargo , The Big Lebowski and O , Brother , Where Art Thou ? ( spoilers ) Wayans ' brain-dead performance is thankfully outweighed slightly by the strength of Mrs . Munson's character , but unfortunately her character is also a turn from the point of the original film , from which most of the humor was derived . That movie wasn't even very funny , so I would think that every effort possible would be made to maintain the comedy , much of which came from the situation of a lot of men trying to pull a fast one on a sweet little old lady , but who catches on to their game and ends up in control of everything . In this version , you have a lot of men trying to sneak around Mrs . Munson as though she were their mother . She is smarter and stronger than all of them , which removes the irony of their defeat and a large foundation of the comedy in the story . Then the Coens tried to make up for that loss by writing a character like MacSam and succeed only in digging the hole deeper . The Coen brothers have teamed their powerful directing and writing skills with the astronomical talents of Tom Hanks , and thanks in large part to a typical Wayans performance , they have indeed laid a multi-million dollar egg . Miss it .
WARNING : DO NOT WATCH WHILE EATING . DO NOT EVEN WATCH IF YOU HAVE EATEN IN THE LAST SIX TO EIGHT HOURS . IN FACT , TAKE SOME TUMS IN ADVANCE .	ExistenZ is an exercise in bad taste combined with a reasonable budget , which was acquired despite an almost total absence of any sort of interesting story . Actually , before I go that far I should say that the story is , in fact , fairly complex and operates on several levels , but it is executed so badly and downright grotesquely that the story is often completely irrelevant , as though each scene is trying to outdo the last in distracting the viewer from what the whole movie is about in the first place . Jennifer Jason Leigh plays the part of Allegra Geller , a star video game programmer who is just about to come out with the most technologically advanced video game ever created . Evidently , the game is able to tap into players ' minds so that they actually LIVE the video game in virtual reality . Needless to say , that fine line between reality and virtual reality becomes more and more blurred until all sorts of crazy havoc ensues . The danger of the game is first hinted at in an early scene where Allegra is conducting a closed-door demonstration of her new game and some nutcase attacks her with an alarmingly ORGANIC weapon ( for lack of the NEED for a better word , as it turns out ) , which initially seems like some crazed weirdo raised by video games but , after a moment's thought , is probably more likely someone who has had contact with the game . Sort of like Vincent Grey in the Sixth Sense . At any rate , I would say that the movie takes it's first precipitous plunge when we see the video game controllers which , like the weapon that nutcase used to try to kill Allegra , are not only disturbingly organic to the point that they are more like creatures than controllers , but they are operated through the use of equally disturbing fondling motions , as though the players compete with each other by trying to pleasure their controller better than their opponents . And don't even get me started on the bio-ports . Very few times have I ever seen such things in a movie , although it's not necessarily new from director David Cronenburg , who has a history of putting weird sexual things in his movies ( see Crash , which he directed just before taking on eXistenZ ) . In my personal opinion , a lot of things in eXistenZ were unappealing simply because they were not necessarily offensive , but simply distasteful in a pretty literal sense . Consider , for example , the scene where our heroes , Allegra and Ted Pikul ( another great performance from Jude Law ) are eating in a suspicious restaurant , and Pikul gradually discovers that the hideous piece of meat that he is eating can be assembled into a greasy gun much like the one used to attack Allegra near the beginning of the movie . Maybe I was just completely put off by that scene because I was eating barbecued chicken while I was watching it . I was absolutely horrified , I almost had to turn the movie off . Interestingly enough , the video game plot is complex and simplistic at the same time . It reveals either a deep understanding of Allegra , the main character , or an excessively weak script , or both . Maybe the former was a lucky byproduct of the latter . While inside the game ( which gradually becomes increasingly difficult to determine ) , they follow a rather childish path , following cues that sound like something a little kid would make up while writing a story for a homework assignment . A creepy country gas station attendant named Gas tells them to look for a Chinese restaurant in the forest , and order the special , while turning down such immensely appetizing dishes as mutants and reptiles . But then , of course , we have scenes like the one where Ted performs cunnilingus on Allegra's bio-port . I think it's safe to say such things don't turn up in many homework assignments . Clearly , the movie's message is mostly about the dangers of extensive video gaming and the addictive nature of the way they detach us from reality . Movies do the same thing , but good movies cause you to use your mind , to think about things ( much like good video games , and both are unfortunately rare ) . So this is not a new idea , but where the movie really suffers , aside from a lot of its stomach-turning imagery , is in the fact that it is lost in the wake of the massively superior Wachowski brothers film The Matrix , released the same month . Big movies have a tendency to arrive in pairs , and one always seems to be hugely superior to the other . Independence Day and The Arrival , Armageddon and Deep Impact ( the latter being the vastly superior , obviously ) , Antz and A Bug's Life , Volcano and Dante's Peak , etc . There was a big difference in likability between Antz and A Bug's Life rather than in quality , but in this case , while it has been hailed by many critics and fans alike , I found eXistenZ to push the envelope of bad taste past the breaking point and into the realm of weirdness with its often revolting mixture of ham-handed , graphic sexual imagery and what Roger Ebert described as showing ' characters eating things that surgeons handle with gloves on . '
This film cannot even be taken seriously as a movie not to be taken seriously . Although it does deliver a few sparse laughs , the sheer deliberate stupidity of the acting just gets ridiculous almost immediate	Clearly , Earth Girls Are Easy is not a film that its writers meant to win any awards or tell any important message . The cartoonish appearance of the aliens and the laughable fact that they have a human appearance once their pastel fur is shaved off is a joke . This film as a whole is boring and immediately forgettable . Given the fact that alien beings , if they do exist , could be in virtually ANY form ( and almost definitely not a humanoid form ) , I find it difficult to believe that the aliens in this movie were nothing but hairy humans . At some points their mentalities seem infantile as they vainly try to assimilate into the human lifestyle , and then you have to acknowledge the fact that they were able to learn the English language in its entirety in a matter of hours . One of them even becomes romantically involved with Valerie ( Geena Davis ) , and seems to know all of the problems that arise in romantic relationships . I can't stand movies like this ! A valley girl in California is sunbathing in her yard when a spaceship crash-lands in her swimming pool . That's another thing , by the way ; a spaceship capable of interstellar travel and yet small enough to fit in a swimming pool ? These guys should have tried to get jobs designing compact cars . A bunch of hairy aliens emerge from this little bitty ship , and Valerie becomes friends with them . She and her friend CANDY ( as respectable a name as any ) decide to shave them and find that they all resemble mediocre ( at the time , at least ) Hollywood actors . Their adventures into the world of Southern California provide for a couple of uncertain and unconvincing laughs , yet mostly serve to bore and annoy . Have you so far heard any reason to watch this film ? That's because there is none . To make matters worse , the film was partially a musical . I don't have anything against musicals , but it was bad enough that the aliens figured out the human race in a matter of a day or two , now we are asked to believe that they like to sing and dance on the beach . Besides that , some of the songs seem to have been thrown in for no apparent reason ( " Because I'm blonde " comes immediately to mind ) . Maybe I am being too harsh on this film , but I watched it mostly because I had never seen it and I am a huge Jim Carrey fan , and I was just hugely disappointed . The target audience for Earth Girls Are Easy is incredibly immature , so if you are out of elementary school , I would suggest that you avoid this one .
Should have been called Timewave !	I have an undying love of time travel movies , I think it's one of the single most interesting premises ever applied to motion pictures , and even here in A Sound of Thunder , I was interested for the first half an hour or so until I realized that it has absolutely no understanding of how time travel paradoxes work . Of course , no one has ever travelled through time , so all we know about what would happen if you travelled to the distant past and changed something is only theory , but the minor application of simple logic suggests that if you travel to the Cretaceous period and then change something , that change remains in that time , changing everything for millions of years until modern times . Meanwhile , the time traveller will arrive instantly back in his or her own time to find everything instantly changed . Not in this movie . Here , all the changes take place gradually , in " time waves , " which are basically just astonishingly bad CGI tidal waves , as though Father Time is only gradually beginning to realize that someone has tricked him . You see , each wave changes different things , animals , plants , weather , etc . and of course , the humans will be changed by the last wave , so that they can watch all of the other changes taking place while they wonder what will happen to them . Good thing the movie has an expert who somehow knows how all of this stuff works . What I really like is that , after the first wave , the two main characters are standing near an overturned vehicle , where a crowd of people have gathered and are all crowded around the vehicle , evidently more interested in the fact that it's on its side than that their entire city has instantly reached an advanced state of decay . Things start to get complicated when Travis Ryer , Edward Burns , tries to go back and stop the first crew from making the first change , but this time , instead of the computer missing the landing site by five minutes , she misses by tens of millions of years , sending Ryer into the old west , right in front of another time wave . And by the way , one person on the IMDb suggests a plot hole in the fact that we aren't told how they always go to the same spot in time . They go back to the same point in time because the computer , Tammie , I think they called her , is programmed to send them there . The physics and calculations involved in doing that are not explained , but obviously to attempt such a thing would be confusing and meaningless anyway . It was about 35 minutes into the film that I knew it was going to be pretty disastrously bad , there was going to be no redeeming turnaround where it would get better in the second half . Of course , movies like this almost never do that . The reason to keep watching is to see what kind of things they come up with , even if they are badly animated . I wanted to see what changes would happen to the humans . We never do , of course . That would be too complicated for cartoonish special effects like this . All we see are some bizarre gorilla dinosaurs , and luckily Ryers happens to know their " only weakness . " Time travel is endlessly fascinating to me , but sadly , this one goes down as a boring failure .
Yet another failed second sequel .	It's extremely difficult to make a good " Part 3 " in any franchise , and Saw is a perfect example . The descent in quality from parts 1 and 2 to this one is so precipitous that it makes me think of the fact that , in trilogies or otherwise , good second sequels are extremely hard to come by . Back to the Future and Alien 3 are the only two that I can think of at the moment , and there's a Saw 4 . It starts with the investigation of a man who had chains attached to numerous parts of his body , and he had to rip them off in order to get out of a room before a bomb exploded . One of the detectives says that that was " all he had to do . " He gets mocked for this by another detective , since the man had to rip chains out of both of his Achilles tendons . Makes it a little hard to walk out of anywhere . At any rate , before long we sit through a pointless series of scenes showing the kidnappings of various victims , ripe for the fast-forward button . By this point in any series or franchise or whatever , the formula will be getting pretty old and tired unless something new is added . There's nothing new here . It's the same old crap about this guy John Kramer somehow having the time to devise unbelievably complex torture devices and little puzzles for the victims to try to solve in order to escape . The biggest problem is that by now it is getting so ridiculous to see this guy devise schemes to literally rip people to pieces while at the same time trying to criticize people for neglecting children and wives . What ? ? ? Sorry John , but the brutal tortures and murders are having the little unexpected side effect of damaging your credibility just a tiny bit . In this installment , John has kidnapped a doctor and is forcing her to keep him alive . I love her introduction , by the way . She performs one of those movie operations where she does something miraculous , saves a young child's life , and everyone around her gets mad at her for it . I love that . Talk about not being appreciated . And on top of that , her marriage is falling apart . Soon she finds herself kidnapped and wearing a collar that's basically half a dozen guns pointed at her throat . Maybe my own luck isn't so bad after all . And the brilliant talent of Angus Macfadyen is totally wasted as Jeff , Dr . Denlon's ( Bahar Soomekh ) husband and another of Jigsaw's victims . Here's the whole movie - " Hello so and so , I want to play a game . The device you are wearing is attached to your whatever , in order to escape you'll have to pass a series of tests . Let the game begin . Blah blah blah blah blah ? ? " If this is getting old for you , don't feel like you're missing anything if you stop watching these movies now . By this point , the Saw films are only for hardcore Saw and horror fans , the latter of which I used to consider myself but with each movie like this that comes along , the further away from the genre I feel . Remember Hostel ? If that's where horror movies are going , to that level of vacuous thought and logic , I'm done , I can tell you that right now . Saw 3 is a hundred times better , but still a bad movie . One of the major revelations that this sequel adds to the series is that we see an interesting setup to the original film , as well as behind the scenes of how and why some of the devices are created and Amanda's relationship to Kramer , the killer . Their relationship is ridiculous in the extreme , they just don't make a lick of sense as human beings . Not even a drug addict would get as emotionally attached to such a pasty , brutal man as this guy . Her tears before his surgery are outdone in bizarre ridiculousness only by her reaction of disgust during his surgery . Ripping that woman's rib cage apart didn't seem to bother her so much . Maybe it was the licensed physician that was worrying her . Speaking of which , there is nothing dumber than people who blame doctors for their illnesses . Dr . Denlon was one of the diagnosing doctors of Kramer's " inoperable tumor , " so he decides to kidnap her and punish her for , I don't know , not being able to operate . Maybe if she was Superdoctor and could do an operation that no one else in the world could do he wouldn't be so upset . Then again , Jeff , in anguish over his son's death by a drunk driver , allows a witness who fled out of shock and fear to freeze to death before his eyes for doing something that a good percentage of normal people would have done . She was terrified ! And then he considers allowing the judge who sentenced the killer too lightly ( what state gives 6 months to drunk drivers that kill kids ? ? ) to drown in rotten pig guts . Following that kind of logic , I wouldn't have been surprised if he had wanted to punish God for the irony of letting a drunk driver kill his son in the middle of a sunny day . The end of the film has an unexpected level of complexity , some of which works , but also includes an unintentionally hilarious shotgun blast and a device called " the rack " which is truly sickening and disturbing , and not in the good horror movie kind of way . The end of the series is WELL past due , yet I'm sad to see that there is a part 5 being made . I hope they can manage to get a shot of someone kicking a dead horse into the movie somewhere ?
Steve Carell's most disastrous failure so far ?	There was something that told me that Dan in Real Life was going to be a great comedy , one of those overlooked gems that come along and don't get the recognition that they deserve until years later ( like The Big Lebowski ) . MAN was I wrong . This is a sappy , awkward , uncomfortable drama that thinks it's a comedy but ultimately never figures out which direction to go . It presumes to give us a realistic story of a single father raising three daughters some years after the death of his wife and their mother , but then gives us a cheesy , half-wit sitcom that's about as realistic as The Great Outdoors and not as funny . Dan is a single father raising three daughters ? oh wait , I already said that . We learn about the relationship between Dan and his daughters as they're gearing up for the road trip out to their annual family reunion . The youngest daughter is wise beyond her years , the middle daughter is growing exasperated to learn what kind of man her father really is , and the oldest teenage daughter is in love with some punk kid . Dan finding thongs in her laundry doesn't make him feel any better . In fact , the only thing that is remotely realistic about the movie is the relationship between the girls and their father . The tension in the house is through the roof and is never overdone or unrealistic , but it's also never funny even for a second . OK , so here's what happens , you'll love this . Soon after arriving to meet the family , Dan is in a bookstore and has a highly scripted run-in with Marie ( Juliette Binoche ) , a beautiful brunette with whom Dan feels an immediate connection . They have a quick coffee together before she gets a phone call and has to leave , revealing to Dan that she is already in a relationship . Dan goes back to his house and starts talking about this amazing woman he just met , and then his brother Mitch proudly introduces his girlfriend , Marie , to the family . So most of the comedy results from Dan and Marie trying to keep their secret from the family , but unfortunately all it leads to is a lot of awkward and uncomfortable situations that even the eternally awkward Ben Stiller might hesitate to be a part of . Dan is summarily ignored by everyone in the family while they dote on Marie , urging her and Mitch to get married and acting as if Dan's not even there . At another point Dan loses his temper and creates a huge scene during dinner . Marie and Mitch get all cuddly and touchy feely in front of him and I guess we're supposed to laugh good-naturedly as he watches helplessly . Oh but wait , that's not even the good part ! There is a scene in this movie where Dan's brother-in-law , while in the same room with Dan's mother and father , urges Dan to masturbate so he doesn't get too " backed up . " He reminds Dan , in front of his MOTHER , that it's important to " unplug the drain . " God , it was awful . I'm gonna go ahead and put something out there . First of all , this is not an original scene . It was as old as the hills when it came up in American Pie ten years ago , but I'm going to go ahead and suggest that such a thing has never ever ever ever happened in real life . Such things only happen in bad comedies like Dan in , ahem , Real Life . Every cliché is represented here . The tactless brother-in-law , the obligatory scene showing that people in movies don't understand that dance-offs are simply not funny , the sketchy blind date with the chick who turns out to be crazy hot , even ( my favorite ) the " oops I'm so sorry I just fell down and well shucks here I am laying right on top of you " routine . What ever happened to real life ? The title of this movie is an even bigger lie than Friday the 13th Part IV : The Final Chapter ! Eight chapters later , I'd just like to finally put this on the record - Final chapter my ass ! ! Or consider this . There's a scene in the movie where Dan finds himself standing in the shower fully clothed with Marie while she showers with Dan's daughter just outside the shower curtain talking to Marie about her love and sex worries . So if you imagine such a thing could ever be amusing , then by all means I won't dissuade you from watching this movie . But I will tell you this - I can imagine that there was a time when this movie looked good on paper , but something went wrong along the way and the result is a static , depressing drama without a scrap of personality . And one of the biggest problems is that Juliette Binoche , a tremendously talented actress , doesn't have a shred of chemistry with anyone on screen and looks completely out of place anywhere in the movie . She comes across as a classy European traveler , and the movie never aspires to explain how such a woman could end up with a tool like Dane Cook . The movie wants to be a charming family romantic comedy about love gone wrong and then right , or something like that , but unfortunately it comes across as a thoroughly depressing snooze-fest that is neither realistic nor amusingly fictional . The story ultimately contorts back on itself and forces a cookie-cutter Hollywood ending and even a cloying inspirational voice-over speech that rivals the one at the end of Bride Wars for pure , happy crappiness . Let's just be honest , shall we ? The thing is a train wreck . Enjoy at your own risk !
At least it was funny ?	An American Werewolf in London is one of the most famous and enduring werewolf films ever made , and for good reason . Now , apparently director Anthony Waller has decided to try to cash in on that film's long ago success , resulting in a slightly amusing but altogether disappointing werewolf romp . Tom Everett Scott stars as Andy , our hero , who is a childish all-American college boy on a European sex tour with a couple of his friends . Interesting that they are keeping score of their sexual exploits , but decide to drop everything in order to help Andy pursue this mildly attractive blonde who they three met as she attempted suicide . Sounds like a keeper . The three guys are illegally camping on the Eiffel Tower one night when they happen across the girl about to jump , while luckily Andy had just been strapping on a bungee cord for his daredevil ( i . e . suicide ) stunt , bungee jumping off the Eiffel Tower . Anyone with two brain cells working at the same time would realize instantly that no one could ever survive bungee jumping off the Eiffel Tower , so it's a good thing that Andy at least winds up in the hospital . After a laughable rescue , thankfully it's followed by a genuinely effective laugh , and thus is the tone set for the rest of the movie . Unfortunately , they didn't know where to relax with the comedy and where to make the horror affective ( note : it never is ) . In the supplemental documentaries included on the DVD , they say that this is the most ambitious werewolf film ever made , which may very well be true , although the story is ridiculous , the cast is just a little too goofy ( imagine filling an ambitious werewolf film with the cast of " Parker Lewis Can't Lose , " and you'll have something pretty close to what's going on here ) , and the CGI , trumpeted as one of the film's proudest ingredients , is never convincing for a second . Just further evidence of my theory that no CGI effect has ever been made scary in film history . The werewolf emerging from the fountain and shaking off is indeed impressive , but still sadly does not look remotely real . Then again , the movie was made more than a decade ago , so maybe that was pretty impressive by 1997 standards . But for all of the stock put into the special effects , I was surprised to see that they made such a blunderous mistake during one of the transformation scenes . There is a groan inducing scene where a human transforms into a werewolf , and as we travel down the body we see it grow thicker and hairier and whatnot , and then the knees apparently snap and bend backwards as the body takes on the pose of a wolf . What the CGI team seems to have forgotten is that wolves have knees just like humans . The " knee " that was formed during this scene is actually the wolf's ankle . Haven't these people ever seen a dog before ? But for all of it's shortcomings ( and there are a great many ) , at least the film has a fair amount of effective comic relief . Most of which , however , is only in the first half , and the movie takes a precipitous decline after about the first 45 minutes . Note : the film crew were allowed astonishing access to film at the Eiffel Tower , which leads me to wonder what the French government thought about that decision when they finally saw the movie ?
Yoo-hoo ! Yoo-hoo !	Shirley Temple once again takes on the role of Mary Lou Rogers , co-starring with her irritating brother Sonny , who is just as contrived and unconvincing as he was in the same role in Pardon My Pups , as I imagine he is in most of the other short films that he stars in with Temple playing Mary Lou . It seems that Sonny's childhood friend is going to be attending what is evidently a very coveted military academy , and after briefly celebrating , Sonny becomes sad , knowing that his own parents can't afford to send him to the same school , and that the news means that he'll be losing his best friend . What follows is a film during which the two boys constantly act just an unrealistically as the Hardy Boys who , when faced with things like the sounds of ghosts in creepy mansions , are famous for uttering such things as " I don't feel obliged to remain in this house one moment longer ! " There are a series of meaningless sight gags thrown into the movie as the boys set out to search for gold in the desert of California , setting off on bumpy dirt roads in an old jalopy ( which I suppose may have been brand new at the time ) on the sides of which are such crudely scrawled handwritten phrases as " Chickens Ride Inside , Roosters Ride Out , " and " No Good on Dirt Roads . " Shirley tags along , the curious little sister who wants to go hang out with the big kids , and ends up running into a strangely well-dressed but crazy man in the desert , who struggles to get her to ask him silly questions but fails because she already knows the answer . Turns out he is a man of some level of fame who has been suffering from amnesia , brought on by a cause which is never explained . Not that it matters , his whole presence in the movie is never explained . My theory is that they just needed a reason to have a man diving into a mirage that is really just hot sand to add to the sight gag of the kids plowing a wooden shack to the ground because they thought it was a mirage , just like the cavernous mansion that disappeared before their eyes earlier . Of the few of Shirley Temple's early short films that I've seen , I've found that the ones in which she plays Mary Lou , co-starring with Frank Coghlan Jr . as Sonny , are by far the least entertaining and amusing , and this one is no exception . Temple is just as charmingly adorable as she always is , but with that level of instant adoration , they could certainly do better than this . I think her cuteness worked against her in some ways , because she's been in many films which have little else to offer .
A story for the former child star in all of us !	Yeah , I don't have any former child star in me , either . A movie about a former child star who has grown into a man with a massive ego and a non-existent fan base should have been the perfect part for such a successfully sarcastic and condescending actor like David Spade , but rather than pursue a story about a man trying to come to grips with life as a normal adult after a childhood as a cutesy TV star , Dickie Roberts : Former Child Star instead turns into some weird melodrama involving this guy seeking to become a normal person by hiring a decidedly un-normal family to treat him like one of the kids . Easily the best and most interesting thing about this movie are the many cameo appearances from lots of former child stars , playing the parts , for example , of some of Dickie's equally un-famous friends . The dysfunctionality of the family that Dickie joins renders his total transformation utterly unbelievable , even outside the fact that the entire plot is structured so that things will work out happily ever after in the end . We see Dickie in a scene early in the movie , traveling through the middle of the desert with his outrageously beautiful girlfriend Cyndi , played by Alyssa Milano . Evidently , even though he has grown up to be a nobody , he still has a Hollywood girlfriend . What she likes about him is left a mystery , but clearly it's not the fame and it definitely can't be the hair . Apparently , the movie exists in a parallel universe where your personality really does define your outward appearance , because Cyndi turns out to be such a vicious nightmare that a former child star is just about the best she can do for a boyfriend . ( spoilers ) Dickie joins into this family ( apparently with financial troubles although you could never tell , given the sheer magnitude of their house ) , and it turns out that the father has some wandering eyes , stays out all night and grows indignant at questions about where he is , and storms out of the house in a tantrum at the slightest provocation . In other words , he is in the movie for no other reason than to pop in to occasionally fill the father role and then to run away with Dickie's awful girlfriend , leaving his beautiful and sweet wife alone with Dickie . Unfortunately , she has been playing Dickie's mother throughout the movie so far , so it's hard to avoid an incestuous perceptions at their eventual romance . David Spade came up with the premise for the movie , so you can hardly blame them for casting him in the role of Dickie Roberts , but he is so typecast that it is even difficult for him to fulfill this role that almost seems to have been written specifically to accommodate his iconography . You can tell where this presumption goes wrong , because the scenes where he is acting like a smart mouthed , arrogant child star are hilarious , while the scenes where the orchestra kicks in with the sad music to enhance the emotion fall flat . I could see why they foolishly thought this tactic would work . In the scene in Black Sheep where Mike Donnelly ( Chris Farley ) tells Steve Dodds ( Spade ) that he got fired from his job , Spade is actually able to sidestep his ever-present sarcasm and narcissism to effectively display true sympathy . It never works even a single time in this movie , where it is needed so much more . I can overlook stupid movies that at least have a positive message . Deuce Bigalow , for example , was seriously low-brow , but carried a wonderful message about proudly being yourself . Scary Movie1 , 2 , and 3 , on the other extreme , are absolute bottom-of-the-barrel crap without a single redeeming value of any kind . Dickie Roberts does not even begin to approach their staggeringly abysmal level of pure trash , but to whom is the message of this movie directed , whatever that message might be ? Is it supposed to be an uplifting semi-autobiography for struggling former child stars ? If so , it is a movie whose entire target audience appears in the film . If not , it really has no purpose other than a few widely-spaced chuckles .
A million times better than Hostel .	Normally I wouldn't make such an obscure connection , but just a few days ago I watched Eli Roth's latest crapfest , Hostel , and am still reeling from the tremendous impact of unparalleled stupidity that made up that movie . Now , this may or may not matter , but I watched Basket Case because I somehow got it confused with Bad Taste , an early Peter Jackson movie , which I wanted to watch to see how the director of King Kong and Lord of the Rings started his career . When I noticed during the opening credits that it was a different director , I almost turned it off , but decided to stick it out anyway , and I guess I'm not entirely upset that I did . The movie concerns a young man who carries around his grievously deformed , pumpkin - sized Siamese twin brother in a wicker basket wherever he goes . He and his brother are going around seeking revenge on the doctors that separated them and left the slightly less human looking one for dead . Your standard revenge story , except for the wicker basket and it's contents , you might say . The movie features tremendously bad acting , screen writing , direction , special effects , etc . , but oddly enough was clearly painstakingly edited . With everything bad and just cheesy about the movie , it is very clear to me that a substantial amount of time and effort went into the post-production element . Not that that makes a good horror movie , of course . I have to admit that I enjoyed this movie mostly because it reminded me what a good " bad " horror movie is . This movie is so bad that it is fun to watch ? occasionally ? while Hostel , which I recently suffered through in an actual movie theater , is extremely bad and not fun to watch even for a second , and should , in fact , never be viewed by anyone . Ever . I have to say that with all of the blood and screaming that takes place in this movie , the hardest scenes to watch are the ones where Duane feeds Belial , his hideously malformed brother . Maybe it was the fact that he fed him an entire bag of hamburgers which were still wrapped in tin foil , but I'm pretty sure it was just the sound effects . The movie has something to be said for it , in that it is certainly effectively disgusting and there are certainly times when it induces genuine cringing ( not the least of which are anytime Belial makes any noise ) , although I will say that an accompanying documentary about searching for the locations where the movie was filmed was a pretty depressing experience . Director Frank Henenlotter looks back with amused chuckles ( thinly veiled regret ? ) at his involvement with the Basket Cases , and is accompanied for some mysterious reason by some goofball who seems more interested in talking about other directors and promoting an obscure musical venture than in talking about Basket Case . There is an interesting display of some of the props used in the films , but Henelotter's fate and , even more , the fate of Richard Pierce , who played Duane's father , are pretty sad . Nevertheless , this is a classic example of some of the gorier and cheesier horror films that were coming out in the 80s , but unfortunately not a classic example of the better ones .
The best " lodger " mystery since Wallace & Gromit and The Wrong Trousers !	I have an undying love of true crime movies . There is something automatically fascinating about a disturbing story of true crime when there is the added effect that it is at least loosely based on real events . It's one of the most important things that makes me love movies like Zodiac or In Cold Blood or Dog Day Afternoon or even Silence of the Lambs , even though the real life element of that one is , ah , a little less specific . The Lodger , as you know , was Alfred Hitchcock's first major film , made in 1927 , well before sound . The new Lodger has a tough time justifying itself , but it is not entirely without effect . The movie tells the story of a mysterious recurrence of Jack-the-Ripper-style murders , although it takes the crimes out of the London fog and replaces it on the wet streets of Los Angeles . A series of brutal prostitute murders have been determined to be exact replicas of very specific Ripper murders , even positioning the bodies the same places and making similar efforts in geography . Complicating matters is the fact that a man has already been jailed and executed for the murders , which unfortunately start happening again . Meanwhile , an unhappy housewife across town is routinely abandoned by her deadbeat husband , who repeatedly tells her basically to take her medication and leave him alone , and by the way , why can't she make herself useful and find a lodger for that old shed in the backyard . Money doesn't grow on trees , woman . She does find a lodger , one who acts sufficiently mysterious and suspicious , and for a while the movie turns into your standard murder mystery thriller , although I was glad to see the addition in the third act of the clouding issue of an unstable mind . It's a story-telling technique that is very easy to screw up , but when it's used right it can add a whole different experience to an otherwise straight-forward and uninteresting story . It is not used here as well as I've seen it used before ( at least in originality ) , but it's true that it adds a much-needed extra layer to an otherwise insufficient story . Unfortunately , because the rest of the movie is a murder mystery the style of which is far too familiar by now , the instability idea seems like an effort to add something to an otherwise weak movie , and it's just not enough to make the movie at all memorable . In fact , some moviegoers will find it outwardly laughable . Alfred Molina plays a detective who is striving to solve the case , although I would expect an actor of his caliber to be spending his time on better movies than this . Unfortunately , despite his performance and a number of other mildly impressive roles , the movie is also peppered with horrible acting and ridiculously badly written characters . The lodger himself , first of all , is of the variety that acts extremely suspicious in ways that could only possibly happen if he were really the killer . When the wife accidentally discovers him burning clothing in the barbecue , he calmly explains that he was just trying to dry them . In a good mystery , perfectly normal behavior is made to be suspicious by the context of other actions , the music , the performances , etc . Who the hell dries pants on a barbecue ? There is also the issue of a psychologist who analyzes the police's evidence about the mysterious killer , and offers an explanation that is little more than a lot of wordy nonsense that sounds like it was thrown together by a Psychology undergrad at UCLA with no other purpose than to sound impressive . Sadly , it doesn't . The ex-wife of Molina's character is also a mental case herself who , for reasons that I won't reveal , is unable to stand the sight of her husband . When she does at one point in the film , she descends into a hysterical fit of screaming which , had it gone on for about another three seconds , would have been enough for me to give up and fling the DVD out the window . But the movie's biggest problem is that it comes off as a standard mystery , the first half of which is designed to show why everyone is a suspect and the second half designed to deliver a thrilling finale that , when it comes , just isn't all that thrilling . The murder investigation is full of movie-miracles ( like a footprint which is leaked to the press and printed " actual size " on the front page of the newspaper ) but the real letdown doesn't come until the final scene , lifted directly out of Psycho and full of psychobabble nonsense . And the psychologist's analysis , believe it or not , takes place before the actual arrest . Fastest mental analysis ever ! ! But it's not so much that the psychological explanation doesn't make sense as much as the fact that the reasons given may send your palm ( s ) flying rapidly to your forehead . So be advised ?
Very bad but not THAT bad .	Yes , Jaws 3 is a bad , bad movie . It's even a step down from the disastrous Jaws 2 , and yet another insult to Spielberg's original , which remains one of the most enduring thrillers ever made . But the Bottom 100 ? At the time of this writing , Jaws 3 stands at # 71 on the IMDb's list of the 100 worst movies ever made , as judged by us , the users . While the movie was certainly ridiculous , it is NOT the 71st worst movie ever made . Maybe this is just a numbers thing , but if movies like Nightmare Weekend and Graveyard Shift ( 1987 ) are not on that list , the Jaws 3 definitely does not deserve to be . What it DOES deserve , however , is a good shellacking for being such a mess . Jaws 3 . interestingly enough , continues more on Jaws 2 than the original Jaws . Jaws 2 at least had the sense to go for creating some of the tension and atmosphere that made the original such a success , while things like the shark turning into a run-of-the-mill movie monster were merely by-products . Jaws 3 takes that descent of the shark from predator to monster and runs with THAT . You can see some of the budding ideas that led to Deep Blue Sea ( another stupid shark movie ) in Jaws 3 , as the shark takes on abilities to roar , swim backwards , swim through the reinforced glass and into the underwater control room , hide itself , and basically hunt like a human . The shark acts so unnatural in this movie that by the end I wouldn't have been surprised if it pulled out a shotgun and started shooting at people . On the plus side , they at least avoided something stupid like have the shark smile , but then again they couldn't resist having a dolphin frantically shaking it's head ' no ' while a couple of diving humans search the sunken Spanish Galleon , bringing themselves dangerously close to the shark . Please . It's things like this that earn the movie worse ratings from the people than it deserves . Indeed , at least one person has pointed out a goof that's not really a goof . When the tour guide is leading people out of the Undersea Kingdom , it's not the green screen set that you can clearly see , but simply the outline of the portion of the Kingdom that they had been standing in . What no one has pointed out , however , is that when they were loading up poison to shoot at the shark , one person fills a syringe and then squirts out probably half of the poison that had been pulled into the syringe , wasting half of it and promptly demonstrating a massive lack of understanding of why that's done in the first place . You point the syringe straight up , flick it to release any air bubbles from the sides , then squeeze until it squirts to make sure there is no air in it . In humans , a single air bubble could mean a stroke and death , in the shark , the more ways to kill it the merrier . Besides , the syringe was held at an angle , and you can clearly see a gigantic pocket of air in it . I've never given an injection in my life and even I know that . ( spoilers ) In the movie's defense , at least it had a mildly interesting premise . Mike Brody , from Jaws 2 , has grown into a strapping young man and works , fittingly enough , at Sea World . He's got this girlfriend with whom he has a goofy movie relationship , she's the dolphin trainer . Much of the first half of the movie is dedicated to showing a couple of dolphins do a lot of jumps and flips , then they disappear completely from the film during the shark portion , and then are cheered at the end for still being alive . One no name dolphin is munched during the course of the movie , but it appears in the movie only long enough to be eaten so it doesn't matter . The movie is probably now best known for being the first , and only , Jaws movie released in 3-D , a cute effect which does not translate well to video . Given the logistics of providing a home video in 3-D , they had no choice but to remove the 3-D effects and release it as a normal film . I really would like to have seen it in 3-D , because it is clear that the filmmakers put more stock in this effect than anything else in the movie . The 3-D scenes stick out like sore thumbs , not just because the movie stops completely in its tracks every time one arrives so that it can linger on screen and audience members can reach out in front of them and try to touch things , but because these scenes on video are so badly computer generated that it's almost funny . And they were right to put a lot of stock into the 3-D effects , because as is now obvious , without them the movie falls on its face as soon as the opening credits . In theaters , these credits may have jumped off the screen and wowed audiences . On video , they do nothing but cover up the water ski pyramid that you're trying to watch . Initially meant to be the first oohs and aahs of the movie , now they simply get in the way of one of the only impressive things in the entire movie . Another stupid thing from Jaws 2 that is added upon here is that Jaws 2 was a stupid teen horror movie , and this one goes for the same cast of stupid teenagers . Granted , they're all older than the kids in the Friday the 13th and Nightmare on Elm Street movies , but consider the bar scene . They entertain themselves by getting drunk and then trying to push each other over in ludicrous games like Standoff , and even worse , consider the scene where Lea Thompson's character , Kelly , is wooed by Sean Brody , who tricks her in a game of Standoff , takes her back to his table , and proceeds to hit on her in the most stupefying way imaginable . The only thing more shocking about how un-charming he is is that Kelly just devours it . With flirting like that going on , we don't need a shark . Humans will go extinct on their own . On the plus side , the following morning provides the only truly funny line in the movie , when Mike Brody offers Sean a cup of coffee ( ' Just throw it in my eyes , it will work faster . ' ) . Unfortunately , the movie cheapens itself by showing a badly decomposed ( and pathetically fake-looking ) body of a shark attack victim . Remember the autopsy scene from the original ? Not a drop of blood and still leaps and bounds more effective than this . The ballasts attached to the shark are back for this installment , but the spirit of the movies is gone . It is nowhere near the classic thriller of the original , but simply a bad b-horror movie . And by the way , what ever happened to the music ? ?
What was all that nonsense about thrills and chills around every corner ?	I read another reviewer who recommended The Glass House because of the satisfactory performance from Leelee Sobiesky despite the fact that there is little to nothing original in the movie . With all due respect , this doesn't strike me as a very relevant statement , because it's clear that Leelee Sobiesky is a massively talented actor , but The Glass House is simply a thriller that covers no new ground , and it doesn't even put any effort into being repetitive . The main problem that I had with The Glass House is that it's one of those thrillers that builds up and builds up and builds up and then just stops , like it forgot the climax . It is a creepy movie in that it contains characters , namely Terrance Glass , the parental guardian with serious money problems , who are so creepy as people that they are almost cartoonish . This is a man the likes of which exists nowhere on the face of the earth but in cheesy thrillers like The Glass House . Leelee Sobieski plays a teenage girl named Ruby whose parents are tragically killed in a car accident . When she and her younger brother are placed with foster parents , friends of the family , it becomes increasingly suspicious that they are the very people that killed them or had them killed . So this is where I get confused . The movie struck remarkably little interest with me , but from what I got , Terrance had the parents killed because he needed money , although we never really find out why . His living accommodations certainly do not suggest a lack of income . There were scenes where he was thrown against walls and whatnot by lowlifes who were demanding money , but my understanding was that they were demanding payment for pulling off the murder of the two parents . So here's my question , and I would appreciate anyone who can set me straight on the matter . Since Terrance and his wife can afford a house as massive as the one in which they live ( as well as a variety of badass sports cars , which include a flashy Jaguar and a freaking Ferrari Testarossa ) , why are they in need of money , if not to pay off the killers ? If the money is NOT to pay off the killers , why did they need money in the first place ? Were they in debt ? Was Terrance so in love with his Testarossa that he would rather have a close friend killed than sell it to help pay off his debt ? I'm sure I'm just missing something there , so it doesn't really bother me too much , but Terrance's cheesy creepiness ( consider , for example , the scene where he swerves recklessly into oncoming traffic and then skids onto the side of the road , only to reach over and buckle Ruby's seat belt as though everything's normal ) by itself reduces the film the b-movie obscurity . Oh , and never mind the way he talks . Can't they create a bad guy without making him talk like Darth friggin ' Vader ? I can't say that The Glass House is not entertaining , because it is , but even that ends up counting against it in the end . The movie most certainly is intriguing , because it piques your curiosity as to why there is so much deception and murder in it , and we want to know the real motives and who the real killers are and all that ( or if the parents were really killed at all ) , but like I said before , the movie builds up literally until the point where it ends , leaving us with the feeling that we just watched an entire movie waiting for a revelation that was never revealed . If you're in the mood for a thriller , watch Clay Pigeons or something . The Glass House plays like the script had a lot of stones thrown at it .
There's snakes out there this big ? ?	Mountain of the Cannibal God immediately strikes me as almost exactly the same thing as Last Cannibal World with a slightly bigger budget . It seems that the cannibal sub-genre is pretty limited as far as what kinds of things you can do with the story , so I kept my expectations low . Ursula Andress stars as the grieving wife of a man lost in the mysterious jungle , and she is determined to go in after him , although her intentions aren't exactly what they seem to be . I love it when they first enter the jungle , one of the guys says " Don't say a word to anyone , we don't want the police on our tail ! " Yeah , if you're ever going into a cannibal-infested jungle , make sure not to tell anyone where you're going . It would be awful if anyone were able to find you ! The tribe we meet in this installment is the same as the last cannibals , although their animal-like qualities are not quite as blown out of proportion . They are highly barbaric and undeveloped , of course , but this time instead of being too animal-like , they have a genuinely bizarre religion , although ancient religions are not always known for their conduciveness to modern logic . At one point they make a sacrifice for having killed a tarantula , but even more bizarre , when it is revealed that they have turned Susan's ( Andress ) husband into a god by pinning his rotting corpse on some kind of rack , it seems that one of the ways that they worship him is to wipe the pus and mucus from his decaying face and rub it on their own face . Nice . Stacey Keach also shows up in an early role long before his outstanding work in American History X , although he isn't given anything memorable to do here . He eventually reveals that his entire goal of going into the jungle is to find this tribe and destroy them so he can sleep peacefully , I guess . He has the obligatory role of the modern man forced to participate in the cannibalism , and it is properly disgusting . There is a rafting scene near the end of the film that is botched in the way that most b-movies botch something like sky-diving . It is so unrealistic and so campy that it is genuinely amusing . The editing , as well , is unbelievably cheap , like the rest of the movie . But as a cannibal film , this is about what you can expect . Horror fans should be entertained . It's not a classic , but it's a passable sample of its sub-genre .
Don't let the Fredbugs bite ! HA !	WOW that was clever . So anyway , as I go back and watch all of those classic old horror films , I increasingly find myself wondering if there is ever again going to be a time when they can be scary again . Sure , today's horror films have had something of a numbing affect on modern audiences , at least as far as being affected by the films of the 80s , but surely those movies were scary back then . I just find myself wondering how that ever was . Now , it's obvious that there are a lot of things that have to be overlooked in order for a film like A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 to be scary again , not the least of which is the difference in high school fashion , which is bordering on being actually shocking , as well as the acting , which was clearly not high on a filmmaker's list of objections back then . The problem , I think , is not things like that , but rather things that I assume were meant to be taken as normal by earlier audiences . Let's say , for example , that you are able to look past the 80's-ness of the music that Jesse Walsh puts on when he is forced by his father to go up to his room and unpack in the house that he hates so much . The much higher obstacle is the antics that he engages in while cleaning his room . He puts on some sunglasses that I won't take the time to describe since my words can not do justice to the goofiness of them , and then he proceeds to dance around his room , singing into a broom handle and throwing his clothes into his drawers ( pausing momentarily , as though proud of this monumental act of defiance ) and then tapping the drawers closed with his butt as he dances . WOW . Did kids really do stuff like this ? Or is this something like the American Pie movies , where movie executives create movies with teenagers acting the way THEY think they should act , whether because this is how they think kids are or because they think this will bring in the biggest profit ( my money's on the latter , by the way ) ? And either way , is there really any way that you can watch a scene like this and then be actually frightened by anything that happens later in the movie ? Or how about this . Jesse's gym teacher is evidently really into dressing up in leather and then hanging out in bars where high school boys are able to walk in and order a beer without showing any ID . I'll leave aside all of the immediate red flags that pop up about the teacher dressing in leather in a joint that is apparently full of drunk teenage boys . We soon see this teacher ( still dressed in leather ) punishing Jesse by making him run laps around the gym back at school . How we got back to campus , I can't say I noticed . After telling Jesse to hit the showers , he heads back to his office , and then calmly watches as basketballs and tennis balls and whatnot fly off of the walls at him like bullets . Okay , so I was in hysterics BEFORE the jump-ropes tied themselves around his wrists and dragged him into the showers , his clothes ripped off along the way . Just the balls flying at him was funny enough , but then he finds himself tied up naked and facing the walls , and get this , towels pick themselves up and start whipping his bare ass ! ! ! Can you imagine ? ? ? This HAS to have been a joke . I understand the need for comic relief in the movies , but I don't know , that's a little too low-brow . It was bad enough to ask the audience to look past that dancing scene a little earlier and then still find something scary in the movie . So that being said , I'd like to go on and talk about what it was in this movie that frightened me out of my chair . Or maybe I should just talk about the uncomfortable scenes . A review of the things that are still scary would be about six words long ( and by the way , those six words can be found in the summary line above ) . The thing that I liked about the first sequel in this seemingly undying horror saga is the way that it adds more to the psychological element of the original premise of the films . Having a horror movie villain that resides in the dreams of his villains is a very good way to avoid the trap of having a stereotypical knife-wielding killer who relentlessly purses his victims , a genre that was started on a large scale with Halloween , and which went precipitously downhill from there . Jesse Walker and his family have moved into the house from the original film , and Jesse finds the diary of the girl who lived in his room , who you might remember from the last film . They throw in another little obstacle for the scariness of the rest of the movie , asking you to believe that even the most basic police investigation failed to turn up the DIARY of the girl who went CRAZY . But I guess it WAS pretty hidden , sitting there in plain sight on the shelf in the closet . So anyway , Jesse finds the girl's diary , reads it for fun , starts to get creeped out when it starts talking about Freddy and the kid getting killed across the street and how now Freddy wants to come and kill her . Surely her psychologist would have been interested in reading this . ( spoilers ) So Freddy now begins to get into Jesse's head and thus begins a spiraling whirlwind of madness as he struggles for his life and people start turning up dead all around him . But there is a definite level of cleverness in this sequel , which is impressive because despite the fact that almost every element of the film itself is obsolete by today's standards , such cleverness was not very necessary to the horror movie audiences of the 80s . In the original film , Freddy turns up and is able to attack his victims in their dreams while they sleep , killing them in real life at the same time . This is an extension of the old saying that if you have a dream that you're falling and you don't wake up before you land , you'll die in real life because your body will think that it's dead and your heart will stop or something . This isn't true , by the way . I've had dreams where I'm falling off a huge building to the sidewalk below , landed on my back and then looked around as people gathered around me , probably marveling that I was still alive and awake . I even had a dream once that I fell off a ship , sank like a stone to about 150 feet in crystal clear water , watching the ship get smaller and smaller on the surface of the water above me , landed on my back , and lay there staring and the ship and marveling at my sudden ability to breathe underwater . Okay , so back to the movie . Rather than turning up in dreams to kill his victims , Freddy has gotten into Jesse's head and has managed to take control of his body . Jesse finds himself witnessing horrible murders , and then when they're over , he finds the blood ( as well as the Edward Scissorhands glove ) on HIS hands . I think it would be useful to point out that not only is this a sequel , but a horror movie sequel , and a sequel to a horror film that was a huge success . Failure is almost prescribed . But I have to give credit for this clever twist on the original premise , which opens up more than enough possibilities for a whole second film to be made . I think that a lot of the reason that sequels to successful films so often fail is because they try so hard to extend the success of the original without adding enough new thought or ideas to make a second films worthwhile . See the Austin Powers films for a perfect example . A Nightmare On Elm Street 2 , however , while undeniably a cheesy 80s horror film , is a goofy horror movie that is notable more for defying the almost inevitable cheesiness of the films of the time than for succumbing to it .
What an awful mess .	here was no effort put into Valentine to prevent it from being just another teenage slasher film , a sub-genre of horror films of which we have seen entirely too many over the last decade or so . I've heard a lot of people complaining that the film rips off several previous horror movies , including everything from Halloween to Prom Night to Carrie , and as much as I hate to be redundant , the rip off is so blatant that it is impossible not to say anything . The punch bowl over poor Jeremy's head early in the film is so obviously taken from Carrie that they may as well have just said it right in the movie ( ' Hey everyone , this is the director , and the following is my Carrie-rip-off scene . Enjoy ! ' ) . But that's just a suggestion . ( spoilers ) The film is structured piece by piece exactly the same way that every other goofy teen thriller is structured . We get to know some girl briefly at the beginning , she gets killed , people wonder in the old oh - but - that - stuff - only - happens - to - other - people tone , and then THEY start to get killed . The problem here is that the director and the writers clearly and honestly want to keep the film mysterious and suspenseful , but they have no idea how to do it . Take Jason , for example . Here is this hopelessly arrogant guy who is so full of himself and bad with women that he divides the check on a date according to what each person had , and as one of the first characters seen in the film after the brief history lesson about how bad poor Jeremy was treated , he is assumed to carry some significance . Besides that , and more importantly , he has the same initials as the little boy that all the girls terrorized in sixth grade , and the same initials that are signed at the bottom of all of those vicious Valentine's Day cards . It is not uncommon for the audience to be deliberately and sometimes successfully misled by the behavior of one or more characters that appear to be prime suspects , and Jason is a perfect example of the effort , but not such a good example of a successful effort . Sure , I thought for a while that he might very well be the killer , but that's not the point . We know from early on that he is terrible with women , which links him to the little boy at the beginning of the film , but then in the middle of the film , he appears at a party , smiles flirtatiously at two of the main girls , and then gives them a hateful look and walks away , disappearing from the party and from the movie with no explanation . We already know he is a cardboard character , but his role in the film was so poorly thought out that they just took him out altogether when they were done with him . On the positive side , the killer's true identity was , in fact , made difficult to predict in at least one subtle way which was also , unfortunately , yet another rip-off . Early in the film , when Shelley stabs the killer in the leg with his own scalpel , he makes no sound , suggesting that the killer might be a female staying silent to prevent revealing herself as a female , rather than a male as everyone suspects . But then for the rest of the film , we just have this stolid , relentless , unstoppable killer with the emotionless mask and that gigantic butcher knife . Director Jamie Blanks ( who , with all due respect , looks like he had some trouble with the girls himself in the sixth grade ) mentions being influenced by Halloween . This is , of course , completely unnecessary , because it's so obvious from how badly he plagiarizes the film . The only difference between the killer in Valentine and Michael Meyer's is that Michael's mask was so much more effective and he didn't have a problem with nosebleeds . This stuff is shameless . At the end , there is a brief attempt to mislead us one more time as to who the killer is ( complete with slow and drawn out ' and-the-killer-is ' mask removal ) , but then we see Adam's nose start to bleed as he holds Kate , his often reluctant girlfriend , and we know that he's been the killer all along . Nothing in the film hinted that he might be the killer until the final act , and these unexplained nosebleeds were not exactly the cleverest way to identify the true killer at the end of the film . Valentine is not scary ( I watched it in an empty house by myself after midnight , and I have been afraid of the dark for as long as I can remember , and even I wasn't scared ) , and the characters might be possible to care about if it weren't so obvious that they were just going to die . I remember being impressed by the theatrical previews ( although the film was in and out of the theater's faster than Battlefield Earth ) , but the end result is the same old thing .
Surprisingly boring , by-the-numbers sitcom ?	I saw bits and pieces of Just Shoot Me back when it was on the air so I was eager to get the dvds and check it out for real . I'm a big fan of David Spade's and I'll admit that he was the only reason I bought it , but after watching the first couple seasons I was really surprised at how flat and contrived it is . All of the characters are two-dimensional types ? the filthy rich boss who is lovable even with all of his quirks ( like marrying a woman younger than his daughter ) , you have the boss's daughter anxiously trying to prove she deserves her job beyond the fact that her father owns the magazine , the office slut ( male and female ) , and the witty photographer . The last one is at least a unique character , but still fulfills a pretty thinly veiled niche on the show . Granted , 30 minute sitcoms don't have a history of being the most interesting and complex shows , but Just Shoot Me appears to be shot on a cheaply constructed set and generally takes on cheesy , boring stories , most of which don't go beyond the superficial stories that magazines like Blush generally feature . I remember when I was in high school I once dated this girl who was constantly reading this god-awful magazine called " YM , " which is essentially a glamour magazine for teenagers , and it seems like every single issue that she ever read featured a story on some variation of " What He's REALLY Thinking About , " or some other such nonsense . That was more than ten years ago , and watching this show gives me the feeling that they're still writing that same story . In the show's defense , there are definitely some redeeming moments . It's hard to get David Spade on screen for an entire series and not have some laugh out loud moments , but I have to say that Nina Van Horn's sluttiness and belligerent flirting got real old real quick . To me , her name was about enough . Lauren San Giacomo is given nothing to do except recite her lines and bear goofy jokes about her breasts . She's probably the biggest talent wasted on the show . Despite my lack of interest , I can still tell that there is an audience for this show who will , of course , enjoy it much more than I did . It's essentially a portrayal of someone's idea of what goes on behind the scenes at a fashion magazine . Throw in David Spade with a bunch of models , who generally parade silently across the set , pausing only to evade Spade's ludicrous advances , and you have yourself a sitcom . But if , like me , you don't care what goes on behind the scenes at a fashion magazine , don't bother .
A good example of why Stephen King rarely writes directly for the screen .	Stephen King writes such a wide variety of fiction and comes out with so many totally different movies that they seem to span almost all genres ( although it's not likely that he is going to come out with a children's movie anytime soon ) . Sleepwalkers is one of the lesser known Stephen King films , and for good reason . For the most part , King , like Steven Spielberg , comes out with two radically different kinds of movies . Spielberg does fun fantasy films like Jurassic Park and Minority Report , and then he does shockingly relevant films like Schindler's List and Saving Private Ryan . Similarly , King makes two main genres of films , although not quite the same genres as Spielberg's . He does the hugely successful and well-made films like Hearts In Atlantis , The Green Mile , Stand By Me , and The Shawshank Redemption , but in the tradition of what he is best known for , he also does ( not as much anymore , but almost constantly earlier in his career ) hardcore horror films , which are straight horror and , in many cases , cheesy to the point of being bad ( Graveyard Shift , The Silver Bullet , Creepshow , etc . ) . There are exceptions in both cases , but for the most part , those are the kinds of things that we can expect from them . Sleepwalkers is one of the last sort . A mother and her son move to a small New England town and try to fit in , only to have things go horribly wrong almost from the start . The son , Charles , meets Tanya at a movie theater that doesn't seem to have a single other customer or very good electricity . The blatant attempt to make the set look spooky has resulted only in making it look cheap and fake . It is revealed very early in the film that Charles and his mother Mary are not much interested in following in the footsteps of the Biblical figure after which she was named . They have sex regularly , and she becomes insanely jealous when he meets Tanya , even though we know from the opening credits that they are creatures that feed on virginal human females . While this bit of text at the opening of the film leads you to believe that , at the very least , you are about to watch a movie with a lot of gratuitous and generally unnecessary nudity , the film does not deliver any at all . Instead , we see Charles and Mary move to this town , Charles get involved with the very first girl he meets , and everything falls apart from there . There are so many more things that needed to have been done in this movie . When you look back at it after watching it , it becomes clear how empty the story really is because of how little it told . There are some great cameos in the film , including one from Stephen King himself ( who appears in many of his own films ) , and the police officer with the cat steals every scene that he's in . The horror is bad , the blood excessive and unconvincing , and the comic relief some of the worst I've seen in a horror movie in years . Sleepwalkers is not a complete failure as a horror film , because despite everything counting against it , it manages to entertain , but if you are in the mood for a Stephen King night , you can't really do much worse than this ( note : stay away from Creepshow , too ) . Sleepwalkers is a mildly entertaining but pretty badly made horror film and not much else , but at the very least , it does have an important moral to teach the world ? Anyone who hates cats is obviously a shape-shifting beast that is more monster than human . Please make a note of it .
" Never fool with a fuzz ball . "	The first of the more than half a dozen Police Academy sequels took a huge step downwards . It's amazing to think that so many sequels were made when the original wasn't even very good and the sequels were immediately crappy . Then again , with a tagline like " Their First Assignment , " it's impossible to think that they might have stopped making sequels at part 2 . I watched the first two movies a couple days ago and my immediate reaction was to wonder what the original audiences thought of the movies . The comedy is now so dated and goofy that I can't imagine it ever being genuinely funny , except in the way that it's funny to see the things that people wore in the 80s . Times have definitely changed , and one way that they seem to have changed more than anything else , in this movie and countless others , is the way that the outcasts of society dressed . Watch any 80s movie that has gangsters or rappers or punk or any of the above in it , and I challenge you not to laugh out loud at the styles that were ' cool ' back then . Some choice selections in the Friday the 13th series are classic for this kind of comedy , as are the Police Academy sequels . But at any rate , it's important to notice that this kind of thing makes re-watching these old movies more fun , not less . You will find yourself laughing at things completely different from what was originally meant to be funny , but it's still a good time nonetheless . However , the problem with the original movie was the bad jokes that went on for too long . There is a place for tasteless jokes in the movies , but not when they keep going and going until you just feel uncomfortable . When Commandant Lassard was up at that podium attempting to give a speech while the prostitute was behind the curtain , I was trying to imagine someone still laughing by the time it finally stopped and I just couldn't picture it , and part 2 has the same problem . All of the relevant cast are back and they are all graduates now working in the real world . Mahoney is riding a three-wheeler on what looks like the northern part of Santa Monica beach while Tackleberry has managed to secure the top position of a school crossing guard , something that I thought was reserved for elderly citizens looking for volunteer work . Commandant Lassard's brother Pete is introduced as the captain of police precinct 16 , which has finally been awarded the official title of worst precinct in the city , and our dear old police chief Henry Hurst is fed up with all the riffraff . He is giving Pete Lassard 30 days to turn the precinct around before he throws him out and awards his job to Part 2's funniest cast addition Lieutenant Mouser , who easily surpasses the missing Lieutenant Harris from the first movie in oily creepiness and sheer , unapologetic ass-kissing . Pete Lassard thus sets about on a mission to turn his precinct from an embarrassment to a success using the six new recruits awarded to him by his brother , while Mouser sets about on a mission to ensure their failure . So the new recruits are Mahoney , Tackleberry , Hightower , Brooks ( the one with the voice that truly lives up to Mouser's name , which is probably why he picks on her so much ) , Larvell Jones , the guy with the sounds , and Fackler , the geeky , accident-prone white guy with the nutty wife . While it's true that the plot of Police Academy 2 is as thin and see-through as grandma's underpants , I would be lying if I said it was without its amusing moments . Sadly , most of the ones that were meant to be amusing are not . Larvell Jones ' first scene , where he makes bodily noises in a restaurant and ruins the date between some uppity tool and his even more uppity date , is about as un-funny as any failed slapstick skit I've ever seen , but I imagine that at least the epoxy-shampoo gag was once a mildly entertaining joke . But while much of the original comedy has completely disappeared along with Bobcat Goldthwait's bizarre screamy tantrums and Steve Guttenberg's career , there are some other things that remain a bit of fun . Tackleberry's obsession with guns is tied to a total lack of sexual experience in a development of psychological depth that I would never have expected from a Police Academy movie , and while Mahoney's slovenly partner , now better known as the " gas man " from Dumb & Dumber , plays the greasy sloppiness of his character through the roof , you can't help but admire his effort . But that whole third act with Mahoney undercover can just be tossed to the wolves . WOW . Bobcat Goldthwait's entire performance in this movie is ridiculous in the extreme , but at least he was SUPPOSED to look foolish and nuts . Mahoney's undercover act was just stupid , and this is not a term that I use lightly . I've seen all of the Police Academy movies , but before a couple days ago I hadn't seen any of them in at least ten years , and so don't remember anything about any of the other sequels . I can only hope that they get better or at least don't get worse , although it is not very discouraging that my limited perusal of various online reviews names this as one of the " better sequels . " Wish me luck ?
One of the weakest films of the Stooges collective careers .	I've read a lot of reviews on the IMDb ( well , all five of the ones that have been written at the time that I'm writing this ) and I'm surprised at the amount of praise heaped upon The Brideless Groom , which is undoubtedly one of the lesser comedies performed by the Stooges . I prefer the older ones where it was Larry , Curly and Moe , although Shemp gets credit for most of the funny scenes in Sing a Song of Six Pants , another Stooges short which is only moderately amusing but far superior to Brideless Groom . Indeed , there is a single slightly amusing scene in the film , the " don't-hit-a-lady " scene , which is barely amusing at all and is 15 minutes into the film . Not very promising in a 17-minute comedy . Shemp is a voice trainer whose uncle has passed away and left him an inheritance of $500 , 000 , provided he get married within 48 hours , which is short enough notice as it is , but by the time Shemp learns about it he has only 7 hours left . This is a premise that had been done and redone before , but was not , I don't think , a massive cliché at the time this film was made , as it is now . There are a series of gags throughout the film , none of which are even close to the level of comedy for which the Three Stooges are so widely known . It seems that the Stooges have run into the same troubles that plagued so many of Shirley Temple's films ? there is too little reliance on content and too much reliance just on the fact that they're there . The standard characteristics of the Stooges are here , Moe is the mean one , whose meanness is certainly not used sparingly in this film , and the slapstick sound effects ( although with more exceptions than usual ) are fairly amusing , but are plugged into their standard slots in this film . The line " Hold hands , you lovebirds " is immortal . The rest of the film is not . There is much talk among the other people who have reviewed this movie for this site about this being one of the best of the Stooges shorts , that you won't find one weak moment , about how this is their best since the early 30s shorts . It's just not true . I can certainly understand a level of automatic respect for milestone classics and for the giants of early comedy , which the Three Stooges certainly are , but that respect is damaged when poorer films are praised more than they should be . The Brideless Groom deserves some respect because it is a Stooges film , but for exactly the same reason , it should have been better . The Three Stooges were just better than this .
Hey , what ever happened to that music video ?	Unless I'm sadly mistaken , I rented A Nightmare on Elm Street 3 several years ago and there was a music video , I'm pretty sure which was called Dream Warriors , at the end of it , and I rented this one on DVD hoping that the video would be there because it was one of the funniest things I've ever seen . It's amazing how stuff from the 80s is so funny now , but nothing is funnier than 80s rap videos . There was this rap group singing that song Dream Warriors on the VHS version of this movie after the credits , and they're all wearing like denim jackets with no shirt underneath and form fitting jean shorts that are all frayed at the bottoms like Daisy Dukes . What could make a rap group look more foolish I can't imagine . ( spoilers ) At any rate , I was disappointed in looking for that video on the DVD version , so all I had was this mediocre installment in the Freddy Krueger series . The movie sort of starts off with the same idea as part 2 , with the main character witnessing all kinds of gruesome murders and then sort of coming out of a trance and finding himself with the bloody hands . Kristen Parker ( Patricia Arquette ) has a nightmare about the infamous house that Nancy Thompson used to live in , then runs to the bathroom , the sink's handles turn into Freddy's hands and attack her , and then she wakes up standing in her bathroom having slit her own wrists . From there , the movie turns into the usual mental hospital installment . ' Larry ' Fishburne , tired of always playing the bad guy in his roles , was happy to take on the role in this film as a nice-guy orderly , stern but accommodating when the patients want to bend the rules a little . Not surprisingly , he turns in what is by leaps and bounds the best performance in the movie . Arquette later goes on to become an accomplished actor , but had not perfected her acting skills when she starred in this film . The characters in the movie are mostly all patients at the mental hospital that Kristen is placed into after cutting her wrists . All of them are cynical and uncooperative , almost none believing that they really belong there at all . Eventually , they realize and are able to convince the staff that they are all having dreams about the same man and it's not just some kind of group hysteria . Heather Langenkamp has returned in her famous role as Nancy Thompson , this time grown up into a dream researcher as a result of her childhood experiences involving Freddy Krueger . Not surprisingly , she is able to quickly relate to the hysterical Kristen and the rest of the patients , since she had experienced exactly what they're going through . There are some interesting murders in this installment , and the technology used for the special effects have taken a huge jump . There is a gigantic , worm-like Freddy that tries to swallow Kristen whole , there is a scene where a television turns into Freddy and with mechanical arms he picks up one of the patients there for some late night entertainment and punishes her for sitting too close to the TV , but there is also an unconvincing go-motion scene where a couple guys have a fight with Freddy Krueger's skeleton , which has been rotting in the trunk of some car in a car junkyard . And one of the more groan-inducing scenes was one where Freddy attacks one of the patients in his dream ( the one famous for sleepwalking ) , tearing the muscles and tendons out of his arms and legs and leading him around like a puppet . Ouch . We get a peek into Freddy's past in this installment . Not only do we meet his mother , but we also find out the circumstances that led to Freddy being fathered by more than 100 maniacs . In fighting Freddy , the patients all band together and , in their dreams , use their special powers ( most of which reflect their shortcomings in real life ) to fight him . One student , bound to a wheelchair , is able to walk in his dreams , another has the hilarious powers of what he calls the ' Wizard Master , ' another is ' beautiful and bad ' ( she has lots of makeup , her hair stands up in a foot-high Mohawk , and she has knives ) . Clever , but the movie falters when it has only one of the patients , the one who can't speak , not have any powers in his dreams until the climax of the movie , when he suddenly realizes that he can talk in his dreams ( at just the right moment to save the day ) . His dream power was a little too obvious to have been left out for that long , but collectively , now you see why the movie was subtitled Dream Warriors . Altogether , this is not an entirely weak entry into the series . The acting is pretty shoddy , but it's actually pretty good for a horror movie . Larry Fishburne vastly overshadows the rest of the cast , displaying wonderful acting skills early on in his career , and the movie is not simply a rehash of either of the first two ? a problem that plagues the Friday the 13th movies much more than the Elm Street films . The characters are never developed enough to allow for the later creation of much tension , which is why most of the deaths come across more as creative ways to kill off someone in a horror film than the tragic loss of the life of one of the characters that we've come to know and root for their triumph over evil . But then again , not a lot of horror movies take the time to really develop their characters to the point where you throw up your hands in defeat when they are killed , or are on the edge of your seat as they run for their lives . But it's important to note that the few horror films that actually do that are almost invariably the best ones ?
Manhunter is a perfect example of how easily a truly exceptional crime novel can be badly screwed up when made into a movie .	Did you read the novel " Red Dragon , " by Thomas Harris , the book on which Manhunter is based ? If not , watch the movie , you'll probably love it . However , if you have read the book , be advised that the movie will disappoint you in every way you can imagine . Red Dragon was just a great book . The story was intense , and it was extremely difficult to put down . Given that , it is hard for me to understand what would make Michael Mann think that he should change anything in the story . While not necessarily really pretty , the ending in the book was different and completely unexpected . It left you with that " wow " feeling that is so satisfying , especially when you almost unconsciously expect a flowery ending . I would have LOVED to see that put on film ! But no , Mann decides to scrap the surprise ending and slap on a cutesy Hollywood ending . That really ps me off . Can I say that ? And it's not just the ending , by the way , there were enormous chunks of the story that were simply not included in the film . ENORMOUS chunks of the story . This movie would have been so much better if it remained faithful to the full story presented in the book . Not only that , but they obviously hired some idiot to do the casting . Brian Cox performs horribly as the evil supergenius Hannibal Lector , but that may be a result of the fact that I had already seen Anthony Hopkins ' performance of the same character ( one of the best performances I have ever seen on film ) before I saw Manhunter . I'm sure Michael Mann felt like a complete idiot when Silence of the Lambs was released . Tom Noonan was HORRIBLY miscast as Francis Dolarhyde , the insecure serial killer in Manhunter . Oh , did you not know that he was insecure ? That's because those idiots didn't put anything about that in the movie , even though this extreme insecurity ( the background of which was also left out of the film ) is the fundamental reason for Dolarhyde's homicidal tendencies . If you liked this movie , I can understand why . It was an entertaining enough film . But I can also tell that if you liked this movie you did not read the book . The book is about 10 , 000 times better than the movie , and the conversion from book to film is so manipulative and disappointing and generally poor that once you realize what has been left out , it is almost painful to watch . Basically , what they did was they took a spectacular book and made it into a run-of-the-mill crime film . For shame .
Boring , clichéd story that is clumsily presented in a film plagued by botched direction , awful editing , and goofy acting .	Beowulf provides a perfect example of why actors should never alter their voices in films , at in a way in which they seem to be trying to make themselves sound like toughened warriors , or at least make themselves sound like they're pissed off all the time . Christopher Lambert's first line in this film ( ' Let her go . ' ) is delivered in this way , and it's actually pretty effective . He sounds intimidating , and he even makes you glad that you are not one of the people that he is talking to . Unfortunately , he never stops talking like this , and it makes the rest of the movie ridiculous . This is exactly the same way that Wesley Snipes ruined Blade . Besides the awful special effects and the groan inducing performances delivered by everyone involved , Beowulf even sinks to the level of semi erotica , with several misplaced ' almost'-nude scenes that just should not have been in this movie . This is just your basic good vs . evil mediocre adventure film that leaves a bad taste . Very disappointing .
An odd twist on the horror genre that doesn't really lead anywhere .	Pretty much the only interesting thing about Cabin Fever is that there really isn't a bad guy . It's a goofy teenage horror film about a lot of college kids that go out to the woods to act out all their impulses , kind of like the kids in just about every Friday the 13th film , and then they all start dying . Cabin Fever's contribution to the genre is that they all start getting killed , but by some kind of disease and not by a faceless slasher as in so many other modern horror films . Granted , this is also not the most original idea , but at least it's something a little different . The problem with that premise is that it really leaves no room for any kind of motive behind the killings , and so renders some characters so outlandish that they make the whole film look more clownish than it should , such as the college-age police officer more obsessed with partying than law enforcement . Another little problem with the rampant disease that eats away at the cast is that the movie never explains what it is or where it came from . Yes , there is some sort of stagnant lake with a dead body floating in it , which apparently leaks the disease into the drinking water . But what , is the flesh-eating disease a byproduct of the decay of that body ? Is it some sort of biological weapon that was accidentally released ? Purposely released ? Tested and forgotten , but still active ? Probably not many people care , especially in this movie's audience . Horror movies are famous for defying all manner of reality-based logic , I don't know why I can't help wondering about things like that . If you can overlook the spontaneous generation of this disease , the movie still doesn't really go anywhere . It's difficult for a movie to create tension when the killer is an airborne disease . Or foodborne . Or waterborne . Or whatever it was . In the movie's defense , it is unusually aptly named . The idea of having a lot of college students go into the woods , carelessly blowing off the backwards mountain people that warn them all along the way , is nothing new . This is the biggest cliché in the movie by far . The characters are just as meaningless and one-dimensional as in the vast majority of horror movies , but I think that the real problem with this one is the same sort of thing that was wrong with Hollow Man a few years ago . There are so many possibilities , and had the movie taken only a few slightly different turns , it would have been enormously better than it was . Plague films , for example , can be almost as endlessly fascinating as time travel films , but they have to be innovative and do something interesting with the overall premise . You can't make a time travel movie , for example , and simply have the characters find themselves in the wrong time and then spend an hour and forty minutes trying to get back . Cabin Fever is about a lot of college kids that go out into the woods , start to catch the mysterious disease , and spend the rest of the movie trying to get back out of the woods . Yawn . The beginning of the film shows an example of the lack of creativity that plagues the rest of the movie ( no pun intended ) . As the characters stop at a local corner store on their way into the deep dark woods , there is a little blonde-haired boy sitting on a bench out front . When one of the guys goes to shake his hand , the kid grabs it and tries to take a bite out of it . No reason is given for the kid being a little strange other than that he's one of the backwoods rednecks . The boy's father , emerging cockily from the store as though he has no idea that these kids could slap him with an enormous lawsuit ( one of them even mentions it , then walks away as though the idea were ridiculous ) , tells the bite victim basically to be more careful and oh by the way , there's a stream out back you wanna go wash your hand . Not only does the guy idiotically go out back and wash his hand in the river water ( hardly the most sanitary place , even when there aren't diseases floating through it ) , but when a couple strange dogs wander up to him , he pets and plays with them eagerly . Personally , strange dogs are the last things I'd want to be touching after having been bitten already by a strange kid . Thus enters the dogs , one of the more pointless elements of the film . The majority of the tension comes from the characters trying to quarantine themselves from the diseased man who wanders out of the woods , the rabid dogs that periodically come out of nowhere , and eventually from each other as they start to get sick themselves . Even worse , when the police eventually do show up , they come in the form of a single frat-boy officer who asks the guy there if there was a disturbance , then hearing that there was , goes on to talk about how he must like to party with his girlfriend , wink wink . He talks about the best places to party and the best ways to avoid your party being broken up , all while standing within arm's reach of the kids ' truck , beaten and broken and splattered with blood . Who wrote this character ? I've been on a horror kick recently , so I've seen tons and tons of really really bad movies lately , but this is one of the worst written parts I've ever seen . The gore in the movie is interesting , often going so over-the-top that it's hard to miss homages to such famously over-the-top films as The Evil Dead and The Texas Chainsaw Massacre . The effects of the virus on victims includes sweating blood , apparently , as well as projectile vomiting it in massive quantities . There are some genuinely squirm-inducing scenes , such as a character late in the film noticing a dead body floating in a lake and then falling on top of it , and one of the girls shaving her legs , revealing that the virus has eaten away the flesh under the shaving cream ( although this last is more disturbing at her dedication to be nice and silky smooth even though the skin on her leg is rotting off ) . Clearly , there are mountains of possibilities for a premise involving a flesh-eating virus and a lot of kids who don't even know how it's transmitted trying to get away from it and then away from each other when others in their party start to vomit blood all over the truck . Unfortunately , the movie is brought down by the movie's failure to actually capitalize on any of those possibilities . The movie tiredly retreads the same old ground covered by countless other horror films , replacing the masked slasher with a flesh-eating virus . A noble effort , I have to say , but it could have been so much better with such a small amount of extra effort . Sadly , the best thing about this movie is an extra feature on the DVD labeled ' Pancakes . ' That is one of the funniest things I've seen in quite some time .
Horrendously prophetic .	So I watched Escape From L . A . after having recently made my way through both of Bruce Campbell's books ( the latter , unfortunately , seeming to have been thrown through the publication process simply because of the cult success of his literary debut ) , and I have been half-heartedly watching all of the films that he was in . Sadly , his role in this movie is one of the most ridiculous that I have ever seen , and I mean in general , not just Bruce Campbell roles . He is the epitome of the doomed B-movie actor , but why hire someone with such a massive cult following only to completely change his appearance in the movie ? I find it difficult to believe that they worried about him bringing down the Hollywood status of the movie ; Kurt Russell is one of my heroes , but he's hardly a Hollywood superstar . I saw Escape From New York when I was a kid , and I remember hating it passionately , and although I found this movie to be highly unimpressive , I wouldn't say that I hated it . It makes quite a strong political commentary , with a religious fanatic in the White House ( this time , frighteningly , appointed to a lifetime term ) , whose own daughter , curiously named Utopia , says things like " Now is the time to rise up against the president's corrupt theocracy of lies and terror ! ! " Mr . President has decided to move the nation's capital from Washington D . C . to his hometown , Lynchburg , Virginia . Lynchburg ? LA , at any rate , is now " the city of sin " ( which makes me wonder how Vegas is doing ) , and Snake Plissken ( Kurt Russell ) , is " the most notorious criminal in US history . " As is to be expected , no attempt is made to assign Plissken with a history that would in any way justify such a title , we just need to know that he's a real bad guy . He runs around talking like a real bad guy and acting like a real bad guy , all the while trying to retrieve an antidote from the real bad guys ( the government ) who have infected him with a virus which will give him 10 hours to retrieve a stolen black box containing the codes to control the world's energy transmission satellites . That , unfortunately , is not only more of a mouthful than I can form into a coherent sentence , but is also more of a mouthful than this movie can handle . Any movie with a main character that is called " the most notorious criminal in US history " and then later features that same character surfing a tsunami wave down Wilshire Blvd . in Los Angeles and then jumping onto the back of a moving car off of his surfboard is living dangerously if it tries to support too complex a premise . He is also , at one point , forced to play basketball for his life . There is something of a duality in this movie , in that it could just as easily be enjoyed by people who are genuinely impressed with the story , acting , and special effects as it could be by people who look at it as great fun just because of how wildly over the top it is . I guess I fall somewhere in between , because I thoroughly enjoy watching bad movies , although I have a hard time with special effects in general , which so often are a tool to cover shortcomings in other areas . This movie is packed with both special effects and shortcomings , so maybe the combination of the two creates something that is more than the sum of its parts . On the other hand , maybe it just comes out as a great big senseless mishmash of shoddy production values . Either way , I had a blast watching for the LA landmarks ?
It's like Prison Break without the " break , " and taking place in a high school rather than a prison .	First of all , season 1 is intolerably bad . The prison is ridiculously unrealistic , the characters are so two dimensional they're nearly transparent , and the direction is terrible . It runs like a bad video of a junior high school play , characters wandering past the camera and uttering highly timed and rehearsed lines , passing off as random prison talk . Soon the show gets better , but not by much . The return from the commercial break is always accompanied by some ridiculous monologue by wheelchair-bound Augustus Hill , who is played impressively by Harold Perrineau . The only time his character is consistently bad is during the bad performance art monologues , most of which take place in an inexplicable rotating glass cube and generally have nothing to do with what's taking place in the show . Unfortunately , the bad ideas in Oz could fill an encyclopedia of several volumes . Consider the whole situation , first of all . Prisoners are able to hang out in plain sight getting drunk , doing drugs , and they not only have CD players ( CDs ? ? They might as well pass out steak knives ) , but all incoming mail is thoroughly examined by PRISONERS . Christ , the place is like a men's club with guards . Guards that don't do much . Near the end of season two , an older prisoner's grandson is diagnosed with leukemia , and all of the prisoners pitch in thick wads of $20 and $50 bills to help send him to Disneyworld to fulfill his dying wish . These have to be the richest prisoners in the world . Every single prisoner in Oz all of a sudden became caring , loving guys except Kenny Wangler , an irritating character but one of the only ones who is consistently convincing . Even Adibisi wanted to be nice . But that's okay , because there is no order or sense in the show , so even this is not much of a distraction . Later , shockingly , there is a boxing scene in which one inmate is wearing an " I Love Cops " t - shirt . In prison ! ! Can you imagine ? ? I have a cousin who was in prison a few years ago . I sent him an old picture of us with some friends in high school , and in the picture , one of my friends was holding an " I Love Cops " bumper sticker , and one of " the woods " ( guys who have been in prison for years and years ) saw the picture but just grabbed it and ripped it to shreds . My cousin got lucky . Kenny Wangler also constantly berates the guards and even more senior officers for not calling him Bricks . One of them even tried to bribe him to go to an English class . You may lose track of who is in charge , the prisoners or the guards . More than one investigator , for example , goes into the prison undercover and gets killed trying to stop the drug trade . Personally I would just stop letting prisoners inspect incoming mail rather than risk the lives of investigators . Let's see , what else ? Shillinger's son OD's in solitary and no one thinks to ask the guard how he got the drugs . He just . . . got them , I guess . And make sure to pay attention , otherwise you'll miss the reason why the prisoners have enough money to be able to afford ascellular dermal grafts when they get bad gums . I didn't know guests in maximum security prisons were afforded such luxurious treatment options . How about this , when Robson asks about Dr . Faraj's schedule so he can ask what race of gums he was given , Faraj is so terrified that he goes to the warden and quits his job on the spot . Do doctors and dentists not have the right to request not to see certain prisoners ? After Poet and O'Reilly make the announcement to the entire prison , Robson asks to see Dr . Faraj , and is escorted to his office , brought in without knocking , and the guard promptly leaves without a word . They might as well give him a gun . I shouldn't go on about stupid ideas in this show , but it's like a flood , I can't stop it . Who thought of the Chinese refugees who can't speak Chinese and who disappear en masse from sight unless they're needed ? Who thought of the goofy religious wars and all the reverend prisoners ? Who though of Robson's gum transplant ? What's the deal with Busmalis and Agamemnon ? Agamemnon because he clearly doesn't belong in prison and Busmalis because of the whole thing with his grandson . Macbeth , because it was nothing but a ridiculous means to an end , as it were . But what are the worst ideas ? Things that go nowhere , which are constant . An Irish man comes to the prison and builds a bomb . He threatens to blow up the entire prison , the bomb turns out to be a dud , and the episode ends with him being led away by the bomb squad after the entire prison is evacuated . Nothing is ever heard from him or about the whole situation again . It's like it never happened . In one episode , prisoners are given dogs to train . What the hell ? ? If that wasn't bad enough , during one training session , a guard fires his gun inside the prison walls as a training exercise . No one seems to mind . I also like how anytime some kind of altercation breaks out , the culprits are pulled aside , they don't say anything , and the guards or warden or sister Pete or whoever always says , " I hope you don't think I'm gonna let this go ! ! " And then they walk away and let it go . The audience won't remember . Maybe I'm spoiled by Prison Break , but Oz is just a goofy prison drama that might be better as a play . A short one . At least a low-budget movie . There is just not enough here to sustain a multi-season TV show . Then again , I watched six seasons of it on DVD . Sometimes I don't understand myself . . .
Actual quote - " Fighting is one thing . But bad jokes is where I draw the line . "	Like the last movie , Police Academy 6 starts out with Harris and Proctor on some ridiculous mission to outsmart the rest of the crew and ensure that they get all of the glory for something or other . At least this time they're not breaking and entering like they were in the last movie , but have stationed them on a stake-out at a location that they are sure is going to be the next hit for the dreaded Wilson Heights Gang who , if nothing else , should definitely find someone else to come up with a threatening name so they'll sound more like a group of hardcore criminals and less like a gated community . But in other news , Harris is in charge of his own precinct now , Tackleberry's got a son , and some old characters like Mrs . Feldman and Fackler are back . I have to admit that I am still confused by feelings of reminiscence for Mahoney , not the least reason for which is that , believe it or not , this is the first genuinely stupid entry in the entire series . Yeah , they're slapstick comedies , but my god , how many decades have people been splitting their sides watching slapstick comedies ? You could argue that the slapstick was the first real narrative story-telling that came along in film , and the Police Academies are no different , they just haven't stood up to the test of time so well . Oh , and they're also hampered by stupid-ass sequels like this one and the next one . And hopefully not part 8 which , at this point , remains theoretical . So what's going on this time ? We have another small group of mind-bogglingly stupid bad guys , which is not a bad thing in itself , but apparently someone took my words too seriously when I originally reviewed Police Academy 5 and said that the movies are essentially kid's movies , because in this installment we get a cartoonish villain that is a bizarre combination of the Wizard of Oz and Dr . Claw from Inspector Gadget . I guess I should be more careful what I say when I review movies . On the other hand , the first time I ever reviewed Police Academy 5 was about 22 minutes ago , so there is some legitimacy to the theory that it couldn't have affected the thought patterns of screenwriters Neal Israel and Pat Proft , who wrote Police Academy 6 back in the late 80's . But you never know . But get this , here's the supervillain's scheme ? he plans to use his henchmen to raise the crime rate in a certain strategic location in order to drive down property values , then he'll buy up all the property himself , see that the crime rate goes back down and the property values up , and then live like a king off the interest or whatever for the rest of his life . Actually , when you think about it , that's not the dumbest plot pattern . In fact , compared to how moronic the rest of the movie is , it's not that bad . At least they didn't have a villain who tried to outdo even the most outlandish 007 villains and like , you know , hold the sun for ransom or something . Again , most of the original cast is back , but I still miss Mahoney and Zed , and the screenwriters ( yeah , it took more than one to come up with this thing ) unfortunately have no idea what to do with the characters that we've come to know and love laughing at . Everyone is undercover and their ridiculous assignments are supposed to generate automatic laughs from us , but worst of all , some of the scenes are such disassociated skits from the plot that the story as a whole falls apart . For example . in one attempt to get into a public place and question the public about the whereabouts of the criminals and whatnot , Jones , Calahan and Hooks go into a bar , where Jones puts on a show for all the barflies doing a brilliant impression of Jimi Hendrix to the delight of the crowd and then they leave without having learned or even trying to learn anything . But at least it's in keeping with the rest of the movie , which is the first tremendous step down into the depths of idiocy in the entire series . If you thought any of the previous movies were stupid , MAN you're gonna love this one ! But I do have to say that , like part 5 , there are some moments in this one that I distinctly remember loving to death when I was about ten years old , like the scene where the huge bad guy who looks like a lumberjack comes outside with an ice-cream cone with like eight scoops of ice cream stacked up on it and goes , " Oh BOY ! " but then takes one lick , pushing it off where it lands with an audible splat on the pavement and he goes , " Crapola ! " Okay , so it's not funny in writing . Sue me . But show me a ten year old kid who doesn't laugh at that and I'll show you a kid with some developmental problems that far exceed any of the time-wasting nonsense in this movie . By the way , as I mentioned in my review of part 5 , make sure to watch the little reminiscent documentary that you'll find on the DVD , it might be funnier than anything in the whole movie ! Check this out , besides glorifying the movie like it's some overlooked Oscar winner , director Peter Bonerz ( my god , can you imagine having THAT name in junior high school ? ) lists off the numerous references and homaaaaaages that can be found within its pristine contents , including everything from Orson Welles to Hitchcock himself ! Sadly , your brain has to be securely in the " off " position in order to enjoy the movie , but it may add to the comedy just to know that some effort was put in to put those references in there ! !
Thin portrayal of 1970s racism . Mr . Ellis deserves a better movie .	It's important to keep in mind the real meaning of the phrase " Inspired by a true story " when watching Pride . It's sort of like " You could save up to 50 % , " which can quite literally be translated to " You can't save more than 50 % . " It all sounds great until you realize that the lower part of " up to " is " zero . " Similarly , " inspired by a true story " means that someone heard a story and it made them think of this one . The only certainty is that the real story and the one you're about to see are not the same thing . There is a real Jim Ellis that began coaching the swim team at the Philadelphia Department of Recreation in the early 1970s , but I have a feeling that the real Jim Ellis must not have been able to conceal some feelings of disappointment at the way the movie turned out . Clearly , it takes wild liberties with the story of his life , and I just picture him responding to the strange looks of his friends who wonder why the movie is so much different than the man they know . At any rate , one thing that he will surely be proud of is that he is portrayed by Terrence Howard , one of our finest actors , who starred alongside Bernie Mac who , despite the lack of an original and powerful story , still gives a heartfelt and moving performance . The movie takes place in 1970s Philadelphia , a time and place where racism was the norm , not the exception , and the educated and professional Jim Ellis , who is also an accomplished swimmer , is having trouble finding a worthwhile teaching position , until finally relegated to a falling apart recreation center , which he is assigned the task of cleaning up before its demolition . We can certainly understand his feeling of belittlement . When we first meet Elston , the maintenance man ( Bernie Mac ) , he is a disillusioned grump who sits in his office surrounded by piles of junk that touch the ceiling and watching daytime TV on an old , dusty television set . Needless to say , when Jim shows up to start cleaning the place up and clearing it out , Elston is not exactly friendly with him . He knew his rec center was being closed , and all his anger about that transferred quite smoothly onto Jim . Given his past as a college swimmer , Jim takes a special interest in the pool , which he cleans and fills and brings to top shape . A group of black teenagers who play basketball just outside the rec center take interest in the pool when their basketball rim is taken away and the heat remains stifling , and soon the group have a developing swim team on their hands , which they enter into a citywide swim meet . To call them underdogs , of course , would be something of an understatement . They're unorganized , unprofessional , insufficiently trained , and have no idea how to behave at a swim meet . That doesn't matter , of course . The movie is your standard underdog sports story , so the first athletic outing is totally unimportant as anything other than a learning experience , a catalyst to drive their much harder and much more focused training that will lead up to the final athletic outing , the one that matters . By now , the only thing a sports movie has going for it is that the protagonist ( s ) do not have to win at the film's climax , we only have to understand the meaning and significance of their effort . Sadly , the movie has all of the character development of an old Seagal movie . The good guys are the good guys because they're just supposed to be , and the bad guys are the nasty white swimmers who laugh and jeer and make racist jokes at our team . Oh , and there's one scene where one of the white guys kicks one of the black guys underwater while in the middle of a race . I didn't know it was really possible to kick someone underwater like that , but you get the idea of how deep the character development is . We understand that this is the group of kids that Jim Ellis turned from kids hanging out on the streets doing nothing with their lives and into an organized and competitive team of swimmers , but other than that we don't really get to know anything about who they are . But the biggest problem is that the only real statements that the movie makes are that effort and organization lead to success and racism is bad . Both of these are so obvious that when a movie is made with them alone it ends up feeling empty and unnecessary . Racism was so much more powerful in America in the 1970s that it feels like an enormous loss that the movie dealt directly with that issue but didn't really say anything about it . It's sort of a feel - good movie , but when it's over and you realize how much it should have said is much bigger than what it said , the feel-good sensation turns into a sad disappointment .
The Complete Idiot's Guide to World War I .	It is hard to imagine someone making a bad film about the world's first fighter pilots , but they managed to pull it off with Flyboys . It has all of the textbook ingredients of a disastrously botched war film ? cheap special effects , moderately talented actors ( except for the wasted talents of Jean Reno , who towers over the rest of the cast as though they were children ) , a stupid , stupid love story , and a director who could theoretically design exciting dogfighting scenes if he had the right special effects department and technology ( which he doesn't ) but who can't direct actors to save his life . I say that he can't direct actors , by the way , because every actor in the film seems to deliver a performance distantly below his or her potential ( most notably Jean Reno and James Franco ) . The movie as a whole is a disjointed mess , alternately swapping from intense aerial fight scenes to moody , contemplative in between scenes , where soldiers get drunk and mourn their fallen friends and sometimes discuss the meaning of life and death and battle and war and camaraderie and love and whatnot . What is really disappointing about the movie is that the dogfight scenes are by far the best thing that the film has going for it , but they screw it up by allowing pilots to fly alongside each other and give congratulatory nods to each other after each kill , and of course the leaders of each side have time to fly in circles and give each other dirty looks before trying to shoot each other down . Not only do the pilots nod and gesture to each other in the air , they even yell at each other . Are we expected to believe that they can hear each other , or even themselves , for that matter , over the roar of the wind and the propeller six feet in front of their face ? The problem here is not that the pilots interact with each other in ridiculous ways in the air , but that the entire dogfight scenes are constructed with that same mentality . A bad guy has a chance to shoot down our hero , but instead flies alongside and salutes him , and they each fly their separate ways , their faith in humanity restored . There is a super villain on the German side who shoots downed pilots while they stand helpless on the ground , and of course he has a climactic battle with the leader on the American side who , by the way , must be given a LION as a pet in order for the audience to understand that he is the brooding alpha male . PLEASE . When you take into account all of the ridiculously unbelievable events that take place during the dogfights , as well as the few battles that take place on the ground , it becomes impossible to take the film seriously . At one point , one of the Americans is shot down and crashes right next to the German trenches . Not about to leave a man behind , James Franco's character lands his plane nearby and sprints directly past the trenches , which are packed full of what can only be described as Germany's worst riflemen , to get him out of his predicament . I love the tactical thinking here . A fellow pilot is pinned down by German firepower , so rather than flying over the trenches and laying waste to the ranks of riflemen with the gun on his plane , he lands nearby and runs over to become pinned down himself . But wait , he landed not because his friend was being shot at , but because in the crash , his plane had tipped over forwards and landed upside down , crushing his hand . Below is an actual dialogue sample : " Can you move ? " " No , something's pinning my hand ! " Yeah , that's an AIRPLANE . Maybe you didn't notice it there . And I'm sorry , I really am , but rather than dig out some of the soft dirt underneath it , I'll just cut your hand off . Sorry there , buddy ! What you have here is World War I re-imagined by a lot of guys sitting in front of expensive computers in West Hollywood , guys who have even less of an idea of what aerial combat was like in WWI than I do . And it doesn't help that they try to force this preposterous romance between Franco and a French girl , whose 9-year-old nephews try to teach her English , yet all she can get out is " How you are ? " Maybe it's because I'm an English teacher myself , but it always drives me crazy when I see movies that feature characters who don't speak a word of English , then after a few shots of them practicing a line or two or reading from a book , in the next scene they speak nearly perfect English , they just keep their accent . The Terminal committed this crime in spectacular fashion , but at least that was an otherwise entertaining film . This is a nauseating war hero fantasy filled with romantic nonsense . At least the movie attempts to right the romantic wrong in the closing credits , but that doesn't change what we've seen so far . The film does have its moments , the first 30 minutes or so are fairly entertaining , but overall it is a big-budget B-movie , at best . But the kids would probably enjoy it .
Is this a kid's movie ?	Dinosaur is not even a breakthrough in computer generated effects for Disney . That title is reserved for the spectacular hit Toy Story . What you have in Dinosaur is basically a re-make of The Land Before Time , with the cell animation replaced with computer generated images . The story is so unoriginal that the end result could be referred to simply as " yet another Disney movie . " However , this time the normally ingenius Disney product seems to be alienating its biggest target audience , the younger viewers . They tried to make this movie TOO real , and in making an animated film about nature and using extremely realistic special effects , it is to be expected that the violence can be a little excessive . I'm not saying that the violence is glorified , I'm just saying that in a movie like this it is not a good idea to show some of the things that were seen in Dinosaur . I saw mothers taking their kids out of the theater during the film because of its violent content . I was bored with Dinosaur from the beginning . As soon as I found out that all of the dinosaurs were given cute little voices , I knew that I would be disappointed with the film , and I was . The " Disney effect " simply did not work with a serious Dinosaur story the way that it worked in The Land Before Time , and because they tried to combine two completely different elements like that , the film fell flat . The all powerful Disney corporation has indeed produced a flop .
Average modern Seagal , but why did they mess the languages up so badly ?	So it's well known that the movie takes place in the actual neighborhood where Seagal grew up and studied martial arts , and also that he speaks fluent Japanese , but why have Japanese terrorists that are always speaking English ? Isn't it just a little off-putting that the American hero is constantly speaking Japanese but the Japanese and Chinese guys all speak broken English to each other ? Of course Seagal would want to show off his Japanese , since he almost never gets a chance to do it in his movies , but if they're going to go for that authenticity , they should at least include it where it really belongs as well ? As far as a Seagal film , it's about average as far as the films he has been releasing for the last ten years or so , none of which have really been all that impressive . But I still get a great kick out of his movies , even when they're not good . If nothing else , I can even enjoy the cheesy acting and paper-thin plots , and if even those fail at least Steve is always good for smacking around some bad guys . But in Into the Sun , other than a brief skirmish near the beginning , it's a good hour into the movie before anything happens . Before then , we get a tirelessly developing but uninteresting plot about the Chinese and Japanese versions of the Mafia and how they are developing a massive drug corporation , with Seagal entering the mix investigating the murder of a government official . Worst of all , however , is that the movie spends so much time developing the totally unnecessary and unconvincing romantic story , in which 54-year-old Steve in his floor - length leather trench-coat falls deeply and madly in love with a tiny , dainty Japanese girl who can't be more than 22 . Needless to say , my favorite part was when he sheepishly explains to her , " You know , I've never had the best luck with women . In fact , you could probably say I haven't had any luck at all ? " What's that , he's a virgin ? Is he asking her to go easy on him in the sack ? But stay tuned , at the end of the movie this impressive team of filmmakers utilize an unbelievably complex and difficult bit of cinematic trickery to make the wife disappear from Steve's grasp . I noticed this particular bit of movie magic because I did the exact same thing in a six-minute movie I made with a $250 video camera when I was taking an Intro to Film class at Fresno City College in 1998 . They really spared no expense with this movie ! The other problem is the bad guys themselves . They are such tired clichés that it's impossible from frame one to take any of them seriously , particularly the leader of the Yakuza ( the Japanese Mafia ) . He's your typical , b-movie villain ? slicked back hair , fishnet t - shirt , arm always slung over the chair he's slouched in and a lot of guys standing around him that jump to attention and do things for him when he snaps his fingers . Yawn . The guy is so unimaginative and so unimpressive that he makes the movie seem longer because I'm just waiting to see him get killed at the end . Evidently , however , they knew when they were making the movie that some serious ingredients were missing , so they tried to cover up the gaps with things like the sound effects that make it sound like whenever someone gets cut with a sword they spray out a fountain of blood all over the place . Nice . In the movie's defense , it's true that Steve does look good for his age , although he has certainly lost the hardened appeal that he had in his earliest movies like Hard to Kill and Out For Justice . At least he looks a lot better than he looked in Urban Justice , but unfortunately that's not saying a lot . The movie is a bit of a curiosity piece because Seagal wrote and performed a lot of the music on the soundtrack , and he actually sings the song during the closing credits . It's a little disturbing to listen to , but I recommend you wait and check it out because it's not disturbing because it's so bad , it's disturbing because it's actually pretty good . Too bad the rest of the movie isn't quite as pleasantly disappointing ?
Ahh , Tom . I expected so much more from you . . .	Road Trip is unmistakably about the greatest college tradition , but there is no reason to watch it other than to see a snake latch onto Tom Green's hand with lightning speed . His subsequent scream is by far the funniest part of the entire film . As a whole , Road Trip was a bitter disappointment . It was a desperate attempt to recreate the tremendous success of American Pie , and although it did have a few hilarious scenes , everything was too obviously thrown in to get a specific reaction . The nudity , in particular , was meaninglessly added , which leads to the questioning of the maturity of the producers as well as the director . Besides that , the majority of the jokes were also obviously calculated and artificial . I find it hard to believe that Rubin felt that the people of Earth would need him someday , and that he also seems to have an extensively detailed knowledge of historical philosophy , and yet he didn't understand that a Ford Taurus would not survive a JUMP over a RIVER ! ! Come on people , even an audience composed mainly of young people deserved to be served their laughs with a little dignity . Furthermore , many of the gross-outs were thrown in for no apparent reason . The I - can't - have - too - much - sugar - in - the - morning scene in particular offered no other explanation for the slob chef's anger toward Kyle's request for no sugar , other than the old pick-on-the-skinny-kid routine . Road Trip is meaningless drivel , it is worth nothing more than a few mindless laughs and some brief peeks at a few naked college kids . The film was thrown together with virtually no structure at all , a detriment which is weakly covered up by telling it from the wacky and sexually charged point of view of Tom Green who , in my opinion , should win this film a " Best Product Placement " award . I can just hear the writers , " Well , we have no story , so let's have that nutty popular guy from MTV tell the story , that way when the pathetically cliched plot is realized , people will just think that it's crazy ol ' Tom Green , and not a bunch of greedy and untalented Hollywood executives putting forth a desperate attempt to fatten their wallets . . . " Road Trip , despite my comments so far , was an entertaining enough film , if you like this kind of smart-ass college kid film ( a sub-genre which has unfortunately been done to death for decades ) . Just don't expect to make any use of your brain at any point while you are watching it .
Clunk !	I read a pretty interesting article about Twisted in the Sacramento Bee about how the film was shot entirely in San Francisco and some of the tricks that were used . One of the more interesting things that I read was that , during the scene where they found the first body in the river with the ball game in the background ( which apparently was a real game that they included in the shot for effect ) , George Lucas showed up on the set , literally just long enough to say , ' I never shoot at night , I never shoot in fog , and I never shoot water . I'll see you later . ' Or maybe he just didn't have the heart to tell Phillip Kaufman that he doesn't involve himself with obviously bad movies . So George , what was all that Episode I nonsense ? ? I can understand what people didn't like about the film . Ashley Judd's character , around which the entire film centralizes , was heavily flawed , and I don't mean just that she is a person who spends about 60-80 % of her life either drunk or blacked out , for reasons which come up later . Jessica Shephard ( Judd ) , is a police officer who gets promoted to Homicide Detective after collaring a high-profile fugitive through what turned out to be dumb luck . Nothing TOO wrong so far , I'm sure it's not uncommon for dumb luck to be involved with solving complicated crimes , but the real problem with Judd's character is that we're asked to believe that she is a well-to-do big city detective , she's staggeringly beautiful , and yet has a heavy alcohol problem , and more importantly , a habit of going to trashy bars , meeting trashy men , and taking them home and having trashy sex with them . These men then have a habit of later turning up dead , having been beaten badly and then burned with a cigarette on one hand ( although not necessarily in that order ) , and needless to say , all the evidence points to Shephard , since she has been ' intimate ' with them , despite not knowing much about them beyond her carnal knowledge . So the first problem with the movie is about Judd's character , but an even more pressing concern comes from the set-up of the premise , which renders the movie unfortunately predictable . And I say unfortunately mainly because there is such a strong cast and crew involved . ( spoilers ) From the very beginning , you know that Shephard is not the real killer because no murder mystery in the history of time has had the killer turn out to be the person that all evidence was pointing to all along ( except for the awful 1974 horror film Scream of the Wolf ) . But an even more pressing concern involved in this plot , which expects the audience to wonder throughout the film whether Shephard really is the killer or not , is that it presents as a possibility that she regularly gets dizzy and passes out from drinking wine after a long day at work , and then , I guess , goes out and commits the brutal tortures and killings while in an alcohol-induced blackout . RIGHT . So Shephard has to know that she's not doing the killing . She IS a detective , right ? Would she not figure out that she's being drugged , or are we to believe that her alcohol problem is so extreme that she regularly drinks herself into oblivion , even after realizing that she doesn't know if she's killing people during her drunken slumbers ? Personally , I don't believe that any police detective on earth would not be able to immediately figure out if he or she was being drugged regularly , so much of the movie's dramatic tension evaporates with the credibility of Shephard's confusion . I really hate to write such a scathing review about this movie , because I am such a huge fan of so many of the people in it . Ashley Judd has been making some bad work decisions by starring in seemingly one cheesy thriller after another , but I still think she's an obviously competent actor . Unfortunately , the movie even manages to stagger and stumble all over the place despite the awesome power of actors like Samuel L . Jackson and ( admittedly less awesome ) Andy Garcia . The obvious fact that Shephard is not the killer is at least partially obscured by much ado being made about her father having been a mass murderer , killing a mass of people including her mother and himself . Her boss , police commissioner John Mills ( Jackson ) , raised her for the rest of her life and is now her boss , hence his reluctance to pull her off the case when the dead guys keep turning out to be her former one-night stands . He watched her grow up , and no god-daughter of HIS will show any weakness on the force ! Besides , they have to maintain business as usual , especially since Shephard may turn out to be pretty good bait in catching the killer . Director Phillip Kaufman proudly went to great lengths to be sure that much of the San Francisco setting made it onto the final cut , peppering the film with famous locales that can easily be found and visited . Many of them I've been to myself dozens of times , but unfortunately the hypnotic setting of San Francisco overshadows most of the rest of the film , including the big actors , mostly because the movie is so clunky and outlandish . As a general rule , psychological thrillers seem to be plagued with plot and logic discrepancies ( even the good ones , like In Dreams ) that are usually glazed over with some sort of quirky trick , like Shephard being really hot and being an alcoholic and sleeping with random men just for the fun of it ( maybe she can't find anyone to date her ? ) . Twisted tries to do that as well , but stops trying to cover its goofy tracks by the third act , where the movie just seems to be trying to end itself . Indeed , it only took the cops about a minute to find that exact dock in the dark where the final climax takes place . Twisted succumbs with desperate eagerness to the now-common attempt by movies to throw in some mind-bending twist in the final scene ( notice , for example , the film's title ) , but instead of shocking us with a twist that we may have convinced ourselves by now that we didn't see coming , it throws in the most obvious , clichéd twist imaginable . I guess not many people may have seen something that bad coming , but forehead-slapping disappointment is not generally the reaction intended in an unexpected conclusion .
Weak follow-up ?	As an aspiring filmmaker , I think I gradually develop more and more of a fear of my first film being a huge hit , because it places so much attention on you immediately and creates this enormous requirement for a second film of equal magnitude . Just after Halloween , John Carpenter returns with The Fog , a weak horror film that tries vainly to recreate the subtle , relentless horror of Halloween , but instead comes off as little more than a campy ghost story . The premise is interesting enough , a ship at sea becomes lost in a thick fog and , seeing a light in the fog that appears to be from a fire , heads in that direction and ends up striking a reef and sinking , killing everyone on board . I've heard people describe them as pirates , for some reason , and there was some mention in the film of them being lepers , but their identity is really irrelevant . The point is that they were killed by a light that lured them to their watery deaths , and every hundred years , I guess , they are able to come back between midnight and 1am , the time of their shipwreck , to seek revenge against the people who caused their deaths . Kind of reminds me of that idiot film Jeepers Creepers and its equally idiotic sequel , both of which feature a monster that comes back every 23 years for 23 days to kill . The only difference is that the victims of the shipwreck have a REASON to come back and kill . So anyway , I'm pretty sure I have the basics of the plot right , but unfortunately , after the campside ghost story at the beginning of the film , the movie itself is really a series of cheap scares and ineffective cinematography , to say nothing of the fact that the movie begins with that fireside scene , a gigantic cliché in itself . The animation of the fog into the film was one of the big special effects , and acknowledging that the film was made more than 20 years ago , I have to say it was less than impressive . It is endowed with the rather campy quality that it literally glows , and has all sorts of capabilities , like jamming turbine engines and other physically destructive forces . I tried to convince my roommate that it was a good movie even though it's title implied some evil , murderous fog , because it wasn't the fog that was able to kill , but the ghosts that came back to life within it . Unfortunately , the fog does take on some powers of its own . But again , this is a horror film , and one of the first 80s horror films ever made , so there are certain things that must be excused . It did help to usher in a whole sub-genre of horror films , but not really one that wasn't already introduced by its predecessor , Halloween , one of the greatest horror films ever made . ( spoilers ) There were a few individual scenes that really bothered me . A nighttime radio host , curiously named Stevie Wayne ( played by Adrienne Barbeau ) is one of the first to see the fog rolling in , with the help of the weatherman , who calls her regularly to give her reports about the weather . There's a scene late in the film where she watches helplessly as the fog engulfs her own home , where her young son is home alone . After the baffling decision of doing nothing more than yell into the radio at him , hoping that he's listening , to watch out for the fog , she later apologizes to him for not coming to help , assuming that he has fallen victim to the killer fog and there's nothing to do about it but say sorry . The reason this scene bothered me is because it is so contrived and pointless . Any thinking person ( even if able to think of any other person when their own son's life was in danger ) , would simply scream into the microphone that there's a deadly fog rolling and so get the hell out of town , and then take off to help her son . She had a full-on radio station in that lighthouse , she might have even been able to record that and then loop it over and over for the benefit of people who are flipping through the station looking for some news about what in the world is going on with this freaky weather . But instead , she chooses to remain in the radio station , apologizing to her son for letting him die so that she can stay in the radio station and give any listeners a play-by-play of where exactly the fog is and when , like there's someone who's going to stay in town , listening to the radio so they know what parts of town to stay away from . Personally , I'd be getting on the highway away from the coast , regardless of what any radio show was saying . But hey , that's just me . My favorite thing about the film is that there are so many elements distinctive of John Carpenter's work , although that also served to constantly remind me that the movie was always in the shadow of Halloween , trying unsuccessfully to recreate the successful brand of horror seen in that movie . That being said , then , I would say that The Fog is certainly not a horror classic in any sense , but definitely a curiosity piece in regards to the work of John Carpenter .
Follows the book with meticulous detail at some points and departs wildly from it at others .	The 1987 TV version of The Secret Garden is one that follows the book and includes several things that were left out of the later 1993 version , but there are some things that are not done correctly or that are not even remotely suggested in the book and have no place at all in the movie . There is an unnecessary inclusion of Mary as an older woman , reminiscing about her times in the secret garden at Misselthwaite Manor , which changes the entire film from an adventure tale of a young girl in a strange atmosphere to one of a flashback of a girl who grew into exactly the kind of person that the movie is trying to convince kids not to grow into . On one hand , I understand that this emphasizes the idea ( very popular in children's literature ) that at no point in any adult's life should they ever let go of their childhood completely , but it also presents the older Mary's life as missing something that was there in her childhood . Late in the film , as one of the awful artistic liberties taken with this version of the book , we learn with enormous dismay what that thing is . There is a much more graphic depiction of the cholera scenario that killed her parents than there was in the 1993 version , which director Alan Grint uses both to emphasize the extent of how spoiled Mary is ( ' Said is dead and there's no one to dress me or make me breakfast ! ' ) as well as to take another completely unnecessary creative liberty with the story , this time throwing in a scene where it seems that Mary has also been infected with cholera . After complaining that there's no one to dress and feed her , she wanders out to the dinner table , still covered with the leftovers from last night's feast , and she starts nibbling here and there and taking sips from all of the half empty wine glasses . We learn for the rest of the film that Mary is too stuck up to accept anything but the best of everything , yet in this scene she is suddenly willing to scrounge around like a lowly scavenger animal . After helping herself to the leftovers , Mary gets a little drunk and staggers to her bed , where she collapses , dripping sweat , and we are treated to some of the enormously creepy music that accompanies much of the film . The supernatural element of the story is enhanced as much as possible in this movie , which increases the effect that the 1993 version also had , which was to reduce the inherent Magic of the garden and render it little more than an escape from the sheer creepiness of the Manor . The Manor itself was enormous and looming from the outside , just like in the novel , but then we see that the halls on the inside are no more impressive than a hotel . These are relatively small and forgivable discrepancies , however ( or at least they become small and forgivable compared to the jaw-droppingly awful ending ) , and most of the rest of the film is in the right place . Gennie James gives a satisfactory performance as Mary ( who is MEANT to be a dislikable character ) . Barret Oliver and Jadrien Steele , however , are miscast in their roles as Dickon and Colin , respectively , if only because they are meant to be the same age as Mary , but they are played by actors who are about 12 and 13 years old , while Gennie James was only about 9 or 10 when the movie was made . The age difference shows very clearly in the film . The character of Dickon , as with the rest of the movie , is written with a greatly enhanced mystical side , playing him up as a supernatural character rather than a boy who has spent so much time outdoors with nature that he has developed an unusual closeness to it . He is transferred from being a fun - and nature-loving boy in the novel to a mystical witch doctor who can foresee the future , make statements about fate , and carry squirrels around in his pocket not like they're his friends and pets , like in the book , but like they are his own offspring , unable to survive without him . When Mary tells him that she found the key to the secret garden , Dickon says , ' You found the door , ' and then looks away dreamily and continues , ' it was meant to be ? ' Oh , PLEASE . Archibald Craven is again a wonderful character , as he was in the 1993 version , although Derek Jacobi is not able to capture the same depth of mysterious sadness and closed off suffering that John Lynch was able to , and again here , neither Lord Craven nor Colin is ever once presented as having even the slightest bit of a hunchback . Why is this left out of these film versions ? When we first meet Lord Craven in this film ( in a scene in the library that is so creepy that it almost cancels out the effect of the meeting entirely ) , he is very much hunched over , but he becomes perfectly straight by the next time he is seen . The worst discrepancy from the book , however ( besides the ending , but I'll get to that later ) , is the scene where Mary is finally fed up with Colin's screaming and crying and storms into his room to shut him up once and for all . It starts out okay , with Mary screaming at him that she thinks everyone should just let him scream himself to death , but when he says that he screams because he is going to grow up to be a hunchback like his father , Mary asks if she might be allowed to see the lump on his back , using a level of politeness that her character would not even be able to fathom . She does this again in the scene where she asks Lord Craven if she might be allowed a small piece of land , coming off as a terrified child more than one with ulterior motives , as in the novel . One of the weak points of the novel is that the moral is handed directly to the reader at the beginning of Chapter 17 , and this is left out in both this and the 1993 versions , thankfully , but this one turns around and adds in an equally ham-handed moral . It starts off with Ben Weatherstaff's entrance into the garden , which is not done under Colin's strict orders as in the novel , and then Colin weakly stands for a second for Ben , rather than forcing himself to stand the entire time he's there , not wishing to give in in front of him . Shortly after this scene , Mary explains to Colin , ' Ugly thoughts are like thistles , pretty thoughts are like roses . I used to have so many ugly thoughts in my head that I had no room for pretty ones . ' Very cute , but did we really need to have it fed to us like that ? I was glad to see here a lot of things from the novel that were left out of the 1993 version , such as Bob Haworth's exercises that Dickon teaches to Colin to strengthen his legs , Colin's goal to become a scientist and lecturer and experimenter , and something of Dickon's family , even though all we see is his mother and not his massive amount of siblings , but it's just too bad that the movie feels that there is so much that needs to be added to the story . There is no romance in Frances Hodgson Burnett's The Secret Garden ( although there are small hints at childish versions of it ) , yet in this film adaptation they evidently were so desperate to add some cheesy romance in that they completely changed the story . Dickon joined the war and was killed , and Mary returns to the secret garden to embrace her wonderful memories of it ( she is also still wearing her nurse's uniform , showing that she was so determined to serve in the war that she doesn't take off her uniform even when she's off duty ) , and Colin shows up , still so weak in the legs that he has to walk with a cane . First we are forced to wonder how Colin managed to get into the military when he can barely stand on his own feet without help , and then we have to see Mary tell him that she never answered his letters , in which he repeatedly asks her to marry her , because she wanted it to happen in their garden . Again , very cute , but fans of the novel , if they haven't already , will be slapping their foreheads in disbelief that writer Blanche Hanalis felt the ridiculous need to add something like this into a movie based on a book that is already more than able to stand on its own , as are all of its characters by the end of the story . There is no need for extraneous things like Dickon's death and the marriage of Colin and Mary because , as this movie shows , such additions into the story can only cause problems and make it trip over itself .
What form of lunatic is that ?	In an early attempt at a war film , Steven Spielberg , as I remember one critic describing it , has laid his first multi-million dollar egg . Which is odd because short war films are some of the first kinds of films that he started making when he was a kid . Maybe it was just a mistake to make it a comedy , because it comes off as this weird mishmash of a war film that crashed into a slapstick comedy and came out bouncing along on three wheels . Sadly , the most fascinating thing about the movie to me is that it stars Slim Pickens and Toshiro Mifune , two giants in film history , and is directed by Steven Spielberg , one of the greatest directors ever , and is still this bad . I can accept that Spielberg wanted to do something like this for fun and I lose no respect at all for him for making this movie , but there are parts that are so astoundingly bad that it makes me wonder what the original intentions of the film were . It's clear that it was meant to be a spoof not only of old WWII films but also of the hysteria that followed the Pearl Harbor attacks which was generated by a fear that the Japanese were going to strike the mainland . This was not an unreasonable concern at the time , I should think , maybe someday will make a movie about the ridiculous fear that al Qaeda is going to hit America again , although who knows how long it will be until we know whether or not that's an unjustified concern . I don't think it is . I suppose in retrospect such a worry can be poked fun at , but are we to believe that the Japanese didn't know where Hollywood is located ? That they had to send an elite team on land to dress up like Christmas trees to find it ? I imagine this was meant to lead into one of the best scenes in the movie , where the Japanese shoot LAND off of the HOLLYWOODLAND sign , a hilarious addition to the movie , since the sign really did say HOLLYWOODLAND originally . Dan Aykroyd's " I am a bug " scene is good , and the movie opens with a clever spoof on Jaws , and there certainly are some great lines in the movie ( " This is the craziest son of a bitch I ever saw . How many more do you think are up there ? " ) , but like so many other movies the diamonds are not able to shine very brightly through the rough . On the DVD , it's interesting to see Spielberg talking about the movie , because he expresses some disappointment that it was not as appreciated in America as he had hoped it would be , although they love it in Europe . I wonder what the meaning of that might be ?
Yet another sophomore effort that falls flat on it face .	Robocop 2 starts off with planet Detroit in the worst shape ever . The entire police force is on strike , which seems like an entirely too convenient start for a Robocop film , but then we see that there is actually a believable reason for them all to be on strike . Planet Detroit is so deeply in debt to the evil empire Omni Consumer Products that they are unable to pay the police , who go on strike until the debts can be paid . Unfortunately , this plot is largely ignored in favor of a rivalry which develops between Robocop and Cain , an insane gangster who plans to force the city to legalize the ridiculously addictive drug Nuke so that he can flood the city with it to the point where everyone becomes hopelessly addicted to it and he becomes so rich and powerful that he can pay the city's debt and become its king . This is , unfortunately , the only way that the subplot of Cain and his plans is attached to the far more interesting financial plight of the city , which has become copless but at least has an interesting problem to solve . Instead , the movie focuses on this criminal underworld with Robocop as the only cop who is willing or able to get in and do something about it . The movie wins hands down the Worst Taste of the Year award by throwing in a vicious twelve-year-old who is put into the movie for no other reason than so he can spout a lot of profanity and give us a real test to see how much we can really take before we give up and walk out of the theater . Obviously it would take a lot more than a financial debt for a city like Detroit to be denied its police force so that criminals were able to run rampant in the streets , not hindered by any laws whatsoever , but keep in mind that the Detroit in the Robocop films is not attached to the rest of the United States . It is , in fact , an entirely separate planet , which becomes increasingly obvious as the sequels get poured on . Peter Weller has thankfully returned to once again take on the uncomfortable role of Robocop , who still has the same overall look but now for some reason sports a shiny new blue paintjob , which does nothing but make him look plastic . There is a brief point in the film where the human emotions that always remained in Murphy after he was made into Robocop come up , as he drives by his house lovingly spying on his wife ( who , through Murphy's flashbacks , is thought to be dead through much of the original film ) , to the point where she actually takes out a restraining order and Robocop has to be reprimanded and has to recite back to his programmers that he is not a human , he is a machine . Not a lot of thought put into this scene , by the way . You would think that , given all of the goofy comedy that is put into this movie , a more witty writer would have had Robocop say , ' I am not human . I am a machine . I did , after all , build and program myself , so I should really know better . ' After this brilliant scene , Robocop is completely reprogrammed ( maybe they thought he was getting smart with them and decided that they better punish him ) , so they implant every bit of goofy polite mannerism into him to make him easier to relate to the human public , and the movie immediately turns from being a bad action film to being an even worse comedy . Robocop walks around saying Hello how are you and beautiful morning isn't it , it would be a shame to waste it , and goes out trying to be polite to people on the street , only to have even children playing in the street immediately lose all respect for him to the point where they spray paint ' KIK ME ' on his back in bright orange paint . At least they were nice enough to use disappearing paint , which is visible immediately after they paint him and then never again for the rest of the film . ( spoilers ) In the original film , Robocop had a wonderful and worthy adversary , ED209 , who is now replaced by another robot who is created out of the body of Cain , the super-villain from the earlier portion of the movie . Yeah , the drug lord that wanted to flood the city with Nuke and take it over is being granted another chance at life as well as an astronomical amount of firepower , no doubt the same line of deductive logic that led the diminished police force to weigh down the ' Splatterpunks ' with weapons in part 3 . You can tell a lot of thought went into THAT . So we are presented with an evil-looking robot who is supposedly supposed to take over after Robocop , who has committed the crime of still loving his ex-wife . The fact that this robot is presented as a solution to ANY problem pretty clearly illustrates the kind of thinking that has led Detroit down the pit that it lies in , and it doesn't look like things are going to get better with stuff like this going on . Indeed , all they'll have is more and more problems but I suppose that they figure they can at least make more sequels and maybe make some money that way . For the most part , Robocop 2 is a complete failure , not really accomplishing anything other than finding a job for a guy who's specialty is playing the violin with his legs behind his head ( If you can play the violin like THIS guy , you might be a redneck ! ) . It takes the Robocop story and stupidly tries to take it in a completely new direction ( a direction which turns out to be flat out wrong ) rather than build upon the genius of the original . I try as much as I can to avoid clichés in my reviews , but this is a perfect example of a time when you would enjoy your self more if you just watched the original again .
Your average revenge story ?	Sin takes an average revenge story , adds in rape and pornographers , and ultimately turns into an average revenge story . At the very least , the plot thickens near the end of the movie when we realize that the bad guy ( who is a really bad guy and the movie absolutely will leave no questions about that ) turns out to have a reason for his actions throughout the movie beyond just being a really bad guy . It is odd , however , that a movie can take such talented actors as Ving Rhames and , especially , Gary Oldman and turn their performances into run-of-the-mill action clichés . Rhames utters the phrase ' she's my sister ' so many times in the movie that by the end the movie has turned the phrase into a cliché all by itself . You messin ' with my family you messin ' with me , and so forth . I think that most of the reason that so many people hated this movie was because it raises your expectations because of the people involved but did nothing new within its genre . It's a standard revenge movie with standard plot points and turns and even the standard plot thickening in the third act . Where the movie does not wallow in clichés , however , is in some of the characterizations . No one is as good or bad as they initially seem to be in this movie . The evil was heaped onto Charlie Strom , Gary Oldman's character , so heavily in the first half of the movie that it's difficult for him to escape from underneath the mountain of badness that he is under even when we see the reasons for his actions , but the good guys in particular , are not as good as they seem . Eddie Burns ( Ving Rhames ) lost the use of his left arm in the line of duty , but also played a role in the death of an innocent man that could really amount to murder . Bella , played by Alicia Coppola , is someone that we want to root for but may hesitate because of the , ah , sinful nature of her occupation . There is , however , a lot of forgiveness in the movie , and I respect that . At one point , Eddie discusses some of the finer points in life with Strom over cups of coffee , despite their mutual desires to kill one another . Later in the movie , Eddie is attempting to save Strom from a pool of quicksand in the middle of the Nevada desert . I didn't know there was quicksand in the middle of the Nevada desert , but no matter . The movie's not about where there is quicksand or how fast you can get from large freeways in the middle of Las Vegas to open desert without even any discernible roads , the movie's about you messin ' with my family you messin ' with me . And who better than Ving Rhames to return the messy favor ? Rhames could take these people out with an arm tied behind his back .
A movie about the sinister possibilities of the young internet .	Ghost In The Machine is one of those movies that comes out with the emergence of some new technology and how it can go wrong . Computers were still in the major developing stages in the early 1990s ( at least compared to today's standards ) , as was the Internet , and Ghost In The Machine seems to be a false start on getting a handle on turning the new technology into a horror movie or suspense thriller . The problem is that the writers of the movie were apparently so anxious to get the film written and filmed and released that they didn't take the time to put any thought into it . The technical production of the film is not entirely a pathetic mess , even though it does assume that electronics come equipped with little windows through which can be seen the shining faces of people at their computers , and that electrical outlets with tape over them will display a blinking red ACCESS DENIED sign if you attempt to get through them , but even the most cartoonish computer animated scenes that took us on a roller coaster ride through our microwave ovens were at least mildly interesting , although not at all convincing . In this case , we are looking more at the technique than the content , the way you watch an abstract relaxation video . The problem here is that the movie tells the story of how a serial killer steals peoples address books and then kills the people listed in them , but a reason for these killings is never even suggested . The closest we come to having a reason for why this guy is so eager to commit all of these brutal killings is during an early scene when he is driving home from his job at the computer shop , and in recklessly trying to pass a slow moving truck he swerves into oncoming traffic only to jerk the wheel to the left and go skidding down a steep hill upside down in his car , laughing all the way , HA HA HA ! So the guy is completely insane . That's a reason , I guess , but probably the most uncreative one imaginable and therefore one of the least interesting ones possible . The whole idea of the killer going into electricity in general is obviously the most unrealistic thing in the entire film , but it is stretched to cover almost the entire movie from beginning to end , which is what shows most clearly the fact that the movie is based on the emergence of the world wide web . It's kind of a what-if thriller about what would happen if a psychotic killer was accidentally released into the electricity based communications system that is the internet and was then able to defy all laws of logic and physics and who knows what else , and if he had somehow developed this overwhelming passion to kill a certain woman and her family and friends for committing the crime of leaving her address book at the computer shop . The movie makes a good solid effort to be a worthwhile thriller , but for the most part it falls completely flat .
" Pinch this tiny heart of mine , wrap it in up soiled twine , you never read what you've written ? "	As has become the standard for modern horror films , this sub-par House of Wax remake ( as I call it having yet to see the original ) begins with an introduction of a meaningless group of stupid college-age kids , and then promptly allows us to get to know them just enough to ensure that they are all thoroughly unlikable . I'm not sure why so much effort was put into making them all into such distasteful characters , but my current theory is that it is simply a misguided attempt to keep some element of mystery in the movie , since you already know they'll be killed off one by one . In the movie's defense , a good story involves good character change , and it cannot be denied that there is plenty of that here , it's just too bad that's not all there is . I'm reminded of the ridiculous horror film Wrong Turn , which featured an equally meaningless group of college-age kids getting lost in the woods and being confronted by some clownishly made-up in-bred rednecks who gleefully off all of the unfortunate kids stuck in the big bad woods . That and Texas Chainsaw III , but I digress . As I am led to believe was also the case , to a certain extent , at least , in the original film , the remake concerns a deserted town in which there can be found a wax museum whose feature displays are so realistic because there are real people beneath the wax coating , presumably embalmed in the wax yet slowly rotting away . The biggest advance that this film makes is in some truly revolting scenes , such as a scene where one of the kids is made into a wax sculpture and his friend tries to free him , only peeling the skin off his face as he tries to get the wax off of him . On the other hand , there are also some thoroughly botched scenes , like the one where a girl gets the tip of her finger cut off and it bubbles over with blood like a fountain . Tom Savini , who was doing better gore effects than this two and a half decades ago , would be appalled . Remember in House of the Dead when those kids went to that island for the rave of the century , found it completely deserted , and didn't really seem to be bothered ? It's kind of the same here , they take a detour on their way to a big football game get lost on a detour and decide to camp in the scary , smelly , creepy woods . They smell the smell of decaying flesh , and a pickup truck pulls up and shines its brights at them , no one getting out or responding when they call to them . Nick , the biggest jerk of the lot already , hauls off and throws a bottle at the truck , smashing one of the headlights . Let me tell you something , you do not get away with that in the country . The driver doesn't even have to be a crazed killer to jump out and knock your block off . Instead , the truck ominously drives away , leaving the kids convinced that the situation is under control , so they settle down for the night . After later running into the guy in the pickup truck as he dumps dead animals onto a massive pile of rotting dead animals ( hence the smell of the woods ) , they smartly decide to hitch a ride with him to town to buy a fanbelt to replace the one that snapped in their truck while it was parked the night before . The town they get a ride to turns out to be a forgotten relic of the 1960s , which " doesn't even show up on the GPS but is remarkably maintained . No one's walking around the town but there are plenty of people at the funeral home , including one man , incredulous that they would interrupt his grandmother's funeral but who soon recovers and agrees to offer them what turns out to be a lot of waxy help . After this point , the movie runs parallel to countless other movies college kids get lost in the woods , one gets kidnapped , and the rest get killed one by one . At the moment I'm thinking of Texas Chainsaw 4 , by far the worst of them all , including the ludicrous 2003 remake . You'll yawn through the rest of the film , if you haven't yawned through it so far , although there are some impressive special effects with the wax , some I've mentioned already , including an obviously CG but still interesting climax , which describes the fate of the House of Wax . Essentially , it's just another bad slasher movie from the 1980s , but with Paris Hilton and , the one thing that has caused horror films to lose their souls , computer generated special effects . This is certainly not the worst modern horror movie you could watch , I'm mentioned in this review some that are at least as bad and some far worse ( like House of the Dead ) , it's just so tiring to see yet another one come out with so little thought or effort put into it .
I'm glad it wasn't called Mt . Tails ?	It is very possible that I simply didn't give the movie a fair enough chance because it was so immediately unappealing to me ( something similar happened with Triplets of Belleville ) , but I really should have caught on when I put the film on and my roommate , an exchange student from Japan , immediately started laughing at the movie , saying that it sounded dumb . Now , I don't agree that it is dumb , the animation is very simple but clearly very skilled . It's like classic animation with added layers that add another element of realism to them while remaining strictly in the realm of the surreal at the same time . But the subject matter is entirely unappealing to me . It has an interesting message about stinginess and greed , but it is wrapped in such an unpleasant package that it is almost not worth learning , especially because you already knew it anyway . The sound effects while the man is loudly gobbling cherries and cherry pits , for example , are indeed repulsive . There was a clever scene of animation as we kept diving endlessly into the hole that the man finds in his head when he pulls the sapling out of his scalp , but it goes on for so long that it seems to overshadow everything else . There is so much stock put into that one sequence that it is almost like the whole movie is about it . As I said about Triplets of Belleville , this would have been a great thing for a late night TV program like adult swim , or its Japanese counterpart , but an Academy Award nominated film ? It gives me the impression that there is not generally a long list of animated short films for the Academy to choose from .
Nothing can be scary with such goofy looking feet .	What a snoozefest . In this disastrous sequel to the vastly superior Predator , we are left to wonder whether someone actually , in good conscience , thought it would be a clever idea to move the Predator into downtown LA , or whether it just took place closer to the movie studio because no one in their right mind would bankroll a film like this , so they couldn't afford any location shoots . My money's on the latter . And another thing , Predator 2 is set in the distant future ( far off 1997 ! ! ) , why would they do something like that ? The movie came out in 1990 and then there was only seven years before we saw that downtown LA ( specifically the criminals ) do not look anything like they are portrayed in the movie . Look at Back to the Future II , for example . It was made almost 20 years ago , and there is still more than a decade before we will all see how wrong they were in predicting what the future would look like . At least the rest of the movie was good . The streets of LA look a lot like they did in the Robocop movies , and the criminals look like they did in Robocop 3 , by leaps and bounds the worst of the series . We get all these criminals who are dressed up like circus clowns , and the movie even throws in some crime kingpins that look like caricatures of witch doctors and whatnot . Like they were flown in straight from the mountains of Nepal and asked to say a few lines for the camera . Is this supposed to create the sense of isolation and unfamiliarity that the first movie created so well ? Please . Danny Glover takes on the role of Lieutenant Mike Harrigan , basically the leader on the search for the killer who keeps leaving bodies stripped naked , often with things like heads and spinal cords pulled out ( not cut , but pulled ) and hanging upside down , until the FBI , I think , shows up to take over the investigation . The endlessly watch-able Gary Busey steals the spotlight in every single one of his scenes , but mostly because Glover , also a massively talented actor , for some reason gives a halting and simply bad delivery of his horribly written lines . Busey's character is also pretty badly written , but he has such a recognizable presence that you almost don't notice . Ironically enough , it works to Busey's and the movie's advantage that he simply plays the same character that he almost always plays in his movies ? himself . The script is so full of clichés and unrealistic conversation that it sounds like it was written in an afternoon , if that . Had the writers read these lines out loud to themselves while writing it , I assure you they would have realized how ludicrous it sounded . The movie starts with a ludicrous shootout scene between the cops and entire herds of criminals , as the two gangs , you might say , fight for control of the streets . In the pessimistic future view of the movie , much like the Robocop films , crime is out of control , and as you see here , the police are out-manned and outgunned by the drug gangs on the streets . The Predator watches over this whole shootout , always out of sight , no doubt wondering why these creatures are so intent on killing off their own kind . Here's another interesting irony of the movie , the Predator , as is to be expected , comes with all kinds of new weapons , a remodeled mask , and lots of cool gadgetry , some of it meant for self-applied medical treatment , and yet some of the things that are brought over from the original film are just botched . We learn in this movie that the Predator doesn't make himself invisible , but is somehow able to bend light . That's even more impressive than invisibility ! It almost gives you the perception that the Predator carries at least some of the power of something like a black hole , but the shimmer effect is just badly done here . I would have thought that a newer movie would have been able to improve upon the one from a few years earlier . Bill Paxton , 4 years after his performance as the over-the-top and entirely too cocky Private Hudson from Aliens , turns in a performance in this movie as exactly the same guy . Overly confident despite being in completely over his head . His role here , as he explains in his interview on the DVD , is to act entirely too sure of himself , like Billy the Kid , until he realizes what he's up against , at which point he turns into the whining baby that he was in Aliens . The only thing that the movie successfully brings over from the previous film is brought over as an excuse to allow a lot more guys to get killed and to make an excuse for the weakness of this movie's plot . The original team killed off by the Predator in South America was a top secret elite team of special forces , as Peter Keyes ( Busey ) explains to the clueless Harrigan ( Glover ) , which is why the police forces involved have no idea what's going on . This allows for plenty of deaths before the FBI can convince the insubordinate police force ( Harrigan , as it were ) to believe them that the drug gangs are not involved here , and that they really do need to back off . Seriously , guys . Let us handle this . It's top secret . Harrigan , come on , back off . You don't know what you're dealing with . You don't have the resources or the knowledge to fight this enemy . I know that your friend was killed , but you just have to let us handle this . We know how to get this guy . Come on , Harrigan . I can't tell you what it really is , just let us handle it . OK fine , you see , there was this elite team in South America ? The best scene is the hunt scene about three quarters of the way through movie , and it's not good that this is the best scene because it is monumentally stupid . They come up with this great plan to have a room flooded with ultra-violet light while all the men wear these heat-proof spacesuits so the Predator can't see them and on top of that , they put this special dust in the air that will adhere to the Predator's body and make him visible . Great plan , except for the massive flashlights that everyone wears on their shoulders . This is the FBI ! I learned in 7th grade that almost without exception , there is NO LIGHT WITHOUT HEAT . Did the FBI not realize that these flashlights were going to generate heat ? My GOD . The Predator is just as ugly as in the original , but the mask has been reduced to a cheap Halloween mask , almost as bad as the Green Goblin's mask from Spider-Man . He's got this cool boomerang weapon that seemingly can cut through anything that it comes into contact with , but he talks in this movie . I hate that . Here's this alien , and he learns English just enough to deliver a couple of one-liners at exactly the right moments . At the time of this writing I have yet to see Alien vs . Predator , but I can only hope that they don't talk to each other in it . Leave the talking to Freddy ! ( spoilers ) The grand finale of the movie starts off with a massive hole in both the script and basic logic . Harrigan finds himself hanging from the cables beneath an elevator as it descends , and he's screaming at the people inside it to stop the elevator so it doesn't crush him . Forget the fact that elevators stop a good 6-10 feet above the ground at the bottom of their shafts , this one not only has a rough hole at the bottom , but when Harrigan lets go of the cable , he falls through it and into a massive open area . The scene could ALMOST be saved if it were the basement , but it turns out to be the Predator's cavernous lair . Right there in the basement of some building in downtown LA . And no one ever noticed . We get this lengthy fight scene between Harrigan and the Predator , after which a whole crowd of Predators shows up ( why they didn't come out to help their friend is not explained or wondered about ) , so Harrigan accepts defeat , but it turns out that they only wanted to come collect their dead and give Harrigan a gun from the early 18th Century , raspily muttering , ' Take it . ' What the hell is this ? ? Predator 2 is such a bad film that the Predator is the hero rather than the villain . He is the center of attention and we are watching to see these clueless morons get killed by him rather than to see them use their tactical expertise to do away with this unknown enemy , as was the case in the original film . Director Stephen Hopkins has turned the movie away from the action / sci fi of the original and into a horror movie . It's just too bad he couldn't do the same with the comedy that he worked on before this movie , A Nightmare on Elm Street 5 . The movie ends with a hint at a Part 3 ( with the line ' They'll get their chance . ' ) and I can only hope that AVP is that movie , because the last thing we need is more of this !
The politics of evil .	Part 1 was the original , with the deadly haunted dreams . Part 2 was the later return to the house in which the girl went insane . Part 3 was the obligatory haunted mental hospital . Part 4 comes pretty close to Part 5 , in which Freddy can kill Alice's friends , as she helplessly brings them one after another into her dreams . Where , you ask , do the writers go from here ? Babies ! ( spoilers ) So the first thing that pops into my mind when I see a Nightmare on Elm Street movie with the subtitle The Dream Child is that the writers were running out of excuses to put Freddy back on the screen . Better create a distraction . An interesting thing to consider , I think , is whether this installment in the series leans toward pro-choice or pro-life , because it definitely makes strong comments about abortion . My guess is that the movie is actually pretty heavily pro-choice , which I base not on personal belief but on the way it blatantly ridicules common reasons that people give for not pursuing the termination of an unwanted pregnancy . Take the scene where Alice has an emergency ultra-sound , in which she is able to see her baby in her womb . When confronted about the option of abortion , she responds with something like , ' No , I want to keep it , it's part of me and Jesse . ' Yes , it's a part of you and Jesse . And Freddy freaking Krueger . And 100 rapist maniacs . And the embodiment of pure evil . At the risk of offending any pro-life readers who might be reading this , I bet there were a lot of opponents of abortion who were slapping their heads at this nonsense . Personally I would think that at least that vision that she had of Freddy inside her very womb caressing her hideous , hideous monster of a baby would make her realize that it was part of a lot more than her and Jesse . As far as Freddy himself , he has long since lost all ability to provide scares , ever since he became a goofy , wise-cracking moron with blades on his hands . You can't really be scared by a horror movie villain who thinks he's a stand-up comedian . But hey , maybe that's just me . The special effects have taken on a similar lackluster tinge , it now being obvious that the movies are exercises in coming up with new and creative ways of turning Freddy into other objects . The comic book content , with Freddy turning one victim into one of his own drawings before cutting him up like a piece of paper are a little too artsy for me , and the worst part of the entire film is what should have been the best , the ending . While you're trying to figure out if they were trying to re-create an M . C . Escher drawing or copy a scene from Labyrinth ( which , unlike this one , fit into that film as snugly as a puzzle piece ) , you might forget what's happening and why they're even there . There is a serious problem with the plot itself in this installment as well . There is a cameo part played by a little boy ( Whitby Hertford ) , who overall seems to play no other part than to look creepy and thicken the plot . Yes , it turns out that Alice eventually realizes he's her future son ( hence his creepiness ) and that she needs to save him from Freddy , who is trying to teach him all of his evil ways , but he pops up when needed and disappears when he's unnecessary . Even worse , in the tenuous connection to Part 4 , in which Freddy killed all of Kristen's friends by forcing her to bring them into her dreams , he is now killing people based on the dreams of Alice's beloved ' he's-part-of-me-and-Jesse ' baby . Yes , this is completely ludicrous , but the baby was simply a distraction , remember ? The point is that it provides lots more teenagers for Freddy to have his way with . But given the precipitous trend the movies have been following , at this point in the series it seems less and less unlikely that an installment featuring one killing scene blandly following another , punctuated periodically by uninteresting ( although , admittedly , increasingly competent ) special effects is on its way . Oh yeah , and lots of dumb jokes .
At least someone finally found a use for all of those ridiculous cars . . .	Yes , The Fast and the Furious is exactly what the previews showed . A bunch of real charmers who race around in those ridiculous cars that you always see driving down the road , desperately trying to be cool . Here you have a gang of guys with seemingly endless financial ability to pack into these cars every kind of racing part imaginable , but the difference between these and the cars you see bouncing down the road in your local town is that they actually race these ones . The story is made up of the old cop undercover as one of the stylish bad guys , but it just doesn't work here . If you want to see a good movie with a plot like that , watch Point Break . Paul Walker plays Brian , the undercover cop in question , and Vin Diesel is Dominic Toretto , the leader of the gang that Brian is trying to infiltrate as he investigates a string of truck hijackings that are being perpetrated by a trio of extremely recognizable Hondas . Why would anyone in their right mind do so many robberies all with cars that have green lights underneath them ? Is that just so that , when they get caught , the police will have no trouble linking them with every truck they've ever robbed ? Not smart , guys . And besides that , you wouldn't think they'd feel too confident driving next to an 18-wheeler in a little tiny Honda . ( spoilers ) And the , of course , you have the goofball romance . Brian falls in love with Mia , Dominic's sister , which complicates his job . Dominic himself confuses us by being the biggest badass in this whole gang of racers while dating the ugliest and bitchiest girl in the entire movie . The first race scene in the film is among the funniest scenes , because it involves four cars racing at 140-odd mph down the streets of Los Angeles , with hundreds of on-lookers . I love how they can do this without worrying about traffic or police , I guess that one guy with the police scanner was all that would be needed for such an extravaganza . Also look for director Rob Cohen as the pizza guy who shows up briefly in this scene . As far as traffic , they must have scanners for that , too , because you'll notice a total absence of any kind of traffic during the truck robberies . And it sure is nice of the truck drivers to drive smoothly and keep speed with the Hondas while they shoot crossbows into the cab and pull out the windshield . This is an action movie for car people , because it is all about the kind of cars that these people fantasize about owning , for some reason . You can see the real version of this movie playing on main streets of towns all over the world , I'm sure . In Fresno , California , for example you can drive down Blackstone Avenue at 1am on a Saturday night , and in every other empty parking lot you'll see 10 or 12 guys standing forlornly around 2 or 3 cars that desperately try to look like the cars in this movie , and this is the reality that The Fast and the Furious exaggerates and tries to make glamorous - a bunch of guys trying to be cool by standing next to cars that are full of racing equipment that they don't use . The Fast and the Furious is all about the Hollywood version of these guys , traveling around in packs and driving cars with tremendously souped-up engines , carrying thick wads of rubber band-bound cash in their shirt pockets , and spending the night life with women borrowed from the rock stars while they revel in the tremendous financial spoils of the race wars . While it is almost amusingly obvious how fake this all is , the movie doesn't pretend to be anything else . You know on your way in that this is an action film with a low IQ , and in that sense , the movie does deliver . The chase scenes are unmistakably exciting , however unrealistic they are , and it's fun to watch this whole plot about this idiot cop who recklessly tries to make his way into this gang . The end of the film is utter nonsense , with Brian finally reaching his goal that he has been seeking and risking his life for during the entire film , and he gives it up as soon as he achieves it . It ends with Dominic in his dad's old race car , the one that he's always been afraid to drive , and he is at a stop light remembering that it's exactly a quarter of a mile to that railroad crossing up ahead . The movie once again proves how much it borrowed from Point Break as he decides to race this car to that crossing , and Brian inexplicably decides to race along-side him . They barely escape from the oncoming train , as was to be expected , and then just after Dominic wrecks his father's car , Brian gives him the keys to his own car ( the one provided to him by the police for his undercover work ) , and the film ends just before the police arrive on the scene to strip Brian of his badge send him back to the community college . The Fast and the Furious is a movie for immature action fans , the type who regard Van Damme films as their favorites , but it is almost worth watching just for the racing scenes . All of these scenes are overblown in some way , but they are almost always entertaining , at least on some morbidly amusing level . Luckily , you already know the type of drivel that this movie is , so at least you will be in the right state of mind when you watch it .
The Man With The Plastic Gun .	Besides being the worst James Bond film ever , The Man With The Golden Gun had by far the most disgustingly awful opening theme song of the entire series . This time around , Bond faces an unimaginative villain named Scaramanga who has a third nipple and a midget sidekick , charmingly named Nik Nak . It seems that Scaramanga has gotten a hold of a priceless device that is capable of converting sunlight into electricity , effectively rendering him the most powerful man in the world in the middle of an energy crisis , purposely coinciding with the energy crisis of the early 1970s . Besides that , he seems to have developed an interest in exterminating Bond himself , to add to his growing collection of murdered double oh's . The main advantage that Scaramanga has is the thing that made it possible for this to have been a much more interesting film - no one knew where he was or what he looked like . Unfortunately , the nearly endless possibilities that this fact creates for the film are largely ignored , and we get an unusually run-of-the-mill spy film with this entry into the already extensive 007 series . As is very much the tradition by now , there are plenty of amusing names for the characters in this Bond film , such as the above mentioned Nik Nak , as well as others , such as the Bond girl , Good Night , one of Scaramanga's associates , Hi Fat , and a naked Asian hottie named Chu Me . Roger Moore fits the spy element of the James Bond character fairly well , but as is the case in every Bond film that he starred in , he is totally unconvincing as the endlessly charming womanizer that Sean Connery so effectively portrayed . ( spoilers ) There is an interesting scene in The Man With The Golden Gun in which Bond pretends to be Scaramanga to talk to Hi Fat , who has never seen him , which leads into the most interesting part of the film . There are a lot of plot twists during the duration of the film , and this makes it a lot more entertaining because you never know who knows what . Hi Fat takes Bond in as Scaramanga , but then when he leaves , we find out that Scaramanga was on the island he entire time , and both men know that it was Bond posing as Scaramanga . There were also plenty of idiotic fight scenes in the movie , such as the laughable scene between Bond and a couple of sumo wrestlers . Needless to say , the sumo wrestlers EVENTUALLY win the fight , at which point Nik Nak joins in half naked ( did we really need to be subjected to that ? ) to finish him off . Luckily , Hi fat interrupts just in time to save his life and " send him to school " instead , sending him to some kind of martial arts school , which is held on an impressive set that is amazingly reminiscent of something out of an Akira Kurosawa film . Unfortunately , this is also followed by loads of pathetically staged fight scenes , but luckily , it's followed by a thankfully well-done car chase . The car turning into a plane was too much , as was the jump over the river ( but at least it was pretty impressive ) , but the chase itself , for the most part , was pretty good , despite the fact that Bond had a redneck salesman as a completely unnecessary passenger . Ultimately , Bond is invited to Scaramanga's lair to partake in a civil dinner that desperately but vainly tries to achieve the same effectiveness achieved by the identical scene in Dr . No , but this rivalry finalizes in a trivial duel between Bond and Scaramanga . The final conflict is one of the least effective of all of the Bond films , and the by now clichéd ending on a ship in the middle of the ocean didn't help much either . It is never very clearly explained why the entire island would self-destruct if the sub-zero helium rose in temperature even the smallest amount , and we're left with a lot of questions and not a very impressive film . After this installment , it's amazing that Moore was ever hired to play Bond again .
It should have been so much more ?	When I say that Gunner Palace should have been more , I don't mean that it should have been a better or more in-depth look at the lives of the troops in Iraq . Indeed , it is one of the closest looks at the daily lives of the soldiers over there that we have been able to see since the war started , but Director Michael Tucker has no idea how to get good interviews from the soldiers , and he messes it up even worse when he decides to talk . It's really sad that so many of the soldiers were handed this incredible opportunity to give a first account depiction of what their experience is like in Iraq and they use it to just screw around and act like idiots . Granted , a lot of these kids are barely out of high school , but I wish Tucker would have concentrated on the ones that had something important to say . I have all the respect in the world for these guys , but when it comes to getting an idea of what it's like to live in Iraq in a time of war , I'd be happy to stick to the guys that want to really talk about what's important , I could do without the interviews of the guys that just want to be funny . The guys that just want to be funny , of course , do not include the musicians featured in this documentary . Most of them are not making the kind of music that I am interested in but it is good to see that so many of them take their difficult experiences and channel it into something productive . The biggest problem that I had with this movie , however , is the goofy , melodramatic voice-over that Tucker put in every once in a while . Yes , it is some pretty dramatic subject matter , but the way that Tucker narrates this documentary reminds me at times of the way John Bunnell hosts World's Wildest Police Videos . He over-dramatizes everything in a way that just makes it sound goofy ( I once saw an episode where a car running from the police went briefly onto the shoulder on a country road and knocked down a couple of pieces of rotted wood that were sticking up through the dry grass , and Bunnell chimes in , " the fleeing madman SMASHES through a wooden barricade ! ! ! " ) . Tucker doesn't fill his documentary with unnecessary hyperbole like Bunnell does , but rather with a misplaced theatrical performance as the narrator . Where simple descriptions would have been sufficient , Tucker opts for an added performance that just makes him hard to listen to . When it comes to a direct look at the lives of the troops in Iraq , I just don't think anything extra is necessary , but it seems that he concentrates more on this than on the really relevant things that are going on . There are some soldiers who do give important insight , but so much time is wasted and so much extra fluff is put in that it makes a lot of the documentary look like farce .
A revolution in subtitle technology !	In a time when the cineplexes are heavily populated with revenge tales , Man On Fire ( which could just as easily have been titled Kill Bills or The Other Punisher or Walking Tall and Furious ) is not exactly a breath of fresh air . Denzel Washington takes on the role of a family-less drifter of a man trying to outrun a past that is never explained very clearly , beyond the fact that he is trying to drown it in a bottle of Jack Daniel's , but even then only long enough to allow the audience to develop a healthy bit of doubt about his character . Maybe it would create more tension later if we weren't really sure we could trust him or not . Unfortunately , Denzel Washington , a massively talented actor , has become increasingly typecast as the desperate black guy determined to break any rules necessary to get what he wants , be it a heart for his son , revenge for the alleged killing of a girl that he was just hired to watch , etc . I was disappointed by Training Day because it was more violent than it had any reason to be , and John Q looked like just another desperate father trying to save his son tale and turned out to be exactly that with no twists or anything added to make itself necessary . Structurally , Man On Fire is designed a bit like Out of Time ( one of Denzel's better recent movies ) , with much of the first portion of the film dedicated to presenting the flaws in Creasy's ( Washington ) character . He has a dark past , he has no solid footing anywhere so he kind of drifts around in search of meaningful ( or , failing that , meaningless ) employment , and as he explains to a cautious mother as she interviews him for the job of being her daughter's bodyguard , he drinks . Speaking of the daughter , Dakota Fanning is an impossibly adorable child actor , and it seemed like a shame to me that Tony Scott didn't think that was enough to endear her to the audience . Instead of making her a charming ten-year-old daughter ( actually , I think her character in the movie was even younger than that ) who could have been further endearing because of what would be an expected level of fright at her surroundings ( being a little American girl living in the heart of Mexico City ) they go so far over the top that she ultimately becomes the kind of child that could only exist in an action movie where she gets kidnapped . Within a minute of introducing her onscreen , we have already learned that she plays the piano , speaks two languages ( granted , this is to be expected since she's American and lives semi-permanently in Mexico City ) , and says things like ' Yes , mother , ' and ' Right this way , Mr . Creasy . ' What kid talks like that ? On the other hand , it later makes more sense that she is portrayed as Super Daughter , because ' Mr . Creasy ' later goes on to exact Super Revenge for her kidnapping and apparent murder . This , unfortunately , is where the movie really begins to slip . Man On Fire may have a lengthy running time of almost two and a half hours because it took so much time at the beginning to introduce us to Creasy and , more importantly , to show the relationship between him and Pita ( Fanning ) develop from uncomfortable to inseparable . It soon becomes clear that the reason for this is to create a strong enough bond to justify Creasy going on to brutally torture the men involved in her kidnapping . Make no mistake , the audience suffers through these scenes as well , so you better make sure you're also pretty ticked off about the kidnapping . ( spoilers ) Creasy delivers the cold platter of revenge to several of the bad guys in such ways as cutting a guy's fingers off while his hands are duct taped to the steering wheel and then cauterizing the stubs with the cigarette lighter , and even better , informing a man tied to the hood of a car that while he was passed out ( presumably from being beaten ) , Creasy took the liberty of inserting a highly explosive suppository which will detonate after his little interview . Pretty creative stuff , and exactly what our base human instincts like to see happen to someone who would kidnap and kill a little girl , but once the vicious revenge has been delivered , she turns up alive ! OOPS ! Admittedly , they're still bad guys . They still kidnapped the girl and demanded money , but as it turns out , it was the father who planned the thing in the first place , and he gets the most merciful killing , if you would qualify his death as a killing , per se . Why is the man who is guiltier than anyone , and the worst person in the world to have done what he did , given the most mercy ? The other guys tried desperately to convince Creasy while he tortured and killed them that they were only following orders , they were only doing a job and they were impartial , and it turned out that they were telling the truth . Criminals , yes , but did they really deserve explosive suppositories ? In one scene , the father tearfully tells his wife that he thought their daughter would be treated well , that she would be watching cartoons and eating ice cream , and given her physical state when she turned back up at the end of the movie , that probably is how she was treated . The question is not whether Creasy can be expected to have known this . He was convinced that she was dead , and really had no reason to believe that she was alive . The problem is that this is how the movie was written . The plot did not happen accidentally , it was deliberately created this way . We are given an abduction set-up , briefly informed of the family's large-scale financial difficulties ( the rather ham-handed foreshadowing of who was behind the whole thing ) , and then Creasy goes on his rampage . The movie exists so that this man can seek brutal revenge against the killers of a young girl , then she turns up alive and not a word is spoken about the delivery of harsher deaths than were deserved . Maybe this was why Creasy came to the end that he did . He was beyond redemption and was driven off in the custody of the bad guys , presumably to be tortured . Luckily for him , he drifts peacefully off into a calmer death than he could otherwise have expected , his medallion of the Patron Saint of Lost Causes in his hand . The ending is really the only part that is morally justifiable . Creasy can't live happily ever after because of what he has done , but he can't really be blamed exactly because of what he thought that he was seeking vengeance for . The direction is innovative but unnerving , with Tony Scott's signature lightning fast editing ( better used in intense action scenes than throughout an entire film , as you can see here ) zooms across the screen , with the exposure also inexplicably flying up and down like a roller coaster , blinding you one second and then darkening so fast that it's not always even the next second . Sometimes it's blindingly bright one second and then dark later in that same second . I imagine the point is to throw the audience off a little , make them feel just a little uncomfortable , but didn't the snapping off of the fingers and the sizzling cauterizing of the stumps already do that quite enough ? Evidently not , so while you're busy chasing the most energetic subtitles in film history across the screen , try to remember that yes , revenge is a dish best served cold , but it's at least as important to keep in mind that it is a dish best served to people who really deserves such large helpings .
Werewolves and Lycans Show No Signs of Getting Along ?	You may remember that Kate Beckinsale was featured even more prominently on the poster for Underworld 2 than she was for the original movie . Now , you might notice that the poster for the third installment in the series features Bill Nighy in full , cadaverous glory . So the reason Bill Nighy's character is not only featured so prominently on the movie's poster but is also alive again ( you may remember that he was spectacularly dispatched in the first film ) is because , as promised by the studios , this is " the prequel you've been waiting for . " This is , of course , studio talk for " this movie will answer all your Underworld questions " and " no , Kate Beckinsale isn't in it . " The rest of the cast , however , human and mechanical alike , are in their best form , so it's surprisingly easy not to miss her . I've watched both previous Underworld films within the last two days , and the close proximity of the two movies reminds me how amazingly similar they are in story and appearance , so I anticipated more of the same with part 3 and I was hardly disappointed . Fans of the series are sure to get a kick out of this obligatory extra movie , although it was hardly justified given the first two . Maybe I'm a callous , modern American movie-goer without the necessary attention span , but I just wasn't really feeling the need for another two hours about the war between the werewolves and lycans . At any rate , when it all started , the vampires were in control . They ruled the lands and the werewolves were their slaves , they were used to protect and build the vampire kingdom . The werewolves are unable to ever take human form because of the collars they are forced to wear around their necks , and Viktor holds the key . But since slave societies have an understandable tendency to eventually organize and revolt against their oppressors , it's safe to assume that Viktor's authority is soon to be challenged . Lucian , the Lycan leader that we met in the original film ( the one that Viktor and everyone else didn't believe could possibly still be alive ) , although a slave himself , has been amassing a rebel Lycan army and , with the support of his true love Sonia ( Viktor's vampire daughter ) , he declares a war against the vampires that will last for centuries . The movie has exactly the same look as the first two movies , although Beckinsale and her husband Les Wiseman , the director of the first two movies , have taken off , leaving directing duties to Patrick Tatopoulos , who had never directed a feature film before but who has an astonishing list of credits in the special effects and art departments . And his work shows , too . He knows how to create great horror creatures , and the movie takes place in an undisclosed but effective enough corner of the medieval world , where their uppity Shakespearean language doesn't look quite so out of place as in the previous two movies , when they were surrounded by cell phones and handguns and high technology . Unfortunately , the werewolves and vampires are still played by human actors , and the movie is unable to get past that ancient horror hurdle created by the fact that humans pulling their lips back to reveal fangs is simply not scary . It never has been and it never will be . And that colored contact lens thing , man . Don't even get me started on that . I can't shake the feeling that that was a goofy cliché back in the late 90's . Marilyn Manson stretched that as far as it would go but it's over now ! Move on ! In fact , hold on a second ? " ATTENTION MOVIE STUDIOS ? COLORED CONTACT LENSES IN ANY MOVIE , IN ANY GENRE , WILL NEVER EVER EVER LOOK LIKE ANYTHING OTHER THAN COLORED CONTACT LENSES . PLEASE MAKE A NOTE OF IT . " OK , sorry , I just had to get that out . But on the other hand , at least they've stopped doing that thing where a vampire will hold a victim at arm's length , stretch their mouth open as wide as possible , and slowly move their distended jaws down to the exposed neck so the camera can get a sufficient shot of the fangs so that anyone who might have gotten up to get popcorn will make it back before the fangs are off screen . I can put up with a lot at the movies , but the next time I see THAT little trick I'm walking out of the theater . There is a curious debate raised by the fact that for a good portion of the film , Lucian carelessly blows away his own kind , the lycans , by rationalizing that they are simply mindless beasts , despite the fact that their behavior clearly displays intelligence . There is something to be said about that rationalization , but I don't care to go into it here because it will no doubt make my review prohibitively long and then no one will really care to read it anyway . Hopefully I'm no there already . Suffice it to say that Underworld 3 is a fan's film . There are films that are brilliant critical successes , there are films that are popular successes , and there are films that fail spectacularly in both arenas but remain genuinely loved by die-hard fans . It's not hard to see where Underworld 3 belongs .
Modern day Bonnie and Clyde and so forth .	Emelio Estevez makes his writing and directorial debut in Wisdom , the story of a guy named John Wisdom who finds himself in sort of an early life crisis , I guess . Barely entering the real world , he is coming to realize that life is harder than he has been brought up to believe , and he becomes convinced that all this stuff he's been hearing all his life about how he can be anything he wants is not really true , and so he sets out to do what any rational person would do in such a situation . He embarks on a dizzyingly adventurous life of crime and the freedom of the open road . All can only end happily for everyone involved . But rather than become your typical bank robber , Wisdom , after brainstorming at length about the type of criminal that he aspires to be , decides he's going to be a criminal FOR the people . No one can be hurt by his crimes except for big evil corporations and , more specifically , greedy banks . Wisdom believes that he has been dealt an unfair hand in the game of life , and sitting in a bus station in the early part of his wandering , he sees a commercial that convinces him that this he's not the only one . Millions of hard working Americans work themselves to the bone for their entire lives , only to have everything taken away in a flash by the banks when they should be ready to retire in comfort and happiness . And as Brig . Gen . Francis X . Hummel said in The Rock , the situation is unacceptable . Hence we have an understandable concern about a truly troublesome situation of many people in America , but it's a weak premise for the rest of the movie , possibly because 24 year old Estevez , as Wisdom , looks like he's 16 years old in the entire movie . Granted , his character is not meant to be much older than that , but there is a definite element of juvenile grandiose fantasy that renders much of the movie into something of a high school kid's dream of fame and a life of righteous crime . Demi Moore , also 24 years old , plays the equally high school-ish love interest , oddly more ready to leave her boyfriend when he's in a persistent bad mood than she is when he runs out of a bank with a gun and jumps in her car and tells her to step on it with no warning or hesitation . The two ultimately become sort of a mesh of Bonnie and Clyde , Robin Hood , Mickey and Mallory , etc . , as they cross the country holding up banks , but only for the purpose of burning lots of mortgage records , thereby erasing massive amounts of working class debt . Evidently mortgage companies and banks hold only a single solitary copy of debt records , and clearly there can't have been any computerized records , this is 1986 after all . Computers were like the size of Volkswagens back then , weren't they ? So here are a few reasons that the movie is just about unwatchable . First , there is the acting . I'll just specify the scene where Wisdom finally is able to talk to his parents after being on the run for several days . Very emotional , and quite possibly the least bearable scene in the film . Just stop , Emilio . This , as Roger Ebert might say , is a scene meant to be cut up and made into ukulele picks for the poor . Second , there's the pursuit . The FBI is chasing them , and at one point the head FBI agent worriedly hopes that they can get to them before they get to a certain bank . Would it not be prudent to send some agents straight to that bank to meet them ? Thirdly , there's the simplicity of it all . Americans in debt , Wisdom comes in armed with an Uzi to save the day . Please . The last line in the film , more than any other line in any other movie I've ever seen , completely cancels itself out . It literally would have made no difference if the final line had been ' Why did we even make this movie ? ' ( spoilers ) You can kind of track the progression of the writing , the ideas changing and evolving as the story develops . First there's the young kid trying to make some sense out of what he has to work with in his life , then the determined young man out to help his fellow man , then the Robin Hood , sequence , then Bonnie and Clyde after they tarnish their consciences , then the high speed pursuit as the police close in on them despite their own incompetence . The car chase is a great scene , it's a surprisingly well-made car chase for such a weak film , but the build up is heavily flawed . The scene where Demi kills the sheriff is a real forehead slapper . On the run and with their faces plastered all over the TV and newspapers , Karen ( Moore ) walks into a convenience store and is shocked to find the sheriff walking in . So what does she do ? She walks toward the door , stops behind him , and stares at him like a frightened deer , motionless until he can gradually recognize her . At one point , he even asks her , ' Are you okay , miss ? ' Sure , she was terrified , but I get so tired of scenes where you're sitting there yelling at the screen because all she has to do is keep walking . Had she just walked out , chances are the sheriff wouldn't have thought twice about it , and just kept right on living . But no , she had to pull out her gun and shoot him , and then jump into the car with her boyfriend so they can zoom down the highway to their deaths . Sadly , once that car chase is over , it's all downhill . You can't really root for Wisdom to run around killing people , because he's not supposed to be a bad guy and is definitely not supposed to be a killer . Like his choices in life , he was supposed to have been DRIVEN to it by society . He had no choice , right ? So why not return fire when they shoot Karen near the end of the film after they try to steal the Mustang ? That jerk shot your girlfriend out of a helicopter , man ! Shoot it down ! Here's my theory ? Estevez HAD to have known that his audience was going to want him to return fire , the FBI agent had long since been established as an antagonist . I'm sure Emilio wanted to put that in the script as well , a great way for them both to go out in a glorious hail of bullets , he probably just didn't have the budget to blow up a helicopter . So we get this scene in the football stadium . Why the cops went there in the first place I have no idea . The movie knows what it wants to do and , thematically , it sets about to do it in a straight line . Unfortunately the characters change constantly , each one making ridiculous decisions out of the blue or to support the ridiculous decisions of the other ones , gradually changing into different people as a life of crime can do , but doing so through a series of wholly unbelievable scenes and events . And besides that , Demi had yet to make much of an impression , which surely must have worried her since she has a 10th grade education and doesn't have a lot to fall back on besides acting , and let's face it , Emilio had a rough introduction to writing and directing . Evidently he learned a lot of lessons from this movie before coming back in spectacular form in 1990 .
What a disappointment .	I forget what movie it was that I rented that had a preview for this one included on the DVD , but I saw the preview for this film and for Grand Theft Parsons , which I would otherwise not have looked twice at because Johnny Knoxville stars in it , but they both looked like pretty good movies , so I rented this one . Big mistake . Jim Caviezel , who will probably spend the rest of his career being known as the guy who played Jesus in The Passion of the Christ , plays James Cray here , a man determined to capture the man who deliberately killed his wife in a hit and run accident . The best thing that the movie has going for it is that it has flickers of strength periodically displayed in the structure of the story , which gradually reveals meaning within its ugly occurrences . It is revealed more than midway through the film that after his wife was struck and killed , Rennie chased down the perpetrating vehicle , ultimately slamming into the side of it and landing himself in prison for three years and the murderer of his wife in all kinds of traction . The movie itself is some bizarre mixture of the basic , basic premise from Duel combined with elements of other bad thrillers like Crash and Wheels of Terror , a very obscure TV movie by which I happen to have had the great pleasure of being horribly bored . The problem is that it tries to create a human story behind what Rennie has been through , but then throws in this antagonist that is literally nothing more than a horror movie monster . He is not a car crash victim or a sick murderer who gets thrills from killing women with his car , he is a movie monster like the boss from The Mangler . It's hard to take a movie like this seriously when it's main opposing force is someone who is barely human and whose gigantic boat of a Cadillac is entirely indestructible . In thinking back on the level of misogyny displayed in the film , I am reminded of Pedro Almodóvar's 1986 film Matador , the opening scene of which I found so tremendously distasteful that I only made it about three minutes into the film before turning it off in disgust . I can scarcely imagine the remainder of Matador being able to justify the hideous nature of its opening sequence , but even with the much more subtle level of misogyny ( if it should even be called that ) displayed in this film is not justified by the rest of the movie . This is a very low-level thriller whose less-than-impressive performances deserved a better film . Avoid this one .
Sample dialogue : ' You'd give all this up ? 8-track stereo , color TV in every room ? it's the American dream ! '	First you have to get over how catastrophically obsolete this film is , and then it might be enjoyable on some deep , subconscious level . Having watched it and learned that it was one of the most controversial blaxploitation films of the 70s , I am a little hesitant to write a scathing review of it , since I'm sure it has some sort of cult following somewhere , but the movie is so badly made and so goofy that it's almost impossible to praise it . I was also shocked to read one IMDb reviewer call the soundtrack one of the greatest in film history . Way off , buddy , but I am willing to admit that at one point , presumably early 1970s , this kind of music was considered great , but today it is so preposterous that it's almost weird . And by the way , I'd like to once again protest the word blaxploitation , an utterly meaningless description used to describe something which strikes me as something similar to those FUBU clothes , or rap music . By black people , for black people , so who they're exploiting and for whom is beyond me . Being mostly white myself , I'm outside the target audience , but I decided to watch it because I think that ancient styles are so funny . See the teenagers in 80s teen comedies or horror movies , for instance . Speaking of ancient styles , it's interesting to notice how much the typical audience has evolved over the years since Super Fly was made . A director today , for example , could never get away with making a movie like this , modern audiences just don't have the attention span . The movie moves along like a series of music videos , stopping periodically to insert some dialogue and characters and situations , after which it moves back into another music video . Even that sex scene in the bathtub seemed to go on forever , panning up and down and up and down and up and down the naked bodies in the tub , presumably long enough for the song to play out before we can move on to the next scene . From a technical standpoint , the film is an absolute disaster . There's a foot-chase early in the movie during which a wire of some sort falls directly in front of the camera lens not once , but twice , the audio is numerous scenes does not even remotely match the video ( the never-ending bathtub scene , for example ) , and the acting is abysmal . ( spoilers ) The story is about a drug dealer who wants to do the One Last Gig And Then Get Out For Good , and runs into all kinds of obstacles along the way . All of which , of course , are obstacles just long enough to create some periodic dialogue scenes and then become solved when it's time for the plot to move along . The ending has something of a twist , I suppose , although that may be because I was envisioning a bit of a tragic ending because of the way things were leading , but the movie as a whole is a tired , plodding exercise through the jive of the streets of the big city in the early 1970s , with lots of badass blacks and evil white cops screwing everything up . I don't like the way the black people were portrayed in the film , as far as being dedicated dope smugglers and cocaine dealers and whatnot , but I still don't think that the term blaxploitation is appropriate , because you have to admit that Priest's intentions were honorable . Sure , he had been leading a less than honorable life and had less than honorable means for getting out of it , but the important thing is that he wanted to get out , he wanted to change his life for the better . I think the only way that blaxploitation can be used to accurately describe movies like this is in the way stereotypes are used as a starting point for the story . Lots of black criminals , basically . I've heard that Denzel Washington has talked about doing a remake of this movie with the director of Training Day . Given how far Denzel has fallen in his acting career because he keeps making the same movie over and over , it seems that he doesn't care as much about where his career goes from now on . Surely he has more than enough money to last the rest of his life , but why would he want to do something as crazy as that ? Did he not see the train wreck that was Samuel L . Jackson's remake of Shaft ?
Mr . Deeds , in my opinion , marks a point in Adam Sandler's career where it seems that the majority of the thinking audience will , if they haven't already , begin to wonder whether Sandler will ever do anything	SPOILERS SPOILERS The new name for the character that Sandler plays in every movie is , in this case , Mr . Deeds , a small town man who learns that he is the inheritor of a massive fortune from a distant relative who is a media mogul . Deeds lives in the tiny town of Mandrake Falls , New Hampshire , where he is constantly the talk of the entire town , the borders of which do not seem to extend very far past the doors of the pizzeria that he owns . He comes to New York to see what all the financial fuss is about , and as all his friends at home watch him on TV , he proceeds to try to take part in the company rather than taking his inheritance and going back into obscurity where he clearly belongs . ( spoilers ) The fortune is , first of all , ridiculously exaggerated . There is no one in the target audience of this film ( nor , really , many people at all in the world ) who can really visualize how much money $40 billion exactly is . That's not even money , as James Caan said in The Way of the Gun ( where he speaks about $50 million , I believe ) , it's a new life . Money is what you get out of the ATM , it's what you take to the grocery store . $40 billion is so astronomical that they may as well have just said that Deeds has inherited all the money in the world . On the other hand , while I thought that the film had a positive message against greed and corruption , the fact that Deeds turned down the inheritance ( simply saying that he doesn't want that money ) could not have been more poorly executed . First of all , when he decides that he just doesn't want it , if you listen you can hear everyone in the audience slapping their foreheads almost as hard as when Mox pulled that ' oh-I-just-can't ' crap during the whipped cream bikini scene in Varsity Blues . Second , while it was nice to see that Deeds decides to donate the money to charity instead of accepting more money than any single human being could spend in 20 lifetimes with wide-eyed glee , this part of the film was probably the least creative thing in the entire movie , which wasn't very creative to begin with . I can imagine the writers of the movie writing this scene at the end of the day or right before their lunch hour , just because it's so obvious that it was slapped together . When Deeds asked the name of that one charity , you know , that one . . Yeah , give it to those guys . You can just picture the writers already half out of their chairs and on their way out of the room when someone says wait , what does he do with the money , and they say much the same thing that he says in the movie . You can almost see the indifferent wave of the hand and maybe something like , ' Oh , just have him give it to some charity . ' This reminds me of Hollow Man , which is a film that had nearly endless possibilities , which were all completely ignored in favor of a simplistic and clichéd plot . I know it may seem like I'm making a big deal about something that's kind of trivial , but it's really not . There could be a lot of meaning delivered in who he gives the money to , and it could have been a lot of fun , too . Even something as simple as what Rudy Duncan ( Ben Affleck ) did with all the money at the end of Reindeer Games ( 2000 ) was more creative and more fun than this . The whole plot involving Winona Ryder's character ( charmingly named ' Babe ' ) was crude and tacked on . While it was interesting that she played a character who tried to skewer Deeds to get a good news story ( albeit a heavily dramatized and altered one ) , the fact that she ultimately falls in love with him and has to convince him that she really loves him after he's already found out that she's been lying to him is one of the oldest plot ploys in the book of writing cheesy comedies ( and cheesy action movies , and cheesy dramas , etc . ) . Mr . Deeds is a film made for Adam Sandler films . I will readily admit that I enjoy many of Sandler's films ( such as Billy Madison , to some extent , The Waterboy , Happy Gilmore , which I LOVED , etc . ) , but for the same reason that I like to watch Van Damme and Steven Seagal movies . They are totally goofy B-movies , but there is some sort of backwards , amusing charm to them that makes them attractive . Critics are sure to hate those movies , as well as a movie like Mr . Deeds , and they have plenty of reason to , obviously , but Sandler fans are not likely to be entirely disappointed .
Seagal vs . freaky Jamaican crackheads ?	So Seagal plays a DEA detective named John Hatcher who lost his partner on a drug investigation into , surprise surprise , Colombia ! Not to brag or anything , but my father was born and raised in Colombia ( hence my last name ) , and now he's a doctor in California , so no matter what the movies would have you believe , there are some things other than drug dealers and cocaine that come out of Colombia ! At any rate , in a drug bust gone bad , Hatcher loses his partner and accidentally kills a naked Colombian prostitute , inspiring him to go to confession , somewhere that I have never seen him go before in any of his movies , before or since . It was actually pretty interesting . Seagal has a tendency to come off as almost asexual the way he never gets much involved with women other than as a plot device and the way the occasional seduction attempt , whether by a stripper or by a lover , never piques the slightest bit of interest from him . He's all get-the - bad-guys all the time . But in the confession booth , he confesses to having lied , sold drugs , falsified evidence , and even slept with informants in order to get the information he needed to put the bad guys behind bars ( I hope I'm not getting in trouble with God by telling you this ? ) . The priest tells him to go to his family , so he decides it's time to retire from the force . The next third of the movie is an exercise in the paper-thin characterization characteristic of Seagal's films . Marked For Death is the story of Seagal against a band of mystic Jamaican drug dealers , and these guys have no discretions about pushing their products in broad daylight . Hatcher goes back to visit his old high school coach , Max ( a minimal effort by Keith David ) , and right in the middle of practice there are some of these dread-locked crackheads sitting right there in the bleachers peddling crack to some bookworm-looking high school girls . Maybe I just had a sheltered experience in high school , but I didn't know crack dealers and crackheads hung out AT SCHOOL in the MIDDLE OF THE DAY . At any rate , it's not long before Hatcher learns how evil these guys are . They're not just peddling crack to high school kids , but the coach has been losing football players regularly to their drugs , they engage in smartass stare-downs with Max , and since that's not enough , his 13-year-old niece died in their crackhouse . Ah , OK . We get the picture . I'm sure they also torture puppies and beat up old women , and maybe steal candy from children too , just for good measure . Is it really this hard to establish who the bad guys are ? 13-year-old niece died in their crackhouse . Wow . Anyway . Not only does the movie not know how to develop villains without resorting to what basically boils down to movie name-calling , where evil deeds are shallowly assigned to them through dialogue , but they also don't know how they should act . The leader of the drug dealers , is named Screwface , and I suppose that alone should tell you something about the kind of movie this is . Screwface is a cartoonish Jamaican man with these bright , bizarrely green eyes , which I am guess must be an important part of his character because he spends a good majority of his screen time with his eyes half bulging out of his head . His favorite means of intimidation is to scream really loud in his wildly overblown Jamaican accent with his face quite literally less than an inch away from whoever he's yelling at . This guy likes to get so into guys ' faces that he has to turn his head to the side so their noses don't touch . All I could think about was how the poor guys would deal with his breath . Man , they do not want you to forget that these guys are Jamaican , by the way . Their accents are so exaggerated and overblown that for most of the movie it's nearly impossible to understand them . Not that it matters . It doesn't matter what they're saying , all you need to know is that everything that comes out of their mouths is some kind of evil drug-related thing , they're just the psychos that peddle drugs and kill people . The movie must have been a huge hit in Jamaica ! My biggest problem with the movie is that the theatrics , particularly of the bad guys , as I've described , are spectacularly goofy , even for a Seagal film . They are so cartoonish and weird that it's impossible to take them as anything other than a goofball b-movie creation , something slapped together to provide fodder to whom Seagal can distribute his characteristic brand of smack-down retribution . But there is also a bizarre kind of mysticism in the movie that just makes it all come off as weird . For example , a mystic , I guess you would call her , at one point puts some kind of curse on Screwface by ( if I remember correctly ) spitting mouthfuls of Bacardi onto a live rooster that's hanging upside down before beheading it and dripping its blood onto a picture of Screwface . Hmm . Interesting . Sadly , it's this same woman that warns Hatcher that his family has been " marked for death " by these people , meaning they've got some voodoo hex on them . Not to belittle anyone , but if I was told that my family had been cursed by people like that , I would just laugh at it . Hatcher doesn't strike me as the kind of guy to take much stock in freaky voodoo curses ! But the set-up , as you can see , is pretty standard for a Seagal film . Unique villains , I guess you could say , although not very impressive . Definitely the weirdest film of Seagal's early career ?
Let's hear it for Vestron Video ! !	You know , I really have a problem with movie lists . I was reading Maxim magazine a while ago and they had a list of the 50 Greatest B-Movies of all time , and knowing me , I of course have to go through and watch them all and write reviews of all of them . This is why you see reviews of movies like Gator Bait and Barb Wire and Coffy on my list . So I noticed H . O . T . S . at the video store the other day and recognized it from Maxim's list of the 50 greatest B-movies , and I decided to rent it and check it out . My only consolation is that I rented it because I recognized it from a list of B-movies , so I already knew it was going to suck . Given the type of movie that it is , I can't say that H . O . T . S . is a total failure , since it is nothing more than a late 70s T & A film , and it never pretends to by anything else . The only place where it strays widely from its objective is in a ragged subplot involving a couple of ex-cons who have stashed a lot of stolen money in the house that the self-named H . O . T . S . move in to , because this subplot has absolutely no place in the movie . Despite the fact that the rest of the movie is as well , this subplot is completely superfluous and unnecessary . The story is based on a couple of rival sororities at the beloved F . U . , which exists as one of those Universities that contains a grand total of one sorority until the rejects form their own in order to get back at the snobs in the other one . This new sorority , Help Out The Seals ( H . O . T . S . ) , is a sorority supposedly based on helping seals ( the seal subplot is another one that doesn't really belong in the movie , and little attention is paid to the meaning of that name beyond having a seal running around here and there throughout the movie ) . This is going to sound weird , but there was actually one scene that I was pretty impressed with in this movie . One SHOT that I was impressed with , I should say . About midway through the movie , one of the girls in Pi , the rival sorority , is pouring alcohol into the punch , and she pours some for herself in a glass and drinks it . Oddly enough , what she does as she drinks that alcohol reminds me of something that Charlie Chaplin would do , which really brightened up the movie . Obviously , nothing in this movie comes close to anything that Chaplin ever did , but that shot alone raised my score for the movie from a 2 to a 4 . As a whole , however , the movie is exactly what you would expect it to be , a lot of people running around looking for excuses to take off their clothes ( I liked how the remove - one - piece - of - clothing - for - every - score in the football game at the end was one of the GIRLS ' ideas . Riiiiiiiiight ? ) , and not much thought is put into much of anything else . There is , for example , a scene early in the film when a couple of the Pi girls pour hot sauce into the refreshments at a H . O . T . S . party , accidentally getting caught in an incriminating photograph ( the girl taking the picture didn't realize that she photographed them at the time ) , although the photograph never comes up for any reason later in the film . I've seen movies like this before , it's kind of like Gator Bait but without the violence and the rednecks and Coffy wasn't far off . Even Barb Wire is much the same , just with a bigger budget and more silicon . Thankfully , Maxim's 50 B-movie list contains only a few more comedies , because while these cheesy teen T & A films are entertaining every once in a while as bad movies with the occasional semi-nude scene , after watching H . O . T . S . I think I've decided that I like the bad horror movies better than the bad comedies . I'd rather watch a lot of terrible actors pretend to be scared than pretend to be funny .
Most expensive movie I've slept through this year .	Tom Tykwer's The International came about with a lot of promise . It has all the makings of a classy , intelligent espionage thriller . I was expecting something in the vein of The Interpreter or at least some of the fast-paced action of the Bourne films , but such is not to be the case . The movie pitts Clive Owen , a cinematic force to be reckoned with , to be sure , against the villainously corrupt international banking infrastructure , which seems to have acquired a taste for enormous missile deals . Unfortunately , the movie plods through every imaginable espionage cliché , and somehow manages to make it's two hours feel like about five . And Tom Tykwer hasn't done anything interesting since his brilliant film Run Lola Run in 1998 , so it wasn't exactly a good career move to make such a high-profile and profoundly uninteresting film as this . Maybe it's because I'm an American who hasn't lived in America for a few years and so the economic crisis doesn't have much of an immediate scariness for me , but for whatever reason , I found the economic string-pulling here to be decidedly unthreatening . Clive Owen stars as Louis Salinger , a former Scotland Yard detective now working for Interpol and hot on the trail of what he is sure is a massive conspiracy of corruption and murder taking place within the banking industry . Naomi Watts is Eleanor Whitman , an American somehow involved with the New York District Attorney's office , who for some reason wants her to spend her time and energy to track down European banking criminals . You may find yourself spending the first half of the movie feverishly trying to follow the twists and turns of the plot and keep track of all of the intricacies of wrongdoing that grows deeper and deeper with every scene , but by about the hour mark it becomes pretty clear that the movie isn't going to do anything new , and isn't even going to try to cover the well - treaded ground that it covers in any kind of fresh or interesting way . It seems that an international bank called the IBBC has been engaging in shady arms deals which turn out to be efforts to control the debt created by international conflicts . " Control the debt , " we learn , " and you control everything . " I never really thought about it that way , although it does put my credit card debt in an entirely new perspective . I better pay that thing off , or I'm pretty sure I'm going to be somehow funding terrorist organizations . Unfortunately , the banks in The International are so cartoonishly villainous that it makes the movie almost impossible to take seriously . Of course , economists have analyzed the plot and assured us that such things could never happen in the real world , but for a movie like this to really be effective , it helps if the premise is at least a little bit believable . Banks are all around us and are not exactly in favor at the moment , but do they have to be portrayed as the epitome of soulless , power-hungry war-mongers that will stop at nothing , even such trifles as high-profile , public assassinations , in order to pursue their criminal designs ? Clive Owen's biggest task in the movie is to sell his astonishment at the mind-boggling revelation that money and power do , in fact , breed corruption , and Naomi Watts ' biggest task in the movie is to somehow come across as the slightest bit interesting when she bravely states that she intends to " blow this thing wide open . " Yawn . Am I getting spoiled ? Am I expecting too much from the movies ? There are few things I hate more than people who are totally ungrateful for what they have in life , but am I wrong to expect more from the movies than something like this ? Maybe I just expected a totally different pace in The International . The movie moves so slowly and ploddingly that by the time the climax finally lumbers across the screen I was spending almost as much time looking at my watch as I was spending looking at the movie . I kid you not , less than five minutes before the movie ended , in the heat of the climax of the film , I was distracted by a text message from my friend . It seemed that he was suffering from a terrible case of intestinal gas and was getting pretty anxious about the implications that it would have for the yoga class that he was about to teach . I texted him back the most reassuring message I could think of and then came back to the movie and discovered that I hadn't missed much . There is also little the matter of the Big Shootout . I don't want to ruin anything for you , but personally I am of the opinion that if I don't tell you that a two hour movie about banking corruption manages to culminate in a machine gun battle in none other than New York's Guggenheim Museum , I would be doing you a grave disservice . I've visited the Guggenheim's in Los Angeles and Bilbao , Spain , and while I haven't been to the one in New York , my understanding is that the resemblance of the re-created version for this movie is astonishing . Unfortunately , the mind-numbing machine gun battle that takes place in it is not .
" Super-Sized Stripper Smacks Spectator " ? ' Madea Goes To Jail ' Review ?	I guess I should start off by admitting that I've never seen any of the previous Madea films , and that I went into this movie knowing nothing about it except that it's the latest in a long line of similar films which have gotten about the same public response as your average Steven Seagal movie . And that's not good , in case you're wondering . That's okay though , because during the opening credits we see various headlines zooming across the screen , like " Super-Sized Stripper Smacks Spectator , " and we get the general idea . Madea has always been a problem for the police , she has a rap sheet a mile long and doesn't feel any need to change her behavior . The movie comes dangerously close to being another one of those intolerable comedies where Eddie Murphy or Martin Lawrence star as every character in the movie . Madea's family are clearly meant to resemble the Klumps , although I would be lying if I said that they were not entertaining . Uncle Joe in particular is a goofy caricature , but he's a hilarious one . The problem with the movie is that it tries to be two very different kinds of films , and it succeeds in being those two kinds of films , but the combination of the two styles kills this one completely . Half the movie is a light-hearted comedy in the vein of the Nutty Professors and Big Momma's House , but the other half of the film is a very serious drama that deals effectively with very serious issues . Life Is Beautiful is the only movie I've ever seen that really succeeds brilliantly at this story-telling technique , but that movie worked because it tied the two genres together . Life also comes close . This one , on the other hand , just throws the two halves in the same room and then sits back while they sit there not working . Dr . Phil makes a surprisingly hilarious cameo as a therapist that tries in vain to get Madae to admit that she has an anger management problem , which ultimately lands her in jail . Meanwhile , Josh Hardaway , the Assistant District Attorney , is experiencing a wonderfully developing career , until he meets Candace , a childhood friend who has fallen into a desperate situation after years of drugs and prostitution . He tries as hard as he can to help her despite the hysterical and ridiculous whining of his horrid fiancé . This is one of the worst parts of the movie , by the way . There is nothing worse than a romantic comedy that pits two suitors ( male or female ) against each other for the love of the main character , when one of the suitors is clearly tailor made to be the right choice and the other is an intolerable jerk-off . See 27 Dresses and you'll know what I mean . Josh's fiancé in this movie is unfortunately such a nagging , conniving wench that it's impossible to have any feelings towards her other than animosity . This is not a good start for a movie whose story is driven by the characters . Almost from the moment she enters the movie I was just waiting for Josh to come to his senses and boot her to the curb where she belongs . The issues of prostitution and drugs and drugs are taken very seriously , there's even a pretty intensely emotional scene involving one of the key male characters , who breaks down completely under the weight of a tragic event for which he has never been able to forgive himself . The acting is superb in this scene , but it is genuinely bizarre when Madea shows up again and we realize what the rest of the movie is like . It's impossible to tell if this is supposed to be a comedy or a drama , because both elements are done fairly well but they simply don't work when put together . I don't need my movies to be categorized , in fact I am pleasantly surprised when films cleverly bend genres , but this one gives us one character with a truly frightening history of drugs and prostitution and another character who lifts a car up on giant forklifts and then drops it 30 feet onto the pavement when a callous owner steals her spot at K-Mart . Ultimately Madea and Candace get locked up in the same prison , and the two stories attempt in vain to come together . I won't say that all of the character are utterly uninteresting , although there are several points where a stupendous lack of screen writing ability is made abundantly clear . Consider this exchange between Candace and her new cell-mate , who happens to be one of her old , close friends ? Candace : " You look good . " Cellmate : " Yeah , I'm doin ' good . How you doin ' ? " Are you serious ? I'm doin ' good ? How you doin ' ? Is this an inside joke ? You're both in prison ! Who says they're doin ' good or asks someone else how they're doin ' when both of them are in prison ? But maybe I'm nitpicking . There are moments of fun in the movie , there are a few laugh out loud moments , and there are some moments of pretty impressive acting , but the movie as a whole , unfortunately , adds up to something much , much less than the sum of its parts .
Don't freeze , freezing only makes you look guilty !	I must have seen a lot more bad movies than the other reviewers who have reviewed this movie on the IMDb , because while it's definitely a long defunct sci fi flick , it wasn't THAT bad . In the world of bad movies , Frozen Alive is nowhere near the bottom of the barrel , but it's still pretty unendurable . The story is flat as a pancake and is never interesting , but the main problem is that it is so clearly two different kinds of movies squeezed into one , and the result just doesn't work . A scientist is working on a system of deep-freezing monkeys , and then decides to use himself as a human test subject . Unfortunately , just before his own deep freeze , his wife dies a violent death and he becomes the prime suspect . The police investigators , of course , come knocking just as he is entering deep freeze , which is not exactly a quick catnap that he can be shaken awake from . One half of the story deals with the scientist , a mid-50s or so man with salt and pepper hair and intense facial features , and his enormously alcoholic wife , a blonde bimbo who looks no less than 30 years his junior . It's too bad that they have no chemistry on screen whatsoever , otherwise this portion of the story would have been slightly less pathetic . The scene where he is holding her in his arms and telling her he wants them to try for a baby is highly disturbing . The other half of the story deals with the deep freeze experimentation . This is the part that would make this a sci fi movie , although there is nothing really sci fi about it . If he had frozen himself and woken up in another time , then you have sci fi . Instead , he just freezes himself and then wakes back up . Who cares ? As a result , it comes off as nothing more than a goofy crime drama soap opera about a guy trying to design a perfect cryogenetic freezer . And it's a shame , because there's a chance that there could have been two separate , and much better , movies made with this story . . .
Yes , it was as dumb as the trailer made it look .	While it's true that Get Carter was a ridiculous film , if you hated it , you have no one to blame but yourself . Unfortunately , Sylvester Stallone may be the most typecast actor working today , and the type of role that he is able to fill is generally found in terrible action films , like this one . There's not much left to do in the whole tough guy revenge type of action film ( was there much in the first place ? ) , and Get Carter covers no new ground . Not only is this movie awkwardly trying to resurrect a thankfully dead theme , but it is also even a re-make of the 1971 version of Get Carter , which was exactly the same premise . Some huge tough guy from out of town is here to revenge his brother , no matter who tries to stop him or for what reason . This stuff belongs in action movies that do not try to hide the fact that they are goofy B-movies ( ever see Kickboxer ? ) . The mystery behind the fact that a respected actor made the potentially career damaging decision to act in this film ( Michael Caine ) can be answered because he played the part of Jack Carter in the original 1971 version of Get Carter , which is far superior to this re-make . However , despite the fact that this film was a bitter disappointment , it did have it's redeeming values . John C . McGinley delivered one of the better performances in the entire film , and the fight scenes were entertaining enough , despite their ridiculous exaggeration . There can be no mistake that this is goofy cinema , so if you decide to watch it , keep that in mind .
I figured it out !	Hey you wanna know what I hate ? Lines of dialogue like this : " You been away from the dark realm a while , Chels , how'd it feel playin ' again ? " " Just like any other ultra-violent twenty-four hour wildly popular and yet utterly purposeless embraced-by-the-masses Internet role-playing game . " It's one of those lines of dialogue that they always put into movies like Hellraiser 8 that are impossible to avoid sounding like they were written and re-written and rehearsed and re - rehearsed and then finally they just give up trying to make it sound natural after 30 or 40 takes and , exasperated , just drop the best bad take into the movie . That , being said , let me tell you what I have figured out . After years if deliberation about what it takes to make a good horror movie and what is missing in a bad one , after countless theories ( the presence of teenagers or college-age kids being near the top of that list , by the way ) , I have finally discovered for certain the exact point at which a movie stops being scary and good and instantly becomes stupid and bad . There is a perfect illustration of the solution near the end of this film , when Chelsea gets locked in the room and Adam starts calling to her from under the floor . She has becomes absorbed in some photo album despite having found herself locked into the creepiest attic imaginable , and she hears someone whispering her name from behind her . She spins around just in time to see a hand disappear beneath a crack in the floorboards , and she cautiously moves over to investigate . As she peers into the hole , she continues to hear her name being called and she can see the tiniest glimpse of a face in the darkness , and at this point I am absolutely cringing in my chair . No matter how sure I am that something is going to spring out in a situation like that it still gets to me . And then she did something stupid . Literally the instant Chelsea put her hand through that crack in the floorboards , I immediately relaxed , almost to the point of breathing a sigh of relief because I didn't have to worry anymore because I completely stopped caring . And it's not just because she doesn't realize she's in a horror movie ( despite the fact that the entire cast of this movie are hardcore Hellraiser fans , so the fourth wall has already been breached ) , it's because the moment her hand crosses the threshold of that crack in the boards she instantly ceases to be a victim . And you know what my analogy is ? Suicide ! When someone in a horror movie does something that stupid , it is generally because the filmmakers need to have the character killed off but can't think of a really clever way to have it happen , so they just have the character do something monumentally stupid , but the problem is that this places the blame for their death on themselves , and in a horror movie , it's not only not scary when someone is attacked after doing something as idiotic as putting her hand through the crack in the floorboards because she thinks she sees her dead friend down there , it's satisfying , and not in the good way either . Stupidity should be painful , but in the movies , it should be lethal . That being said , it's amazing how little effort was made into making it clear what exactly was going on in the movie . It starts out with the funeral of a college age kid having been killed because of his over-involvement in something called Hellworld , which itself is never very clearly explained . His friends later mourn that they all knew what was happening to him but still kept playing Hellworld , although if you watch the making-of featurettes on the DVD , Director Rick Bota refers to Hellworld as " a website , or video game . " It's kind of an ominous sign when even the director doesn't know what his movie is about . Either that or he doesn't know the difference between a website and a video game . The story follows the death of their friend , something about that game , and then cuts to a few years later when all of his friends get invited to a party celebrating the said video game . Needless to say , it's kind of like an overblown Halloween party where everyone seems to be fascinated with the macabre ( serious macabre , too , like dead babies in jars , sounds like a blast ) , and girls randomly pull their breasts out ( curiously , the first bit of wildly gratuitous nudity is followed by the following exchange ? " Gratuitous breasts ? " " Necessary breasts ! Ha ha ha ! " Clever . ) . When all is said and done and you finally realize what has been happening throughout the entire movie , it is such a ludicrous and ridiculous twist that it distantly surpasses the Saw movies for absurdity . If you thought Jigsaw had some time on his hands to come up with some incredibly complex machines of torture , wait until you see the plot that is hatched by the Host ( played by Lance Henriksen , who wastes his talent completely in this movie ) . Also don't miss the making-of featurette on the DVD , in which you can witness Pinhead eating a piece of pizza and , my favorite , Khary Payton , one of the actors in the film , makes the following mysterious analogy ? " Horror movies are like roller coasters , you know , they're not gonna win Oscars or that kind of thing , but they're just a lot of fun . " I don't know , Khary , have you ridden Xtreme at Magic Mountain in Southern California ? I see an Oscar in that ride's future !
The Invisible Maniac has a respectable enough story , in the tradition of the Nutty Professor , but it makes up for the bad acting and directing by throwing in numbing amounts of gratuitous nudity .	Take one look at the cover of this movie , and you know right away that you are not about to watch a landmark film . This is cheese filmmaking in every respect , but it does have its moments . Despite the look of utter trash that the movie gives , the story is actually interesting at some points , although it is undeniably pulled along mainly by the cheerleading squads ' shower scenes and sex scenes with numerous personality-free boyfriends . The acting is awful and the director did little more than point and shoot , which is why the extensive amount of nudity was needed to keep the audience's attention . In The Nutty Professor , a hopelessly geeky professor discovers a potion that can turn him into a cool and stylish womanizer , whereas in The Invisible Maniac , a mentally damaged professor discovers a potion that can make him invisible , allowing him to spy on ( and kill , for some reason ) his students . Boring fodder . Don't expect any kind of mental stimulation from this , and prepare yourself for shrill and enormously overdone maniacal laughter which gets real annoying real quick . . .
Sadly , the goofy melodrama and the exotic martial arts just don't mix ?	In Van Damme's directorial debut , he stars as Chris Dubois , a New York City orphan who stows away aboard a ship on it's way to Asia to escape a life on the edge of society , only to be captured and sold quite literally into slavery . There's even a part where he is asking a shady character played by Roger Moore called Lord Edgar Dobbs ( " Dobbs , Lord Dobbs ? " ) to " buy him " so he can have a chance to go to a mysterious place called the Lost City to enter an ultra-secret fighting championship and win his freedom and maybe a little glory along the way . Sadly , the plot is one of the weakest I've seen in a Van Damme movie , which is not a good thing . The first hour comes across as almost an excuse just to get to the fight scenes at the end , which resemble some of his earliest fighting movie like Bloodsport and Kickboxer , but here are so brief and watered down that they are meaningless . It would be better if they just described them . But I'll get to that later . Clearly , Chris ' motivation is to get his freedom , but there is also the matter of this fighting tournament , which is a little difficult to understand . The best fighters from all of a dozen or more different countries are there to find out who is the best in the world . It's sort of like the Olympics for fighting with all those nations represented , except it's super-secret so there is no publicity and no recognition for their achievements . One journalist is there , but she had to pull a serious amount of strings in order to get there . These must be fighting purists , the guys that do it for the spiritual reasons and not the money or fame . Anyway , this Lord Dobbs becomes interested when Chris explains to him that the prize for winning the tournament is " a big dragon made of solid gold , " so Chris is able to enlist his help in getting to the tournament , provided he can win his freedom if he shares the prize with him . All of this is generally irrelevant , of course . The movie exists just for the fight scenes , but sadly , once they finally get started it quickly becomes one of the most disappointing parts of the whole movie . The tournament takes place somewhere called the " Lost City , " which is described as " the top of the world . " Maybe this is meant to evoke something like Lhasa , the capital city of Tibet , which calls itself " the roof of the world . " There's no resemblance , but it's an interesting coincidence . Anyway , soon we learn that there is more to risk than getting the tar beaten out of you . One of the fight officials ominously warns Chris that , if he loses , he can never leave the Lost City . How's that again ? Such stipulations are always a complete mystery to me . When I was in Tibet last summer , we took a trip to Namtso Lake a couple hours north of Lhasa , which claims to be the " highest lake in the world " at about 5200 meters ( I'm pretty sure that there are dozens that are much , much higher , but no matter ) , the locals at the lake told us that the lake was sacred to them , so if you bathe in it , or even just wash your face or hands or feet , your punishment will be that they'll never let you leave . Uh-huh . Who would they really be punishing ? Anyway , the actual tournament looks like a video game , a cartoonishly overblown ceremonial setup that reminds me of Mortal Kombat , which I understand is one of Van Damme's worst movies ever . I haven't seen it , but I can certainly imagine ! Each country is represented by a goofy stereotype , often in wildly inappropriate attire . There is the German fighter who looks exactly like a Nazi , complete with calf-high standard issue military work boots , the Japanese sumo-wrestler , the squirrelly Chinese guy , the mountainous , frightening Mongolian ( who doesn't look remotely Mongolian , but no matter ) , etc . What I especially love is that every fighter comes out , does some bizarre dance , and then the fight begins and ends within 10-15 seconds without fail . The Turkish fighter , who looks like one of the toughest fighters of all of them , gets shoved backwards by the sumo-wrestler and then I guess he just passes out . I've never seen anyone get knocked out from being pushed , but it happens in this movie . Anyway , things get strangely familiar again when Chris takes off the headband of a fallen friend , swearing revenge with an evil stare at the scary Mongolian . This is as goofy as it gets , but for some reason it's still fun to watch Van Damme in this kind of situation . Too bad the rest of the movie is so bad . What I mean by that , of course , is things like the conclusion of the movie , where Lord Dobbs and his hapless sidekick attempt to steal the golden horse , which has cleverly been left out in the middle of an open courtyard during the tournament , with so little security that no one notices when they try to steal it using a BLIMP . You see , they figure it's too heavy for anyone to carry off , which renders even the most conspicuous and noticeable vehicle perfectly acceptable . NICE . The end of the movie is abrupt and cheesy , complete with a ham-handed moral and a totally uncreative mention of the future of the cast . At least Lord Dobbs mentions that he's a pirate , but used to be a captain in the Royal Navy . Interesting because that's what most pirates were in real life before they turned to a life of crime . Sadly , there's not much else here . For some good Van Damage you're better off with the earlier kickboxing films ?
Yeah , I felt a little walled in myself ?	Walled In is the kind of horror film that sets itself up in a bizarre location and then explains all kinds of bizarre rules to make the scariness work . The movie opens with a series of headlines that explain the terrible discovery of 16 bodies cemented into the walls of a building , including that of the architect who designed it . We learn that the person who walled them in , Joseph Malestrazza , was never caught , and then we cut to 15 years later , when the building is planned to be demolished . Mischa Barton stars as Samantha , a young member of the demolition company family , perfectly named the Walczak's ( the ' c ' is silent ) . She recently graduated from engineering school and it becomes her first lone assignment to visit the building and supervise its demolition . It's a perfect set-up for a horror movie , I suppose , although as soon as we get to the building , the one where the 16 bodies were discovered , you remember , and learn that the wife and son of the murdered architect are still living there , the movie takes a pretty serious turn for the worse . I would think that if a man suffered the terrible fate of being murdered and cemented into the walls of a building , his wife would take it upon herself not to raise their son for his entire life in that building . But that's me . Upon her arrival we meet the woman living there and her creepy son , who explains things to Samantha that the lights go off every six minutes to conserve energy , she shouldn't go to the 8th floor ( that's Malestrazza's quarters , you see , and it's never cleaned ) , and whatever you do don't go on the roof ! I would think that someone planning the demolition of a building would explain the logical deficiency of avoiding certain parts of it , but we understand that this is a horror movie and these goofy rules he's explaining are a set-up for freaky sequences that are to follow . There's also the issue of a few remaining people who lived in the building and who are not likely to appreciate Sam arriving to destroy it . The young boy also worries that Malestrazza will be offended by her plans . I was reminded of the brilliant novel House of Leaves in a lot of things about the movie . Sam discovers enormous discrepancies between the blueprints and the actual measurements of the house , which in that book led to a fascinating and frightening series of events , but in the movie leads to the cheap and utterly witless third act . There is also a lot of throwbacks to Psycho in the relationship between the young boy and his mother in an isolated location . Sam even describes the building as being " like the Bates Motel , only bigger , " and at one point the mother forbids her son to go near Sam , telling him that Sa could never take care of him the way she does . Creepy . Ultimately we learn about an " ancient architectural belief " that provides the reason that Malestrazza killed people and walled them into his buildings ( and also the reason why not one of the 27 buildings that Malestrazza built have ever been torn down ) . It gives the movie the feel of something with more thought in it that it actually has . I felt a little flicker of interest when this was revealed , but in retrospect it strikes me as little more than a screenwriters brainstorm . I understand that Walled In is based on a novel , and I hope the novel is better than the movie . Books , especially horror books , are always better than the movie , ad if someone read the book and thought it was good enough to make into a film , it must have been better than this movie , because it has all the sign-posts of a weak horror film . It's full to the brim with cheap scares ( notice the Screeching Cat Scare , which at least was made a little bit different but essentially is the same old thing , and my favorite , a scary rose scare . You have to see that one to believe it ) and blatantly rips off a whole series of other horror movies . I'm curious what the movie would have looked like had director Gilles Paquet-Brenner never seen Psycho , Texas Chainsaw , and the Nightmare on Elm Street films . He even uses that " One , Two , Freddy's Coming For You " song several times . Real creative there , buddy . I won't go into the details of the end of the film partly because I don't want to ruin it for you but mostly because it's so dumb that I don't want to bother spending my time explaining it . I will tell you one thing though . There's a particularly amusing scene where the boy accuses Samantha of thinking that he's nothing but a " crazy little boy . " You gotta see this scene , man , it's hilarious . At the time that he says that to her , I won't tell you what he happens to be doing , but when you make a statement like that , it's generally not a good time to be acting like a crazy little boy . What follows that scene is a third act that is not entirely without effect , but definitely one of the dumbest situations that I've seen in a horror movie in some years . It is so bizarre and makes so little sense that the movie almost becomes a mystery . Another mystery is why the thing got made in the first place , but sadly , after seeing the movie , I don't think I'm every going to be able to bring myself to read the book ?
Gritty and raw and surreal and turgid and abrasive and ultimately pointless .	It's odd that I don't feel like I know much more about this movie now than before I just watched it . I knew that William H . Macy played a character that went a little mad , as they say , and that there was a substantial amount of nudity and violence , and now that it's over , I can still say about that much about the movie . I guess there isn't much more to say . It is associated with David Mamet , it is based on a stage play that was doubtless far superior to the movie , and it includes copious and gratuitous amounts of violence which wouldn't be copious and gratuitous if the senseless philosophical tirades which attempt in vain to justify it didn't so completely fail . I suppose that with enough effort you could impose meaning and significance onto what the movie is trying to say about society and class and marriage and racism and crime , but the film is so ineptly constructed that it comes across as a series of bizarre skits , the collective meaning of which I imagine is intended to point to some larger truth . Unfortunately , you might miss that truth while Macy is screaming it into the face of Julia Stiles , most likely because you are still trying to figure out why this beautiful young woman was still so fascinated with this creepy older man , even when he started waving around his double-edged knife / brass knuckles and unleashed a stream of profanity and racial slurs . Maybe if you like that kind of guy you'll like this kind of movie . It won't treat you much better . . . .
A relatively interesting story , but awful special effects and some awkward acting reduce Drop Zone to lower shelf material .	Wesley Snipes didn't do much in the acting department here , but at least Drop Zone isn't as bad as Demolition Man , probably his worst role ever , followed closely by Blade . Although not exactly original , the scene where the federal witness is kidnapped from an airplane in mid-flight is pretty well-done , however improbable , and it leads into a fairly interesting story involving Gary Busey back in the bad guy type of role that he plays best and , ironically enough , he steals the show . There are two main problems with Drop Zone , one of them is Wesley Snipes , and the other one is the badly screwed up skydiving scenes . Snipes delivers an awful performance in a role strikingly similar to Keanu Reeves ' role in Point Break . Look for example , at his goofy antics after his first jump . This is just dumb acting , and it really takes a lot away from what might otherwise have been a much better film . . However , if this film was to be of any quality at all , there had to be a complete overhaul and reconstruction of the idiotic skydiving scenes . There were quite a few scenes that contained actual footage of skydiving , but there were falsified close-ups edited into those scenes that completely ruined them as a whole . As a novice skydiver myself , these half-assed attempts at re-creating the mind-blowing reality of skydiving were very disturbing because they were so unrealistic . Besides that , some of the smart-ass stunts were even worse . For example , early in the film when Jessie drops Snipes through a trapdoor in the bottom of the plane without a parachute ( she didn't like him at the beginning ) , the pilot makes a comment to her about how she wouldn't normally do something like that ( if I remember correctly ) , she says something back , and then finally jumps out after him , catches up to him , secures him to her , opens her parachute , and they skydive safely the rest of the way to the ground . This is just total nonsense , and I hate seeing total nonsense in movies . In order to make airborne contact with another skydiver in the air , particularly before opening your chute , you literally have to jump out of the plane right on top of that person . If you wait more than about 2 seconds after they jump , they're already so far away and so lost in the tremendous sky that you won't even be able to see them again until after that person opens their chute . Keep in mind that when you jump out of a plane the sky is all around you , not just above you , and you're moving at high speed , so it's extremely difficult not to lose someone up there . Besides that , about 2 seconds after jumping from the plane , you can no longer tell which direction the plane was traveling , so you don't know which direction is backward , making it even more difficult to locate someone who jumped before you . In real life , that cute little stunt she pulled to give him a little scare would have meant certain death for him . The botched production of the skydiving element of this film was a huge disappointment , which is significant , given the name of the movie . On the other hand , it had a pretty interesting crime story that provided for some good action , and thank God Gary Busey was in this , because he really saved the movie from being a total loss . But I guess if you've never gone skydiving yourself , you probably won't notice all of those screw-ups as much as I did .
What's this about 3D ?	So I've heard that this is the Friday the 13th installment that was released in 3D . I wish I could have seen it in that version , because it would probably have made it a lot more interesting . I imagine the makers decided to add that little bit of cinematic trickery to create another surge of interest in the series , which really hasn't done anything new by the time the second sequel came out to add on to the original idea . I've been going back and re-watching all the old classics , I'm working on the Nightmare on Elm Streets and the Friday the 13th films right now , and in comparison it's amazing how much more callous and brutal the Friday the 13th films are , while the Nightmare on Elm Street films , while equally campy , I tend to find much more entertaining and well-made ( not that that's saying much . ) . Watch , for example , A Nightmare on Elm Street 2 , and then watch just about any Friday the 13th movie , and you can see what I mean right away . The Elm Street films are peppered with low-brow and goofy ( although quite often effective , even when it's not really meant to be funny ) comic relief , butthe Friday the 13th films ( especially part 3 , I've noticed so far ) are little more than strings of scenes of teenagers doing teenage things at Camp Crystal Lake and getting brutally murdered by the relentless Jason Voorhees . Friday the 13th Part 3 concerns yet another crowd of idiot teens who go out to Camp Crystal Lake , bypass yet another ominous warning from a crazy old man along the way , and proceed to engage in a lot of the exact same antics that we saw in the first two movies . There's the addition here of a hopelessly geeky kid with them who have an annoying habit of faking his own bloody death in order to scare all the girls ( after which he wonders why none of them like him ) , but at least providing the only bit of mystery in the entire film . As I watched the movie , my roommates and I were betting on whether he would get killed , then someone wouldn't believe him and then get killed themselves , or if someone else would get killed , he would think they were trying to get revenge for his bad jokes , and then he would get killed for real . Kind of sad when the only thing that it really interesting in a movie like this is in what order the teens will get killed . That strikes me as a definite sign that the movies are starting to lose their thrill ( either because of the 20 years between the film's release and now or because each sequel really does nothing new ) . I wonder if the 3D element really did add that extra needed bit of excitement . One thing that was really funny was the motorcycle gang . These people were awesome . Seriously . On their way to the Lake , the kids stop at a store to get some junk food essentials , and are confronted by what I assume was supposed to be a hardened gang of bikers . These people were HILARIOUS . After harassing the kids in the store , the geeky kid accidentally backs the VW Bug into their motorcycles , knocking them over . The lead biker responds by calmly walking up to the car , smiling brightly at him , and then smashing the windshield and the driver's side window . Angered beyond ability to just leave , the kid decides to circle around and run over the bikes head-on , which he succeeds in doing because the aforementioned biker couldn't KICKSTART his motorcycle in time . Maybe had the poor biker realized that street bikes don't kickstart but are started with a key and an ignition button , he would have been able to save his pimp ride . He and his friends might even have avoided their fate as pointless fodder for Jason to slice and dice later in the movie . Ah well . So there was certainly no shortage of comic relief , and I really don't think it matters that the comedy in these movies wasn't originally meant to be comedy . At least they're still entertaining . The thing that really drags the movie down is that it is literally nothing more than a flimsy clothesline of a plot that is punctuated by gruesome killings of idiot teenagers . There's only so many movies that you can make about a lot of kids who decide to do something dangerous by going out to the haunted lake to taunt the legend of Jason Voorhees and then not realize that he's really there killing them all one by one until only one is left , and even then she hits him with a shovel or stabs him in the thigh and then starts clawing at locked doors , not thinking to maybe make a little more certain that Jason's not going to get back up . You would think that at least ONE of these last victims would realize that the best time to get the best of Jason is when he's lying unconscious at her feet . But no . The second sequel of the Friday the 13th saga is little more than a rehash of the old Camp Crystal Lake legend , and given the proliferation of sequels that followed , hopefully something new comes up later . Given the final scene , I would really like to see a character in a later movie throw out some jokes about Jason's mom . Can you imagine ? How cool would it be to see some bonehead teenager laughing his head off around the campfire or something as all of his friends look at him in horror because Jason is approaching him from behind with a gigantic butcher knife as the kid says , ' Hey Jason , yo momma's so ugly , she won't even come out of the lake ! HAW HAW HAW ! ! ! '
The worst terrorist attack in Hollywood history .	It seems that Oliver Stone's patriotism is too much for him to objectively helm a story like World Trade Center , which focuses on two firefighters trapped in the rubble of the twin towers after the September 11th attacks . The problem with the movie is that it is simultaneously trying to be a memorial to those killed in the attacks ( and particularly honor the bravery of the firefighters ) and still retain some realism . As a memorial it is successful , although pretty cloying at times , but the realism fails completely . If , in fact , there was any intention towards realism at all . In the latter point , it may very well be that Stone was not going for realism . I am no expert on the logistics of collapsing buildings , but I have read extensively on the subject of the attacks , as I imagine most Americans have , and I've seen a lot of pictures as Ground Zero was being cleared of the bottom floors of the towers . In one picture , I remember seeing a messy wall of material that looked as solid as a rock which was about 10-12 feet high , which was described as 15-20 floors compressed together . The idea that two firefighters are caught underneath the 100 + floors of collapsing towers is laughable , and this , my friends , is not a comedy . Then again , I think the focus of the film is on the breed of suffering and heroism involved in the rescue efforts just after the attacks , and the plight of the firefighters ' families and their loved husbands and fathers and brothers and sons rushed off into what looked so much like certain death . This is the most heroic thing that many Americans have ever seen , certainly for me . And while the film succeeds at telling these stories and at moving the audience ( really , the 9-11 attacks are so engrained in the American mind that it's impossible not to be moved ) , although it is definitely guilty of trumping up the Hollywood bravado to an almost unbearable degree at times . Because of this , a lot of the movie comes across as contrived , which is too bad , because when you watch something as important to America as this , you don't want to ever feel like you're looking at a sound stage , you don't ever want to feel like you can sense the crew standing just a few feet away from the action on screen , sipping nonfat caramel macchiattoes and flipping through the latest shooting script , wondering if they can squeeze in any more heroic one liners . But you can here . A lot . There has been some talk about the irony of Oliver Stone , not exactly popular with the conservative crowd , making a film that is described by many right-wingers as the most " pro - American , pro-family , pro-faith , pro-male , flag-waving , God Bless America films you will ever see . " It also mentions a connection between the attacks to the war in Iraq . I had been under the impression that such a connection had long since been discredited , but no matter . It is a difficult situation that the two main characters are trapped and almost completely unable to move for about half the movie , and it's unfortunate that , to keep the action moving , we see some of those deadpan emotional flashbacks of the guys with their wives and kids , which just strikes me as something that should never be in a film like this , if only because it is such weak screen writing . Remember that slow motion scene in Top Gun showing Goose with his wife and kid ? They may as well add a subtitle saying he's gonna die soon . There is another film about the 9-11 attacks , United 93 , which is vastly superior to this one . It has been criticized for having too little emotion which , interestingly , is exactly what this movie needed . The emotions involved with the September 11th attacks are strong and universal , we don't need a movie to hold our hand and lead us through them . United 93 succeeded because it presented the facts in an almost documentary style , allowing the audience to feel their own emotions . Not this movie , and it's too bad . There is one rather bizarre looking character , Dave Karnes ( based on a real man ) , who saw the attacks on TV and immediately knew that the country was at war . He rushed to Ground Zero and managed to help the two heroes escape from the rubble , and then the film closes with a title card that mentions that he went on to serve two tours of duty in Iraq . Nothing is mentioned about the fact that Iraq was not involved in the attacks , but the focus is on the patriotism , not fighting the right battle . Stone has been justifiably criticized for this connection , similar to the conspiracy theories that he presented in JFK . I'm normally a big fan , but this goes down as one of the great many movies that SHOULD have been a great , important American film , and just isn't .
Here come the brides ?	It was because of circumstances beyond my control that I was dragged in to watch Bride Wars in the first place , and while I can't avoid admitting that I was truly , truly suffering for the first 30 minutes , I would be lying if I said the film is devoid of laughs . By that , of course , I mean that I did laugh out loud once or twice , briefly , and I was even pleasantly surprised by a mildly unexpected plot development late in the movie . But don't worry , everything else goes strictly by the age-old wedding movie formula . Anne Hathaway and Kate Hudson play Emma and Liv , two twentysomethings who have been inseparable best friends since childhood . They have always shared everything , their triumphs , their failures , their emotions , their struggles , their hopes , and of course , their dream of getting married in exactly the same place , the luxurious Plaza Hotel ( yes , it's a hotel ) . Much effort is put forth to get us to understand how close this friendship is , but in their efforts to get themselves engaged , a deep streak of competitiveness is revealed in both of them . Particularly Liv , who doesn't know better than to go jogging into her boyfriend's office and , dripping sweat , blurt out some nonsense about how he should propose to her . Thus is revealed the massive fallacy of logical thinking that permeates the entire movie ? ladies , I'm sorry to sound like a chauvinist or whatever , but the run-up to your wedding is not the best time to start acting like a lunatic . Just a suggestion . Not that the grooms would notice , of course , especially not in this movie . Their sole job in the movie isn't just to not notice things , but to not be noticed . They are as unimportant as the honeymoon , which is never mentioned because the girls childhood dreams never extended beyond the wedding ceremony . Maybe they just planned to head on upstairs for a June honeymoon at the Plaza , too ? Anyway , the girls get engaged within like , you know , minutes of each other , and then , due to a moronic clerical error , they accidentally get scheduled to be married at the Plaza Hotel at the exact same time on the exact same day . And henceforth , ladies and gentlemen , it's war . First of all , I will say that I have a tough time relating to this belligerent scramble to get married absolutely as soon as humanly possible , but that may simply be because I'm a guy . And if you take nothing else from this review , understand this , Bride Wars is NOT a movie made with the male audience in mind . But I'm willing to accept it , at least as an offshoot of the unspoken jealousy that seems to be finally emerging between them . You see , Liv has enjoyed some success as a lawyer while Emma is an underpaid schoolteacher , and ultimately Liv's sense of entitlement combined with Emma's decision that she's just not gonna take it anymore set up the escalating conflict that takes up the rest of the movie , but from here there's nowhere else to go except down the well-trodden path of half-assed romantic comedies . The biggest problem with the movie is that it tries to get us to laugh as we sit bewildered at how these life-long friends came to such childish blows as viciously sabotaging each other's dreams for reasons of such astonishing selfishness that not only their own grooms really factor into their heads . In fact , I'm surprised the movie didn't get an R rating for all the violence ! Blue hair ! Orange spray-on tans ! Beware , this stuff is not for the squeamish ! Of course , my favorite one was where Emma sends Liv enormous daily gift baskets consisting mainly of chocolates and cookies and , you know , butter ( actual quote : " You mean you sat around eating sticks of butter from all over the world ? " ) , because Emma was hoping she would gain enough weight to where she wouldn't be able to fit into her Vera Wang dress ( for those of you who don't know Vera Wangs are supposed to be like , super super tight for some reason , and thus insanely expensive ) . Of course the plan succeeds , but the movie never really lets us know if it was the candy that made her gain weight or the sheer quantity of stupidity inside her that would be necessary for her not to figure out what was going on . But I will tell you this . Something happens involving one of the weddings that may even qualify as more than mildly surprising , because you just don't see this kind of thing in this kind of movie anymore . You'll know what I mean , it's the part just before Liv and Emma forget about their months of hatred toward each other as they lay amidst the ruins of both of their weddings surrounded by the surely disgusted families . Oh , yeah , they're best friends at the end . Is that a spoiler ? I don't think so . Maybe . But if you can see a movie poster like this one and not immediately see the arc of the story , well then , you have bigger problems than some guy online ruining the end of a bad comedy . Besides , wouldn't it be more dishonest if I allowed you to spend your time and money watching this thing without knowing what you were getting into ? In a situation like this , just trust me , it's better for you to be warned about the movie than to be warned about spoilers about the movie .
In case of emergency , PLEASE USE THE STAIRS .	( spoilers herein ) The basic plot of They involves three characters who delve into the world of nocturnal , computer-generated monsters , whose behavior is conveniently explained through their friend's journal , which they carry with them like some sort of talisman against being killed by these things . The basic premise leading to the ' scary ' part of the movie is the fact that darkness evidently opens up some sort of portal between our world and their world , whatever that world may be . I like that the movie taps into the uproar surrounding the rolling blackouts that were going on around the time that the movie was released . Unfortunately , as in real life , the rolling blackouts are quickly forgotten in the movie and , very soon , the scariness behind the story expires . The main character , Julia , is a psychology student ( very fitting , as we soon find out ) preparing to deliver her thesis when a friend chooses that as the best time to reveal to her that unseen creatures are coming to kill him , and then they'll be after her , too . He informs her that she's next , her childhood night terrors return , and thus the formula has been administered . The creatures to which the title refers are never revealed very clearly , and I'm actually not really sure if we're supposed to just see blurs of their true forms or if they are really just shaped like inkblots or something , but the important thing is that they're supposed to be big and mean and scary . Sadly , they're not . They're big and mean , yes , but that third characteristic is really rather important in this genre . The movie has a few redeeming moments , I suppose but the movie is peppered with simply bad scenes , scares that are such a horror cliché that they come off as completely contrived and boring , like when someone tells you the same joke for the 40th time . You get a little tired of hearing it , you know ? There are , for example , FAR too many scenes where characters wander off into the dark alone and we're supposed to grab the edge of our seats wondering what in the world is going to happen to them . There's a scene , for example , where Julia leaves the safety of her boyfriend's house and heads straight for a deserted subway station in the middle of the night . Brilliant . Wasn't she paying attention to her friend when he told her the creatures were coming for her ? Has she been daydreaming through the whole movie so far ? This lack of creativity is actually partially justified later in the film , when it turns out that everything could be happening just in her head ( hence the relevance of her being a student of psychology ) . The reason the creatures never ate her or anything was because , apparently , she had been imagining them , so to speak . Although , to be fair , he conjuring of these things was a result of slightly more than imagination . I think it was something more along the lines of paranoid schizophrenia , but that raises yet another problem . The ending presents her fear partly as a result of an ability to conceptualize perfectly normal life , which is not true of paranoid schizophrenia . One of the old adages is that people with true , serious mental illnesses like paranoid schizophrenia are not aware that anything is wrong ( this is even pointed out in a Megadeth song , with the lyrics " If I know I'm going crazy , I must not be insane " ) . Multiple personalities are not aware of each other , for example . Madness is loosely defined as doing the same thing over and over and expecting a different result . In the movie , Julia is very aware of what is going wrong and very aware of the safe world that she is trying to return to . The storyline is hardly original , obviously , but given the ham-handed and uncreative insertion of mental illness into the story , the ending is made even worse than you might have thought while sitting through this thing . Since everything is in Julia's head , she's left to be , I don't know , eternally knocked down by hideous beasts that never seem to do her any real harm . That could possibly simply be the state of her madness , but that leads to a depth beyond what should really be expected from a PG-13 horror film . An alternate ending puts the entire film inside her head , with everyone else in the film simply being other patients in the hospital , and she has created this world involving them . The subtitles in this ending are simply weak writing though , and I suspect are the reason that this ending is alternate . They is a film that routinely reflects the creativeness of its title , plodding through every horror movie cliché in the book and spouting cheap scares between every scene . The movie is ironically more famous for being meaninglessly connected to Wes Craven than it is for anything that happens in it , which is a bad sign for the movie and a bad sign for Wes . I've read a lot about the movie and have yet to come across any reason for why the alternate title is ' Wes Craven Presents : They , ' other than a mention that the theatrical release generated disappointing box office numbers , so they connected his name to increase interest in the movie . Sadly , what little interest it gained was from people who watched the movie and wondered at how a horror veteran like Wes Craven would have willingly attached his name to this . That's like Bill Gates ' presenting ' a box that some kid threw together and called a computer .
Sandra Bullock comes forth with a relatively good performance that is wasted in a boring and routine rehab drama .	The rehab drama has virtually been done to death , and while 28 Days was an honest effort and it succeeded in some areas , as a whole it was the same old thing . Girl , Interrupted was pushing it enough barely a year ago , and to have another of virtually the exact same movie come out already is just too much . Besides that , you have to consider the fact that the only really good movie of this kind ever made was One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest , and that was 25 years ago . The unlikely events that lead up to Gwen's ( Bullock ) arrest and sentencing to a rehab clinic were farfetched to say the least . Anyone who casually decides to borrow a limousine while falling-down drunk after having fallen through her sister's wedding cake would never have made it to that age without winding up in prison for a serious alcohol-related felony . Instead , it's like Gwen was dropped onto the Earth in her present state and began tripping all over herself trying to learn the rules of the society that she suddenly found herself in . The romance that she develops with Eddie ( Viggo Mortensen ) and the one that falls apart with her intensely alcoholic previous boyfriend together make up the element that is in virtually every single movie of this kind . This was probably the least original part of the entire film , as well as one of the most boring . However , Steve Buscemi was very entertaining as one of the counselors at the rehab clinic ( although this was a very uncharacteristic performance for him ? remember The Wedding Singer ? How about Armageddon and Desperado ? ) . As a whole , 28 Days is predictable , routine , fairly boring , and ultimately disappointing . I didn't expect much from this movie because it deals with a very sensitive subject , so obviously it can't be much of a comedy , and there is little left to be done in the area of the rehab drama , so even though drama is the only thing it can really be , chances are that it will just rehash something that has been done many times before . And unfortunately , this is what it did . Although Sandra Bullock delivered a pretty good performance as someone who suddenly awakens to the pathetic life that she has been leading , she was totally unconvincing as the drunken partygoer that she tried to portray in the first part of the film . Die-hard Sandra Bullock fans ( and I've heard that they do , in fact , exist ) are sure to have a blast . Everyone else might do better to go straight for the ' 75 classic , One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest .
Another making-of documentary that is barely about the making of .	I love watching documentaries that appear as special features on DVDs because they almost invariably make me appreciate the movies more . Unfortunately , the Making of Moulin Rouge only reiterated the things that I really disliked about the movie . When the movie first came out , even before I saw it I was apprehensive about the fact that there was so much modern music in it , and then when I saw it my fears were realized . And not only that , but it is not until a full third of the way through the documentary that it says anything about the making of Moulin Rouge . Before that it is a repetitive plodding through the movie , telling us things that anyone who has seen it already knows . It is a period film that not only features music at the forefront of modern popular culture , but that features music by Madonna , Nirvana , even Christina Aguilera , who appears in this documentary in her full , clownish make-up talking about how excited she is about her song , which probably disrupts the flow of the movie more than any of the other immensely disruptive songs . There are various reasons given for the music used in this film , such as the fact that Director Baz Luhrmann wanted to reinvent the musical and that at the original Moulin Rouge ( the original nightclub , not the 1950 film which is not mentioned in the documentary ) the most popular music of the time was always being played , so the filmmakers wanted modern audiences to relate to popular music the same way the original patrons of the nightclub did . Director Baz Lurhman wanted to take the genre and re-invent it , but messing with time is simply not the way to do it . The problem is that this is a comparison of apples and oranges . You can't ask modern audiences to relate to a 100-year-old nightclub the same way that its original patrons did by playing modern popular music . The way to do that would have been to play the music that was popular at the time . Since so much went into creating the Paris of 1900 , it would seem to me to have a matter of basic , basic logic that the music of the time be used as well . This documentary admits that Moulin Rouge constantly reminds you that you're watching a movie , which is one true thing , but it's the one thing that I don't want to be reminded of when watching a movie , especially a period film . Ever since I wrote my original review of Moulin Rouge , I have been told by friends and by various people who read it that I was being too hard on the movie just about the music , but even after watching this documentary I don't feel that I was too harsh in the least , because the music is an absolute disaster in a movie like this , with the exception of the one original song , which I believe was called Come What May . Ewan McGregor and Nicole Kidman deserve massive praise for their incredible singing performances , but the choice of music was simply catastrophic . I am always wary of making-of documentaries that feature a significant amount of footage from the film itself , which I think should only ever be put in to illustrate a point being made about how a certain scene or sequence was made . The beginning of this documentary goes into great detail about what the movie is about , who the characters are , what the theme of the movie is , etc . while showing extensive accompanying footage from the film . This is not how a making-of documentary should run , this is an 8 minute trailer for the film . One IMDb user complained that the end of the movie was a self-serving advertisement for Strictly Ballroom and Romeo & Juliet . A more valid concern is that the first third of the documentary is a self-serving advertisement for Moulin Rouge , which is wildly unnecessary because we're already watching Disc 2 of the collector's DVD . At one point in this documentary the claim is made that Moulin Rouge holds the record for " the longest special effects shot in cinematic history this week . " What in the world is that supposed to mean ? Is it the longest special effects shot in cinematic history or is it the longest special effects shot filmed that week ? I doubt very much , after all , that the guy making this claim didn't realize that cinematic history preceded that week . Sadly , this is one of the more interesting things presented in the sub-par documentary . The actress who played one of the dancers , I think her name was something charming like Nini Legs in the Air , described the Roxanne dance as being " so sexy that it starts with two people and just grows . " I'm not sure exactly what she meant by that , but I did find it odd that she described it that way , if only because I found the phlegmy , guttural rendition of the song to be so distasteful that I wanted to walk out of the theater until it was over . It's no surprise that the people that appear in the film heap praise upon each other , because I doubt that a documentary has ever accompanied a movie on a DVD in which the cast and crew did anything but heap praise on each other , and I'm wondering when these descriptions will fall flat as monumental clichés . Will it ever sound tiresome , for example , to hear an actor describe a director as an original , a great storyteller , understanding pop culture better than anybody I've ever seen , a great showman , an unstoppable genius ? It can't be denied that Moulin Rouge is a tremendous work of art , but the music alone stopped it from becoming as truly great as it could have and should have been , Sadly , this documentary does nothing to dispel that unfortunate fact .
Thrilling story of Murder , Corruption , and ? Beyonce ?	There is little use in comparing Steve Martin's Pink Panther to Peter Sellers ' character , introduced to the live-action movie world in 1963 . The 2006 version is based only loosely on the original films , it's more of an update on the series , a sort of modern remake in the form of a prequel , and starring one of today's best movie comedians . It's a relief to see that Steve Martin doesn't try to imitate Peter Sellers in his performance , because Martin himself is a bigger actor than the part of Inspector Clouseau , and indeed at times he seems like he's playing down to the character . The movie takes place before the original 1963 film , with Inspector Clouseau chosen from his obscure position by the Chief Inspector of the French Police , Inspector Dreyfus ( Kevin Kline ) to investigate the incredibly daring murder of the French soccer team's coach and the theft of the massive Pink Panther diamond . It was a highly publicized crime , having taken place at the moment of victory in the nationally televised soccer game against China ( during which not a single Chinese player could be seen anywhere on the field ) , so Dreyfus is under massive public scrutiny in his investigation . His plan ? choose the most incompetent Inspector he can find , a village idiot , if you will , and assign him to the case . As he stumbles about his investigation , unwittingly making a fool of himself before the nation's TV cameras , Dreyfus will be conducting the real investigation . When he succeeds , he can shame Clouseau publicly while taking credit for solving the case himself . Sounds like a fun guy ! I have to admit that I was a little put off by pretty much all of the ingredients in the movie . I can easily imagine a lot of French discontent ( among others ) about a lot of American actors in a film as French as this one , although it's true that as a parody it does have it's amusing moments . Characters that are centered around goofy accents get real old real quick , and Martin's massacre of the French language isn't really any exception . There isn't one funny moment that I can think of , although I did grin a couple times . Worst of all for me was Beyonce . As far as the movie being peppered with American actors , I don't have a real problem with that , because it's pretty clear that they are all having a lot of fun with their roles , and I have to admit that it's not hard to have fun along with them . But they are all in the movie and very deeply in character . Even European actor Jean Reno , who has one of the only serious roles in the movie , is playing a character . Beyonce , on the other hand , stars as herself , and even gives a stage performance as herself . Unfortunately , Beyonce does nothing for me , in movies or music or tabloids or anything else . She is wildly out of place in this movie , even though the script calls for the murdered French soccer coach to be dating a pop star who will fall under suspicion for his murder . She makes no effort to ever be anything other than herself in the movie , and she ultimately comes off as little more than a distraction from the rest of the movie . I suppose if I was more into her music I might have appreciated her presence here more , but on the other hand it seems that her fans would , during her performance scene , forget that they were even watching a comedy and just watch it like a concert video . Martin's Clouseau is sufficiently incompetent , but his Mr . Magoo-ish clumsiness and overwhelming ability to screw up any situation imaginable wears thin a little too fast . It will not be far into the movie that you can just see screenwriter's sitting around trying to think of what stupid thing he can do next . Not everything is unamusing , of course . There is a scene involving a giant globe that Clouseau accidentally sends clanking down the stairs and down the street that got me pretty good . I don't know what it is , but something about someone absent-mindedly fiddling with something and all but destroying it never fails to amuse me ( see the scene in National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation where Clark's cousin Eddie tries to spin the propellers on one of Clark's Christmas decorations ) . Also , the recurring motifs of French bicyclists being in the wrong place at the wrong time has some good moments , if not the most clever ones . They are the comedy equivalent of the screeching cat scare , but they are not unwelcome . Unfortunately , the main reason that the cheap slapstick laughs are not unwelcome is because so much of the rest of the comedy in the movie is undeniably stale . It's a slapstick comedy with a cast of actors that are better than the material , which is why it's so hard to accept Steve Martin , a clearly talented and intelligent comedian , as Inspector Clouseau , who is a moron of tremendous caliber . There is an amusing appearance of Clive Owen as 006 ( in a scene that would have taken on a whole new meaning had Owen been selected to replace Pierce Brosnan as the new James Bond , which sadly he wasn't ) , but the majority of the movie just seems to be packed with too many jokes that just aren't funny .
The biggest disaster of the year ! And I don't mean that the earth's core stopped spinning !	The fact that The Core is a disaster movie is a little too descriptive of itself . My initial interest in seeing the movie stemmed from a piece of the preview in which the Golden Gate Bridge is destroyed , and for some reason I'm always interested in seeing movies in which major monuments are destroyed . Not that I'm interested in death and destruction , of course . Anyway , the means by which the Golden Gate ends up burning and crashing to the water below is the result of one of a great long line of massive fallacies of geologic and astronomical logic . I think that by this point , we've all heard about the fact that our air pollution is eroding the ozone layer , and that if it is completely worn away we will have no protection from the brutal direct rays of the sun . Basically you would be able to get a suntan in seconds , and if you weren't able to get out of the sun within seconds , your skin would be burning away because the ultraviolet light on your skin would have something of a similar effect as putting your arm in the microwave . Anyway , when I first heard about that years and years ago , I was maybe 9 or 10 years old and one of the majority of people who heard the story and immediately pictured a ' hole in the ozone , ' maybe the size of a dinner table or a small house or , in the worst case scenario , a parking lot or even a city block . As it turns out , this rumor had to be dispelled by the revelation that the ' hole ' was actually about the size of , you know , Arizona or something . Evidently those people involved in making The Core missed that last memo , as their ozone hole , granted one with slightly different causes , was about the size of a small parking lot , moving along nice and smoothly , roasting everything in its path . But then again , The Core is a movie about drilling to the Earth's core , in a MANNED ship , in order to plant a lot of nuclear bombs to reactivate the spin of the molten outer core and thereby save the entire planet . So logic is obviously not very high on the priority list here . That being said , let me just get to the drill bit really quick . This is one of the things that also originally inspired me to watch the movie , just because I wanted to see if they really expected us to believe that there is any drill bit on earth that can withstand the massive heat and pressure of the inside of the earth , but luckily they didn't ( although they DO expect you to believe that it's possible to believe that they can build a SHIP to do that ) . Here's where it's important to acknowledge the suspension of disbelief in the movies , because this particular film is a test of the audience's capacity for the suspension of disbelief . Personally , I was struggling a little bit . So the ' drill bit ' turns out to be a lot of lasers set up on some machine that looks like the gat that Arnold used to shoot the police cars and helicopters out of the Cyberdine building in Terminator 2 . Just a lot bigger . And apparently it has the ability not to drill through solid rock and turn it immediately to dust , as you might think , but it is actually able to turn it to NOTHING . For the first time in earth history , a means has been created to actually destroy matter , which is clear from the fact that they are able to drill instantly through solid rock ( or , for most of the trip , MOLTEN rock and metal ) and then travel through the space created . And since the matter that they drill has nowhere to go ( it can hardly blow away in the wind ) , it follows then that it is rendered nonexistent . I had little expectation of the movie as far as logic . I've heard that some pretty bad things would happen if , for some reason , any amount of oxygen ever found it's way to the superheated core of the earth , I guess I was more curious as to how far they would go , what things they would expect the audience to buy . It turns out that they went pretty far . Particularly odd were the scenes where the ship is flying through molten rock at high speeds , zooming back and forth , avoiding collision with diamonds that must have been 500 or 600 yards across and , even better , the scene where they accidentally drill into the top of a geode ( you know , one of those rocks that appear to be shells , hollow in the center , with all the crystals formed on the inside ) , fall for maybe a mile or so to the bottom of it , and then find themselves broken down and pulling manually at the crystal shards that are holding them there while molten rock drips in the hole they made at the top , threatening to bury them all if they don't get out soon enough . The movie actually does create a bit of suspense in such scenes as the badly botched space shuttle landing at the beginning of the film , the scene where one of the astronauts gets crushed near the end of the film , and the scene where Delroy Lindo finds himself in a space suit trying to save the rest of the cast by braving heat that is twice what the suit is designed to sustain ( meaning he was in a suit with an interior temperature that , if I remember correctly , would have been something like 9 , 000 degrees ) . The problem is that these scenes create suspense because , I like to think , we have a natural dislike of seeing someone killed or in extreme pain , and rather than fear for their logical deaths , we fear for them more at the hands of the writers than reality . Lindo's character , for example , in the above-mentioned scene , finds himself struggling against heat so intense that it shatters his glasses on his face , but doesn't affect his body until his mission is accomplished . Thus the rest of the movie works , creating a whole different world and a whole different set of human limits and natural laws under which the characters operate and live . Interesting , but I really think that the movie would have been a lot more thrilling and much better received had the audience not had to learn the laws of a completely separate world before understanding the real plight of the cast , which was the survive the onslaught of the writers ' ideas , a daunting task in itself , as anyone who has seen this movie can tell you since they've also experienced it , rather than survive and save the real world .
Hmm , that's a good question .	SPOILERS SPOILERS What's the Worst That Could Happen ? Is a film that places two hugely recognizable actors into two perfectly opposite roles and pits them against each other , but it can't come up with a good enough reason for having done this except to have them fighting over the ownership of a ring which has nothing but sentimental or superstitious value for either one of them . Danny DeVito , plays the part of Max Fairbanks , a massively wealthy businessman having financial trouble ( ' TECHNICAL procedure ' ) , and Martin Lawrence plays the part of Kevin Caffrey , an intelligent ( supposedly ) criminal who knows his way around an art gallery . While DeVito is probably one of the most charismatic actors working today ( despite the fact that he rarely plays anything but dirtbag characters ) , Lawrence , at the same time , is one of our most trying comic actors . He is a fan's actor that mainly stars in films that the audience will hate unless they were there just to see him ( such as the sad , ridiculous mess that was Big Momma's House ) . This is not the case very often , although he does work well with certain other ( generally more talented ) actors , such as the brilliant Will Smith in Bad Boys , Eddie Murphy in Life , and I even enjoyed his performance with Luke Wilson in Blue Streak ( the forthcoming sequels for two of these movies , by the way , I am very much looking forward to , despite not being much of a Lawrence fan myself ) . ( spoilers ) At any rate , DeVito and Lawrence have acting styles that are just about as different as the characters that they play in this film , which is probably why they clash so badly . At no point do they have any chemistry onscreen , even at the end of the film when Fairbanks covers for Caffrey ( but maybe this is because of the stupididty involved in this claim - since Fairbanks was in a police station accusing Caffrey of robbing his house . Is the detective not expected to notice this because he's gay ? ) . But even more than that , the movie is centered around Caffrey getting this ring back because his girlfriend gave it to him and Fairbanks wanting to keep it because he thinks it's some sort of good luck charm , a sign that his business luck is about to change . Fairbanks is ridiculously rich , and Caffrey has much bigger things to concern himself with , like the ease with which he can get his hands on enormously valuable paintings , so why should we care ? So we get a film about two guys fighting like 8 year olds over this little trinket , and even though you want to root for Caffrey for caring so much for something that his new girlfriend gave him , you at the same time desperately want the movie to avoid that hideous cliché and do something original . I suppose it does do something original with having these two grown men fighting over something so small and trivial , but it makes it impossible to care about the outcome . We don't want Fairbanks to keep the ring because it was the one thing that Caffrey really didn't steal , and we don't want Caffrey to get it back because then this would be another cheesy comedy about some dirtbag trying to impress a pretty girl , as was the case with bad comedies like Half Baked . So while Caffrey and Fairbanks are each tripping over themselves trying to become lord of the ring , we are occasionally introduced to well-known actors who play parts in the movie for reasons which even they don't seem to sure of . The most glaring appearance is from William Fichtner , who plays a homosexual detective for no other reason than to have a homosexual detective in the movie . Maybe they wanted to distract us from the idiocy in the rest of the film . Here is a hugely talented actor who is completely wasted in this moronic role , which does nothing but fit in with the goofy slapstick antics that Martin occasionally goes off into . John Leguizamo , similarly , is an enormously talented actor who is never given a chance to really shine in the movie . There is a scene where Lawrence and Leguizamo impersonate Middle Eastern businessmen to get into a building , and the way that they fake the accents is a perfect example of their talents as actors . While Leguizamo yadda yaddas pretty much the same things over and over so it's clear he's not really speaking any kind of language , he at least spoke up and had some semblance of an idea of how to fake an accent . Lawrence , on the other hand , could do nothing but mumble and grunt and groan , inspiring the audience to do much the same , both because he was so bad at what he was trying to do and because the scene as a whole was one of the worst scenes in the movie , which is no good in the first place . At the opening of the film , we are introduced to Caffrey , Lawrence's character , admiring a painting in an art gallery . An employee at the gallery approaches and tells him that the sports exhibition is next week , which reminded me of the times that Julia Roberts was kicked out of dress shops in Pretty Woman and Runaway Bride , both of which were delightful . At this early point in the film , Caffrey shows her up by identifying the painting as a fake , making us think that we are about to enjoy a movie about a black man who defies all of the stereotypes that uppity white women like this seem to have towards them . Instead , he goes into a little dance , ensuring that , from language to being a criminal , not a single stereotype is going to be challenged here . Pretty much from this point on , the movie goes precipitously downhill .
No , Brigitte snaps . Ginger's dead .	Ginger Snaps 2 starts off with Brigitte landing herself in a rehab clinic after she is discovered overdosing on the poisonous drug that she has to take in order to prevent herself from turning into a werewolf like her sister . As is to be expected , the guy who finds her lapsing into unconsciousness immediately concludes that she's overdosing on heroin and takes her to a hospital . I really liked that twist from the original film . Brigitte infected herself with her sister's contaminated blood to prove her determination to help her find a cure , which they never found . Ginger was killed , and Brigitte was never cured . A nice premise that is used to segway into a thriller that takes place in the old hospital setting . In a display of the level of help that is to be expected from the hospital where Brigitte is being kept , she is quickly diagnosed as a lesbian by one member of the hospital staff . Excellent work there , lady . Before too long , Brigitte learns that a young girl named Ghost ( who apparently lives in the hospital ) is her only friend , but who reads so many horror comics that evidently it's normal for her to say things like " When you close your eyes is it hell you see ? " Here's an odd thing about this character - she looks to be about ten years old , but is played by 19-year-old Tatiana Maslany . It seems that Ghosts grandmother was horribly burned in a fire at home , which landed her and her granddaughter in the rehab facility featured in the movie . Why an accidental fire landed her in a rehab facility is a mystery that is thinly explained later in the film . Most of the tension in the movie is derived from the fact that Brigitte is being held in this hospital to be rehabilitated from a drug that she needs in order to prevent herself from turning into a werewolf and killing everyone in sight . Needless to say , it is not taken very well when she explains that if she is kept there , people will die . Ginger makes occasional appearances as a vision of her former self , usually showing up to give Brigitte some useful insights into the changes that are taking place in her body , reprising the satire on female adolescence covered so well in the first film . My favorite example of this in the first sequel was when Brigitte presumably falls asleep during one of her meetings and dreams that the instructor is telling her and the rest of the girls to masturbate . When she wakes up , she runs to the bathroom and taps on one of her eyeballs , which seems to have turned to glass , and notices thick skin and hair on her palms . I knew that masturbation gives you hairy palms and makes you go blind , but I didn't know that werewolves had glass eyes . At least the metaphor worked halfway though . We gradually see Brigitte's transformation into a werewolf as she constantly tries to find ways to stop it ( usually ways which include things like slicing off the new growths that she doesn't like , like her pointy ears ) . Pretty nasty , but at least it's logical , right ? What other choice does she have ? Where the movie makes serious lapses in logic is in the setup of the hospital . Ghost has no reason for being there ( except for one big reason , which we find out later but which no one in the hospital knows about ) , and the residents are locked down at night but allowed to wander outside at other times . One patient sells her body to one of the orderlies , who does this regularly , so that he will give her some narcotics , and when Brigitte walks in just after it happened , the girl offers her some . You think coke addicts have sex for drugs and then offer to share them ? Given that so much stock is put into the character of Ghost , it's amazing how badly written her part is . They tried to get her to fit into what they wanted her character to ultimately mean to the story , but had no idea how to make it happen . That's why you have this little kid living in a hospital , evidently sleeping in a chair next to her all but mummified grandmother , doing things with comic books that no kid does , especially not a girl , and talking about them like she's a professor of philosophy . She also sees the world as though it were a comic book , which is in keeping with the fate of her character , she even narrates occasionally , describing situations as though she were reading them off the page . I actually liked the speech-bubble narration that she prattled off occasionally , although sometimes it goes over the top . What , for example , is a " reign of moral terror ? " Does that mean , like , terrorizing people who believe that homosexuals should be allowed to marry ? The end of the film was fairly good , I especially loved what became of the orderly that made a habit of forcing the girls in the hospital into sex acts with him , a practice which he indulged in so regularly that it is astounding he was never caught . There is an odd scene near the end when a deer has to be put out of its misery despite being completely eviscerated and on FIRE , but overall the ending was one of the stronger parts of the film . I had a hard time getting through the first half , but probably mostly because I still wanted to watch Halloween IV , Jasper , Texas , and the original Time Machine before the end of the night . Fans of the original should enjoy this , but if you had enough with part 1 you can skip this one . It's not any better .
Yet another overblown movie based on a video game .	Almost immediately after the release and failure of the highly overrated Tomb Raider comes the release of Final Fantasy : The Spirits Within . While Final Fantasy wasn't nearly as bad as Tomb Raider , the spiritual element made up far too much of the story for the film as a whole to be taken seriously . The religious aspect is unmistakable and almost suffocating , as Aki and Dr . Sid and the others search feverishly for the spirits that are expected to collectively eliminate all of the invading phantoms . There are many other heavily religious allusions , not the least of which is the basic good vs . evil story structure and the clearly Satanic appearance of the phantoms themselves . One of the great ironies of computer animation , that this film in particular brings to attention , is the fact that the better it gets , the less necessary it is . Sure , there are things that can be done with computer animation that would be impossible to film with real actors , but Final Fantasy looked so real that many of the scenes may as well have been real . On the other hand , humans have been particularly troublesome in computer animated films - they just never quite look right . But here , they are so real that it is unnerving , but this time , they screwed up the humans MOVEMENTS . No matter how real they looked in the movie , the actual motion was still entirely robotic . Besides that , it was a mistake to have so many well known actors lending their voices to the film , because all that did was take voices that we know and put them on other people , which was distracting because the people looked so real . This all makes you wonder when full-length animated films will become obsolete and computer animation will be used only to add to the special effects of other movies . On the other hand , Final Fantasy did have some of the most amazing scenery ever made with computer animation . The desolated New York City was amazingly real , and the idea of the humans hiding in gigantic enclosed areas to keep safe from the phantoms was also very interesting . But in the second half of the film , this all gets a little convoluted and we see the sacrifice of the human element of the movie in favor of the competition between Dr . Sid's peaceful theory and General Hein's militaristic tactics , as the two clash at the film's climax . Final Fantasy is not a complete failure , and is far superior to it's real life counterpart , the awful Tomb Raider , but there can be no mistake that it is disappointing . Fans of the video game may enjoy it , but this is not for general audiences .
What ?	I borrowed Season 2 of the Twilight Zone from my mother-in-law about a week ago ( my brother's wife's mother . Is that my mother-in-law ? Stepmother-in-law ? ) , and this was the first episode that I watched , just because I was surprised to see that William Shatner was starring in it . He looks absolutely nothing like the William Shatner that we now know and love ( seriously , nothing at all . If it wasn't for his voice it would be hard to believe it's the same guy ) , and the second thing that struck me was that there was nothing at all strange or paranormal taking place in the episode from beginning to end , which is something that I haven't come to expect from a Twilight Zone episode . Shatner stars as Don Carter , and one day he and his wife Pat go into a cafe that has a little penny machine on the table that tells your future . Casually , he puts in a few pennies and asks a few yes or no questions , and is absolutely astonished by the generic answers that he gets . Why is he so stunned by the answers ? Never once does the machine give anything but a generic response , and never once does it give either a yes answer or a no answer to one of Don's yes or no questions . All he ever gets are things like " What do you think ? " and " It has already been taken care of , " and " Your chances are good . " Don is blown away . I would hate to see this guy reading some fortune cookies or his horoscope , he might lose his mind ! The black and white lighting , as usual , is one of the best elements of the episode , and the music does a fine job of lending a tone of otherworldly presence in a show whose most otherworldly thing is the incredible gullibility of the main characters . Even though the episode is ultimately disappointing in its lack of content , it's still another interesting look at that Back to the Future set at Universal Studios and the early career of one of science fiction's most recognizable stars .
One of Wes Craven's weakest films .	The People Under the Stairs isn't even one of those Wes Craven films that's weak because it was a popular or critical disaster , like some of his best films were ( such as The Last House on the Left and The Hills Have Eyes ) , this movie was just goofy camp . Structurally , the film is very good . Craven has a very well written plot fighting for families in the inner city that are victimized by greedy landlords , but it gets goofy along the way , mostly because the father , one of the main characters , is trying to be Leatherface and Ash from The Evil Dead at the same time rather than creating an original character . Seriously , if you combine Leatherface and Ash , this guy is exactly what you get . Exactly . Speaking of the father , it's odd that the IMDb lists the two main characters as Man ; Dad , and Woman ; Mom , since they are revealed to be brother and sister late in the movie . Nevertheless , they are clearly a severely disturbed couple , whatever their relationship , as is made clear as one minor character explains to his grandson , curiously named Fool and the star of the film , that the family has been filthy rich and completely insane for generations , each generation crazier than the last . It seems that the one featured in this film has been kidnapping children for years and adopting them as their own , then forcing them to live in the basement for all eternity if they misbehave . As was the case with those two girls abducted in the first act of The Hillside Strangler , it is indeed odd that no one ever caught on . At one point in the film we learn that the police have been trying for years to be able to look deeper into the mysterious case surrounding these two people , yet when they find a stolen van in their driveway , they just say they haven't seen anyone in the house and the cops tell them to have a nice day and drive off , not having even investigated why there was a stolen van in their driveway . What was that ? The biggest problem with the people under the stairs is that not only are the people under the stairs not supposed to be scary , they're supposed to be victims . Actually , maybe they were meant to be scary . That would certainly explain why the plot leads us to believe that they're still alive down there , surviving only on the random scraps thrown to them and a seemingly insatiably appetite for watching the news about Iraq War I , but the makeup artists make us believe that they're zombies . No way are those people still alive , their skin is rotting off their bones . Even better are the characters of Alice and Roach , played by Sean Whalen in his film debut . It seems that Roach has escaped the basement and spends his time wandering the huge hallways that exist inside the walls in this massively inefficiently built house , avoiding his " father , " who is uncontrollably furious that he has escaped the basement . When the cops show up to investigate complaints they've received about gunshots in the area , they walk through the house , not seeing the huge holes that Dad has blasted in the walls throughout the house , because they have somehow managed to fix them instantaneously , and leaving happily after a few cups of coffee and some cookies . Everything seemed fine to them . If nothing else , I would have been mildly curious as to why , in a house with elegant furniture and mahogany walls , the kitchen was protected by an industrial steel wall . Ving Rhames plays the part of LeRoy , a family friend so close to the family that he brings Fool on a trip to rob the landlords , who are rumored to have buried treasure in their house . Yes , buried treasure . Fool's mom has cancer and they're being evicted for being all of three days late with their rent ( more proof that the movie has more to say about the plight of the inner cities than anything else ) , so it's up to Fool to save the day . Sadly , the only thing scary about this movie is that it is based , albeit loosely , on a true story about parents that locked their kids in the basement for many years .
Wow , 1985 wasn't such a good year for Stallone !	In watching First Blood Part 2 the first thing that I was struck by was that , as I was watching for classic cheesy moments , one of my favorite reasons to watch old action movies , I soon noticed that the cheese-factor in this movie is astronomical . In fact , the entire movie is basically a 97-minute cheese moment , it never stops ! Also , I just noticed on the IMDb that First Blood Part 2 ( probably the most awkward name for a sequel until the much-anticipated Jason X Part 2 comes out at some yet to be determined date ) is that it was nominated for an Oscar for Best Sound Effects Editing , but was also nominated at the Razzie Awards for Worst Supporting Actress , Worst New Star ( this was definitely a deserved win , by the way ) , and Worst Director , and WON for Worst Screenplay , Worst Original Song , Worst Actor ( also in Rocky IV , which is a distantly better movie ! ) , and Worst Picture . Don't miss this one ! Rambo has now been in a prison camp for 5 years breaking rocks and such , when suddenly a military man approaches and tells him that the United States has a certain sensitive situation in Vietnam that could earn Rambo his freedom , were he to help them to solve it . It seems that there are still missing POWs in Vietnam and they need Rambo to get in there and take pictures of where they're being held so they can send in a tactical search and rescue team . Rambo , of course , is trained in search and rescue himself ( and also he's freaking Rambo ) so he can't bring himself to simply take pictures and then leave the Americans in captivity , so he takes the mission of the rescue entirely upon himself . He is helped along the way by the astonishingly beautiful Co Bao , a Vietnamese freedom fighter . This woman is unbelievably beautiful , but sadly she does nothing but stop the already unimpressive movie in its tracks as we're asked to believe this girl is a militant freedom fighter . And the fact that Julia Nickson-Soul ( the much deserved winner of that Worst New Star award ) is absolutely incapable of covering up the fact that she is a native English speaker didn't help matters either . The accent on that woman in this movie is hilarious ! There are some corrupt American officials and policies involved in the mission as well , all providing a sufficient set-up for Rambo to trample through the movie distributing Rambo - style justice to wherever it may be needed . I have to say the first movie wasn't even very good , but the descent that Part 2 has made is genuinely surprising . Definitely the worst of the not-very-impressive series , but it's still tons of fun . That should tell you all you need to know !
" ? and God created woman ? "	It's murder ! It's blasphemy ! It's ? it's misogyny ! ! If ever a single line described an entire movie , that one describes Bride of Re-Animator . Not that it's a direct quote , but close . Dr . Herbert West is back and crazier than ever , having become less of a scientist desperately pursuing work that is highly unethical but which he truly believes can help mankind in the end and more of a mad scientist who just wants to see dead people walking around . In the original film he had a vicious intelligence that made you want to see him succeed in conquering death , but here all he really wants to do is piece pieces of dead people together , pour his chem-light juice on them and watch them walk around . When on earth else would he put some fingers together with an eyeball on top and animate the pieces into a grotesque walking spider ? Not that that was entirely unappreciated . I always enjoy comic relief in horror movies , and this one is even campier than its predecessor , which is a camp classic . But when making a sequel to a camp classic , I think it is just a little bit dangerous to take the material even less seriously than the first movie . The zombies are smarter in this one ( " My god , they're using tools ! " ) and the experiments more extreme , like piecing together a woman from a whole array of parts from half a dozen different people , but it is harder to take Dr . West seriously even as a horror movie scientist when he proudly points at his hideous monster of a creation and mocks what God or woman can produce . The music is still an unveiled rip-off of the Psycho soundtrack , but at least it is kept mostly to the very beginning and very end of the movie , rather than played almost nonstop like it was in the first movie . But what was most irritating was the severed head that kept popping up throughout the movie , talking in a raspy voice which I imagine was meant to be scary but comes off as ridiculous because of the lack of vocal cords , to say nothing of the lack of lungs to push air over them . The goofy , toothy performance was just too much for me . Man , that head would just not go away . The end of the movie turns into a reanimating free-for-all , where all intent on helping mankind by beating death is forgotten in favor of piecing together human body parts in as many different combinations as possible , resulting in things like a man who is nothing but a head , a right arm , a right leg backwards for a left arm , and a breast growing out of his shoulder . It's like a sick version of that head and shoulders thing that Chatterer had been reduced to in Hellraiser Inferno . Anyway , the movie has completely lost direction by this point and become little more than a gory mishmash of the premise that the series was originally based on . Gore fans may get a kick out of that , but I get the feeling that true Re-Animator fans would be offended that the original classic film was reduced to that level .
Interesting transition .	SPOILERS SPOILERS Picking up not long after where Part 3 left off , A Nightmare on Elm Street Part 4 has the strange transitional quality of including several characters from the last film , but pretty much just long enough for them to get killed off . Kristen is no longer played by Patricia Arquette , but by the curiously named Tuesday Knight instead , and she is now attempting to gain some semblance of a normal life . Roland Kincaid , who we remember from the last film , has started having nightmares of his own , one of which involves a scene at the junkyard where Freddy's bones were carelessly disposed of , and in which they are brought back to life . Bet you didn't see that one coming . ( spoilers ) So the whole thing about Freddy not being ' completely killed in the last movie , ' one of the biggest clichés in the episodic horror movie genre , is slightly covered over with one of the weirdest and weakest attempts at originality which I can even begin to remember in just about any genre . Kincaid has this dream about the junkyard that he first saw in the lat movie , and in this one , he watches as his dog digs up Freddy's bones and then does something that I don't think anyone could have anticipated . In that sense , at least it wasn't predictable , right ? It could have been something straight out of the index like a bolt of lightning or even an earthquake to bring Freddy back to life , but no . The dog digs up his bones , and then brings them back to life . By peeing on them . And not just that , he pees FIRE onto Freddy's bones . I've been going back and watching all the Nightmare on Elm Street films as well as the Friday the 13th films because I want to refresh my memory before watching Freddy vs . Jason ( and don't worry , I realize how contemptuously bad that movie simply HAS to be ) . One of the things that I've noticed is how much more tongue-in-cheek the Freddy movies are , how much more comic relief there is and how much more glossed over they are than the Friday films , which tend to be much more abrasive and lean more toward a painful reaction at the vicious murders . Freddy , for example , is constantly cracking stupid jokes and spouting goofy one-liners , often before gleefully ramming all of his finger-knives into a victim . Jason , on the other hand , is completely soundless . He just doesn't stop coming until he's skewered someone . I don't think you need to have this juxtaposition of these two hugely popular horror series ' to know that the Nightmare on Elm Street films progressively take themselves less and less seriously , but the dog peeing fire is certainly a signpost of the last shred of dignity that these movies ever had . The potential of the Nightmare on Elm Street films took a huge hit in Part 2 , for example , when Jesse was cleaning his room , then another one in the same room with the wet towels , and yet it's telling that Part 2 was one of the better sequels . The dog peeing on the bones was , I think , the one point in the entire six-movie saga at which all credibility was lost , and the rest of this movie and the other sequels and rendered little more than tired exercises in throwing together just enough of a plot for Freddy to come in and coast through the movie on his massive popularity . By this point in the series , Freddy has become an icon , a hero to the preteen and teen target audiences , which only disturbs me because he is the ghost of a child molester . Must there be so much effort put into making him likable ? When you see that Freddy is killing off the remaining characters from the last movie , the last of the Elm Street kids , as it were , it seems strange that he makes such quick progress , but soon you realize it's because that's not the point of the movie . He can't just kill them off an no one else , that would run the risk of no room for more sequels ! No , there must be new kids to kill so that more tenuous connections can be made to the original Elm Street kids and more movies can be made . It's interesting to note that if Freddy ever fulfills his revenge , he'll effectively kill himself because he'll have no more reason to exist . Freddy's new trick is to make Kristen pull all of her friends into her dreams so that he can kill them . She is reasonably safe , since she is providing Freddy with so much new teen flesh to cut up ( and because she'll be needed to almost-but-not-quite kill Freddy at the end of the movie ) , but it's strange that she always pulls in her closest friends to be killed off . Yes , she gains some sort of power from each of them after Freddy kills them , which she uses in the final climactic scene , but it's also interesting to consider what might have happened had she dreamed of a machine gun or something . The least her friends could have done was go to sleep with a butcher knife or something . As far as the killings , the transformation from Freddy's stalking habits in the original film has evolved from subtly scary relentlessness to cartoonish exaggeration . There's a scene where he's actually on a sunny beach in this movie ( which explains why so many horror movie are deliberately so badly lit , since this scene is about as scary as a Colgate commercial ) , there's a scene where he squishes one of his victims in a roach motel , there's even a scene where he's invisible and kung-fu fighting with one of his victims just before he kills him . What the hell is all this ? There are a couple of scenes that are relatively effective , such as one where one of the characters is bench pressing and Freddy pushes the bar toward her chest until her elbows snap and break open like crab legs , but then she starts turning into a cockroach , evidently just so Freddy can kill her in the above-mentioned roach motel . I should mention that the special effects used to turn her into a cockroach were actually pretty effective , but they lead up to one of the dumber scenes in the movie . There is also an interesting scene near the end where the souls of the children that Freddy have killed tear out of his body and consume him , but it's a long haul sitting through the rest of this movie for that , and even then it's not exactly much of a payoff . It's sad how far Freddy has changed from the demonic ghost of a deranged killer with the curious ability to kill his victims in their dreams , into a wise-cracking goofball who spouts one-liners and then kills his victims , almost as though the murders are the encore . People laugh at his jokes , then cheer when he splatters someone . Even more than now , the comparisons back in 1988 to the brilliant stand-up comedian Gallagher's routine had to have been noticed . Gallagher got up there on stage , made the audience laugh with his jokes , then splattered some watermelons . Is Freddy's job by now any different ?
Sadly inconsequential religious thriller .	In my experience , religious thrillers have the unfortunate habit of looking good but ultimately turning out as a disappointment ( I'm thinking of End of Days , at the moment ) . Nevertheless , Hillary Swank lends credibility to a story that , sadly , turns out as a disappointment . I am not an avid Bible reader , but I do know about the 10 biblical plagues , and I have to say that I just always envisioned them on a slightly larger scale , and part of the reason that I watched the movie was because I was interested to see how they would be portrayed in a movie with modern special effects . And seeing Swank starring so soon after her astonishing performance in Million Dollar Baby made me believe that the CGI people wouldn't lose all control and blow everything cartoonishly out of proportion , as modern special effects teams all too often do . Besides starring double Oscar winner Hillary Swank , the movie is also associated with Joel Silver and Robert Zemeckis , which led me to believe that it might be among the better psychological / religious thrillers and horror films , like The Exorcist , The Omen , and the recent Exorcism of Emily Rose , which remains one of the scariest movies I've ever seen . Sadly , The Reaping is a religious thriller that doesn't really take itself or its content seriously , leaving a feeling that they used Katherine's faith as a cheap plot device to provide her character with drive . We are introduced to the character of Katherine ( Swank ) as she investigates a region in Africa , I think , which is thought to be experiencing some kind of divine retribution . She returns to her grad school students at Louisiana State University to give them the scientific breakdown of her investigation , closing with the impressive claim that that's 48 alleged " miracles " with 48 perfectly rational , scientific explanations . After that , it's pretty much all downhill . Katherine is ominously approached by a man with a report of another town that seems to be suffering from God's wrath because their river has apparently turned into blood , and Katherine only agrees to check it out because the townspeople ( who , we soon learn , are religious fanatics if there ever were any ) have blamed it all on a little girl . I think this will be the real start of the problems with the movie because it will immediately alienate a good majority of the rational audience , who will immediately think of the microorganisms that could turn water red before thinking of divine intervention . The fact that the townspeople immediately blame a 12-year-old girl , if nothing else , makes it pointedly difficult to identify with them . Soon we meet some and discover that they are as fanatical as they seem ( " Some people just don't want to go to heaven ? " ) . With the exception of the locusts , which were overdone ( although they vanished as quickly as they appeared ) , the plagues are a tremendous disappointment . The frogs are introduced as a scene that should have been a good scare but was instead a let-down . A dozen or so frogs falling from the sky , which are almost ignored . The flies are limited to a single barbecue ! Most amazing to me , however , is the fact that Katherine is such an experienced investigator of these claims , but she has to mail a sample of the river water to see what it really is . Is human blood really that hard to identify ? Apparently it is for this team , as they put a sample into their chemistry set and are perplexed by the results ( " Black isn't even on the chart ? " ) . The Reaping is so unremarkable that about six months ago I bought it on DVD and watched it , and then put it away . A few months later , I bought it again , thinking that maybe Hillary Swank would make it good , and brought it home only to discover that I had already been disappointed by it once before . Save yourself the trouble the first time ?
This is even bad for a Hugh Grant movie .	Hugh Grant is widely considered to be one of the more aggravating actors working today . He constantly plays roles which are really only thinly disguised caricatures of the same dainty British guy who has managed to get himself in over his head . Like Woody Allen , his movies are also packed full of little good-naturedly sarcastic one-liners which , ironically , are often the funniest parts of his films . In the James Bond films , the constant barrage of one-liners serve to do little more than remove any scrap of respectability from the films and reduce them to childish excursions full of meaningless sexual innuendos , while in films like Mickey Blue Eyes , these one-liners are quite often genuinely amusing , and some of the better parts of the movie . As the rest of the movie will show , however , having successful one-liners does not by any stretch of the imagination make for a good movie . Grant plays the role of Michael Felgate , an art dealer with a stable career and high hopes of an approaching marriage . He goes through his life happily , running auctions at which he sells obscure paintings for obscene amounts o f money , spending time with his significant other , Gina Vitale ( Jeanne Tripplehorn - I'll get to her later ) , and occasionally dropping amusing wise-cracks . In other words , he's pretty much a regular guy . The introduction of the conflict in the film comes from his efforts to get Gina to agree to marry him . When Michael makes a charming but vain attempt to propose to her through a note inserted into a fortune cookie , Gina freaks out and storms out of the restaurant , telling Michael that she can't , she just can't , leaving him alone in the restaurant and leaving the audience wondering what her intentions had been thus far in the relationship if marriage was so simply out of the question . Besides the botched romance , Tripplehorn delivers an absolutely abysmal performance as the poor poor daughter of the mobster who is just so devastated that she can't marry her true love . She plays the victim well enough , but it's just groan-inducing to watch her make horribly vain attempts to act emotional scenes . Every time she got upset I just wanted to leave the room . The conflict has been thus introduced - Gina can't marry Michael because there are things about her family that he doesn't know about and that she is ashamed to have him discover , which is why she stomped out of the restaurant as though he had admitted cheating on her rather than proposed to her . So after she changes her mind and decides to stay with him just as fast as she rejected him , Michael decides to take it upon himself to get to know her family and thereby resolve any conflict that Gina may have been concerned about . What you have here is a typical formula comedy that unrepentedly feeds off of the stereotypical Italian mafia family , basically stealing the formula from the classic comedies ( namingly The Odd Couple , the formula of which has probably been imitated on a plot level more than any other in cinematic history ) and adding it to the only bad thing about The Godfather , which is the fact that it presented a tremendously stereotypical account of Italians as criminals . Mickey Blue Eyes does nothing new , but rather adds the typical Hugh Grant character to the above borrowed formulas , resulting in a significantly disappointing comedy . The only mildly amusing things in this film are Michael's occasional witty comments , which are punctuated by a series of painfully unamusing scenes - such anything involving the butchering of a foreign accent or a Chinese restaurant owner screaming at Gina to eat fking cookie . It's amazing to me that that ridiculous scene made it into this film . For the most part , they at least got their stereotypical representation of the Italian crime family at least partially right . And by that , of course , I mean that they did a god job stealing the traditional hierarchy of Hollywood's version of Italian crime families , and Mickey Blue Eyes does more than it's part to ensure the world that there are no other types of Italian families than this . As far as the performances , not everything was bad . Jeanne Tripplehorn , as I've already mentioned , immensely over-acted her role , reducing her performance almost to farce , and Hugh Grant was horribly miscast from the outset , but there are some performances in the film that are worth noting . Joe Viterelli , who amazingly manages to look decades younger than he is , is back in basically the exact same role that he played in Analyze This , an immensely superior film . James Caan delivers a performance as Gina's mob father that is just about as fantastic as the material will allow , and more than any other , Burt Young as Vito Graziosi , sort of the head of the family , performs so well in his role that he deserves to be in a far better film . It's too bad that Mickey Blue Eyes turned out to be such a spectacular failure , because it works from a premise that could have made for a much better film . In a way , this movie failed in exactly the same way that Hollow Man did - there were nearly endless possibilities , but they were all ignored in favor of the childish slop that you see in the final cut . We can hope that someday someone will steal the premise of this movie and make that better film , but the unfortunate fact is that this is just not the kind of film that strikes filmmakers as something to borrow from . Ah , well . . .
Back when commercials meant something . . .	The thing that really struck me about this short comedy is that it is all about a guy who makes a radio commercial for a local donut shop because he actually cares about the well-being of its owner , a woman named Dora with whom he is clearly romantically interested ( and who is clearly romantically interested in him as well ) . In a time when we are bombarded with obnoxious advertisements and endless streams of commercials , it is indeed interesting to look back to a time when it would be acceptable to make a movie about making a commercial . Today , commercials have become so widespread that they're like a cancer on society , you can't go anywhere anymore without being advertised at , they even show commercials before the previews start at the movie theaters now . And I thought I spent $10 to get in so I could get AWAY from the commercials . Shirley Temple is not the star of this short film , although it's easy to see why she is so good at coming to the forefront , because as is to be expected , she steals every scene that she's in , even though she is the only person who doesn't fit in at all . The film concerns a school band taught by a charming teacher named Andy , although all of the students appear to be about junior high school age , except for 5 year old Shirley . Unfortunately , the movie loses its way completely in the second half , with the thin script being abandoned completely at about the time that people start fighting . An improvised one-man performance of Little Red Riding Hood is thrown in out of nowhere , and then we are treated to a couple of pie throwing sight gags ( which are not entirely without effect ) before the movie makes short work of solving the crisis that it introduced about Dora's struggling bakery , as well as the budding romance between her and Andy . It wastes a lot of time in the last act and is hardly up to par with the short comedies of the time , but is still a charming little film .
Please direct your hate mail messages to miked32 @ hotmail . com . Thanks .	I know that I am going to get some pretty angry e-mails from at least a few people , as is almost always the case when I write scathing reviews of popular movies . I realize that Gentlemen Prefer Blondes is a classic comedy , and not only because it stars Marilyn Monroe . But therein lies my biggest problem with the film . Marilyn Monroe is not very arguably the most famous blonde who ever lived , and in this movie she glorifies air-headedness and the prostitution of the female form for financial gain . Before I go on , by the way , I would like to point out that she delivered a wonderful performance and I am saying nothing against either her as an actor or as a person , but this role should probably not have been given to her because her tremendous iconography gives her the power to influence a great many women , and the influence delivered in this movie is not a very healthy one , especially in the early 1950s . I was shocked when I read the review on the IMDb's title page for Gentlemen Prefer Blondes . ' TJBNYC , ' as he or she calls him - or herself , starts out by saying that ' Anyone who's ever written off Marilyn Monroe as ' just ' a dumb blonde are directed to this film immediately . ' I think it would be a better idea to point out to anyone that's ever written off Marilyn Monroe as ' just ' a dumb blonde be reminded of the nature of the medium of film . What you see on screen are characters and if the actor makes you believe a character is a dumb blonde , it goes to the credit of their acting ability . But more important than that , this is probably the last film that someone like that should be directed to see because a dumb blonde is exactly what she portrays . If , however , you manage to make it through to the end of this endurance test , you will see that they luckily made an effort to show that she had something going on in her head all along , even though this effort is a feeble and almost entirely futile one . ( spoilers ) On the one hand , Marilyn Monroe plays a character named Lorelei Lee who says things with wide-eyed innocence ( oblivion ) like , ' Piggy was playing the python , and I was the goat . ' and ' This is like a room , isn't it ! ' I always feel dumber after watching stuff like that , but I suppose there is some intelligence to her character that becomes apparent as we realize her cunning ability to get the pretty things that she likes by using whatever power she has available . Sure , this is completely useless knowledge to anyone but an air-headed blonde , but there you go . Lorelei has something going on in her head after all . The real point where they vainly attempt to cancel out her blondeness is at the very end when she turns everything around and Gus's father comes right out and says , ' Hey , they told me you were stupid ! ' What you have here is a shameless attempt to deliver Marilyn as a complete bimbo and then try to suddenly turn it around at the end to make it seem that she was putting us on the whole time and she's really not a moron after all . The problem that Howard Hawks should have kept in mind is that the audience forms their opinion of a character very early in a movie , and if we see a bimbo for 90 minutes , she stays a bimbo no matter how smart she acts in the last scene . There is nothing spectacular about Gentlemen Prefer Blondes , there are even several scenes that are downright bad or tasteless or both , such as the goat / python scene mentioned above ( with a scene like this , NO amount of genius later in the film could reverse Lorelei's idiot character ) and the truly awful scene where Laura sings ' Diamonds Are A Girl's Best Friend ' in a skanky outfit to distract everyone . I can only imagine it is now considered a classic because Marilyn Monroe is the star . I haven't seen many of her other films , but I can only hope that they are better than this one .
Uninspired retread of well-known morals ?	I'm hoping that The Soloist will come across as one of the most disappointing movies of 2009 , because if we get anything more of a letdown than this it's gonna be pretty bad . I awaited the movie with enormous anticipation . Jamie Foxx has proved himself as a tremendously talented actor many times over , and Robert Downey Jr . , long since one of my favorite actors , is at the height of his career with his work in movies like Iron Man and Tropic Thunder , as well as the upcoming Sherlock Holmes , Master Mind , The Avengers , and Iron Man 2 . Now , I hope I can say this without sounding like I'm really bashing the movie , because it is competently made and competently acted , but there were points in the movie where the pure badness almost approached camp . There is no doubt that the movie was green-lighted and cast with visions of Oscars dancing in the heads of Jamie Foxx , Robert Downey Jr . and the movie's producers , but somewhere along the way there was a necessary element that just never made it into the final cut . The movie definitely has it's fans and it certainly is a moving story , but I can tell you with pretty strong certainty that there are no Oscars in The Soloist's future . That being said , I should probably also admit that I had the hardest time putting my finger on exactly what went wrong . Maybe it is something as simple as a permeating lack of originality . Maybe the presentation of a mentally ill main character was handled without the necessary subtlety or authenticity . In Tropic Thunder , Robert Downey Jr . himself expounded on the dangers of an actor going full retard , maybe this is a case of what happens when you go ' full crazy ? ' Whatever the case , I am truly sorry to say that both stars have scenes where their performances come across as almost bizarrely cheesy . Of course it might be just me , but I doubt it . Robert Downey Jr . plays Steve Lopez , a Los Angeles Times columnist desperate for a good story , when he one day runs into Nathaniel Ayers ( Jamie Foxx ) , a homeless man with obviously tremendous musical talent . There goes cliché number one . Through a muddled combination of personal interest and hope for the betterment of Ayers ' life , Lopez makes it his life's to get Ayers off the streets , on medication , and into a successful musical career where he belongs . It's hard not to be moved by such a story , but it's also hard to find anything original in it . It's based on a true story , even to the point of showing an incident where an elderly LA Times reader sent in her own cello , one she had been playing herself for decades , because she was so moved by Lopez's story about Ayers . The movie's presentation of this event is one of its simplest but best scenes . But after that ? what ? I won't ruin the story for you , because while I found the movie disappointing , I would also say that it's not disappointing to the point that people shouldn't watch it . But it leaves you with a definite feeling that it should have been something more , or that the true story on which it's based simply doesn't have the ingredients for a successful drama . There is a point in the movie , for example , where Ayers utters the line , " If I ever see you again I'll cut you open and gut you like a fish . " I appreciate the portrayal of paralyzing mental confusion , but I'm going to go ahead and suggest the majority of the audience is going to see that as a good time to turn your life - saving mission over to professionals who have some idea of what they're dealing with . Then again , it's also exactly this kind of difficulty that has led to the most satisfying struggles against the odds in similarly uplifting movies , but The Soloist argues that friendship should be enough to overcome even the most insurmountable barriers , it takes us on this painful struggle with a damaged mind , and then , worst of all , it all leads up to one of those stupid , stupid voice-over speeches at the end that's supposed to tie everything up with a cute little bow . God I can't stand that . Watch the movie when it comes out on DVD . It's not a complete failure , but it is much less than the sum of its parts and it gives that feeling that it is always just about to develop into something really great but it just never happens . It does a good job of approaching the difficult paradox of how far people should be able to go in efforts to force a better life on someone , but for all of the ambition clearly involved in its production , it should easily have forced out a much better movie .
What's this about a witch , now ?	Almost universally hated for being such a digression from the much known and loved Halloween movies , Halloween III comes along almost like John Carpenter and Debra Hill , who produced it , are trying to sneak up on audiences and show them something they weren't expecting . While it's true that it has absolutely nothing to do with the two Michael Meyers slashers that came before it other than the fact that we see commercials for the original Halloween film on TV sets in this movie a couple times , it's not true that this is one of the worst horror films ever made , as I've heard it called very many times . I saw the movie about ten years ago , when I was in junior high school , and the two things that I remember were bugs crawling out of the masks while they were on peoples ' heads and that god-awful music they played during the Silver Shamrock commercials . So when I watched it again tonight I tried to look at it as a separate film from the other Halloween movies , because I think that it's association with them is a large part of why so many people hate it . In a horror series that at the time of this writing has spawned seven sequels , including this one , it's the one movie that simply doesn't belong . Unfortunately , even as a separate film , Halloween III doesn't have much going for it . Clearly , there was enough stock put into the disturbing nature of the crime involved , since we are not given a reason for its existence . An elderly toy maker has developed a scheme to sell masks rigged with secret electronic devices , then on Halloween night at 9pm stage a Big Giveaway on TV , at which point he will broadcast a special commercial I supposed reminiscent of those commercials in Japan that are supposed to give you seizures . This version will activate the electronic devices lodged in the masks and cause them to somehow turn kids heads into piles of creepy crawlies . What is the purpose behind this scheme ? What does this guy hope to achieve ? And what the hell does Stonehenge have to do with anything ? His hordes of robotic assistants is at least explainable by his need for secrecy given what he's really up to in that factory ( and I imagine they have something to do with his remarkable ability to essentially hold an entire town hostage without even a single person leaving and complaining to authorities . Early in the film , a guy runs frantically into a gas station asking for help and is brought to a hospital to receive medical attention . Once there , a well-dressed gentleman walks calmly into his hospital room and pulls his skull apart , then just as calmly walks outside , gets into his car , douses himself with gasoline and promptly sets himself on fire . The subsequent mess is left to the hospital staff to clean up , as the car is left smoldering in the parking lot the next day without an inch of police tape around it and a lab technician is left to pore through the ashes . What is truly funny is the length of time that this technician spends sifting through these ashes before she realizes that they are nothing but car parts , a stupendous explosion of idiocy that she describes as a ' colossal boo-boo . ' The doctor working at the hospital takes it upon himself to do a little investigating into the situation , traveling to the town that houses the Silver Shamrock factory , which of course sports an Irish caricature of a man presiding over the local hotel . I have to admit that I thought that the ' misfire ' scene was pretty impressive , and is one of at least a few scenes that tend to argue that this movie deserved a title that would not have cast it in an eternal shadow . For the first thirty minutes or so , the movie is very impressive . The opening shot of the man running as fast as he can out of a calm night is especially unsettling , as is that entire chase between him and his robotic pursuers , whom we know nothing about at the time . But the more we learn about what's really going on , the less believable the movie becomes , until it hits rock bottom with Conal Cochran , the evil toymaker , gleefully giving Challis , the investigating doctor , a tour of his underground facility and a detailed description of his wicked plans , coming dangerously close to a Scooby-Doo ending . I really don't think that the movie is as bad as so many people seem to think , it's just too bad that it starts out so well but by the end the last attacks of the final un-killable robot are simply tiresome . By the end , I was just waiting for it to end , but at the beginning I found it very interesting . I think that these two things balance themselves out in terms of the quality of the movie , and then the association with the other two previous Halloween films is just another nail in this movie's coffin .
This film's main redeeming value was the fact that it was based on a true story , and it vaguely communicated the events of that story . However , it was also badly distorted by the influences of Hollywood .	The Perfect Storm is an extremely difficult kind of film to make . No matter how you approach it , the budget is going to have to be huge , and there will definitely be some scenes that will simply be impossible to film on location . Hence , special effects are necessary . Given that , even though I generally feel that less is more as far as special effects , I respect the extensive use of special effects in this film . Without computer generated images , this film would never have been made . However , it should be noted that the convenience of special effects led to a high degree of questionable and , at some points , laughable excesses which were portrayed on the screen during The Perfect Storm . It was hard enough for me that every single external shot was obviously computer generated , but then the activities of the waves themselves during the storm were exaggerated to ridiculous proportions . First , yes there are waves that get that big and much bigger every day in the open ocean , but they are also several miles long . The constant straight up and straight down of the waves in the film is simply not true . However , when these waves collide , they do create very tall and very steep waves called ' rogue ' waves , as they were called in the film , but these were pretty much the only kind of waves ever shown in the whole movie . Obviously they are more dramatic to watch , but they are not a continually occurring phenomenon . Even worse , I noticed a few scenes where obscenely huge waves ( it is physically impossible for open ocean waves to be that big without a tremendous force like an earthquake , by the way ) were shown completely motionless for seconds at a time . It was like the wave was some huge solid form just under the surface , and the water was just running over it . And then there was the wave that broke and toppled the Andrea Gail over longways ( yes , I'm talking about the wave that George Clooney was screaming at ) . Waves just do not break like that in the open ocean , especially not waves as tremendous as that one . Basically , the storm scenes were simply exploded to impossibly huge proportions , which was one of the many ways that Hollywood manipulated this film . The other major problem concerned some of the things that were added into the story to make the film easier for a mass audience . ( spoilers ) This is not a happily-ever-after film , it's a true story . Everyone dies . So what they did was they had things like Bobby Shatford's ( Mark Wahlberg ) monologue to his distant future wife ( " . . . it's only love . . . " ) , and of COURSE , Captain Billy Tyne ( George Clooney ) deliberately allows himself to be taken down with the ship . How perfect . I'm not saying this didn't happen , maybe Tyne really went down as the traditional captain should , and maybe Shatford really did attempt a bit of telecommunication , but that is irrelevent . The point is that we don't know what happened , everything that you see in the second half of this film is pure speculation , and it is heavily sugar-coated , which bothers me . They even went to the extent of portraying the characters as though fishing was something that they needed just as much as food or water . Remember the scene when Cpt . Tyne says " Let's go fishing " as they are beginning their final fishing trip ? All of the guys get so excited that you would think they'd just heard that they won some kind of world sword-fishing championship . That scene , by the way , establishes the " they died doing what they loved " layer of sugar-coating . How sweet . I'll be the first to honor the reality of the tragedy portrayed in The Perfect Storm . In fact , the one Coast Guard paramedic that died in the rescue attempt , whose real name was Rick Smith , was a close friend of my father's the year before this mission took place . They worked together in the National Guard for years , they even shared a desk . When they were moved , my father was stationed in California and Smith was stationed on the east coast , where he soon received his fateful assignment . If it had been the other way around , it could easily have been someone portraying my father in this film . Clearly , I have a bit of an emotional bias toward this film , but I think that it was a little too excessive , particularly in the special effects department and the Hollywood sugar-coating . It's a great story and an entertaining movie , but I just don't think that it needed to be blown up that big in order to adequately portray the events that took place in the Pacific that year .
An odd little film indeed .	While claiming that this film borders on kiddie porn may be something of a stretch , it's not much of a stretch . It is certainly odd to consider the parents agreeing to let their kids perform in such a movie , which is racy , to say the least . The spectacle of Shirley Temple swinging her four-year-old hips around for a crowd of hooting four-year-old boys is disturbing indeed . This is one of Shirley Temple's earliest works for which the modern audience , or at least the few people who still manage or bother to see it , are most unimpressed , if not outright offended . The movie is a stark illustration of some of the difference between 1930s society and today's , as this film would not have the slightest chance of getting made in the 21st Century , and I like to see that I'm not the only person who's glad for that . Nonetheless , it seems that her appearance in this film , as well as the three that she appeared in previous to it , played a significant part in the explosion of her career as a child actor . Here's this girl who started acting at age four , stopped before her 20th birthday , and there she is appearing in all manner of glamorousness at the 1998 Academy Awards , four decades after her last performance as an actress . The extent of her popularity and success is clearly apparent , but this movie is more of a look at how differently movies were made in the 1930s as opposed to today , rather than an enlightening look at what it was about Shirley Temple that made her so tremendously popular . It seems clear that War Babies was an unintelligent film that exploited what must have been Temple's staggering cuteness . I can certainly understand that , because I have a sister who is 5 years old and she absolutely floors me , but the thought of her dancing around like Shirley does in this movie is not cute in the slightest . What is probably most odd about this movie is that all of the parents of the kids that appeared in it probably absolutely loved it . I imagine that not many of these parents are around anymore , so sadly it becomes all the more apparent as to why the film has such a small audience , and its obscurity I don't think can be chalked up entirely to the fact that it is more than 70 years old . Normally I am bothered by the fact that there are so many people in today's audience that refuse to watch older movies , simply because they are black and white . Imagine someone refusing to watch Schindler's List because it wasn't in color . Unbelievable . In this case , however , I don't find it upsetting in the least that this movie has become so rarely seen , because a movie that features a scene as disturbing as the finale of this one ( in which a little boy holds up an over-sized bobby-pin , making a genuinely disturbing implication to another little boy ) is not exactly a classic not to be overlooked . Quite the contrary . Overlook at will .
Not quite as pathetic as it looks .	The cover of ? Gator Bait makes it look like a ridiculous , mindless film with few redeeming qualities other than an abundance of inexplicable nudity . While there is nudity in the film ( and unnecessary nudity , at that ) , it is a relatively low quantity of it , and there are even a few elements of the film that were well done ? even if extremely few . The acting on all parts was just awful , but some performances were less idiotic than others . While it's true that the line ' Boys will be boys ' was uttered in response to an attempted rape , and one of the men attempting to capture Desiree actually SHOOK HIS FIST at her in one scene , it's not entirely the actors ' faults that this movie was impossible to take seriously . Nope , even if ineffectively , all of the actors delivered honest performances ? it's the SCREENWRITER that should be drug out into the street and shot . And the cinematographer was no genius either . The day-for-night photography was some of the worst I've ever seen ? even worse than that seen in Dr . No , which was filmed 14 years earlier than ? Gator Bait . Also , there is so much ridiculous dialogue in this movie that it becomes a form of comic relief in itself ( ' Leroy , you pick that boy up or I'm gonna blow yer head off ! ' ) . And I better not even get started on Desiree's laughable lines . It's no secret that ? Gator Bait is cheese . Everything about the film is ugly ? especially those damn actors . Some of these guys are so ugly that sometimes it's hard to believe that they're real people . But despite this , they make for an effective team of angry ( and excessively horny ) rednecks , and the way that they get picked off one by one by this country girl not only provides an ironic bit of an interesting story , but also illustrates the extent of their collective stupidity . In the final shot of the film , with Pa standing in the swamp , the camera tilts slowly down to his reflection on the water , providing an unexpected hint toward meaningful direction . But for the most part , this is garbage . You just can't take something like this seriously at all . Let me put it in the immortal words of the great Sam Gerard , ' Who's the ugliest , dumbest , most inbred country son of a bitch out here ? ' Well , whoever that person is , he or she is sure to get a kick out of ? Gator Bait .
Wow , I wonder what the video game's like .	So obviously I make no secret of the fact that I've never played the video game on which this movie is based , although I can't say it's that easy to come up with what the objective of a game would be that would inspire a movie like this . Not that I hated the movie or anything , but I think the story here would work better as a game than it does as a movie . First of all , the foundation of the story as a whole is based on a gigantic fallacy , or a series of gigantic fallacies . Specifically , the poisonous gas in the movie that basically reanimates dead people , turning them into flesh-eating zombies , supposedly works because , as it's explained in the movie , the body is still active even after death ( ' for months , ' one character explains ) . The problem here is that , while it's true that it is a widely accepted myth that hair and fingernails continue to grow after death ( also mentioned in the movie ) , it is not true at all that hair and fingernails continue to grow after death , it just doesn't happen . There is , in fact , a recognized postmortem lengthening of hair and fingernails , but it's not because they're growing , it's because the dead skin is receding , revealing the hair and fingernail material that was previously underneath the skin . So in a sense , hair and fingernails do , in fact , grow after death , but it is a result of the decay of the body , not in any way a product of still-functioning hair follicles and whatever the glands are that produce fingernails . Another reason that the movie gives for the ability of the gas to bring dead people back to life is that cells continue to reproduce after death . This may be true , but it would certainly never happen at the level required for a cadaver to be operational enough to be a zombie . Cells that have no incoming source of oxygen have a remarkably short shelf-life . So now that I've unnecessarily pointed out that logic has no place in this movie , I might as well point out that , for a horror film , the chronology of the plot is remarkably well thought out . I like that it starts with a couple elite agents who have lost their memories of what they have been doing and why they find themselves at the places where they wake up . Milla Jovovich plays one of these officers , and the other is supposedly her tactical boyfriend / husband is a life that she can't remember . As the film goes on and the cast find themselves deeper and deeper within this underground lab called The hive ( and more and more surrounded by the living dead ) , their memories gradually come back and they realize their old jobs , motives , etc . As far as plot , that is very original for a horror film , especially one involving zombies . You think of a movie that is centered around a gas that turns dead people into cannibalistic zombies and you immediately pretty much know how the whole movie is going to go . In Resident Evil , however , the majority of the tension comes not necessarily from the walking dead that are trying to eat the cast , but ultimately more from the awakening memories of certain characters who find themselves to be enemies , turning guns on each other even while the dead pound on the doors trying to sink their teeth into their flesh . Oh , by the way , that's another thing . Not only does this gas reanimate the dead by utilizing the fictional continuation of bodily function after death , but once turned into zombies , they have the ability to turn others into zombies with the slightest scratch or bite . So not only does this gas turn dead people into cannibal zombies , but cannibal VAMPIRE zombies . If they bite you you turn into one of them . No wonder they came up with the idea of internal strife as a way to create more tension , because the original premise of the effects of this gas are pretty ridiculous . It was created for military use , although I can't imagine a military use for a gas that , when used , would turn entire populations into walking dead , turning entire cities into the disaster that we see in the final shot of the film . Entire continents and , ultimately , the human race would be wiped out with a single use of such a weapon . Michelle Rodriguez takes on exactly the same role that she played in the ridiculous movie The Fast and the Furious as well as the somewhat less ridiculous S . W . A . T . She always plays a very impressive , very tough role , but her half-lidded tough-girl routine gets real old real quick . Milla Jovovich is just as staggeringly beautiful as ever , yet taking on another role that is fathoms below her ability , and really the rest of the cast kind of blends together , with no one standing out as important or with much of an impressive performance . Getting back to the story , like I said above , it's actually pretty impressive conceptually , but then again you have to overlook such forehead-slappers as the machine coming to life ( embodied , for some reason , in the voice of a little British girl ) , becoming self-aware , and trying to terminate the people there to shut her down . She apparently has managed to create a gigantic monster out of some sort of organic material the source of which escaped me , as well as whole herds of dogs that seem to have no skin and no other purpose for existing than to attack anything that moves . Cleverly animated , but certainly one of the things that raised a few eyebrows as to where they came from or what was the point . Recently I've been seeing previews at the movies for a Resident Evil 2 , which is most of the reason that I went back and watched this one . Based on the fact that this movie ends with a shot that is also seen in the trailer for part 2 , the shot with Alice ( Jovovich ) emerging from a manhole to find the entire city in a state of complete destruction , the gas having infected the population above ground , I assume that part 2 takes place in an above-ground setting . I also like that the preview starts off looking like an advertisement for some sort of beauty product , which leads me to believe that maybe that will be something that the dead use to cover up their deformities and the fact that they are dead , thus allowing them to sneak up on the living . Although if that happens , it would refute the claim made in this movie that they have no cognitive function other than the primal instinct to feed . At any rate , a fresh new setting , above-ground , would provide a whole array of new possibilities for a sequel to this movie . In fact , in order to save money , sort of kill two birds with one stone , they might even be able to double their profits by calling the next movie something like ' Resident Evil : 28 Days Later . '
Who the hell marries their best friend's sister anyway ?	Unstoppable is one of those movies that people immediately attack , calling it Wesley Snipes descent into video land and such . These are not entirely unfounded arguments , but I have to suggest that the badness of this movie may be magnified at least a little bit because it is so overshadowed by Blade 3 which , given the previews , looks to be a spectacular action movie . I have a feeling that Blade 3 will be something of a minor letdown , in the same way that The Matrix Revolutions was ? not quite as incredible as you thought , but still a cool action / sci-fi movie . Enter Unstoppable , and you have a sometimes boring and sometimes downright stupid action movie being given to fans who are just looking for something to tide them over until they can get another dose of gleeful vampire bloodletting . The movie starts with a strange situation that turns into a good one . A bunch of guys have another guy strapped to a gurney in an ambulance racing down the street . The guy strapped down manages not only to kick the ambulance's rear doors open , but also to get away from the guys interrogating him , succeeding in rolling his gurney out the back of the ambulance , onto the road , and into the path of a tailgating truck . Oops . Pretty goofy , but at the later investigation , an arriving investigator finds out what happened and asks where the ambulance is , and learns that it didn't stop . I have to admit that's a pretty clever way to reveal that there were probably no EMTs in that ambulance . There is later another similar impressive scene when the one guy captured from the diner shooting finally decides to cooperate . He tells Amy , the interrogating officer , that he will cooperate only with her , after having refused outright during the interrogation room , and while now being led away by FBI agents . He yells to her that these guys are not FBI and he'll talk to her , and ten seconds later several people have been shot and he's dead . Doesn't sound very impressive in writing , but these are actually some pretty clever scenes . On the other hand , they are balanced out by some serious blunders , like the gigantic cliché of the rivalry between the police and the FBI . The only people who fight like they do in this movie are children , cats and dogs , and the FBI and CIA . Take the diner scene , for example . Dean Cage , played by Wesley Snipes and not to be confused with Nicholas Cage or Dean Cain , goes to a diner to meet his girlfriend after leaving early from a self-help group for war veterans suffering from post traumatic stress . Turns out he just went to the wrong diner and sat at the wrong table at the wrong time , because there are a whole group of guys outside waiting to drug and capture someone who looks enough like him for them not to be able to tell the difference . At first you may hesitate to believe that they could so easily misidentify their target , but the ineptitude with which they handle their operation allows me to believe all sorts of stupidity . One guy , for example , is so bad at being inconspicuous that Cage , while merely looking around waiting for his girlfriend , is able to spot him from inside a well lit diner while the guy is standing on the other side of the street at night . And if that wasn't bad enough , consider the sound guy , my favorite . After learning that his buddy has been spotted , he looks at Cage in the diner and sees that he is looking right at him , that he's been spotted , too . Hey buddy , this is just a suggestion , but maybe you were spotted because of that LASER-GUIDED MICROPHONE you're using . A laser sight on a shotgun microphone is about the dumbest thing I've ever heard of , but that's not enough for this guy . He has to train the laser onto the window directly in front of Cage , so that he glances casually at the window , wondering why there's a little red light dancing there . Given his decorated military background , I would have thought he would have reacted a little differently to a laser sight pointed at him . And the best part was that when he curiously tapped the window , the sound guy gets such a loud roar in his headphones that he just about falls out of the car . Wesley Snipes turns in a satisfactory performance , except for any scene where he thinks he's back in Bosnia and his friend is being tortured in front of him . His pleas for his captors to let him down and don't burn him and don't hurt him are about as emotional and frantic as if he was reading his shopping list . Is that really how he spoke to his captors when he was in Bosnia trying to get them to let his friend down ? On the other hand , his hallucinations were done quite well . Throughout the movie there are some good scenes put together where Cage slips in and out of reality , thinking that the guys trying to interrogate him in the present time are his captors from Bosnia . With the exception of the scene where his girlfriend disappears in front of his eyes in the shower ( I disappeared people on screen better than that when I was making short films at Fresno City College ) , a lot of these are actually done well . Outside of the mistaken identity , the plot revolves around a top-secret drug that makes people completely susceptible to suggestion and also causes total synaptic melt-down within 6-8 hours of injection . Cage was injected in the diner early in the movie , and spends the rest of the movie reeling from the effects of it , while his girlfriend Amy , a highly overacting Jacqueline Obradors , tries to figure out what happened and then get the antidote . The old premise of getting the antidote before the poison kills the hero is a recipe for fake tension , but the closing scene is actually done pretty well here , too . In the closing scene , the bad guy is also injected with the drug after the sale of a case of thousands of capsules of the drug and thousands of capsules of the antigen goes wrong . As Cage reaches for the single capsule of antigen on the ground in front of him , the whole case of the drug spills over , hiding it among thousands and thousands of capsules of the drug . Once the bad guy gets injected , he joins in the search , frantically grabbing handfuls of capsules looking for the right one , having forgotten that he has 6-8 hours before he really has to worry , as well as the fact that there is a huge case full of thousands and thousands of doses of the antidote sitting right there in his truck . Another thing that this movie really has going against it is that the action scenes are just ludicrous . At one point , a guy is in a helicopter shooting a freaking gatling gun at people . He literally shoots tens of thousands of rounds and hits nothing . Cage responds , shooting three rounds from a handgun and succeeding in killing the guy and blowing up the helicopter . At another point a guy fires an Uzi at Amy and Cage from probably six feet away , spraying a stream of bullets at them and missing completely , or at least long enough for her to grab a handgun and make short work of him . What was he shooting at that allowed him to miss from that range ? So clearly , the movie has a lot of really bad but also some pretty good stuff in it , just unfortunately not quite as much good as bad . The two almost balance each other out , but still leave it below average . It is not , I have to say , as bad as many people have called it ( the song over the end credits is worse than the entire movie , for example ) , but there is certainly a reason that it went straight to video . Maybe even several reasons .
" Let me go , Bull ! ! "	I think everything in my weekend led up to me watching Poseidon last night . First of all , ever since reading a fascinating novel called Shadow Divers a few weeks ago , I have been devouring every book and documentary and movie about submarines , shipwrecks , U-Boats , ocean liners , and other sea calamities that I could find . One of them , which I got my hands on two days before seeing this movie , was the original Poseidon Adventure ( 1972 ) , which surprised me in its lack of fundamental knowledge about how ships sink . The last thing I am going to do here is get all technical about the logistics of a sinking ship , I've seen some documentaries and read some books but am hardly an expert . Second of all , by pure coincidence , I went to Universal Studios Hollywood earlier the same day as I saw this movie , where I saw , for the first time , the Backdraft attraction featured there . The relevance comes up later . First a little background ? the Poseidon was struck by a very real but little known phenomenon called a " rogue wave , " which is essentially a mid-ocean , completely unpredictable collision of two massive ocean waves ( you would be absolutely astounded to learn how large and fast moving mid-ocean waves can be , by the way ) , which results in another wave , which you might say is more than the sum of its parts . This resulting wave , if it happens to form near an unlucky ship , say , an ocean liner , can literally be hundreds of feet tall and yes , roll a full-sized ocean liner upside down like a bathtub toy . But here's something curious ( which was wrong in both the 1972 version and the 2006 version ) ? after having been rolled by the wave , the Poseidon is literally hanging on the surface by this pocket of air in which the movie takes place . Thhe plot concerns the efforts of a small group of survivors to get to the top of the ship ( now the bottom ) , and somehow get through the hull to the safety of the open air . Now here's the problem that neither movie realized ? as soon as any hole was poked or opened into the hull , that trapped air would shoot outward with phenomenal force ( likely shooting any nearby humans through the hole and a good distance into the air ) . The 1972 version thought that they could just escape through the hole , but the 2006 version thinks that the propellers , which for some reason are still spinning hours after the ship capsized , could somehow shoot air INTO the hole . Yes , the propellers are powerful , and yes , a lot of wind would be created , but none of it would make it into the high pressure area where the characters are , but would rather blow right over the hole like it wasn't even there . On to the characters , because there is nothing to the story . Rogue wave hits ocean liner , a few try to escape , that's the whole story . A steadily shrinking group of white people trudge through hordes of corpses of black and latino people , trying to escape before the ship sinks . At one point , there is a tense moment where you don't know whether a gay man ( Richard Dreyfuss ) or a Hispanic man are going to be killed . I guessed the gay man , since there was no black character , who would surely have been killed first . It is in this scene that I suppose the current racial and sociological stratification of the Hollywood Movie is illustrated . Josh Lucas and Kurt Russell are our heroes , both of whom are forced to go through the standard disaster movie motions for the unmotivated director , who is a far better director than this movie allows him to demonstrate , as he has so many times before . Kurt Russell is one of those actors that people tend to either love or hate , like John Travolta or Steven Segal , but I have to admit that his presence in this movie is one of the best things about it . There is one scene where he is actually handed the opportunity to blurt , " It's okay , I used to be a firefighter ! " ( " You go ? we go ! ! " ) . An homage that he is later able to refute ( " Kick him loose ! " ) . There's lots of goofy romance and cookie cutter parental conflict ( Kurt Russell , Emmy Rossum as his daughter , and Mike Vogel as her boyfriend literally play exactly the same roles as Bruce Willis , Liv Tyler , and Ben Affleck in Armageddon , right down to the ending . The plot and character similarities are downright alarming ) . ( spoilers ) That all being said , the only thing left that I really want to know was what went on in the script reading sessions where , when getting to the end of the script , they read that the remaining characters escape the sinking ship seconds before she slips below the waves , they jump into the water and swim the ten to fifteen feet to the fully inflated , fluorescent orange lifeboat waiting for them ( incidentally the one , single thing left floating after the ships sinks ) , and fired off a flare from the flare gun which came with the miracle life boat , then sat back and grinned gleefully as the first flare they fired morphs into rescue helicopters . I admit that I enjoyed the movie , but it truly blows my mind that someone read that and said , " Yup , that'll do . "
Moronic comedy about a bunch of guys who try to bail a friend out of jail by selling stolen marijuana .	Half Baked is a drug comedy of the lowest order . It takes place in the all-American town of Anywhere , USA , in the mid 1980s , and concerns a group of pothead losers who come across a way to get their hands on huge amounts of marijuana , and use the opportunity to try to build up enough money to bail their pothead friend out of jail . Thurgood works as a janitor at a hospital and , as a result of having been asked to run an errand for a surprisingly generous scientist , has found a way to get his hands on a huge amount of the drug . It seems that his idiot friend Kenny was thrown in jail because in a stoned stupor , he fed all of their munchies to a police horse , killing it . He is arrested by a ridiculously emotional police officer ( a human one ) , and thrown into jail as a cop-killer . This provides the inspiration for the other guys to go out and sell enough of the pot to bail him out of jail , resulting in some cheesy and un-amusing comedy that would require some serious pot-smoking to enjoy . There is a surprisingly small amount of thought put into this film , but for obvious reasons , given the fact that its target audience is stoned . There is a painfully un funny scene involving stoned police officers , and the whole plot to bring down the big drug mogul was not much of an addition to this terrible film . The ending tries in pathetic vain to deliver some sort of positive message about drugs ( ' I love weed . but not as much as I love pussy ! ' ) , but fails miserably and only ends up making it look even dumber . Even the hilarious stoned acting of Jim Breuer as Brian ( ' I'm not gonna do what you all think I'm gonna do and just FREAK OUT man ! ' ) , got old well before the end of the movie . Luckily , it's no secret the kind of low brow comedy that this is , so you know from the moment that you pick it up that you're about to watch something totally brainless . Your best bet is to avoid it .
Is it really THAT bad ?	Well , yes . The curious thing about Hard Rain is that it's so well presented but at the same time it's so superficial and false . I have to admit that I was impressed with the stormy , rainy atmosphere , but at the same time I was struck by how obvious is always was that the whole thing was a setup . I guess part of it may be because some of the flood scenes were filmed on a part of Universal Studios that you go right through when you take the tram tour , and other parts were clearly filmed in that big water tank with the false background that's right near the Psycho house ( at least it was when I last went on that tour , which was regrettably sometime in the early 1990s ) , but I can't blame the fakeness in its entirety just on the fact that some of the sets are personally familiar to anyone who has been on the tram tour at Universal Studios in Hollywood . There is an interesting paradox about Hard Rain , in that it is peppered with capable and even great actors ( as in the case of Morgan Freeman ) , but it still comes off as contrived and unreal . Christian Slater is not the most beloved actor in the world , but I have an immutable liking for him , probably just because he was part of the brilliant Robin Hood : Prince of Thieves . Minnie Driver has delivered some excellent performances in some excellent movies , although none that really struck my interest . Morgan Freeman is undoubtedly one of the greatest actors working today , which is why it's strange that even his enormous presence wasn't able to generate more interest in this movie . And Randy Quaid , while one of my personal favorite comedic actors ( mostly due to his absolute hilarity is National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation ) , was badly miscast from the beginning . What you have in Hard Rain is a flooded town due to excessive rain and an old and weak dam that periodically has to release more and more water to avoid overflowing , each time flooding the town more and more . The movie starts off with the town being evacuated ( which is shown in a total of two or three cars led down a flooded street ) and a couple of armored car drivers picking up all of the money from the town bank . It's interesting to consider what made director Mikael Salomon feel it necessary to present this routine pickup as a robbery ( even going so far as to have the bank manager nervously throwing stacks of money into a bag and saying he's going as fast as he can ) and then turn right around and show that it's a perfectly normal event . What you have here in the first few minutes of the movie is a scene that builds false suspense and then cops out , much like the rest of the movie . We're already being set up for disaster , and it has nothing to do with a flood . ( spoilers ) The movie is the presentation of a flooded and therefore deserted town and a subsequent robbery attempt , with all of the logical inconsistencies that that might imply . The struggle between the good guys and the bad guys goes on for way too long , for one thing . It's just too much to ask us to believe that no one is coming to help just because the guy up on the dam is not calling for help and Charlie turned out to be in on it from the beginning . It's like the movie takes place in its own little world , completely cut off from the rest of the world because the story finds that necessary . Sort of like the RoboCop movies , to some extent . On the other hand , there is an undeniable element of entertainment that comes along with the movie , despite its almost complete lack of any true possession of realism . It's a movie that is fun to watch but becomes bad the more you think about it , and I can tell this mostly because as I write this review , my opinion of the film steadily grows lower and lower . It's really sad that the movie had so many good actors in it but still fell flat . There are , of course , a few stock characters , such as the bad guy's idiot sidekick and the nervous old man and his wife ( an interaction between whom comes off as one of the most amusing scenes in the film ) , and this may be the root of the film's downfall . Even the good actors and the great actor in the film were all playing one-dimensional characters . Morgan Freeman was the typical aging thief who only wanted to steal enough money to escape all of this nonsense , Randy Quaid delivers a terribly unfitting performance as the frustrated sheriff who goes bad after losing reelection , Christian Slater is the lone hero who tries to save the day , and Minnie Driver is the obligatory love interest . Nothing very exciting here , not even when Jim , Morgan Freeman's character , winds up on Tom's ( Christian Slater ) side near the end is there enough interest generated in the plot to make up for its routine presentation , the manufactured sets , and the tedious dialogue . I worked at a video store in Fresno , California when this movie was released , and I remember that it was enormously popular during the first few weeks that it was released , just like Sphere . It was clearly one of the more highly anticipated films of 1998 , which was probably why it was so popular when it was released on video , but this also reflects the quality of the film . It is an entertaining film to some extent , but also like Sphere , is goes steadily downhill after a relatively interesting introduction , and the more you think about the movie itself , the less impressive it becomes .
I guess it's just not my thing anymore .	You know , I remember being hugely impressed with this movie when I last saw it when I was in high school . I watched it again recently to get a look at the older movies before watching what I have heard is a " stupid , stupid remake , " and was amazed that I ever enjoyed this movie . I respect it in that it is incredibly effective , especially as horror movies go , but the last time I had seen it was at a time when I was also impressed but absolute garbage like the Faces of Death movies ? movies that there is no reason for anyone to watch . Ever . The movies is based on a true story , as they say ( how loosely based is still a matter of debate ) , which adds an element of intrigue to the story , but it is simply an unappealing and sick movie that it's difficult to enjoy , even for horror fans . I am a huge horror fan , but when I see a blonde girl screaming in terror literally nonstop , it gets a little hard to take . It's cool to see a teenager scream and then get slashed by a masked killer , but to watch a teenager screaming endlessly as this sick and twisted family forces her to participate in their disgusting family rituals is not amusing in the least . What is this , an exploration of the depths of human depravity ? The movie gets high marks because it certainly is well made and effective , I just can't help being put off by it . It's not fun to watch , even as a gory horror film , which I think counts against it in the end . There is a way to make a movie like this without being too over the top and gratuitous but still remaining faithful to whatever it was that really took place that summer in Texas . Glamorizing the violence and shoving the audience's faces into the sick things that this family was into is not the way . Texas Chainsaw comes off as a hugely effective movie that's really weakly made . They allowed to sheer disgustingness of this family tell the story , rather than use the endless opportunities afforded by the medium to create a fascinating story , and a whole series of stupid sequels did not help much . Ah well ?
How to ruin a fascinating true story .	Ah , Las Vegas , the city of lights . The place that probably offers more false promises than anywhere else in the world , Hollywood included . I've never been much of a gambler myself , usually when I go there I plan a given amount of money to gamble with and , once it's gone ( because I understand in advance that I'm gonna lose it ) then I stop and go back to my buddies and concentrate on getting nicely drunk . But cards are even less my thing . My friends back in Venice Beach had almost nightly poker tournaments that I couldn't get myself interested in to save my life , so my experience in gambling real money on card games is almost nonexistent . Nevertheless , I have an endless fascination with Vegas , and the true story of those people from MIT who raked in hundreds of thousands of dollars by counting cards at the blackjack tables should have been a great movie . Unfortunately , 21 is not it . The movie deals with the true story of those MIT students , but the movie is so heavily fictionalized that it's nearly impossible to tell what really happened under what ultimately turns out to be a twisted mass of Hollywood clichés . Jim Sturgess plays Ben Campbell , a college student graduating from MIT and about to fulfill his lifelong dream of attending Harvard Medical School . The only problem is that he doesn't have any money and Harvard Med will run him $300 , 000 . Since he lives in a world that contains one single scholarship opportunity and not a hint of student loans ( seriously , with an academic history like Ben's , there are about a million ways to get the money he needs ) , he sees his chances of going to Harvard Med slipping away . Soon he meets a professor , Micky Rosa ( Kevin Spacey ) who introduces him to a carefully designed card-counting scheme involving himself and a few of his most gifted students . They all head to Vegas and try to beat the system , while security chief Cole Williams ( Laurence Fishburne ) lurks in the darkened security office surrounded by TV screens watching out for people like them . I wanted to see a movie about the real story , something almost documentary-like that tells not only how they beat the Vegas system but also how they got caught and what happened afterwards , but 21 plays more like a completely fictional story . It's like a cheap version of Ocean's 11 except the only laws being broken are when Williams drags various characters into the casino basement to , ah , knock some sense out of them . I have no idea how card counting works , I'm just not a math guy . The movie doesn't concern itself with helping us understand it either , beyond some quickly edited sequences showing the main characters devising an intricate counting and communication scheme that will allow them to work together in the casinos without anyone realizing that they are a team . The problem is that the card counting itself requires a tremendous intellect , but the characters are phenomenally stupid . Are we supposed to believe that the same people who perfected this counting scheme would come up with signals so stupidly obvious as linking your arms behind your back when the deck's hot ? It was bad enough that they all constantly glance nervously at each other whenever they're in the same room , but that arm-linking thing was amazing . Every single time ! ! Didn't they ever think it would be a good idea to change things up a little bit ? It would require a stupendous quantity of incompetence on the part of the security administration to miss THAT . Even worse is the fact that in order to remind us that they're humans , the characters have to make drastic mistakes , but drastic gambling mistakes done well will give you something like the poker scene at the end of Casino Royale . Here , they get dunk and blow their cover or make gambling errors that can only be described as purely moronic , and the screenplay is more concerned with cheesy relationships between the characters that only distract from what the story is really about . Pearl Harbor had the same problem . We want to see a story about a major historical event , not some idiotic romance between Josh Hartnett and whoever that girl was . Even worse , nothing is told about what happened after they were caught . They won't go to jail because counting cards isn't illegal ( and shouldn't be ) , but the movies ties everything up with so much obviously fabricated nonsense that it's nearly impossible to walk out of the theater without feeling cheated . And in a movie about card-counting and taking Vegas for hundreds of thousands of dollars , it's the casinos who should feel cheated , not the audience .
I agree with Vince Vaughn .	I finally got around to watching Anchorman last night , one of the most popular and , as it turns out , overrated comedies released in 2004 . I was just on vacation for 6 weeks and while I was away I watched lots of classic comedies , from Buster Keaton , the Three Stooges , and a few Shirley Temple shorts , and it seems that contemporary comedies have not learned anything from their ancestors . Buster Keaton remains untarnished in my mind , but the Three Stooges and Shirley Temple have both starred in films that are distantly below their talent level , but which continue to receive praise simply because they are early Three Stooges or Shirley Temple films . As is also the case with some of their films ( such as The Brideless Groom for the Three Stooges and Shirley Temple's awful War Babies , among a few others ) , Anchorman's creative growth seems to have stopped when Will Farrell signed on . Much stock is put into him in the lead role , and none into the content of the movie . There are times when the movie is very funny , but these times are to say the least outweighed by the stupidity in it , which is odd because the character whose role is stupidity is the funniest character in the film ( " Mmmm ! I just burned my tongue ! " ) . Far more amusing than Will Farrell , from whom I have come to expect better than this . I have to say that I long for a comedy without poop jokes . Christina Applegate is wildly miscast as the new Anchorwoman , an oxymoron is anyone at the news team has ever seen one , Veronica Corningstone , a respectable woman except that she occasionally transforms into stupid comedy fodder . We are introduced to a highly professional , well-dressed , intellectual newswoman with goals to become network anchor . Veronica summarily rejects the pitiful , frat-boy come-ons of the all male news team , which is amazing because who could resist something as charming as " I wanna be on you . " Where the movie starts to really go wrong is that her character has no consistency whatsoever . Half the time she is pure professionalism , inspiring her colleagues to refer to her as such things as an " ice queen . " The other half the time she is a breathless , steamy temptress , unable to resist the hairy Ron Burgundy , playing on Christina Applegate's iconography rather than what we have come to know about Veronica Corningstone . Burgundy's colleagues are more interesting than he is , although the tremendous Will Farrell thankfully does give his character some weight , despite an almost paralyzing amount of stupidity festering in the script . Particularly amusing is Brick Tamland , who sometimes forgets his name but knows that someday someone will discover that he has an IQ of 48 . The movie clearly doesn't have a lot to say about the intelligence of news teams , but when it operates as a satire it is amusing . When it turns news teams into street gangs and has them fight each other in alleyways using medieval torture devices as instruments , it's not . You don't need to show people having their arms torn off to have a funny movie , even if it's only to pay homage with the line , " It's getting to be ri-goddam-DICulous ! " The movie makes some interesting points about women entering into the news workforce and the torturous times that the all-male newsteams suffered as a result . That's what the movie satirizes , as you know , and when it sticks to that it's pretty funny . There are probably five or six times during the movie that I laughed out loud and had to rewind a couple of times because it was so funny , but more than half of the movie was so dumb that I was sitting stone-faced for 15-20 minutes at a time . When it comes to comedy movies , I prefer to leave the stone-face-making to Buster Keaton . Vince Vaughn plays a very small part in the film , which is sad because if he had a bigger part ( and a different one , as it were ) the movie could have been a lot better . It is not uncommon for him to carry an entire film , like he did in Old School , Clay Pigeons , Psycho , Made , Swingers , Dodgeball , The Cell , Return to Paradise , etc . He nearly steals this movie and he wasn't even credited , for crying out loud . He is at one point so overcome with rage at being second place in ratings to a team that includes a man who taunts him with such gems as " Where'd you get YOUR suit , the toilet store ? " that he slams his fist against the hood of his van like a rebellious 12-year-old . It's disappointing that his role doesn't really go uphill from there , but his exit from the film is truly telling . His exit from the movie plays out like this : he's talking into the TV camera on location for a news story ( the birth of a panda which , in this movie's plane of existence , has captivated the world ) . When he finishes his line , he throws his microphone to the ground and stalks off with a disgusted look on his face . I don't know why , but I got the feeling that he became Vince Vaughn again . His expression was a moment of clarity realized on the set of this movie , not as his character . I don't know why , but I got the feeling that Vince Vaughn decided he had had enough of this movie and was getting the hell out of there . I tended to agree .
A good effort , but Any Given Sunday just doesn't work	A good effort , but Any Given Sunday just doesn't work . The film is basically a behind-the-scenes look at professional football . You see the bickering and fighting that goes on among the higher powers up in the box office as well as the conflicts between the players themselves . I think that it was a good portrayal of how instant fame can really go to a person's head and cause them to act in ways that they normally wouldn't , but the football element of the film was awful . It was entirely too polished , football just doesn't look like that . This is what you get when you mix the Hollywood formula with the sport of football . Much of the film was so blown out of proportion and exaggerated that it made it ridiculous . For example , you have the party at one of the players ' ridiculously huge house , particularly the fact that Willie Beamen's ( Jamie Foxx ) truck was cut in half with a blowtorch by another player who he happened to have offended . This is just crap . And how about the play near the end of the film where one of the players got hit so hard in a play that his eyeball popped out of his head ? Yes , POPPED OUT OF HIS HEAD . See how funny that sounds ? It's even funnier to see it acted out on screen by a bunch of people who were amazingly able to keep straight faces . Simple logic reveals that a person's head would explode before their eyeball , along with a good length of the optical nerve , would pop out of their head like that . Thank God for Al Pacino , he saved this movie single-handedly , as the aging coach who began to feel like he was slightly out of his league , coaching a team that would not come together , even for someone who DIDN'T feel too old . Cameron Diaz and especially Dennis Quaid , perfectly cast in the role of the aging quarterback , also added pretty good performances to this otherwise failure of a sports film , but I don't think that Any Given Sunday had much of a chance to begin with . It is clearly a vehicle for nearly everyone involved , a genre film slapped together for the sole purpose of making money , regardless of how much garbage has to be thrown in . >
Evidently , legendary action director John Woo wasn't always as legendary as he is known to be today in the U . S .	Hard Boiled is one of Woo's earlier hardcore action films , and it definitely has no shortage of action . While there can be no question about Woo's skill at staging fast paced action scenes , that very element was probably the main thing that brought Hard Boiled down . Aside from the fact that the acting was terrible , even from the great Chow Yun-Fat , the film was awkwardly dubbed into English , so you DVD owners out there may want to just leave the subtitles on . With a traditional action film story ( an effort to stop a gun smuggling operation and hunt down a close one's murderer , grossly outnumbered , of course ) , Hard Boiled is not an entirely uninteresting film ? because the same old story is made to work again by the quality direction , almost single-handedly . The problem here is the gunfights . While they are , in fact , relatively well done , due to John Woo's careful hand at direction , there is just so much mind-numbing machine gun fire and so many nameless people being blown away that , pretty soon , a really terrible thing for the film begins to happen , you just stop caring . Watch this film is you are a big John Woo or Chow Yun-Fat fan , or if you are into mindless action films , but be advised , it pretty hard to be moved by a film that kills dozens and dozens of people ? nearly constantly ? within seconds of introducing them .
Average Cage thriller .	Next is not so much about seeing the future as it is about the paradoxes involved with seeing it . There are so many paradoxes involved in time travel and looking ahead in time that it is amazing that a movie hasn't come along earlier that deals exclusively with them . Unfortunately , the movie has not been as successful as it should have been ( really , do you know even a single person who's not interested in the idea of time travel or looking into the future ? ) , but that's probably mostly because people either love Nicholas Cage or hate him . He's a fine actor , but not exactly box office gold . Cage plays Cris Johnson , a . k . a . Frank Cadillac , a small time Las Vegas magic show performer who pads his shows with his real life ability to see 2 minutes into the future . One night he is cashing out in a casino ( he also pads his income with this ability in the gambling rooms , being careful to keep his winnings small enough to remain unnoticed ) and " sees " that the guy in front of him is about to rob the place and kill two people , so he calls attention to his secret ability by stopping the robbery and then accidentally explaining to the authorities that the guy was about to kill two people . Julianne Moore heads up the FBI's attempt to recruit Johnson's services to help stop the Russians from detonating a nuclear bomb in Los Angeles . The Russians detonating a nuclear bomb in LA ? In 2007 ? If that sounds like a cookie-cutter action / thriller plot , it's because it is . There is a hazy explanation given for why Johnson can see a few minutes into the future , but it's not really important . More importantly , his lack of interest in helping stop the impending catastrophe comes from a deep aversion to attention that he developed as a child due to massive government and medical testing . The stifling love story is introduced in the form of Jessica Biel , who plays the part of an arrogant hottie who casually slaps down Johnson's polite greetings in a local café . Intrigued , as we are , that for some reason he can see further into her future than anyone else's , he is determined to meet her , so he looks into his own future to try out a few different ways to introduce himself to her , until he finds one that works . Soon her jerk boyfriend walks in and gives him a golden opportunity for some heavily scripted heroism . We never learn why he can see further into her future than anywhere else , and it becomes clear that this is purely a plot device used to put the two together . Not exactly a good sign , given how badly messed up their romance is . There's a scene in a hotel room where he woos her with some sweet words and then blows it completely with a stupid magic trick . Nice work , moron ! The movie ends with a special-effects laden action sequence which is both highly contrived and unimpressively , ah , animated . Like so much of the rest of the film , Johnson finds himself in situations that allow him to perform astonishing feats , even for a man who can see two minutes into the future . Given that everything is so convenient for him for the whole movie , there's never any real tension and never any sense that he has really accomplished much . Nicholas Cage has done worse than this , but he's also done a lot better ?
This isn't the east , Chon , it's the west . You should know , you've done this before !	Jackie Chan returns to do yet another east meets west routine , virtually identical to that in Rush Hour , just in a different time period . As far as its story , Shanghai Noon is completely unoriginal , but the laughs are surprisingly abundant , thanks in large part to the crooked-nosed Owen Wilson . Chan and Wilson make an amusing comic duo , and one of the film's strong points is the fact that it takes a tired story and delivers it in an interesting and entertaining way . However , there was also an overabundance of the manipulation of reality that was difficult to overlook . ( possible spoilers ahead ! ! ) For example , Chon Wang's almost immediate acceptance into the Indian tribe , and then the daughter's seemingly effortless divorce of Chan and elopement with Roy O'Bannon . Don't Indians frown on divorce ? I also liked how Roy's newfound Indian love suddenly spoke fluent English at the end of the movie . The character's names removed any possibility of taking this film at all seriously ( particularly Chon Wang and Princess Pei Pei ) , and the exaggerated kung fu fighting on Chan's part trapped this film indefinitely in the category of " Another Jackie Chan Film . " However , it was good for a few laughs , and it is always fun to watch Chan beat up a bunch of villains who ridiculously outnumber him , but I get the feeling that this film may be forgotten even faster than Wild Wild West .
The latest Chris Rock action comedy that apparently doesn't realize that it's a comedy .	Chris Rock stars as a CIA agent and a street hustler , twin brothers separated at birth . When the more successful brother , Kevin ( ironically the one who got his act together and made a life for himself , yet also the one who got himself killed ) is shot escaping a touchy sting operation in which he and his team try to buy a stolen nuclear weapon with cyber money that doesn't exist in real life , the CIA are faced with abandoning a 2 year project and risking themselves because their new enemies are going to want to know what happened to their deal or seeking out Kevin's twin brother Jake , who makes a living whipping the crap out of unsuspecting chess players in Central Park and selling scalped tickets to just about any event you can imagine . At this point in the film , it's clear that the premise is a remarkably strong one for an action comedy - the irony of having a street hustler suddenly thrown into a top secret CIA operation . And when you throw in Chris Rock as the hustler and Anthony Hopkins as his new mentor , it seems that you simply can't go wrong . Unfortunately , the movie seems to lose track of the fact that it is a comedy , and in more ways that just forgetting to throw in some good one-liners . Bad Company was made and scheduled to be released before September 11th , but was then delayed for obvious reasons ( similar to the obvious reasons that delayed the release of the much more incendiary Collateral Damage , given its subject matter ) . Because the movie was written before the attacks , the writers can't have been expected to have known what bad taste it was to center the plot on a stolen nuclear device that was meant to level a major city on the eat coast . I don't hold that against it because of the attacks , but only because it is such a tired premise . When are we going to see some good action movies that are about something other than one guy who has to save a whole city from terrorists with big bombs ? There are points in the movie where it seems that the writers stopped and said , ' Oh wait , this is supposed to be a comedy , ' and threw in a few completely unamusing jokes here and there , mostly in the form of totally inappropriate one-liners from Rock that almost invariably fall completely flat . He and Hopkins do , however , have a bit of chemistry onscreen , but it is mostly wasted . This is a flashy Bruckheimer production , obviously , but it is one of the least interesting action films that Bruckheimer has turned out in years . Granted , most of his productions are cheesy crap , but this one even manages to be boring despite itself . I watched Bad Company right after watching Men in Black II , and so was already prepared for disappointment , but I found myself trying to figure out why exactly the movie is called Bad Company . Surely it can't be because the CIA is forced to employ someone literally off the street , because he turns out to be remarkably bright and much more capable than they had anticipated . Then at the end of the movie , just as the bad guy is about to get killed , he says something about how we Americans think we're so great but we just sit here while people all over the world suffer and die , and we just watch it on our televisions and grab another burger . This is , of course , disturbingly true , and it is not a small part of the reason that four airplane were hijacked in late 2001 . It's something that Americans love to ignore so that we can pretend we're victims . The victims on September 11th were the people in the buildings and the people in the planes and al of their families , the country itself was not . Does ' Bad Company , ' then , refer to the company that the rest of the world is in , being in the company of America ? It seems that the message that this film leaves resonating in your mind at the end is about what a selfish and greedy country America is , and how capable we are to ignore the suffering of the rest of the world as long as we have our fancy cars and our money and our heart disease instead of starvation . In this case , I guess Bad Company's not such a bad movie after all . It certainly gives a pretty potent wake up call at the end , but one that will probably be largely ignored along with the rest of the film . Ah well .
Good clean cannibal fun !	Last Cannibal World claims to be a true story about a stone-age cannibal tribe living on the Malaysian island of Mindanao who captures a ' modern ' man named Robert Haper , who crash lands on the island . It seems that there is an oil mining crew camping out in the jungle while they search for drilling sites , and when a team flies in to check on them , the plane is damaged during landing and the drill team turns up missing . The pilot is sure he can fix the plane ( " If I can find the wheel it shouldn't be too hard to put it back again ! " ) , but won't fly until the following day , since it was getting dark . Before long , of course , the group ends up separated and being pursued by cannibals through the jungle , and then the movie becomes a strange mix of gruesome horror and a twisted look at the animal side of humans . Of course , cannibalism is not politically correct , so the cannibal tribe is presented as more like animals than humans , with the grunting and the throwing food at each other and the spontaneous copulation . These are evolutionary drop-outs if ever there were any , but the movie doesn't know where to stop in presenting their backwardness . Even the simplest animals have some instincts , particularly about things like eating and self-preservation , but not these people . One of the women tries to eat Harper's wristwatch , I suppose not possessing the basic abilities to distinguish between food items and non-food items , and for a tribe that has been living presumably for centuries or more in an alligator infested jungle , they sure spend a lot of time swimming and getting eaten or almost eaten by alligators . A woman gives birth by the riverside and , after detaching the umbilical cord with her teeth ( and after an extreme close-up to make sure we know the baby is a girl ? I didn't need that ? ) , she goes for a nice little swim and gets immediately eaten along with her new baby . Smart . Gore fans should be happy , there is sufficient disturbing gore in the movie , although most of the effects ( such as the decomposed head in the beginning ) are pretty weak , as is the editing . But there is lots of grotesque feeding scenes which include lots of filthy savages stuffing flesh in their mouths with lots of nasty sucking sounds and twitching meat . Nice ! Some of the movie doesn't make much sense , like the way they tie up one of the natives and put carnivorous ants on his arms , which slowly eat him while he screams his head off . It's one of the more disturbing scenes in the movie with all that screaming , but why would they do that ? I thought it must be a sacrifice , but what kind of tribe sacrifices their own people rather than animals ? And who is he being sacrificed to ? The Ant God ? Even if he was being punished , for a cannibal tribe to feed a man to ants seems like a waste of food , doesn't it ? Harper spends a good part of the movie trapped in a cage , although I missed the reason for that too . They couldn't have been fattening him up to eat him because that would also be a huge waste of food . Maybe they were saving him for a special occasion . At any rate , they put in this bizarre looking bird with him , and it's strange that when Harper kills it , its squawking instantly stops and gives the scene a genuine finality of death that is more realistic than anything else in the movie . At least until it starts squawking again . There are two directions that the movie could go once a " sympathetic " jungle woman begins helping Harper ? it could have Harper try to lift the woman out of the barbaric world in which she lives , or he could descend into barbarism himself . The most interesting thing that the movie does is that it goes in both directions , and actually does it pretty well . It's a pretty sharp indictment of Harper ( especially if this really is a true story ) , given that , even after saving her from being sexually assaulted by another native , he rapes her himself . And he didn't just force himself on her , her beat her and then raped her . Are we still supposed to accept him as a protagonist ? After this , it may be a little strange to see that she basically becomes his loving cave-wife , bringing him food and cleaning and caring for him , until you remember that these are savages and I guess this is just how women expect to be treated . And Harper is happy , of course , given that he has found himself a beautiful island wife , and with obviously man-made breasts , no less . There is a weak attempt at symbolism during Harper's brief descent to his most primal instincts , and then soon he meets up with another man from the plane , who laments that no matter how much mud he smears into a badly infected wound on his knee , it never gets better . He must not have been paying much attention in his Wilderness Survival class . All in all I guess the movie is as satisfying as a cannibal movie can be . At least you know what to expect , though . I think any movie with the word " cannibal " in the title is going to be pretty much like this . It's bad but it's a fun and disgusting kind of bad , the thing you can watch with your buddies over a few beers and have a few good laughs !
I'll grant that it's a work of art , but certainly not for everyone .	When I looked up this movie on the IMDb the first thing I saw was a review by someone praising Triplets of Belleville as a work of art , which it undoubtedly is . On the other hand , the same review called it captivating , which it's not . At all . I recently returned from being on vacation for 6 weeks , during which time I watched countless movies and yet was itching to get home to where I had movie passes at Hollywood and Blockbuster . During my entire vacation my girlfriend was constantly trying to get me to watch Triplets of Belleville , and I was wildly uninterested just because I'm not a huge fan of animated movies , for the most part , and just the look of the animation made it look not very interesting to me . Not a very good reason for not being interested in a movie , by judging it by its cover , but it turns out that I was right . I think Triplets is an interesting accomplishment in that it tries something different ( or at least far less commonplace ) by telling its entire story without a single line of dialogue other than what is occasionally sung in songs . The story concerns a grandmother who's son has been kidnapped during the Tour de France , along with a couple of other cyclists who did not make it through the race , and she and her dog Bruno set off for America to rescue him . The film garnered a couple of Academy Award nominations , such as Best Animated Feature ( a futile nomination , as it was nominated alongside Finding Nemo , and we all know that artistry is no match for popularity in the Oscars ) and Best Song for the routine that the Triplets perform in the film , which is one of the few elements that I found to be pretty charming . I guess I shouldn't say that , because the movie does have a lot of charm , but it's shrouded in what is often obscure artistry that I found a bit confusing and not very entertaining , which is even more odd since I'm something of an amateur marathon cyclist myself . I understand if you think I'm shallow , I certainly thought that people who called the animated short film Bunny ( included on the Ice Age DVD ) shallow or confusing astounded me to no end , but when I was watching Triplets I was reminded of those odd cartoons that come on TV late at night . Triplets of Belleville would have been a perfect show to show on adult swim , which we can thank for such hilarious cartoons as Aquateen Hungerforce and Family Guy , but as a full length feature film I found it to be stretched a bit thin .
" This Film Is Dedicated to the Gallant People of Afghanistan " - ' Rambo III ' Review . . .	In preparing to watch the latest installment of the Rambo series , I've gone back and re - watched all of the original three films , which I hadn't seen in probably 15 years . Unfortunately , they are so uniformly bad that it has taken me now over a year to get through the three of them . I finished watching part III today and , like the two films before it , it was a notably underwhelming cinematic experience . By this point in the series , the Rambo formula is worked out in every detail . Rambo just wants to be left alone but then gets sucked into some brutally violent situation which , again , he has to take care of all on his own . He doesn't really play well with others , you see . Just as we found him languishing in a prison labor camp at the beginning of the second movie , Rambo is now living the dubious life of a monk in Thailand who takes breaks from the monastery to head into Bangkok and make some extra money in the stick-fighting competitions , which he promptly turns over to the monks to help build the monastery . He likes the feeling of belonging that he gets from living among the monks and doesn't want to be a soldier anymore . Needless to say , when the guys with the stripes on their shoulders approach and ask for his help , he's uninterested until a mission goes forward in Afghanistan and results in the good guy from the second movie getting taken prisoner , the first American ever taken prisoner in Afghanistan . And here , just like the last movie , is where everything starts to fall apart . The first American ever captured in Afghanistan is not an enviable position , to be sure , so it's easy to understand why Rambo would make such a sudden change of heart . What is unfortunately missing is the entire rest of the American military . I'm curious about how the real members of the United States military responded to the movie , which portrays them as either helpless or completely absent . It may be , perhaps , that the mission is thought to be a lost cause or not worth the risk , so sending Rambo in must , of course , be done " unofficially . " If Rambo is caught , he is told prior to embarking on the mission , the military will deny all knowledge of his existence , which prompts Rambo to sneer and say he's used to such treatment , and then do that thing where he ties his headband on all dramatically . At any rate , it's no surprise when Rambo insists that he has to do everything on his own . If you saw the level of sheer camp that the second movie reached then you know something of what to expect here , although it should be said that Rambo III is certainly better than First Blood Part II , which is undeniably the worst film of the already unimpressive series . It is definitely interesting , however , to watch the way the Afghani people are portrayed in the movie . Rambo enters Afghanistan alone and has to make his way to where the prisoner is being kept with only a single in-country contact , who tells him all about the cultural realities on the ground for the Afghani people . Alexander the Great tried and failed to conquer the Afghans , then the British , then the Americans , and they all failed . He explains to Rambo and ancient battle prayer written by a long-since defeated enemy - " May God deliver us from the venom of the cobra , the teeth of the tiger , and the vengeance of the Afghan . " The relationship between America and Afghanistan has changed drastically over the years , and not in a good way . In fact , given that we're at war in Afghanistan right now , this movie appears strangely prophetic . If George W . Bush had re-watched Rambo III somewhere around early 2003 , it would not be a stretch to think that the situation in the middle east might be drastically different right now . " Every day your war machines lose ground to a bunch of poorly armed , poorly equipped freedom fighters . The fact is you underestimated your competition . If you'd studied your history you would know that these people have never given up to anyone . They'd rather die than be slaves to an invading army . You can't defeat a people like that ! " Believe it or not , this is not a scathing criticism of America's current war in Afghanistan , it's a scathing criticism by the American prisoner of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in the movie . It is one of the movie's strangest qualities that it pitts the Americans and the Afghans as allies against the cartoonishly villainous Soviets , who come in the form of wild-eyed lunatics at the controls of attack helicopters that buzz small villages laying waste unprovoked to whole populations of peaceful civilians . They are not just an invading force , they are airborne murderers that bombs women and children and disguise bombs as toys to trick unsuspecting children . With such enemies , it is understandable when one character ominously says , " God would have mercy , Rambo won't . . . " as Rambo sets off on his preposterous one-man mission of vengeance against the invading Soviets . It's interesting that the movie makes so much of how the Afghans have never given in to any invading force in their long history , and yet now they need Rambo to come in and save them from the Russians , but no matter . The movie was made to give the world another dose of outlandish Rambo-style retribution directed at the evil forces that be , and that's what it delivers . It's just too bad that Rambo-style retribution is generally so head-smackingly dumb .
In The Valley of Elah Part 2 ?	Remember that movie In The Valley of Elah ? It was the movie that Tommy Lee Jones starred in before this one . Yeah , this is exactly the same movie . I've been a huge fan of Jones ever since he first came to my attention in Under Siege , but come on man , time to branch out a little bit , you know ? On the other hand , In The Valley of Elah , which is just as disappointing as In the Electric Mist ( but doesn't have nearly as bizarre a title ) , was released the same year that Jones appeared in No Country For Old Men , so I guess the man deserves some credit . But I'm still getting over The Missing and The Hunted . Yawn ! This time , Jones plays Dave Robicheaux , an alcoholic who is a regular at the bars , where he orders drinks that he never drinks . He's a detective in the deep south , and one day he spots an Italian sports car speeding through the sleepy streets of their town . When he pulls it over , he finds it's being driven by Elrod Sykes ( Peter Saarsgard ) , a local boy who has become a movie star but is now drag racing through his town drunk out of his mind . Dave sidesteps the expected bribes and goes to run him in like he should , but changes his mind when Sykes tells him he knows where a dead body is . Before you go thinking about Stand By Me , the most famous " I know where there's a dead body " movie ever made , this one goes in a completely different direction . The body is the result of a decades-old hate crime , where a bunch of racists had chained a black man and then shot him while he ran through the swamps for his life . Dave , a 17-year-old boy at the time , actually witnessed the crime from across the swamp but never figured out who the killers were . Now , the location of the body has been revealed and it has become his life's mission to bring the killers to justice . Complicating the movie more than necessary is a simultaneous investigation that Dave is running about the murder of a blonde prostitute and , worst of all , some truly bizarre run-ins with the Civil War generals out in the woods . There is suggestion that it is just a local group of dedicated fanatics in the middle of a Civil War re-enactment , but at times it seems more like an LSD flashback than anything else . Ultimately the movie is nothing but a tedious wait to see some racist dirtbags get what they deserve for a vicious hate crime that happened decades earlier . There is a brief approach of the difficult subject of forgiving someone for a past crime when they have made genuine change , although the change portrayed in the movie is not genuine so the idea is dropped pretty quick . There is always a feeling that the movie is about to take off but it just never does , and when the end credits start to roll there's a distinct feeling that you may have just wasted a bunch of time . I should mention that the movie is based on a book called " In the Electric Mist with Confederate Dead , " which I haven't read , and I understand that some fans of the book are pretty impressed with the film adaptation , so there may be something more to be said about the movie than I give it credit for here . But as an unprepared moviegoer , there definitely seems to be something missing here . None of the performances are disappointing and the location where the movie was shot is undeniably beautiful , but it just seemed to me that nothing materialized along the way ?
Just about as corky as you would expect .	Corky Romano is obviously a vehicle for the absurd comedic talents of Chris Kattan , but it's good to see that he is able to slow down and be serious when the content of the story calls for at least a tiny bit of seriousness . It's odd that a movie like this , that is clearly made to be goofy and stupid , still manages to be not nearly as bad as something like Mickey Blue Eyes , which similarly dealt with someone trying desperately but in vain to fit in with a Hollywood-style Italian crime family . As is to be expected in a comedy like this , the characters are skewed just enough to make them weird and goofy , like the one brother who is manly and violent but latently homosexual , or the other one who has become a full-grown man without his own father ever realizing that he never learned to read . Evidently there is a huge case against the father of the family , although he is only guilty of the lesser crimes like money laundering and whatnot , not the murder that he is being charged with . In order to destroy the evidence that they have against him , they need someone to get a job on the inside , get into the evidence room , and destroy the evidence against him . Since they can't have someone do it that the feds would recognize ( and also since , obviously , they can't trust someone outside the family ) , they have to have their somewhat estranged brother Corky , the black sheep of the family , do the job . Or maybe ' the yellow canary ' would be a more apt description of him . Or maybe something pink . A pink canary in a whole family of black sheep . Corky accepts the task out of respect for his father , despite the fact that he has not been a very big part of Corky's life , but he grows cautious when he finds out how serious the charges are . Corky's antics while he is working for the FBI are some of the least convincing things that I've ever seen in a movie , it's almost insulting that we're asked to believe that someone who behaves like he does would acquire so many fans within the Bureau almost immediately . There are a couple guys who work with Corky who are so enamored with him and look up to him so much because of his accidental successes that they are more like cheerleaders than FBI agents . Some of the slapstick scenes are miserable failures , but at least it's easy to see why they were expected to work . There's a scene where Corky has a tug of war with a dog that's trying to get a package of cocaine away from him . It ends up exploding and getting all over both of them , and the ensuing madness is expected to be funny , but it's the worst kind of comedy - it's funny until you stop for a second to think about what you're laughing at . Charlie Chaplin did this exact same scene with spectacular success in Modern Times in 1936 , so it's almost sad to see it redone so badly here . Matthew Glave pops into view again after giving a spectacular performance of a spectacular jerk in The Wedding Singer to play another spectacular jerk in Corky Romano as the rival FBI agent who is sure that there is something up with this new guy that doesn't quite fit . He is constantly thwarted in his efforts to expose Corky and then immediately begins to act like a high school kid not getting what he wants ( ' Aww come on ! ! ' ) . I would say that this is just another goofy SNL movie except that there have certainly been some good SNL movies . Corky Romano is , however , nothing more than you would expect from the previews . It is a series of scenes involving the overacting of Chris Kattan , which just leaves you hungry for less .
Kids has a healthy message , but the method of delivery is extremely uncomfortable .	The inner city is one of the worst places in the country to spend your formative years , and the makers of Kids add a bit of crime and self-destructive behavior to that in order to show some of the dangers of this type of lifestyle . Yes , the film has strong messages about drugs , AIDS , violence , and crime , among others , but it is so negatively overdone that the positive side of the film is almost cancelled out . There is so much that you have to look past before you can derive anything good from this movie that it is almost not worth watching . The acting , however , was strikingly convincing , but probably because not much actual acting is called for for a movie like this . I realize that violence is a part of life , especially in downtown New York City , but the violence as well as the excessive partying scenes and the gruesome sex was drawn out much more than necessary , and this took a lot away from the film . It's almost as though the movie resorts to this kind of thing to keep the audiences attention , when in fact it did the opposite . While not a completely worthless film , Kids just has so few redeeming values that it is hardly worth the time to watch it . I've always thought that the closer films are to reality , the better they are , but the thing that really ruined Kids was that it focused so hard on the drugs and the sex and the violent elements of reality , while virtually ignoring every other part of these kids ' lives . A message like that does not need to be so hard to swallow in order to be effective .
Little Man Tate disappears in jungle for 26 years , comes back as Robin Williams ? .	It's interesting to transport yourself back to late 1995 when Jumanji was released into theaters . The movie-going public was still waiting eagerly for another stupendous family adventure to follow Jurassic Park , which blew away audiences of all ages despite some grisly scenes . The badly disappointing Congo had been released earlier in the year but younger audiences were recently charmed by the animated adventures of Pocahontas , while more mature audiences were considering the implications of Outbreak and reminiscing with the brilliant re-creation of the 1960s in Apollo 13 . Teenage audiences ( which included myself ) were mostly still running around the high schools quoting Clueless or ranting and raving about the ( now primitive ) technological wonders of The Net , although in my own circle of friends we were more interested in the techno - criminals in Hackers , the pure , unfiltered awesomeness of Seven and that amazing blonde who got naked in Species . Oh , and I was ditching school on an almost daily basis with one of the owners of this very website and sneaking over to Fashion Island and watching Ace Ventura over and over . Sadly , Jumanji was a definite step backwards in almost all adventure movie departments . The special effects more than anything else are a conspicuous regression , but the biggest problem is that the effects sequences themselves are so disjointed from the rest of the movie . It all starts with a quick sequence taking place in 1869 where two kids bury a magical board game called Jumanji in a wooden chest in the woods . This is about the extent of our knowledge of the game , by the way . There is a whole other movie that takes place before this one begins , without which Jumanji is left with a gaping plot hole . But no matter , the important thing is that this is a board game is so hellacious and fearsome that the kids fear for the soul of anyone who happens to dig it up in the future . No word on why they didn't just burn it . Cut to 1969 , where a young boy named Alan Parrish happens upon the chest at the site where his father is overseeing the construction of his shoe factory . He takes it home and plays a game with his friend Sarah . The game pieces snap into position without being touched and move themselves once the dice are rolled , but even more amazing are the physical manifestations of dangerous safari creatures and other mayhem conjured up by the game . After Alan and Sarah have each taken a turn ( Alan's even accidentally ) , Alas has been sucked off into Jumanji , wherever that is , and Sarah has taken off down the street , pursued by a squeaking mass of bats . Then we jump ahead again , this time 26 years into the future to the modern day ( 1995 ) . The house has been empty for years and a new family move in . The two kids , Judy ( a young Kirsten Dunst ) and Peter find the game and begin to play , opening the door to Jumanji and bringing back things like lions and monkeys and Alan Parrish , now a grown , hairy man without the benefit of any human contact for the vast majority of his life . It turns out that the only way to stop the black magic of the game is to get to the end and say " Jumanji . " And since Alan and Sarah were in the middle of an unfinished game for all of those years , they are now in the middle of a four-person game with Judy and Peter and they must all take their respective turns until someone makes it to the end . Sarah , of course , has suffered a life of diminished credibility ever since she claimed that Alan disappeared into a board game when she was a child . So much for the truth setting you free ! The movie is structured as a series of special effects sequences involving whatever dangerous manifestation results from each person's turn rolling the dice . They all scramble frantically in the face of new dangers every ten or fifteen minutes or so , then the dangers disappear neatly for the next person to take their turn , and so on until the end of the movie . It's not exactly the most imaginative structuring going on here , but I will admit that the ending has a little twist that , while it includes one of the cheapest happy Hollywood copout moves in movies ( they also pulled the same thing in Click ) , I would be lying if I said it wasn't at least a little heartwarming . Unfortunately , a lot of the movie is geared toward kids around 10 years old , the same age as the kids in the movie , but it also contains some imagery and some situations that kids that age would find much too frightening or intense . There is a scene involving giant spiders that admittedly look like nothing other than big plastic spider-puppets but that is still just as creepy as anything in Arachnophobia . So beware if you have a fear of creepy crawlies ! I would be lying if I said the movie wasn't at all fun or entertaining . The story is told in an unconventional way , but it's also true that it's an unconventional story , which at least makes it a little more interesting . But in retrospect it's a little hard to get over how perfectly everything is arranged as a setup for the ending . The relationships between Alan and Sarah and between the two of them and the other two kids who , needless to say , are orphans , will seem a little too perfect for some people . The characters are not uninteresting and the performances are satisfactory , but unfortunately they all take second billing to an ambitious special effects team that doesn't seem to know when their half-baked digital creations are helping to drive the movie along and when they're just swallowing everything else up .
I think I liked it better when Jason was just plain old Jason .	Sure , the whole Evil Can't Be Killed thing has been a dead horse for decades , but turning the Friday the 13th series in this completely different direction took something away from the movie for me . Sure , it gave the story a lot more possibilities and opened up nearly endless different routes that it could have taken , but it is barely a Friday the 13th film , and while the vast majority of them have been disastrously bad , I still get this weird feeling of loss to see that this one has been changed so much . It's the Hellraiser Inferno of the Friday the 13th series . That being said , it follows that the story structure is by far the best part of the movie . The performances are pathetic throughout , and strangely enough , there are some stomach-turningly convincing murder scenes , yet at the same time there are some scenes where the make-up is nothing short of laughable . Consider when Jason takes the body of the TV producer or whoever that guy was . Once he's in that body , the guy's make-up is exactly the same as the terrible make-up in 70s and 80s zombie movies . It reminded me of the hilarious blue-face make-up that they used in the original Dawn of the Dead . Classic horror or not ( I say not ) , the make-up was ludicrous . It's odd that the movie starts off so differently , with Jason being killed in the first few minutes of the film , and it continues to go down a different path but doesn't really do anything different as a slasher movie . I guess it's interesting to see what the true evil was behind Jason's relentlessness and imperviousness to damage , but on the other hand it isn't really necessary to the movie or the series . Evil Never Dies . It's a cliché but it's enough , really , in this case . We don't need some deep existential meaning imposed on the Jason Voorhees monster , he's a movie monster and not really anything more . It comes off as a little goofy to impose some supernatural definition onto his character , although I like that the film at least tries to acknowledge the fact that Jason turned into an unstoppable killer with really no explanation other than the fact that he just kept getting back up . Indeed , much of the movie revolves around making fun of typical horror movie stereotypes , even stereotypes specific to the Friday the 13th movies , such as the old go up to the lake , have some premarital sex , and get slaughtered . I rather enjoy it when movies have the nerve to poke fun at themselves like that , it's almost like seeing old characters return , like Nancy did in the Nightmare on Elm Street series . And seeing old characters , as Stephen King notes in Bag of Bones , can be like seeing family again . So it was nice to see that the movie was grounded in reality enough to note that it is preceded by a lot of the same movie over and over again . In just about every Friday the 13th movie up to this point , a lot of kids go up to the lake to make out , Jason shows up and gets all stabby and then eventually gets dubiously killed . In this installment that's also exactly what happens , except here it's not Jason doing the killing . Well , it kind of is . But really it isn't . In fact , was it ever ?
Chaplin tries directing .	In Chaplin's first film as director , he doesn't come flying out of the gates , instantly showing that he will go on to be a great filmmaker . 20 Minutes of Love is not much different from the films that he made in the months before or after , although it is interesting to see one of the first of his mostly improvised films made in a park with some couples and a police officer and little else . Like so many of his other comedies this one turns into little more than a lot of kicking and punching and throwing the entire cast into a lake , but given the amount of short films almost identical to this one that Chaplin cranked out , it is clear that the audiences at the time were having a blast . The plot itself is even more difficult to follow than they usually are in Chaplin's early work . It involves Charlie wandering around a park and making ridiculously overt passes at women who are sitting on park benches with their boyfriends or husbands , and then there is a stolen watch thrown into the mix and a subsequent conflict involving who owns it and who stole it . Probably the best moment in the film is when Charlie gives the watch away to a pretty girl and then is so proud that he is just beside himself . Pretty amusing , and a lot of the Tramp's characterization also comes through even in this very early film . It should be noted that you should not expect to find tiny , forgotten gems of masterpiece comedy by looking at Chaplin's early work , because film was an emerging medium and Chaplin himself was an inexperienced filmmaker from any perspective , but unfortunately 20 Minutes of Love , even though it is Chaplin's first film as director and therefore a film-making landmark , is also clearly the work of someone who had little experience in film-making and was still not sure where his career as a filmmaker would take him .
A strangely disappointing adaptation of a Michael Crichton novel that comes off to a smashing good start but very quickly approaches a precipitous downhill .	Sphere is a science fiction film that starts off with a tremendously fascinating story and ignores all of the possibilities that it entails . Four people ( you know the drill ? a psychologist ( Dustin Hoffman ) , a mathematician ( Samuel L . Jackson ) , a biochemist ( Sharon Stone ) and an astrophysicist ( Liev Schreiber ) ) are flown out to the middle of the ocean on a top-secret missions ( even they don't know where they're going ) . We would be just as confused as they were about the details of their mission if we had never seen the previews , but even though we already know what they're going to find out there , it's just as interesting to learn about the details of this ship that has been found on the bottom of the ocean , and that appears to have been sitting there for 300 years ( well , okay , 288 ) . The story keeps getting better and better as we learn that there is a hum coming from the ship , indicating that there is still something running inside it , and then even more fascinating revelations once we are taken inside the ship . There can be no doubt that Sphere contains some truly interesting and entertaining elements , and that things like the acting are just as superb as we would expect from such a spectacular cast , but as the movie progresses , we begin to realize how little the film is going to reveal . I can't say that I wasn't completely enraptured for at the least the first hour of the film , but there were just as many bitterly disappointing things about it as there were good things . Dustin Hoffman and Samuel L . Jackson , in particular , delivered absolutely brilliant performances in this film , delivering some of the best entertainment in the entire film by themselves . There is a mildly interesting but completely unconvincing ex-romantic tension between Sharon Stone's character , Dr . Beth Halperin , and Dustin Hoffman's character , Dr . Norman Goodman , that is there for little other reason than to complicate the lives of the characters as they try to solve the mystery of this undersea ship . ( spoilers ) It's really too bad that the movie completely falls on its face in the second half , because the first half of the film is excellent and undeniably entertaining . There's nothing like a bit of time travel and the suggestion of extraterrestrial life to keep you entertained , and it is definitely a great scene when we find out that the ship is a human ship . This is one of the many things in the film that really makes you think . The thing that makes a great film is that it inspires thought . This is probably the one thing that all of the great films have in common with each other . There are surely a lot of things about Sphere that really make you think , which is another reason that the first half of the film is so good . We see that it's a human ship , which opens a whole new area of possibilities for the film . Harry ( Samuel L . Jackson ) speculates on the fact that the last entry in the ship's log is an entry into an ' Unknown entry event , ' indicating that they will never reach the surface to reveal what they've found . There is also a possibly over-extensive excursion into the realm of the psychological element in the film , as the characters are all made to face their fears , some of which are not just your average fears , such as Harry's strange fear of finishing 20 , 000 Leagues Under The Sea . The special effects are definitely nothing to brag about , but there are some interesting scenes that take place in the deep ocean , such as the death of Teeny Fletcher ( hey , she's black , she had it coming , right ? ) in the midst of a mass of strange sea creatures , as well as the scene with the thousands of squid eggs . Weird looking things , I've wondered since I saw the film what kind of props they used for that scene . The conversation with ' Jerry ' is unfittingly childish , but there is definitely a significant element of tension introduced when Jerry gets mad , as well as the scene where Norman contemplated the implications of Jerry's expression of emotions , indicating his ability to get mad . There are undeniably a lot of interesting things about Sphere , and it surely has the power to entertain , but it goes off the track later in the film , maybe because it tried to answer too many of its questions . There are some unanswerable things in the film , and the movie deals with them by having the characters have a weakly-written discussion about their fears and questions , and their ultimate decision to ' forget ' what they know using the power that they seem to have gained from the sphere . While this answers the question of how it could have been an unknown entry event when they all made it to the surface , it's probably the weakest ending that the film could possibly have had . As a strange twist on the science fiction genre , Sphere succeeds , although only in the first half . Like Hollow Man , Sphere could have and should have been a much better film . The unfortunate fact about the film is that it contains a lot of very interesting and very entertaining things that are surely worth watching , but the disappointing ending almost makes them not even worth seeing .
Uninspired emotional drama gets totally lost in the second half ?	I have heard that Passengers received little marketing effort because the studio didn't want it to overshadow Anne Hathaway's other 2008 film , the highly depressing Rachel Getting Married . I can only imagine that they would do this because they didn't want her outstanding performance in that film to be juxtaposed with her performance in this one , where she is wildly , horrifically miscast . She is definitely a talented actress , but like it or not , she is just not an adult actress yet , and to cast her in a role as a grief counselor with , ladies and gentlemen , two Master's degrees and a freaking Ph . D is an action of such vacuous logic that I can only imagine it was a blind stab at catapulting her into a mature role that she simply isn't ready for yet . And it doesn't help matters that the first half of the movie is an emotional drama laden with every post-traumatic movie cliché imaginable , and the second half is almost entirely incomprehensible . It's one of those things where after the movie ends you can tell what they were trying to do , but you find yourself trying to figure out how they went so wrong rather than trying to piece together a complex storyline . Anne Hathaway plays Claire Summers , a grief counselor assigned to the task of single - handedly providing group therapy to an entire plane full of crash survivors . I'm immediately lost as soon as the therapy sessions begin , because Claire begins right off the bat by interrogating the survivors about the crash as though they are suspects in a crime . Do grief counselors really force trauma victims to relive their traumatic events in such detail ? Even when they so clearly don't want to ? Seems a little counter-productive to me . At any rate , she soon meets Eric , one of the crash survivors who is " feeling a little too good . " She walks into his hospital room where she finds him naked as the day he was born with an ear to ear grin , and he continues this behavior for much of the rest of the movie , charming his way into Claire's personal life through his clear and deep love of life that seems to be unique to people who have recently been reminded how fragile it all is . The movie begins with a subplot that suggests that the airline is trying to cover up the accident , which Claire begins to believe was the result of shoddy maintenance ( which , if revealed to the public , could easily put the airline out of business ) , by blaming it on the pilot . Shady characters show up in the bushes watching Claire's therapy sessions , and she is confronted by ominous businessmen who warn her not to get too involved with the stories she's hearing from her patients , who seem to remember a mid-flight explosion , which doesn't really go along with the sleepy-pilot story that the airline was pushing . The relationship between Claire and Eric is the most important thing in the movie . It evolves from a therapist / patient relationship ( although Eric continuously insists that he's not a patient ) to a romantic one until the third act of the film , which is a bizarre attempt at a Sixth Sense-style twist that totally cancels out everything that we have seen so far . Don't be surprised if you spend most of the last 30 minutes of the movie trying to figure out what you saw in the first hour that you can actually believe . It's a noble effort to throw a little mystery into the mix , but the new direction that the story takes at the end doesn't really fit too well with what we've seen so far . The movie simply jolts us out of the story and asks us to go along with it . Unfortunately , despite some good performances , Claire and Eric have absolutely no chemistry . He seems like a guy in his mid-thirties hooking up with a high school girl , and their love scene might be the most thoroughly stale and generic one that I've seen in a movie in years . He moves in for a kiss , she relents , and then we cut to a close-up of her pillow as her head moves on screen , slowly laying down and looking into Eric's loving eyes . YAWN . There is also the matter of Eric's painting . He has always wanted to paint but has always been afraid to ( ? ? ) , but thankfully the crash has made him brave enough to pick up a brush . I'm all for adding a little dimension to characters , but I just can't get behind scenes like the one where he is showing Claire his newfound love of painting , and then experiences a flood of emotion which he deals with by frantically flinging that brush across the canvas with all his might until he finally dissolves into a tearful breakdown . I'm going to go ahead and suggest that no one in film history has ever made a scene like this work . If you've seen one , please let me know , I would love to see a reason why people keep filming them . Fans of the film will have a blast trying to reconstruct the events of the ending , but personally I just never was able to generate enough interest in the movie to invest the effort into deciphering the twists and turns , who's alive , who's dead , and why people know what they know and who they know at different times throughout the movie . It does have a lot to say about death , but unfortunately it doesn't say anything new or interesting and it even proves to be a huge amount of to discover the tired message . If the movie is going to be so disappointing , they could at least have made it mildly exciting , like Turbulence ?
" Jack already kicked a bunch of asses ! "	It was with some trepidation that I watched Clementine the other day , because I had heard nothing but a relentless stream of terrible things about it . I was surprised to see that it's a Korean film in every way , given Seagal's background in Japanese martial arts and the fact that he speaks fluent Japanese . But make no mistake , Clementine is not a Seagal movie , it's an action comedy that's heavy on the comedy ( and cheap drama , for some reason ) and light on the action . The only problem is that the comedy is spotty at best and Seagal's presence on the cover box serves only to make us wonder where he is for the whole movie . The story is about Kim , a fallen Korean Taekwon-do champion who leaves his country when a bad referee call costs him the championship title . He moves to Los Angeles and becomes a cop and never goes back to Korea , although he must live in Korea tow because he and he speaks nothing but Korean , as do his colleagues and his daughter . Having lost his fighting career , he decides to concentrate on a career in law enforcement and taking care of his daughter . A fight promoter is trying to get him back in the ring but Kim doesn't want to get back into fighting . Kim's daughter is impossibly cute and takes after her father . When Kim gets called in to talk to the principal because his daughter beat up some kid that was teasing her , Kim scowls at the kid and says , " Well you got what you deserved , didn't you ! " Unfortunately , there is a stupid sub-plot involving the girl's mother that serves to do nothing but make a light - hearted , half-witted comedy pretty thoroughly depressing . The little girl who plays Kin's daughter has some great scenes , but it seems like she was just screaming and crying for about the last 30 minutes or so of the film . Oh and remember that huge black guy in Underworld ? The one that did that weird thing where he's trying to make his voice so deep that it just calls attention to his crappy acting ? That guy is in this movie , and he's still doing that stupid thing with his voice . Maybe someone forgot to tell him that he's not in a vampire movie anymore . But it's pretty much in tune with the rest of the awful acting in the movie , although Dong-jung Lee , who plays the main character , does have some pretty funny moments , especially in the first half of the film , which is the best part of the movie and I would argue that it's even pretty entertaining and fun . It's revealing about the rest of the movie that the formidable talent of Seagal himself is completely wasted . He has nothing to do in the entire movie except do what he does worst in all his other movies ? show up at the end and make some goofy speech and then wander off screen in slow motion . Yawn . But this is not a Seagal movie , it's a Korean martial arts comedy where he makes a brief appearance at the end , in one of the film's only English scenes . If they had kept up the almost family comedy sitcom story of the first half of the movie it could have been fun , light-hearted fare , but trying to give us this dramatic social situation involving the little girl and her missing mother and the whole thing with Seagal just turned it into a muddled mess .
A faithful adaptation of the novel , but I guess some stuff just doesn't translate to film very well .	Stephen King has obviously had more success in having his books made into movies than any other author . Sure , a lot of his movies are pretty much bottom of the barrel drivel , such as many of his earlier horror films ( such as Creepshow and Night Shift and It , to some extent ) , but there is a distinct brand of horror films that come from his books that are not only better than average , but that stand as classic horror films and probably always will ( such as The Shining and Carrie ) . It should also be noted that Stephen King has not only come out with horror stories , but that he has come out with some of the best dramas out there . Note , for example , that The Shawshank Redemption is at # 2 on the IMDb's Top 250 , and has been for as long as I can remember , and he has also provided the stories for such great dramas as Stand By Me , Hearts In Atlantis , Dolores Claiborne , The Green Mile , and Strawberry Spring ( MAN I can't wait until that movie comes out ? ) . Clearly , Stephen King has earned enough respect to have filmmakers be faithful to his material when adapting one of his stories into a film , but while that is the case with Thinner , I just don't think the material translates very well . It's not exactly one of King's best books ever , but Thinner is an entertaining and fast paced novel . It's one of those ones where something new is always happening and it's really hard to put down , which is why it seemed so strange to me that while I was watching the movie I seemed to be just waiting for it to end . I had already read the book , so I wasn't exactly hanging on the edge of my seat to see what happened next , but there's something thin ( no pun intended ) about the delivery of the movie that took away from the excitement of the story as a whole . This is not a typical horror film , in that it doesn't really rely on shocks to get you to jump out of your seat , it relies more on just horrifying stuff , like Billy Halleck's torturous weight loss and the old gypsy man's nose and that KISS at the end of the movie my GOD . Unfortunately , the film version of Thinner just doesn't capture the fascinating quality of the book . My theory is that this is the kind of thing that is much better imagined than seen . You just can't show something like this and have it be convincing enough to be a really great film . Granted , the special effects are impressive , to say the least , but there are many instances in the film where it's just all too obvious that they are just that ? special effects . Robert John Burke's performance was less than spectacular at some points , even once or twice bordering on becoming clownish ( ' I'm being ? erased ! ' ) , but I haven't seen many of his performances before ( except for his performance in the ridiculous RoboCop 3 ) , so I don't even have much to compare it to . Joe Mantegna is completely out of place in this film and pretty much the rest of the cast is on auto-pilot . The film is worth watching just to see Kari Wuhrer lift her skirt up in one of the most breathless but unrevealing scenes I've ever seen ( rivaling even the tremendous sensuality despite the nearly total lack of nudity in The Hairdresser's Husband ) , and Stephen King fans are sure to enjoy it , but this is not a King film for a wide audience .
Why is it that in horror movies , anytime someone finds blood dripping onto them from somewhere above their head , they always turn and look up without moving an inch to any side to get out of the way ?	There is a blood dripping scene in Bad Dreams ( one of the oldest tricks in the horror movie book but one which does not seem to ever diminish with each succeeding horror film , even up to today ) that turns out to be probably the , um , chunkiest one that I've ever seen . Effective , I suppose , on a morbid level , since it avoids being nothing but a typical revelation of a brutally murdered body , but tiring in the way that it is executed ( the scene , not the body , and no pun intended , of course ) . For some reason this reminds me of the scene in Joe Dirt where David Spade finds himself with a missile shaped septic tank strapped to his back , which ends up spewing its gooey contents onto his astonished head , and instead of attempting to prevent the sludge from bathing him from head to foot , he stands motionless , going ' Wah ! Wah ! Wah ! ' and subjecting himself to the onslaught of the pasty substance . This is something that is easily avoided in real life ( even if you DO somehow manage to wind up with a septic tank on your back ) , and the fact that Dirt makes not even the slightest attempt to avoid it reveals the scene as a weak effort to get a cheap laugh . Any blood-dripping scene in a horror film , similarly , is an equally weak effort to get a scare . In this case , a gross out scare , a brand which is inherently weak in itself . The blood-dripping scene in Bad Dreams strikes me , for the main reason , because the rest of the movie is not much of a horror film except for the occasional appearance of the cult leader from the beginning of the film turning up as a horribly burned corpse , haunting poor Cynthia , the lone survivor ( as usual ) of the tragic event at the beginning of the film . The movie starts off with one of those goofball cult meetings , where everyone decides to commit mass suicide in order to become one with each other , or some other such nonsense . It starts off by making a comment about the destructive power of stupid people in large groups , but then turns into this weird horror / thriller for the rest of the movie . There are a few effective scenes in the film , such as , ironically , the scene where Ralph , one of Cynthia's new roommates at the mental institution , tells her that whenever it gets to be too much for him , he just makes a little hole and it all goes away . He lifts up his shirt and reveals a map of scars traveling up his belly and chest , which is a huge turn from the horny teenage goofball that he had been portraying up to that point in the film ( probably something that helped in getting him the role of Dave in the Ski School films of the early and mid 1990s , the films that he is probably best known for ) . But for the most part this is a pretty weak film . Bad Dreams fails as a horror film because not a single new idea can be found in the movie , which renders its horror content completely predictable and almost entirely without effect , and it fails as a thriller ( although not as much as it fails as a horror film ) , because it crosses the thin line between horror and thriller , inserting too much gore and supernatural antagonism where it doesn't belong , and thereby coming off as campy at best . It is , however , more entertaining than other bad movies I've found in the horror section lately , such as Neon Maniacs , which has cemented itself as one of the worst horror films I've ever seen , and not even bad in that good way , like They Live or Texas Chainsaw or some of the Friday the 13th or Nightmare of Elm Street sequels . The tagline for Bad Dreams ( the one on the top of the cover box , not the goofy ' It's A Scream ! ' at the bottom ) is a little interesting , in the way that it creates interest in the movie since you just have a natural urge to find out why someone would wish they were dead upon waking up ( although this is also a pretty weak way create interest in a movie , especially a horror movie ) , but it also has nothing to do with the movie itself . Anytime a movie has a tagline that turns out to be a figure of speech , it tends to have the effect of leaving a bad aftertaste . The entirety of the suspense in the film , in fact , is derived from the fact that Cynthia does NOT wish she were dead upon awakening . The cult leader coming after her is the one that wishes she were dead , so if she really wished she was dead so badly all she had to do was give in and let him take her . This is , of course , not the case , and so we have a movie . But the strange thing about it is that , despite having almost no strengths at all , it makes me wonder if maybe horror films are SUPPOSED to be bad , at least to be memorable . This one wasn't all that terrible , but makes little to no impression . The acting is weak from everyone involved ( even from the beautiful Jennifer Rubin , who strikes me as an actor who should have had a more visible career than she has had so far ) , and the directing is little more than pointing and shooting , but the movie is almost immediately forgettable . Maybe in swaying on the line between horror and thriller , Bad Dreams made the unfortunate mistake of landing right in that limbo zone between a truly great horror film and a truly awful one ? the zone of oblivion .
Failed movie titles : Highway Patrol Academy .	Wow , someone must really have had a bad runin with the police or with the Highway Patrol , since they're both made to look completely ridiculous in this movie . I can't say that the movie is entirely without laughs , because there were several scenes during which I was laughing so hard that I just about fell off the couch ( ' Hey , I got an idea ! Let's pop some Viagra and issue tickets with raging mega-huge boners ! ' ) . I guess the movie is about what law enforcement would look like if the police force and the Highway Patrol were run as though they were fraternities instead of government run entities . The police and the Highway Patrol are rival fraternities fighting each other over state funding , since one of them is about to be shut down and so they better make some heroic drug bust or something right before the budget hearings in order to stay in business . This plotline sort of falls to the side for the majority of the film in favor of freaky antics and games played by the cops as they pull people over and try to see how many times they can get away with saying Meow without being caught . This is the type of humor that might have done well had it been more prevalent , and the most extensive , seen in the film . The problem with Super Troopers is that it just goes too far at many points . It's perfectly believable to have a lot of guys on the police force who screw around in the locker room , playing practical jokes on each other and trying to do some goofy routines like the Meow routine while on the job , but the film also has them busting a teen party and then getting smashed with the kids themselves and forcing the kids to do humiliating fraternity hazing rituals , something absolutely certain to land them in court , as well as to immediately cost them their jobs , the importance of which drives the entire plot . If the movie had been something of a behind the scenes of law enforcement comedy that let us see an entirely different side of the police force than the stolid one that we usually see peering at us disappointedly through our driver's side windows , it could have been a smashing success . But instead it decides to display full frontal nudity of fat men covered in powdered sugar , a toothless redneck having sex with a bear in the woods , two cops trying to go undercover in a semi truck that they don't know how to drive , and a lot of other idiot cops doing a lot of idiot things . Given the fact that the movie is all about two law enforcement agencies trying to save their jobs by actually solving a crime ( notably something entirely out of the ordinary for them ) , the least the movie could have done is provide us with at least a single person on either team that we would actually want to see driving a patrol car and wearing a policemen's uniform . The movie is the product of a goofball comedy troupe who call themselves Broken Lizard , but who don't realize that if you want your audience to root for your characters to keep their jobs as police officers , it might be beneficial to keep in mind that police officers have power over the general public . Personally , I'm not too thrilled about the possibility of being pulled over by someone who is going to demand my license and registration and then call me a chickenfker .
Effective Japanese horror dulled by unnecessary remake and unnecessary CGI .	In perusing all the negative comments about The Grudge spread out among the IMDb , I'm amazed at how many people , even professional critics , have gotten the basic premise completely wrong . The curse that the movie is centered around is not created when someone dies in a horrible way , it's created when someone dies " in the grip of anger . " The terrible rage that has consumed someone at the time of their death is what creates the curse , and then that rage consumes anyone that it comes into contact with , at which point it also renews itself . Not that it matters , however , for the most part , people have been tending to be right about the rest of the movie . It's a remake of a Japanese film of the same name , which was released barely a year before this one and was directed by the same guy and is , by the way , leaps and bounds better than this one . You know all this stuff . The infamous opening scene of the American version is certainly surprising and promises an interesting movie , but then the movie veers off in a completely different direction and for most of the time it seems like that first scene is completely unrelated . Ultimately , it is little more than your standard haunted house story , which is probably the oldest and weakest story in the horror book . If you make a movie about a haunted house these days , there better be something truly interesting about it , otherwise it is guaranteed to sink unnoticed into obscurity . Sarah Michelle Gellar , a veteran of bad American horror movies , enters the mix adding her unique brand of weak horror acting . She's a college student finally granted her long - standing wish to travel abroad , but unfortunately she gets placed in this house helping to care for an old woman suffering from dementia , which basically means she spends most of the time staring into empty spaces at ghostly things that no one else seems to realize are really there . Gradually , we come to realize that she's not just losing her mind , she's being driven insane by ghostly forces that simply won't leave her alone . Enter another couple , Jennifer and Matthew , who are also living in Japan temporarily , as the husband has business there . Clea DuVall , the most talented actor in the entire movie , plays Jennifer , and the becomes immediately unhappy with the whole situation . She is having major problems adjusting to life in Japan , unable to communicate , unable to read any of the packages on the food at the supermarket , etc . Basically many of the same troubles I had when I moved here to China two years ago . As is to be expected , weird things start happening . You get the idea . I have heard people defend the movie by saying that there is nothing to complain about , the ghosts act perfectly naturally by lashing out at anyone who comes near because of course they're angry about how they died and want to take it out on someone ! Yeah , I can understand that , but a movie about that and nothing else ? And not only one , but TWO movies ? Is it too much to ask for more than exactly the same kind of story that he been being told for hundreds of years ? Since I am an American living in an Asian culture myself , I had hoped that they would take the opportunity to use the combination of American actors in a Japanese film to give us some kind of cultural analysis , maybe even something that would compare the Japanese and American horror styles . The opportunities were endless , but they were all ignored in favor of simply Americanizing a Japanese horror film . And having seen more than my share of both styles of horror , I can tell you that Americanizing Japanese horror is not the way to make it better !
Are you now , or have you ever been in any way connected to the French ? ? ?	Wait , lemme check something really quick . Ah yes , here we go , FIVE Academy Awards . WOW . Now , I'm no expert on movies ( note : I am an expert on movies ) but I really can't see what it is about this movie that is deserving of that many Oscars . Never do I get more angry responses to my reviews than when I write a scathing review of a hugely popular movie ( I've gotten lots of ridiculous mail from fans of the staggeringly idiotic Scary Movie series , for example ) , but I can't see the appeal of The French Connection . Feel free to e-mail me and tell me how dumb I am , but I will never relent to the suggestion that this turgid crime film ever deserved more recognition that Stanley Kubrick's A Clockwork Orange . Granted , Kubrick's work is not very widely palatable and the Academy Awards have long since been a ceremony aimed at rewarding popularity rather than artistic quality ( this curious little factoid was proven in spectacular fashion in 1997 ) , but I find it hard to believe that even at the time , when sex and violence were probably not nearly as accepted as they are today , The French Connection could have come in above A Clockwork Orange . In the movie's defense , It is finely crafted and original , setting up what was to become a hugely copied setup of crime movies featuring a detective who is so dedicated to his assignments and determined to catch the bad guy that he / she has to go outside the agency and solve the crime alone , since some rules have to be broken . Gene Hackman's character is famously the one that is ' Bad news , but a good cop . ' I think that the movie's biggest problem today is that it is famous for having the greatest car chase ever put on film . In watching for the greatest car chase ever put on film , I was amazed when the credits started . Sure , the scene where Doyle ( Hackman ) was chasing the bad guy in the subway train was expertly crafted if short and unspectacular , and not the greatest car chase ever put on film b any stretch of the imagination . Maybe it was the greatest car chase put on film in 1971 . Anything beyond that is going a little too far . The editing of the car chase is excellent ( note the shot where the large truck / van pulls out in front of Doyle's car , and how smooth the match cut is on the action to a different angle . VERY good ) , the chase itself is not . The story is simple enough , Doyle is a detective frantically trying to topple a drug ring importing drugs from France , and the movie follows this plot in a simple and relatively realistic fashion , which I think is the film's greatest strength . As far as the technical way that it is put together , this is far superior to the action movies of today as far as the amount of thought put into its script and production , but as far as action it just doesn't compare . On the other hand , there's nothing worse than an action movie plagued by relentless stupidity ( see Bad Boys II ) , but on the same token , an action film cannot be said to be one of the greatest ever made ( or have the greatest parts , such as the car chases ) simply because it is smartly made . Maybe The French Connection really did have the greatest car chase ever filmed at the time it was made . That statement is certainly not true as of today and the movie was certainly not the best picture of 1971 , but I think as long as you don't go into it expecting a smashing great action film that lives up to the hype , there is a lot in The French Connection that could greatly benefit the moronic action movies cranked out regularly today .
The biggest disappointment of the summer .	I don't play video games , so I don't know anything about the Tomb Raider game or anything like that , so it played no role in the formation of my opinion about the movie . I had very high expectations for the film , because I know how popular Tomb Raider ( and , probably even more , Lara Croft ) is , and because I know that a tremendous amount of preparation went into the making of the film . And besides that , Angelina Jolie stars as Lara Croft , and she pulls off the physical aspect of that role ( face it , Lara Croft's body is even more well known than the game itself ) with stunning closeness . There is a mediocre story in the film involving Croft's search for an artifact that carries with it tremendous power , including the ability to control time , if I remember correctly . Fueling Croft's efforts to achieve the artifact is her determination to live up to the legacy of her late father , played with a little tongue in cheek by her real life father , John Voigt . The story of Tomb Raider was not too impressive to begin with , and Angelina can barely pull off the fake accent ( I shudder every time I anticipate Original Sin ) , but this is not what ultimately brings the movie down . Normally I try not to pick movies apart , but there was so much unnecessary stuff thrown in here that it makes you wonder what people were doing for all of the years that this movie was in production . It seems weird that no one noticed how weird it is to have Lara's father looking at the movie camera and talking , as though to her , while she reads a letter that her wrote her before he died . And also , whose idiot idea was it to have her do things like punch a guy in the head with the back tire of a motorcycle while she speeds by on the front wheel ? ! What a joke . On the other hand , every scene in which Lara handles guns is incredibly well done . I think that , for the most part , this is because Angelina just looks good pointing two guns and firing them that fast . The beginning action scene was pretty impressive for this reason . The action in the film was mostly pretty good , but there were several instances where it went over the top , as in the above-mentioned motorcycle scene . This is the same problem that we saw in Mission : Impossible II , which could otherwise have been a good action movie , as Tomb Raider could also have been . I don't know enough about the game to comment on how well it was translated to the screen , but I do know from pictures of Lara Croft that Angelina did an excellent job in the role . There can be no mistake that the movie is directed at a younger audience ( which makes you wonder about that brief half-nude scene ) , which probably accounts for most of the goofy action sequences , so be advised of a certain inherent immaturity before you watch it . It's an entertaining enough movie , but be warned .
Mugging Victim Unsurprised by Attacker's Flaming Skull .	Johnny Blaze began a career as a stunt motorcyclist while still in his teens , taking after his father , Barton Blaze , who has become a legendary stunt cyclist . In one of those bizarre quirks of irony that life tends to display , his father achieves fame by cheating death , only to be diagnosed with terminal cancer and given a short time to live . Johnny makes a deal with Mephistopheles , selling his soul to the devil in exchange for the return of his father's health . Sadly , the devil tends to be a bit of a sneaky bastard , so Barton's health returns wonderfully , and hours later he's killed in a motorcycle stunt . Ouch . So now Johnny has no soul , but he doesn't quit cycling . In fact , being an instrument of Satan has a wonderful effect on his career , since Johnny is literally unable to be killed . He performs the most spectacular stunts imaginable and with a level of calm that suggests insanity . He's almost bored as he's leaping over things that other stuntmen wouldn't even imagine trying . Unfortunately , because of his pact with the devil , he also has to transform into the Ghost Rider , the devil's bounty hunter . Sounds like it could be an interesting life , although I can't imagine how many new shirts he has to buy after they get all singed by his flaming head . Besides , he gets to ride through the night on this cool flaming chrome chopper finding evil souls and bringing them back to hell . I wouldn't mind that so much . Hear that , Mephistopheles ? There is one scene where a mugging victim is being attacked , and the Ghost Rider approaches , stops the mugging and dispatches some flaming justice . It's a satisfying scene , but then later there is a television news crew interviewing the victim , who doesn't appear to be firing on all cylinders . When asked for a description of the man who stopped the attack , she says , " he was all thin and bony and had a rad chopper with flames and stuff . " Anything else ? " Oh , and his face was a skull and it was on fire . It was an edge look but he totally pulled it off . " There you have sort of the tone of the whole movie . It's about a guy who sells his soul to Satan and becomes a tool of the devil by night , but it's certainly not afraid to laugh at itself , which is important in a movie like this . Besides , when the girl was given that interesting description , the look on the cameraman's face was classic . There is also a totally ineffective love story between Johnny and Roxanne ( played by Eva Mendez , who seems far too beautiful and sophisticated to fall in love with a stuntman like Johnny ) . Johnny flees his life after his father's death , leaving Roxanne for years without a word from him , but when a strange twist of fate brings them back together he is faced with the challenge of winning back his true love while also doing something about this pesky devil's slave thing . You see , he does that foolish thing that people in half-witted movies like this tend to do - he tries to tell her the truth . He explains earnestly that he sold his soul and now has to work for the devil at night , and he's somehow surprised when she doesn't believe him . I love how he lets her get angry and storm away from him without ever thinking to just show her . I'll tell you this right now , if I'm ever in a position where I have to convince someone that I can fly or travel through time or turn my head into a flaming skull or anything else like that , you better believe I'm not going to do much talking beyond " Okay , watch this . . . " Enter Blackheart , the devil's son , who is embarking on an ambitious plan to possess a thousand souls and thus release hell on earth . I would have thought it would take more souls than that , but no matter . Johnny is offered the opportunity to anull his contract with the devil if he can defeat Blackheart and send his soul back to hell . All this taking and sending of souls gets so tiresome for me , and it may be one of the movie's biggest weaknesses . Buying and selling a soul tends to be something that most people have little experience with , so they offer this explanation : " The host can gain control of the possessing spirit through concentration on and manipulation of the fire element that exists within man . " Hence the flaming head , I suppose . I'm reminded of that classic scene in O Brother , Where Art Thou ? where they pick up that kid Tommy on the side of the road with the guitar . He explains casually that he sold his soul to the devil to learn to play the guitar real good , and Delmar asks incredulously , " For that you sold your everlasting soul ? " Surprised , Tommy replies , " Well , I wasn't usin ' it . . . " I have a feeling that a substantial portion of Ghost Rider's target audience feels somewhat similar about their souls , which may be part of the reason that the movie has gotten such terrible reviews . Yeah , it's goofy , but it's not that bad . Most of the confrontations between Johnny and Blackheart and his gang are fantastically stupid ( " My name is Legion , for we are maaaaaaaaanyyy ! ! ! ! " ) , but the movie is fun in its own way . Columbia Pictures , at least , certainly wasn't too disappointed with it , because they have now officially green-lit a sequel . For some reason this makes me think of the relevance of one of the more interesting lines in the movie : " Raise no more devils than you can lay down . "
Can't Hardly Wait To Get Laid .	( spoilers ) American Pie is yet another goofy teenage comedy full of trashy sex jokes and idiot kids trying to get together with beautiful girls , and in the end , it works for everyone except that weird red-headed guy . I'm so sick and tired of movies like this , and if Sean William Scott had not been in this movie , there would not have been a single funny part in it . American Pie is an exploitative film that takes advantage of the vast amounts of immaturity readily found in modern audiences . I'll admit that I laughed at the movie , but it's the kind of laugh that lasts for seconds , and as soon as it's over , it's never funny again . You actually feel cheated because after you watch the movie you can look back and you realize how dumb the jokes really are . Except , of course , for the scene at the very end when Steve Stifler walks into the basement of his house after the party ( ' Mom ? Shibrick ? ! ' ) . THAT will NEVER stop being funny . I don't want to give the impression that I feel that this movie was pounded out in five minutes with no thought and then thrown into production just to make money , because I realize that on some levels , maybe one or two , it is quality comedy . But on all other levels , make no mistake , this is fast-food cinema . It may be fun to watch , but there's no nutritional value .
Planet of the Oops !	I'm not entirely familiar with all of the other Planet of the Apes films , but I don't think there could be anything in any of them that would change my mind about the 2001 version . We start off with an electrical storm in space that results in some serious time travel , just like we saw in Lost In Space , which results in our hero winding up thousands of years in the future and on an unknown planet . Seconds after surviving the crash landing of his pod on this mysterious planet , Leo Davidson ( Mark Walhberg ) finds himself surrounded by fleeing HUMANS . The first thing I thought was that there are humans and apes on an unknown planet in an unknown galaxy roughly 5000 years in the future , but later we learn ( also as seen in Lost In Space ) that Leo's ship also passed through that time warp and landed in the same place , leaving the humans to go into submission to the out-of-control apes that were on the ship for experimentation , and the apes themselves were left to evolve and take control , ultimately turning into the hard-nosed apes that ruled the planet when Leo crash landed . That was a mouthful . Pretty creative though , once we are eventually informed as to what the hell is going on . So Leo is stuck on this planet where the roles are basically reversed and exaggerated between humans and apes , and now it is entirely up to Leo to save this planet's version of the human race from the oppression of the apes . Tim Roth delivers a horribly annoying performance as General Thade , the militant leader of the apes who is so filled with hatred for the humans ( for reasons never made entirely clear ) that he operates just like a machine . He's always grunting and growling and always has his head tilted downward like he's expecting physical confrontation at all times , and his constant guttural tone of voice makes him almost amusing after a while . One of the biggest problems with this movie is that the apes are so well made up , but they also have tremendous intelligence , as is made evident by their strikingly human eyes , and yet they switch back and forth from normal speech to the same screeching and screaming that you hear from the monkeys at the zoo . There is a scene where General Thade is told that the humans crossed the river using the apes ' own horses , and he jumps all around the place , screeching and jumping and breaking things , and then he's back on the ground talking like a warrior . It's so hard to take this stuff seriously . Helena Bonham Carter is excellent as Ari , the weirdly attractive ape who is disgruntled with the way that the humans are treated by the apes , and who turns against her own kind to help the humans escape . There is a childish scene at the end of the film where Leo kisses Ari that is sure to get a laugh from any audience , while the stunningly but almost weirdly beautiful Estella Warren provides the human love interest . It's a good thing that they had a human woman in this movie to take romantic interest in Leo , because without her we only have Ari , who is 100 % ape but who acts exactly like a human woman while interacting with Leo . For the first half of the film , I was a little nervous about the possibility of a little bestiality happening somewhere in there . So we know that Ari is helping the humans because she is disillusioned with her violent species , but they are also accompanied by another ape - Attar , I think ( hey , half the fun was trying to figure out who was underneath all that make-up , right ? ) - and we never know why he agrees to go along , knowing that he will face severe punishment upon returning , which is one of the movies more simplistic but peeving oversights . It is , however , the ending of the film that ruins it beyond all hope for being saved . At the beginning of the film , when Leo took off in the pod toward the electrical storm , he was going after the pod of his chimp , with whom all communication had been lost . He gets swept away in the same electrical storm as the chimp got caught in , and winds up on the planet described above . At the end of the film , the chimp comes through right in the middle of the climactic battle between the humans and the apes , and the apes bow down to him as their god . This was actually a pretty clever scene , because he was , in fact , one of the first apes of their civilization , and then Leo trades places with him , leaving him with Ari ( and with an obviously broken leg , which we're left to assume turned out okay ) and taking the ship back to his own time . And General Thade , I guess , was just left sulking under that console on the ship forever , doomed to live the rest of his life as a loose end in a sub-par sci fi movie . It was bad enough that everything on the ship still worked after thousands of years , now they have to leave stuff everywhere unexplained . So we get back to Earth , Leo survives the entrance through the atmosphere and then miraculously survives another violent crash landing without a scratch , and he finds the Lincoln Monument is an ape ( when I saw Lincoln from behind , I jokingly said to myself that it would be an ape . I was disappointed and amused to find that I was right ) . This could , of course , mean only one thing . Seeing how there was barely an explanation for the English speaking humans and apes on the planet on which most of the film took place , and there was literally none at all given for the apes replacing the humans on Earth , we can only assume that they ran out of money or they are just setting up for a sequel . My money is on the latter . Stay tuned for part 9 ( or so ) .
Boring and trivial but not entirely inaccurate .	I've lived in Los Angeles for a couple of years and I know the area of the Pacific Palisades as well as the exact area in East LA where the 16th Street Gang supposedly lives , and it's not surprising to me the way these kids in this movie act . Their desperation to be accepted by hardcore criminals is wildly exaggerated , of course , but I went to a pretty rich high school and I knew tons of rich kids who drove to school in brand new Landcruisers and BMWs and pretended to have such a hard life . That act is lampooned by this movie . Anne Hathaway removes herself from a string of goofy teenybopper films and starts taking her clothes off in this one , and if I'm not mistaken it doesn't seem to have gotten her much of the attention that she thought it would . Havoc kind of came and went and was barely noticed , maybe because it's so easy to write it off as just a stupid teenage thriller . It certainly has stupid elements , but there is a lot of truth to the story that is being told , it's just unfortunate that almost all of the performances and goofy teenage caricatures were so hard to watch . Anne Hathaway plays an out of control hussy who does things like strip down and pull her breasts out for a hand-wringing high school friend who just wants to film an interview of her . He says she's sad and nervously withdraws . Does that stuff really happen ? Whatever the case , the movie loses it's way at some point and , by the time the climax of the film comes around , the point where you're supposed to be all moved and upset and affected , you're so sick and tired of the characters and the movie has made itself so fake that you just don't care . Don't take this the wrong way , but the kids in this movie got exactly what they deserved .
Music soothes even the savage zombie .	The third and final installment in George Romero's Living Dead trilogy is surprising in that it comes so close to being a dismal , depressing close to one of the most famous horror film series ' ever made . True , the movie sucks pretty badly and pretty consistently except for the last 20 minutes or so , but that last 20 minutes come on pretty strong to save the rest of the movie . Strife among characters has been a major element in the series since the beginning , but in Day of the Dead the characters are so antagonistic toward each other that the movie almost becomes unwatchable . We have gone from an uncomfortable group fighting a small but quickly growing hoard of zombies in Night of the Living Dead to a group of people who mostly get along except for a herd of bikers with an inexplicable urge to kill them in Dawn of the Dead to this , a bunch of military guys and some scientists in an underground bunker , so suspicious and angry at each other that there are fingers on triggers pointed at other living people throughout the majority of the movie . And here I was thinking that something that threatens the entire human race might tend to bring the remaining survivors together , regardless of their differences . If Independence Day taught me a single thing , I thought that was it . I could see , for example , Michael Moore and Dick Cheney desperately fighting for each other's survival if they were , like the people in Day of the Dead , outnumbered by walking cannibalistic zombies 400 , 000 to 1 . Not this movie . Interestingly , the movie starts out really well and ends really well , kind of like a really good song often does . The opening of the movie is a brief but fascinating tour of the streets of a city taken over by the dead . Here was something a little strange that happened while I was watching it ? during this opening sequence , I was reminded of the description of the deserted Jerusalem's Lot in the beginning of Stephen King's novel ? Salem's Lot , which I am currently re-reading because it was mentioned at the end of Wolves of the Calla , the fifth installment in Stephen King's Dark Tower series . The ghost town of ? Salem's Lot is described as though it were suddenly deserted , even with a transaction rung up in a local store and $50 cash in the register , untouched . The town in Day of the Dead is overrun with garbage and rotting carcasses of cars , alligators for some reason roam free , and cash blows down the street like leaves . Later in the movie , a copy of ? Salem's Lot actually makes a cameo appearance . Weird ! Anyway , the new things that happen in Day of the Dead ( these things take their sweet time in emerging from the endless human bickering , by the way ) deal mostly with the psychology of the zombies . For that reason , the vast majority of the movie is clinical and dull . The setting is an underground bunker , and we are forced to sit through scene after scene of a scientist conducting numerous tests on a captive zombie , which could be a pretty interesting character study ( how often do you actually get this close to a gory horror movie villain ? ) , except that the military guys are just down the hallway sulking and threatening to kill the hard-working doctor if he doesn't come up with some results and fast . I could see the captain getting mad at the scientist for suggesting an evolutionary link between humans and reptiles , but what else did he want the guy to do , sit around and mope with him and his buddies ? The smartest thing this captain Rhodes ever does in the movie is call the doctor ' Frankenstein , ' although Rhodes probably doesn't even know he's right that Mary Shelley's Frankenstein is the doctor , not the monster . We find out eventually that the scientists big plan is to find some way to control the zombies , although the obvious obstacle is that this plan would require close and fairly extensive contact and treatment of millions of zombies to put them all under control . Not exactly a plan that lies within their power , but the doctor correctly concludes that the only way to win against the zombies is to make them behave . There are also some clever scenes that ponder about the role of God in this whole spectacle . One character speculates that God has risen the undead as a way to punish the human race for our sins , hinting to the audience that we better straighten out and live holy lives . What a message to get from a horror movie ! But then , a couple minutes later , the assertion is made that the only way to make the zombies behave is to trick them into thinking there's some reward coming to them for good behavior , the way the rest of humanity has been tricked . So much for the God message ? They exercise control over the zombies ( one zombie , anyway ) mostly through the use of classical conditioning , positive reinforcement , and attempts at model behavior ( ' How are we going to set an example for them if we behave barbarically ourselves ? ' ) , which results in a clever role for one of the zombies and the unexpected result that one of them becomes a protagonist . The caves at the end mark the beginning of the best portion of the movie . They're very effective atmospherically , despite the goofy , bright red haunted-house-ride lighting . The gore is largely absent from most of the middle of the movie , since this is the portion that's so preoccupied with the humans arguing with each other , but the gore at the beginning and at the end has improved massively from the last two movies . Some scenes were a little too realistic . Given recent events in the Middle East , I seem to have lost what little appetite I may ever have had for beheading scenes , and one such scene in the movie takes place while a man is screaming , his scream becoming more and more high-pitched as his vocal cords are stretched and severed . I'm only 25 and I think I'm too old for this . There is an interesting scene in which one of the characters is bitten on the arm by a zombie and they try to save him by cutting his arm off , supposedly before the zombie poison can get to the rest of his body and take him over . That was clever , I hadn't seen that in any of the other movies . This character , incidentally , is the one who ultimately goes on to make an ' escape attempt , ' which probably was the single event that saved the movie from the Oblivion of the Ridiculous , a realm populated by countless thousands of horror films . I won't go into details , but his attempt to escape is the moment that the movie starts getting good . Sadly , since there are only about 15 minutes left in the movie by this point , it doesn't have time to move in the right direction for very long . Ah well ?
This is a cheerleading movie for cheerleading people .	I was sitting in the theater trying to watch The Art of War , and it was at least 20 minutes late in starting ( for the second time ) , so I decided to go watch the only other movie starting within 45 minutes , Bring It On . I had just finished watching The Replacements when I went to see this film , so I was already sick and tired of cheerleaders when I walked into the theater . As with Coyote Ugly , I knew exactly how this movie would end from the very beginning . I'm not saying that it was a bad movie , it was entertaining enough even though it is not exactly my favorite as far as subject matter , but it is the type of movie that you watch if you have to kill some time . Average acting , an un-exciting plot , and boring and sometimes pretentious dialogue interfere with what could otherwise have been your basic " sports " movie . Instead you get a somewhat disappointing , basic " sports " movie . A champion cheerleading squad finds out that their previous captain had been stealing routines from an unknown inner city squad , and now they are desperate to come up with something soon before the impending championship begins once more . That's all fine and good , but what do they do ? They try to cheat again by hiring a choreographer to teach them a winning routine . Unfortunately , what they get is some sort of cheer Nazi who goes around teaching the same routine to cheer squads all over California . Of course , there is the inevitable rivalry between the two cheer squads which eventually transforms into some kind of awkward friendship , and everyone lives happily ever after . Yawn . Bring It On is just a movie about cheerleaders . If you are a cheerleader or if you just love cheerleaders and can't get enough of their high pitched , annoying antics , watch this movie . You'll probably enjoy it . However , if you are not a hard-core cheerleader fan , you would probably be best advised to ignore this routine movie .
The Return of the Jay and Silent Bob Do America .	The only consistently amusing characters from Kevin Smith's films ( films which are not , by any stretch of the imagination , immune to coming out as total garbage ) return to the big screen to inspire great big laughs because the film is able to laugh at itself , which is very important with comedies like this . The plot bears striking resemblance to the hilarious Beavis & Butt-Head Do America , but this doesn't take away from the film as a whole or make it seem redundant or even unoriginal because the plot is actually a very small part of the film . It is no secret that Jay and Silent Bob are the reason that we keep getting treated to more films from Kevin Smith ( you think he would have gotten any corporate sponsors after that mess Chasing Amy if it weren't for them ? ) , so it's nice that they finally decided to dedicate an entire film to them . The movie as a whole is composed of a series of dirty jokes and a goofball plot that is squashed into obscurity under the hilarious presence of Jay and his famous silent sidekick . Sadly , this is virtually the only thing that the film has going for it . On the nother hand , it's unfortunately ironic that the very thing that made this movie interesting is also the most disappointing part of it - the casting . Obviously , Jay and Silent Bob could never be played by anyone else , but the casting director seems to have gone a little bit overboard with more than a couple of the cameos . I loved seeing James Van der Beek and that idiot Jason Biggs , I thought they both played great roles in this movie ( probably because they were making fun of themselves during most of their screen time ) . These are some of the most recognizable of the recent proliferation of actors who can't act and who have made it into Hollywood by some mysterious manipulation of reality . Van der Beek I can't explain , but I imagine Biggs was found because he was hired to play a part in what could not have been thought to be more than a goofy b-movie comedy , American Pie , and it turned out to be a huge hit , so the producers erroneously thought that he was suddenly a huge star . Whoops . Then you have a great cameo from Matt Damon and Ben Affleck . Yeah , these guys proved themselves with Good Will Hunting , which was so good that Affleck can even be forgiven for the ridiculous Armageddon . The best part of Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back , the way that it pokes fun at Hollywood , comes especially into play into this cameo , as we are treated to a scene from the sequel to Good Will Hunting ( ' Applesauce ! ' ) . Carrie Fisher plays an unenviable role as the nun who picks Jay and Silent Bob when an unfortunate turn of events leaves them stuck as hitchhikers . Seann William Scott , the real comedic source that made movies like American Pie and Road Trip at least slightly amusing , is completely wasted in a role that makes no sense to have him in . He plays a hopeless geek who happens to be traveling with a bunch of hotties ( as Roger Ebert would say , no prizes for guessing why he took the role ) , and there is no reason for him to be in this role other than to put him in the preview and make people think that he will actually do something funny in it , and we are totally disappointed . He is literally thrown out of a moving van and out of the movie before anything even happens . However , it is poor Mark Hamill who is really to be felt sorry for after watching this movie . It is clear from the minute you hear the title that there is going to be some serious Star Wars bashing going on here , but the best spoofs are the ones that make fun of films themselves , not the deflated state of the old stars ( if you want to see a brilliant Star Wars spoof , watch Spaceballs ) . Poor Mark Hamill was one of the main stars of the most successful science fiction series of all time , and a couple decades later he's stuck playing a character called ' Cock-knocker ' in a goofball comedy with virtually no redeeming values . They even had to put up a huge title card to make sure that people notice that the poor guy underneath all that ridiculous make-up is the fallen sci fi hero . Kevin Smith has NOT earned enough respect to justify smacking Star Wars like that . Jay and Silent Bob is not a movie that is going to be remembered as a great comedy . It's a huge success because the characters have become so famous with junior high school and high school kids all over the world , but there is no content in the film . It fits snugly among movies like the Scary Movies and American Pie and Road Trip and Dude , Where's My Car ? With some effort , some amusement and possibly an occasional nervous laugh can be derived from these slopfests ( okay , not the Scary Movies , but the rest had their moments ) , so luckily Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back is one of the better films in this ludicrous category ( thanks in no small part to the wonderful contribution from Ben Affleck and Matt Damon ) , but the film is likely to be reduced to bottom shelf oblivion faster than you can say , ' For God's sake , Kevin , no more ! '
And you will know my name is the Sin-Eater when I lay my vengeance upon you !	I never really liked movies about religion , especially these creepy thrillers . Stigmata was bad , Bless the Child was worse , Lost Souls doesn't have much promise ( although I'm sure I'll see it eventually ) , Time Changer was a preachy disaster , End of Days was like Terminator in reverse , etc . Luckily , The Order is more in the vein of something like Boondock Saints , a hugely violent film with strong religious undertones that had a lot of similar meanings as this movie did . But Boondock Saints was one of the good ones . The big question , however , comes up when you wonder how far can they go in creating religious justification for revenge . Boondock Saints , at least , had the right state of mind . That movie was geared more to the revenge idea , with less emphasis on the religious justification , than this one . The possibility ( indeed , probability ) was left open that the brothers were a couple of ultra-violent defenders of the Bible and God's word , but the extension of the Word to bloody killing was made by them , not God or the Bible . The Order takes that one step farther . I won't say that the movie tries to make the Bible justify killing in order to bring to sinners what would really come to them anyway in the afterlife , if that's your belief . But what's important to realize here is that the Sin Eater , as is dealt with heavily in the second half of this movie , is a spiritual creature . Sin Eating is a power , evidently passed on from one generation of Sin Eater to the next , while the two brothers in Boondock Saints are just two guys with vicious dedication to their beliefs . Heath Ledger , unfortunately , strikes me more as a hugely popular American actor placed into the movie maybe for name recognition than as an actor who fits the part of the character . He doesn't for a even a second , for example , come across as an experienced priest with a traumatic past , but Ledger is not able to bring this across in his performance . He's a member of an unfortunate breed of young actor that knows he's popular and so doesn't think he has to work for it anymore . You may remember too many of the actors in this movie from previous work by the director ( as well as one too much from one of Paul Verhoeven's massively successful gritty actions films which need not be name , since this particular actor has had the name of that movie permanently branded across his forehead , so you can just read it there ) , but I really don't think that that is where the majority of the problem with this movie comes from . The Order had a great preview . It's one of maybe 2-4 movies in my life that I've watched because of the preview I saw at the video store . But it seems that the religious thriller is a subgenre even more plagued with failure and repetition than horror , a genre which I've come to study more and more lately . The Order makes some interesting points and it has its moments , but as a whole it comes across as just another attempt to make a thriller out of some sort of divine justification for brutal punishment .
A Series of Unfortunate Bits of Celluloid Edited Together Into A Movie .	Whenever I see a really bad movie , I tend to think about what kinds of things led to such an awful script being put into production . Take some obscure horror movies , like Nightmare Weekend or Graveyard Shift , for example . These movies are so unbelievably bad that it is almost inconceivable to me that someone ever read them and thought , " Yeah , let's put this into production ! " A Series of Unfortunate Events is not , of course , on the same astounding level of badness as those movies , but its size compared with its quality makes it look like the title refers to the events that took place during pre-production rather than within the story . Before I go on , I should point out that what is probably the first of many Lemony Snicket films is not a complete loss , but it markets itself on one of the brilliant marketing techniques employed by the books , which advise the reader against reading them . The movie starts out by repeatedly referring to itself as dark and dreary and depressing and unhappy , and if you want a cutesy , feel-good movie , " there is probably plenty of seating left in theater 2 . " Incidentally , I was IN theater 2 when I saw the movie , but no matter . The movie is about three children in their hectic search for proper parental care after their parents died in a fire in their home . What follows is a story about three preadolescent adults struggling to find their way in a world populated by fully grown children , but the biggest problem with the movie is the same as the reason that I wanted to see it in the first place ? Jim Carrey . Carrey is a massively talented actor , but seems to have misjudged this movie , or at least his target audience . I read an interview with him in Time magazine or Newsweek , where he was asked why children would want to see a movie as dark and unhappy as this one markets itself as . Carrey , a father himself , promptly answered , " Easy , the leeches ! " This is , of course , a classic Jim Carrey answer , but if there was a single person in the movie that children in the audience would like , it would be Meryl Streep's character , and she gets EATEN by the leeches . Jim Carrey's character , sadly , is neither likable , even as a villain , nor amusing . The film spends way too much time introducing us to characters that we are not meant to care about , and way too little time on the fantasy element . It comes off as a series of contrived scenes in a dirty house sporadically interspersed with establishing shots of strange places , such as the ridiculous house in which Streep lives . Odd that her character is presented as so paranoid that she doesn't want any of the doorknobs in her house to be touched , lest they should explode and send shards of glass into her eyes , yet she doesn't seem to mind that she lives in a rickety wooden house tenuously supported by tremendously tall and spindly wooden supports at the edge of a huge , jagged cliff . Personally , I'd be more worried about the fact that my house rocked back and forth regularly on its fibrous supports than about the possibility of spontaneous electrocution . Not that it matters , Meryl Streep , despite playing a throwaway character , is given extensive screen time during which I imagine we are not meant to come to any logical conclusions about her other than that she is terrified of the world around her and has recently lost her husband to the very leeches that inevitably threaten the lives of the children looking for good parental custody . The Harry Potter element of the movie , so called because it so clearly wants to replicate it , is very well done , except that it is so small that it's difficult to believe . Most of the film takes place in imaginative settings , but all we really see are small sets , often little more than one room , and not enough of the grand establishing shots which were so effective in creating the whole new worlds in the Harry Potter films . Lemony Snicket lives in the shadow of the Harry Potter films , which themselves live in the gigantic shadow of the Lord of the Rings films . Each successive series is smaller and more childish than the last , but the most quality is lost between Potter and Snicket . Indeed , much of the first half of the film is flat out boring . Jim Carrey doesn't seem to be sure if his character is supposed to be funny or threatening , and ultimately he comes off as being neither . He is simply a greedy old humbug who changes disguises that any rational person would recognize ( luckily the only rational people in the movie are the three preadolescent adults ) , in his efforts to obtain legal custody of them and hence the massive inheritance that comes along with them . It's a simple , straightforward and barely interesting premise that is ultimately made into a simple , straightforward and barely interesting fantasy film . I recently read an interview with Peter Jackson about his upcoming King Kong remake where he said that it would , of course , be pointless to spend the rest of his life trying to top his Lord of the Rings trilogy . Certainly understandable , and also understandable that he thinks it wisest to just have fun with such things as a remake of King Kong , one of his all time favorite films . So even though the Lord of the Rings films are not necessarily what fantasy adventure films are shooting to beat , since their own director all but admits that this is impossible , I still tend to think that we have come to expect more than this . Those involved could certainly have done better .
This is yet another hardcore action kung-fu B-movie , but it does have a few redeeming values .	First of all , there is absolutely nothing to be said for the acting in this film . No one delivered a notable performance at all , so don't expect anything in that department . Jet Li provides some amazing martial arts scenes that are just a lot of fun to watch , but unfortunately most of them were distorted beyond recognition with special effects and obviously faked stunts . There are scenes where he obviously defies gravity , and things like that are just insulting . I can see that Jet Li is a phenomenal martial artist , I don't need all this stuff to make him look even better than he is . That's where Jackie Chan has Jet Li beaten ( the ONLY place where Jackie Chan has Jet Li beaten ) . Chan does his own stunts , and even though they are manipulated by the editing , everything seen on screen is real , it was done right in front of the camera just as it appears in the film . However , despite the computer generated excesses , the x-ray shots during some of the more intense fight scenes were interesting enough , except for the final scene , which was ridiculously unrealistic . Also , I don't like being expected to believe that Jet Li , as good of a fighter as he is , could defeat four prison guards while hanging upside down by one leg with his hands shackled together . That's just too much . But despite his mediocre acting , there is something that about him that just makes him interesting to watch . Ironically enough , I particularly liked the street football game he was lured into , where he ended up adding an element of martial arts to the game . True , this scene was thrown in for no reason whatsoever ( in true Big Momma's House form ) , and his moves were obviously faked , but it was just fun to watch . Romeo Must Die takes a tired theme about powerful gangs turning against each other and molds a tired martial arts movie out of it . There's nothing new here except the somewhat interesting but also questionable use of x-ray photography in some of the fight scenes , and yes , someone even manages to say " Guns don't kill people , people kill people . " Thanks for the pearls of wisdom there , Silk . I guess that was their pathetic attempt to justify the excessive violence portrayed in the film . What a joke . The film is watchable , but beware of severe acting and directing mediocrity .
This is a deeply flawed supernatural thriller that has an even shallower version of good vs . evil than Star Wars .	There's a reason that this movie received such bad reviews , and I think that that reason has something to do with the fact that the movie sucked . Granted , there were a few genuine thrills in the film , but as a whole , this disappointing film parallels the insufficiency of other failed supernatural thrillers , like the recent End of Days . Angela Bettis gives a creepy and unattractive performance as Jenna , the drug addicted mother of Cody , the blessed child . The scene when Jenna runs out on Cody early in the film , leaving her with Maggie ( Kim Basinger ) is so badly presented that it gives the illusion that she committed suicide instead of just ran off . The little girl who played Cody as a three year old girl was absolutely adorable , but you have to wonder why such a cute little girl has a terrifying gargoyle just outside her bedroom window . No wonder she's so messed up . While the religious cult trying to utilize Cody's powers for evil is the same old garbage , impressive performances and an interesting subplot save this film from obscurity . Kim Basinger is excellent as Maggie , Cody's aunt and guardian since her ninth day of life , and Jimmy Smits plays the part of the most interesting character in the film ? a former seminary student who decided to join the FBI as another way to fight Satan . Well , he gets his chance with the creepy Eric Stark , leader of a group of Satanists who want to utilize Cody's powers for their own purposes . ( spoilers ) There's nothing new here , and the relationship between Maggie and Cherry ( another good performance from Christina Ricci ) is ridiculously unlikely from the beginning , but at least they were both well acted . Also , one of the film's few real thrills involved Cherry , after having been beaten to death in the subway but a bunch of satanic nuts . I don't care what anyone says , the part where Cherry's head rolls off is a great scare ! There was another good scare that took place in front of the satanic church , but for the most part , the film was a jumbled mess of clichés . Besides that , it seemed like every five minutes , something stupid would happen . The scene where Maggie bursts into Cody's bedroom after hearing her scream from the other room is taken directly from The Exorcist , especially the part where she bursts through the door with a horrified expression on her face . This is blatant plagiarism , but at least it was followed by a sequence in which dreams and reality are effectively confused with each other , and this scene also makes an amusing comment about slow computers . There is a candlelight scene that is fairly effective , but that is ruined by the old Crying Statue trick , and Cody's dumb line , ' She's sad , so sad . She's crying for us . ' The return of Cody's mother when Cody is six years old is just weak scriptwriting , and the whole thing with the gargoyles , while impressive as far as the special effects , may have been a little bit excessive . But the worst things were the continuity errors and logical errors . For example , in the scene before Maggie crashes her car and drops it off of the bridge after being saved by some random hero , she wakes up out of a drugged sleep and she's sitting in a moving car heading the wrong way on a busy road . Clearly the bad guys didn't put her in the car and give it a good push , and it's obvious that SHE didn't drive herself there , so what the hell happened ? Was the car remote controlled ? And how about the scene where Maggie follows Cody as she is led into the dentists office , and when she gets upstairs , the dentist is just finishing ? That is truly some lightning speed dental work . Then you have Maggie and Cody being chased into the subway by one of the creepy Satanists , and as she bangs on the subway door , breaking the glass in frustration , her true form , that of some sort of gargoyle , shows momentarily . If she is some type of demon capable of changing forms , why can't she get onto a freakin ' subway car ? I've complained too much already , I'm not even gonna get started on the mystery of the disappearing police backup . Bless The Child is a run of the mill supernatural thriller with the ever-present religious undertones ( or overtones , in this case ) . The only really interesting thing about the film is the investigation of the murdered children by the FBI , but we already know who the killers are . As a whole , the film is a mess , and the clichés are everywhere . Even the ending , when some Satanist runs up with a knife to kill Cody ( or kill SOMEONE , at least ) , only to stop abruptly in shock when Cody turns around and looks at him . Yawn . And what better way to end a heavily clichéd film than with one more cliché ? ' Are you alright ? ' ' It's alright ? now . ' Even Stigmata was better than this .
What about part II ?	At the end of Texas Chainsaw II , there was something of a variation on the ending of the original film . The girl who spends most of her time trying to escape the family of crazed maniacs with her life ends up holding the chainsaw herself , swinging it around like a lunatic exactly like Leatherface did at the end of the original film , which led me to believe that it would suggest a general direction that the movies would take in any further sequels . Instead , Texas Chainsaw III , one of the more controversial entries in the series , seems to be unaware of its predecessors . I hesitate to condemn the entire film just because it is seriously lacking in the quality department , if only because I watched the ' Making Of ' featurettes on the DVD and found that the cast and crew actually went through some serious trouble getting the thing made , and the cause of a lot of the drops in quality was some things that they had to cut or change in order to get an R rather than X rating . You would think that all they have to do is cut out excessive blood or guts or nudity to tame the rating a bit , but they had to completely change scenes in order for the blasted MPAA to allow them to release it . Wes Craven went through similar troubles in some of his earlier films , like Last House on the Left and The Hills Have Eyes , and when you learn what they deal with it's not so hard to figure out why the MPAA is not popular with horror filmmakers . ( spoilers ) One thing that had to be changed , for example , was the ending . This is why you see a character show up grinning at the end of the film , despite the fact that we watched him get his head chainsawed in half earlier in the movie . Before you yank the DVD out of your DVD player and try to stick it in the wall , take a few minutes to watch the making of documentary , which essentially is 30 minutes of the cast and crew trying to explain why the movie was so bad . One verbose reviewer who calls himself Duke De Mondo writes a hilarious review in which he asserts that the Texas Chainsaw sequels all seem to pay homage to the original film as though it were some kind of urban legend , constantly reshuffling everything except Leatherface , the only character who is expected to be in any Texas Chainsaw movie . Hence , in part III , Leatherface is the only returning character , and as the director explains on the accompanying documentary , everyone else is some sort of surrogate family brought together my similar deviations from sanity . Still a pretty weak explanation for the little blonde girl , I should think . Speaking of which , it should be mentioned that at one point in the film , two people get chainsawed to death minutes apart , and it is not until I saw that little girl standing at the top of the stairs that I was even slightly apprehensive . What is it about little kids that makes them so scary ? It's the worst when they are dressed in cute little outfits that just clash so strongly with their surroundings , like the little girl in this movie or , probably most famously , the twin girls in The Shining , who I still think are some of the creepiest kids ever captured on film . This girl turns out to be an aspiring member of the family , eager for her turn to put the meat hooks and sledge hammers to good use , and who decorates her room not with flowers or Barbie's or anything even remotely pink , but with human bones and skulls , presumably left over from the original Texas Chainsaw and , subsequently , The Hills Have Eyes . And this is to say nothing of her doll . You know , Jodie Foster had to undergo counseling in preparation for her role as a 12-year-old prostitute in Taxi Driver . I really wonder if there were similar concerns for this girl , whose film-making ordeal can't have been much less damaging . As far as the gore , Texas Chainsaw III is famous for being disappointing , but this is explained by the whole ratings fiasco . On the other hand , there was much talk about death scene of the girl who had already been running from the crazed family for five days or so when this movie started . Supposedly she was sawed in half from the stomach up , but this is simply not true , even in the unrated version that I watched . Yes , there is a vast quantity of blood in the scene , and yes , she does get brutally killed with the saw , but no , she does not get sawed in half and then her body peel off in two directions , having been split down the middle . It just doesn't happen . Nevertheless , I should think there is sufficient gore in the movie to satisfy all but the most depraved horror and Chainsaw fans , especially considering the sledge-hammer scene ( which is based on a real police photo of Ed Gein's basement , and is one thing that the movie deserves at least some credit for ) , the above-mentioned chainsaw scene , and the scene where one character gets his head sawed almost in half at the ear level , although , as we later find out , does not kill him . If this is not enough for you , watch Day of the Dead . And if THAT is not enough for you , watch the news . There are plenty of videos coming from al Qaeda that are truly , truly disturbing . Viggo Mortensen , although he almost didn't get the part because his audition just didn't go very well , was outstanding as Tex , who is essentially the character that Matthew McConaughey plays in Texas Chainsaw 4 , which is by leaps and bounds the worst of the series , including the 2003 remake ( which I have not seen at the time of this writing , but it is physically impossible that it was worse than that ridiculous mess ) . There is one scene where Tex nails the heroine's hands to a wooden chair , and then casually asks her how she likes Texas . Pretty disturbing , but it doesn't make you want to slap your forehead , as McConaughey does from start to finish in part 4 . Well , I'm sure she's having a blast , although the movie was filmed in California , incidentally about a 30-minute drive from where I live in Los Angeles . That's bike-riding distance for me . I was also impressed with the heroine in the movie , the obligatory girl who is the last to survive running from Leatherface ( although this movie makes a slight variation on this trend at the end of the film ) . She manages to walk the fine line between sufficiently expressing her terror and not screaming mercilessly to the point where you just want her to get killed so she'll shut the hell up , and that is not an easy line to walk . I hope I'm not being misogynistic , but there is nothing worse in a horror film than the hysterical woman who simply screams and moans and won't respond when someone is trying to help her . I hate that . I have to admit that I was disappointed that the fancy new chainsaw , inscribed with the infamous quote ' The Saw is Family ' and the most famous thing about this movie , was put to so little use . Not only is it not introduced until the majority of the killings are already done with another , much less shiny and interesting , chainsaw . And to make matters worse , not only is it underwater when it does its flesh-hacking ( I guess the ability to run underwater was another of its special features ) , but the one character that it is allowed to sink its teeth into turns up not dead at the end of the film . Disappointing , true , but I have to say that Texas Chainsaw III is one of the better TCM films . Not as good as the original , but as good as the first sequel and light years better than the third sequel .
Hollow Man takes an abundance of fantastic special effects and narrative possibilities and reduces it all to an expensive but cheesy horror movie .	Ever since the original Halloween was released in 1978 , there have been countless imitation films that desperately , although primarily unsuccessfully , attempt to feed off of the success of that film by copying its premise of a faceless and unstoppable killer . In the late 90s , there have been a resurgence of these films , such as the Scream movies , which started off good and then went sharply downhill with each additional sequel , Urban Legend , and I Know What You Did Last Summer ( as well as , God willing , it's only sequel , I Still Know What You Did Two Summers Ago ) . Hollow Man is a film that takes a fantastic premise and reduces it to yet another of these cheap imitation slasher films . Sure , the whole invisible man thing has been done before . Done to death , if you include literary examples . But let's face it , the possibility of human invisibility is one of the most fascinating premises that you can possibly tell a story about . The unfortunate thing about Hollow Man was that no one involved with the making of the movie seemed to realize that . What you have here is the development of an invisibility serum ( as well as a reversing visibility serum ) by a brilliant scientist , who successfully uses it on a gorilla in some of the best special effects scenes to date , and then uses it on himself . Well , of course he uses it on himself , what scientist could possibly resist ? And why would any scientist WANT to resist ? Well , the reason may be that , evidently , invisibility serum turns even the most intelligent scientists into raving madmen . The absolutely infinite amount of possibilities for an invisible character are completely ignored here in favor of turning him into yet another bland faceless killer . This time , we may know who it is that's trying to kill people , but what we don't know is why he completely ignores the outside world . This is the greatest scientific discovery of mankind , and this bonehead decides to use it to become a peeping tom and to spy on his girlfriend . This vast and hugely unfortunate simplification of the potential for the story of an invisible man is both bitterly disappointing and more than a little insulting . As Roger Ebert mentions in his review of Hollow Man , it seems that director Paul Verhoeven , who directed such great films as RoboCop and Total Recall , seems to think that his audience is so intellectually dim that they prefer a mindless killer to the incredibly imaginative villain ( or protagonist ) that Dr . Sebastian Caine could have become . Hollow Man is an absolutely fascinating display of brilliant special effects , which seem to map out internal anatomy just as good as any medical textbook , and is also a great deal of fun as the visible characters desperately try to make Dr . Caine visible again , but it is a dismal failure on the story level . The film starts out with a gigantic amount of intelligence , both that required for the development of an invisibility serum and that involved in the brilliant premise of the story , but winds up in the end as nothing more than yet another mindless thriller , completely lacking in thought and intrigue .
Well , maximum SOMETHING , anyway ?	Maximum Risk was released in 1996 , the year after Species was released and was , if I remember correctly , a huge hit . I was in high school at the time , and I know it was highly popular with my peers , who are clearly the same target audience that director Ringo Lam was shooting for with Maximum Risk . Van Damme lends his cult star power along with Natasha Henstridge ( which the IMDb claims is sometimes credited as " The Chick From Species " ) under the direction of Hong Kong action director Lam and the result is a remarkably bad , by-the-numbers revenge drama . The movie opens with a routine high speed chase that is interesting only because it takes places through tiny alleys in the south of France and ends in a wild jump into oncoming traffic by the man being chased , who is played by Van Damme and who dies before we even see the title of the movie . The last movie that I watched before this one was Universal Soldier , another movie in which Van Damme's character is killing within the first few minutes of the movie , so I was surprised to see it happen again given that this is obviously a very different movie . But if nothing else , the opening chase definitely gets your attention , if only to make you wonder what would make him so desperate to escape from the men chasing him , who turned out to be government agents . But an early death is not the only familiar thing we'll see . Van Damme also plays a double role and spends most of the movie trying to avenge his brother , You see , it seems that there is a French cop who bears an astonishing resemblance to the man killed in the chase , and after some investigation it's revealed that he is a long lost brother . The mother tearfully admits that she had to give up her other son when he was an infant because she couldn't support two children , and never told her other son Alain ( the French police officer ) that he ever had a brother . That's basically the set-up , and Alain drops everything and sets off on a personal quest to find out who his brother was and who killed him and why . This is what leads him to Alex , his dead brother's girlfriend , played by Natasha Henstridge , who surely would never have taken such a ridiculous role had she not been brand new in the movies . This is her second film , and I am at a loss to explain why she would accept such a ludicrous role other than her inexperience in film . Alex is an ex-stripper who is now a waitress for questionable characters ( " less money but more respectable " ) , who doesn't blink when Alain shows up at her work , other than to rush him out because he's not exactly welcome there . He tends to be stone silent when he approaches people who think that he is his brother , but in most cases ultimately he comes right out and tells them , and when he tells Alex , she joins him in his mission . Sadly , there is nothing interesting or original about the movie . Every character is a cliché , good guys or bad . All that's left is Alain's quest to learn about his brother's life and bring his killers to justice , which is honorable but all he can do is spout cheesy lines about how he's not going to rest until his brother's killers are brought to justice . I have said before that Van Damme gets a lot of bad press about his movies , and I think that because of that people often forget that his characters are almost always motivated by very honorable ideas and values . He delivers a good message in a way that very few other action stars do , and unfortunately in Maximum Risk the problem is that it's too obvious and there's not really anything else in the movie to entertain us along the way . James Berardinelli , for example , claims in his review that Van Damme's acting ability " can charitably be described as ' limited , ' " so clearly there can be no satisfactory emotional content in the movie . He's right that Van Damme's acting is often wooden and unconvincing , but dead wrong that he can't do it . Sadly , it wasn't until eight years later , in Wake of Death ( which Berardinelli didn't see ) that Van Damme showed without question that he can definitely convey emotions . WOW . There is the issue that there is no chemistry whatsoever between Van Damme and Henstridge , but a more pressing concern is that she was a man's lover and then , after he was killed , she honored his memory by becoming his twin brother's lover . Is it just me or does something about that just not come off right ? Sort of throws a wet towel over the already boring and routine obligatory ending . Unfortunately , Lam is not the first Hong Kong action director to enter the American market with a Van Damme disaster . John Woo , an occasionally lucky director , also came to America and brought us Hard Target , another of Van Damme's few thorough disappointments . Van Damme is a major action star with genuine talent and appeal , but sadly this movie was worth the time of effort of anyone involved ?
Classic horror , but badly dated .	Carnival of Souls is the kind of title for a movie that really makes you want it to be scary . It's such a good name , especially for this genre , but this version has lost most if not all of its effectiveness since its release in 1962 . The story is about a girl who manages to survive a car crash , and subsequently cuts herself off from other people , taking a job as an organ player at a church , but just as a way to make money . She begins to have creepy visions of a dead looking man who constantly shows up at strange times , and eventually seems to be following her . While the main character , Candace Hilligoss , is surprisingly attractive , the entire film is full of bad acting and even worse script writing . She meets a guy in the home where she is renting a room , and although he is overly insistent , he is always polite to her . Then when she eventually agrees to go out on a date with him , he almost immediately turns into a complete bd . Why would he go to all of that effort to persuade her to spend time with him , and then treat her like crap ? The ghostly visions that she has , in particular , have lost all of their effect . Toward the end of the film , not only does she see dozens of these zombies following her , but she also sees herself as one , which hints to the possibility that this movie might have some meaning beyond just a goofy ghost story . However , probably the main reason that this movie isn't scary is that a lot of the scenes weren't edited very well . There's a scene when Mary ( Hilligoss ) is running from dozens of the zombies , and you can clearly see a huge grin on her face , as if the zombies were a huge group of children who were trying to tickle her . While Carnival of Souls does have a few fairly creepy moments , the film as a whole is a disappointment . The black and white photography is probably one of the best elements of the film , and it does have an interesting soundtrack , but the movie almost entirely lost its impact over the years . And the obscure and confusing ending didn't help much either ?
Species II exists somewhere in what is apparently a barren wasteland between Mission to Mars , Alien , and Terminator 2 .	I quite often see a movie like Species II , which I fully understand is most likely to be an awful movie , and I discover that a lot of people hated it a lot more than I did . On the one hand , sometimes I feel like I am extremely harsh to movies that I can't stand ( read my reviews of Scary Movie 1 , 2 , or 3 , for example ) , but on the other hand , maybe I didn't hate Species II as much as many people because I've seen more bad movies than they have . I have a bad habit of watching movies even if I already know I'm going to hate them ( this is why I've seen Scary Movie , 2 and 3 , for example ) , so this may be why I've been a little bit numbed to idiocy in the movies . I can certainly recognize stupidity at any level when I see it in the movies , and there is plenty of it in Species II , but it takes a lot more than this movie has for me to describe it as the worst movie I've ever seen or a total waste of celluloid or some other such nonsense . It is certainly not , for example , a " grade Z exploitation flick , ripe for the Mystery Science Theatre 3000 treatment . " In a massive lapse of cognitive function , scientists , including Dr . Baker from the 1st movie , have decided to make a clone of Sil , this time named Eve , to study her more extensively than they had the chance last time . They somehow made her more docile and controllable ( although still female ) , and she cooperates with them , suffering through the tests and tortures that she has to endure for them to demonstrate things like her remarkable ability to heal . After one such session , Dr . Baker walks Eve back to her glass holding cell , and Eve tiredly asks Dr . Baker something like , " Why do you do this to me ? " Eve spends her time reading and learning to drive by watching Dukes of Hazzard , her favorite show , when she's not being poked and prodded by people in white coats . The only thing that the scientists seem to remember about Sil from the last movie is her unstoppable sex drive , so men are not allowed anywhere inside the area where she is kept , at least until the end when Dennis Gamble ( Mykelti Williamson ) , one of the men on the mission to Mars casually walks in , walks right up to the glass and tries to flirt with her . Good thing she was unimpressed by his genetic code , otherwise they may have had a serious security breach on their hands . While scientists were busy studying Eve for some kind of weakness that they could use should another , ah , outbreak occur , other scientists are busy successfully completing the first manned mission to Mars . On the way back , there is a lapse of communication for seven minutes , I think , and the next thing you know one of the scientists has been infected with alien DNA , much like the stuff running through Eve's veins . Evidently the smart aliens ( in this series , the ones in space , off-screen , sending intelligent radio signals to earth ) have intercepted the Mars mission and sent a scout back to earth for another shot at those pesky humans . But fear not , it's not long before the slimy monster aliens take over the colonization efforts . Given the feeble plot , it's not hard to see why Species II focuses entirely on the sexual aspect of the alien species . Natasha Henstridge is not most , but ALL of the draw that this movie has , so they have to pander to who they know is in the theaters . And judging from what happens during the movie , most of the people in theaters are adolescent boys who really shouldn't be watching this movie . Okay that was a guess , but while Natasha gets topless for about three seconds , there is still extensive nudity and group sex in the movie , most of which results in bloody birth scenes stolen from the Alien movies , as he steadily compiles a growing herd of offspring . Dennis Gamble , the token black guy and comic relief , has no purpose but to constantly complain that he can never get any booty , until scientists inform him that because he's a carrier of sickle cell anemia , his blood can be used as a weapon against the alien . In the movie's defense , there is a great scene where Patrick Ross , who was infected in space , finally reaches Eve , with whom his hormones have been communicating since he got back to earth , and they have an intense love scene from opposite sides of thick glass . Interesting in that it is a shining moment of skillful acting in an otherwise dreary slog of drivel . Also , I have to admit that I was impressed with the head regeneration scene , but only in the way that I was impressed with many of the special effects in Hollow Man . It was a fascinating thing to watch , despite all the while being very obviously a special effect . If you absolutely loved the first film ( and I mean LOVED it ) , then you may enjoy this one slightly as well . But in the Species series even more than normal , if you didn't like the original you'll hate the sequel . And in some cases , hating this sequel doesn't even require a lukewarm opinion of the original .
Chaplin misses the mark completely ?	Chaplin famously churned out an enormous number of short comedies for Keystone during his first year in the film-making business , and while the majority of them are pretty sad comparisons to the later films that he would become famous for , Cruel , Cruel Love definitely ranks as one of the less memorable . A lot of people complain about these early comedies , no doubt because Chaplin is known as one of the greatest filmmakers of all time and yet the films he made in 1914-1915 are most definitely not the greatest films of all time , but this one gives a clear look at what a lot of people are turned off by . Chaplin does not play the tramp , but some sort of bizarre jerk with a hideous mustache and what appears to be an unenviable future . Like in many of Chaplin's early comedies , this one devolves into a widespread kicking and punching match by the end of the film . This has been going on for months by this point , and I believe that Chaplin was just giving his audience what they wanted at the time , but this is the first time that I have gotten the feeling that he is just running out of ideas . I think Chaplin may have been progressing past what he would later refer to as the good old days when films could just be slapped together in a park , and so he tried to do something different , try on a slightly different characterization for a while , but unfortunately it just doesn't work . The film as a whole comes off as a bit of a disjointed mess , Chaplin makes some faces that I could have gone the rest of my life without ever having seen , and his heart is clearly not in it . Just his feet and his fists .
Hitchcock trying to find his way ?	Rich and Strange seems to have been made during an experimental period in Hitchcock's career , before he discovered and accepted what he was really good at . He had far superior films than this one earlier in his career , so he was no longer learning his craft , but it seems that with this film he tried to do something a little different that just didn't really pan out . A young married couple inherit a significant amount of money and embark on a journey around the world , thinking it will bring excitement and adventure back into their lives and their marriage . Instead , it introduces a myriad of problems into their lives and leads to some incredible situations . The film drags terribly , leading us pointlessly into numerous different relationships , but most importantly , it presents two characters who it is impossible to feel any sympathy for . They are immediately corrupted by their money , turning into callous , pompous pricks , unpleasant in almost every way . Consider , for example , when that poor guy working for the cruise ship tries to come in to their room to clean or offer them something , and they both scream at him to get out . He immediately retreats , terrified . Are these the people in which we are asked to invest our emotions ? No , thanks . But stay tuned , because it was not long at all before Hitch bounced back from this minor letdown .
A huge step down from the original .	Sequels are almost inherently inferior to their original films . The reason that a sequel is ever made is because the original film was a huge success and therefore people want to see more , but at the same time have developed high expectations from the original film , expectations which are rarely if ever completely fulfilled . In my opinion , every sequel has a right not to live up to the original that it followed , but Men In Black II abuses the privilege almost as much as Austin Powers has already done twice so far . Roger Ebert makes an interesting comment in his review of Men In Black II , stating that the original was so enormously successful because it was unexpected and we had not seen anything like it , while the second one is a rehash of the original , and now we HAVE seen something like it . The expected result is that , like the two Austin Powers sequels , what we have here is little more than an extension of the same jokes that we saw in the original film . The entire cast has come back , of course , since this is guaranteed to be a hugely popular film ( although at the same time guaranteed to be an artistic failure ) , and we also see a few more introductions to the cast of actors and artists with flailing careers like Lara Flynn Boyle and even Michael Jackson , who embarrasses himself in the film by playing the part of someone desperately trying to secure himself a position as one of the Men In Black ( ' I can be Agent M ! Pleeeeeeeeeease ? ? ? ' ) . Naturally , everything that got a laugh in the original film is milked to death here , although not entirely without effect . I thought it was really funny when K blows off Jeebs ' head ( feeding off of one of the more amusing scenes from the original during J's introduction to the aliens amongst whom he lives ) , and J asks him how he knew that Jeebs ' head would grow back if his memory had not been restored , and K replies , ' It grows back ? ' Not very creative , but certainly amusing . The movie has its strong points , I am not saying that it was a stone-faced bore , but the problem is that it completely feeds off of whatever was successful about the original film . There is virtually nothing creative presented in this film , it is much talkier and drier than the original and doesn't seem to have a personality of its own . MIB followed an alien disguised as a redneck named Edgar as he tries to get his hands on a galaxy that is small enough to fit on a cat's collar . In the second film , we not only have a charm on a bracelet that is the most sought-after item in the film , but we also catch a couple of overly brief glances at some tiny populations of life forms that are able to fit into an airport locker but are still not able to secure themselves a larger part in this film , which chooses instead to entertain us with a talking dog . How's that again ? Why is it that there were so many interesting creatures in the original film but this one gives us a quick glimpse of some fascinating creatures but then tries to distract us with the talking ( and sometimes singing ) antics of a tiny dog , which had just the right size role in the original film ? Things like this and the fact that the movie had nothing new to add to the Men In Black story bring the quality of MIIB way down , leaving it to tag along behind its predecessor like an annoying little sister . We already know there is going to be a Men In Black III ( hey , if they made a second sequel after the ridiculous Austin Powers 2 ? ) , so we can only hope that the producers and director will take a little more time in deciding how to entertain us and what kinds of life forms to focus on , because this was entirely overlooked in this sequel . Even the enormously sexy Boyle was not comfortable on her role and therefore unconvincing as an alien villain in disguise ( indeed , it was more convincing that the writers were so unconfident in their script that they felt the need to gloss it over with a sexy villain than it was that she was a threat to the MIB ) , and Mr . Smith and Mr . Jones had little to nothing to work with in their roles . There is still something left to be salvaged in the Men In Black story . Like the story for Hollow Man , there are nearly endless possibilities , but they were unfortunately largely ignored in this film . At least it's all uphill from here ?
Kevin Smith's worst movie ever .	( spoilers ) Jason Lee was , by far , the funniest guy in this movie ( followed VERY closely by the small part with Silent Bob and especially Jay ) , as was the case in Mallrats and would have been the case in Clerks , had he been in that movie . Unfortunately , his comedic potential was muted and replaced by intense ( although also fairly amusing , at times ) anger . His high volume obnoxiousness in public places is just as amusing as ever , but the numbing profanity that dominates the majority of his conversations with Holden , his partner in comic book making , is not only not funny but also overly excessive . While the film as a whole is a disappointment ( despite the ending , which almost saved it ) , there were some interesting things in it . Just after Banky ( Lee ) and Holden ( Ben Affleck ) discover Alyssa's sexual orientation , there is a hilarious scene in a bar in which Banky asks Alyssa questions about lesbianism , how two girls can fck , for example . Ben Affleck plays the part of the typical male , who wants to immediately cut off contact with her because he is upset about the fact that she is a lesbian . Nevertheless , he ends up falling in love with her , and while the ensuing love triangle was interesting enough , there was just too much stuff in this movie that was horribly aggravating . And by ' horribly aggravating , ' of course , I mean three things - Joey , Lauren , and Adams . Her nasally performance as the confused Alyssa was mildly annoying at first , as she goofily grinned her way through the first part of the film . This part of the film , which contained the mildly annoying part of her performance , was topped off when she uttered the cheesiest line in the entire movie - ' I'm so in love ! ' Maybe it was just the stupid way that she said it that made it sound so ridiculous . Then , of course , we have the screaming scenes . Hearing Alyssa scream at Holden at the top of her lungs was beyond annoying - this grated on the nerves like a thousand fingers on a thousand chalkboards . And not only was it almost painful to listen to her yell like that , but it just seemed to go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on . Ben Affleck spends the majority of the film pied off , and Jason Lee's comedy skills are tragically under-used because he spends the majority of the film pied off at Holden for even caring about Alyssa , who he calls a ' man hating dyke . ' Fortunately , he often can't help being funny , but Chasing Amy is barely a comedy . This is a twisted romance that is punctuated with explicit profanity and dozens of sexual innuendos , which had a lot of star power but ended up inconclusive anyway . Thank God Jay and Silent Bob showed up , because it's really not until that point in the movie that you really sit up and care about what's about to happen . To make matters worse , Alyssa is constantly spouting pseudo-philosophical nonsense about life - why she's gay , why she chose to make an exception for Holden , etc . While some of it makes sense , trying to find the right person , no matter what their sex , this kind of stuff , especially utilized to such an extent , just doesn't belong in what could have been a great comedy . One thing in Chasing Amy that was fairly interesting ( probably as a result of such a lack of interesting content ) , is its allusions to other films . At east I hope that it's alluding to other films , because if not , then there is some blatant plagiarism here . Of course , there are references to previous Kevin Smith films , both in the comic strip opening sequence as well as at the end when Jay and Silent Bob show up ( ' What took you guys so long , were you at the mall again ? ' ) , but I'm talking about at least one stolen line , and from Jaws , of all places . There is a scene where Banky and Alyssa are comparing cunnilingus scars , and besides the fact that the entire scene can be found in the exact same form in numerous films - such as Lethal Weapon III and , of course , Jaws - there is a point where Alyssa says ( of the scar that Banky had just shown her ) ' I got that beat . I got that beat . ' You remember this as the exact same line spoken by Richard Dreyfuss to Quint , as they were also comparing scars on that boat while they waited for the shark to show up . Needless to say , the quick cameo from Jay and silent Bob was the best part of this movie , and also watch for Matt Damon in an extremely small part . Despite the more well known actors , Chasing Amy doesn't even live up to the modest standards of the two Kevin Smith films that preceded it , both of which were hilarious but plagued with horrendously awful acting . If you're a huge Kevin Smith fan , you may want to watch Chasing Amy , but if not , you may want to steer clear . Either way , though , you're probably headed for bitter disappointment .
A relatively interesting premise , but Final Destination ultimately sinks nearly to the level of the mass of bonehead teen thrillers that have been so prevalent in the 90s .	( spoilers ) Final Destination starts off really well , with our unlikely hero Alex in a great scene where he has a dream that the airplane that he is on with all of his high school friends ( what high school goes to Europe for a senior trip ? ! ) is going to explode upon take off . This is unquestionably the best scene in the film , both for its creativeness as well as its effectiveness . This kid falls asleep on the plane as everyone is boarding ( another common occurrence among high school kids on planes filled with their friends , I'm sure ) , and has a dream about a defective seat back table and a subsequent , and pretty impressive , explosion on the plane that kills everyone . As the plane is going up in flames and people are getting sucked out through the hole in the side of the plane and burning to death and whatnot , Alex wakes up in a cold sweat and a frantic panic . Suddenly back to reality , he climbs over people trying to get back to the seat where his dream takes place , and when he gets there , he finds the same defective seat back table that was in his dream and therefore concludes that it was a clairvoyant dream and starts yelling that the plane is going to explode . Not bad for a movie that doesn't appear to be anything more than the latest teen slasher movie . And to top it all off , the part where the plane actually does explode ( as seen from inside the airport ) , and especially the brief pause before the windows of the airport explode inward as well , is also one of the more satisfying scenes in the film . Unfortunately , it's pretty much all downhill from there . It seems that by avoiding being blown to bits on the plane , the kids who got off ( some whether they liked it or not ) seem to have ' cheated ' Death , and Death doesn't seem to be too happy about it . They are apparently being stalked by Death , as he ( or , more likely , she ) begins killing them one by one in increasingly outlandish and sometimes laughable death scenes . Is this really as original and entertaining as the explosion scene at the beginning of the film ? Probably not . In fact , not even close . A bunch of scared teenagers being killed off one by one . Can you name another movie where this has happened ? Can you really name a horror movie made in the 90s where this HASN'T happened ? On the one hand , you KNOW that nothing like these scenes would ever happen in real life . For the most part , computers that people have in their homes do not have anything in them that would explode if vodka were accidentally spilled into the monitor , and even if there was something like that inside it , it probably wouldn't explode through the screen , the strongest part of the entire thing . I also fail to feel any sympathy for someone who strangles in the bathroom because he thrashed his legs around while hanging by his neck from a cord , kicking his feet everywhere except directly underneath him . Take some knowledge , people ( as this poor guy would have said ) , if you ever find yourself in a similar situation , stand up . It'll save your life . And don't even get me started on the power line at the end of the film that whipped around like a severed worm in fast forward . This is just garbage , couldn't they think of something better than that ? Power lines do not behave like loose fire hoses on full blast when they are cut , they behave like cut cords . Probably the only death scene in the film that was really shocking and impressive ( as well as relieving , given the character ) was the one with the city bus . On the other hand , this stuff does have a sort of purpose . Sure , every death in the film was ludicrous ( even the rather grisly one dealt to Seann William Scott ) , but this gives shape to the character of Death . It's one of the film's good points that the Grim Reaper wasn't personified as a huge shape in a black cloak , stalking the kids and killing them . That would have put Final Destination in the same stagnant pool with all of these other goofy teen slashers and also would have ruined the movie beyond all hope . Instead , we get these outlandish and often ridiculously exaggerated death scenes , so it almost gives the feeling that Death is taking time out of his busy schedule to hand these people their asses personally . As Mallory Knox would say , ' There's no escapin ' here ! ' There are very few interesting things about this movie , other than such things as that you can see Tony Todd , known as virtually nothing other than the Candyman , in a small role as the freakiest mortician on the planet . Also , it's interesting to ponder what would possibly have made Alex so hated and feared for saving those people's lives , especially when he is alienated the most by the very people that he saved . Carter , in particular , develops an unfathomable hatred for Alex that swells to the exploding point . You'd think those jerks would be grateful . At any rate , the film as a whole is entertaining enough , but doesn't make much progress in attempting to elevate itself above the recent abundance of terrible teen thrillers and slasher movies and horror films . It is far above the abysmal level of such messes as I Know What You Did Last Summer and Valentine , as well as hideous spoofs like the Scary Movies , but Final Destination is definitely not meant for a more mature audience . If you decide to watch it , try to enjoy it for what it is , but keep your expectations low .
You almost may as well just try to invent time travel ?	There's nothing more disappointing than a film that doesn't have a thought in its head , so in one sense it's nice to see a movie come along that truly has a significant amount of intelligence behind it , but on the other hand it's also a little off-putting to rent a movie about time travel and discover that it is about as easy to follow , for me , anyway , as your average quantum physics class . Two friends seem to have stumbled over an invention that somehow disconnects objects , so to speak , in that the objects placed inside their invention become unattached to the steadily moving stream of passing time . Such is my understanding , at least . They go about the analysis and investigation of their invention on their own , making new discoveries all along the way without any outside help because they realize that this could be a massive discovery and they don't want to take the lid off of their project before they know what exactly they're dealing with , and they are understandably tired of selling cheap hardware out of their garage to hacker kids for a little extra money on the side . In the movie's defense , the fact that the characters ' communication with each other is limited to tech talk that is barely understandable is in some way acceptable , since the characters don't really understand it a lot more than we are meant to , I won't mind venturing to imagine . One problem I had with the movie was how serious they were whenever they were discussing their project . Not that I want to see them laughing and joking like excited teenagers about the potential of what they may have invented , but watching them in lengthy discussions where they talk so low that it's as if they think the room is tapped gets a little tiring . This is definitely a cleverly written film and there is quite a bit of substance here , but I think the production values and the character performances took away a bit from what the film could really have become . Undeniably fascinating , especially for someone as fascinated with time travel as I am , but I can't help leaving with the feeling that the movie was a little drier and slower than it should have been .
Here's a riddle for you ?	What do you get when you cross John Travolta , the great Samuel L . Jackson , and Die Hard director John McTiernan ? Well , something other than this , I thought . I have a feeling that Basic is going to be remembered more for it's confusing screenplay than anything else . One thing you'll notice is that when you read reviews of Basic , the reviewers seem to have a tendency to write a lot of filler ( kind of like what I'm doing now ) , because the structure of this movie is so confusing and complex that it's so hard to follow what's happening . Structurally , it borrows heavily from Rashomon , an infinitely superior film , in that it tells the same story from different angles , leaving us to probe for the truth . In this element , the movie is highly effective , and it highlights an important truth ? that people have a tendency to believe what they see , and the human mind is set up in such a way that people are inclined to believe what they want to be true . But the problem is that in trying to explore this curious dichotomy the movie becomes confusing and misleading and ultimately you just sit back and let it happen in front of you without feeling at all involved with the story . This is a major problem . The movie doe point out the effectiveness of Hollywood's habit of killing off the black guy first or of making the black guy the bad guy , and also comments on our overwhelming willingness to believe what we see on TV . But worst of all , the movie builds and builds and builds and builds and then ends in what I'll euphemistically call an anti-climactic ending . ( spoilers ) And therein lies the movie's greatest crime . I don't know if they just didn't want to specify one person as the bad guy or if they just couldn't think of a clever ending , but by ending the film with the revelation of it's total falsity it defeats its own purpose , which should have been to promote in the audience the desire to see all sides of a story or event before making decisions about it . This is especially important in a society like ours , because we have a disturbing tendency to jump to conclusions and then use that conclusion to support rash decisions . A military thriller like Basic could have been a great vehicle for promoting investigation and discovery rather than hasty actions based ultimately on ignorance . Unfortunately , by nothing happening at all , the ending completely negates everything we had seen up to that point , leaving the audience with the worst feeling that a movie can give , the feeling that you just wasted 95 minutes . Everyone involved has done better than this . For good military fare , I recommend A Few Good Men , Courage Under Fire , or even the slightly lesser Rules of Engagement . One way or the other , this movie is going to make you feel like you've been tricked .
Back to basics of a whole new kind . . .	My first reaction to the first few minutes of Laid to Rest was that it was a cheap , no-budget horror film typical of the direct-to-video nonsense that you so often see populating the new release wall at the video store . Well , that I remember seeing on the new release wall at the video store , anyway . It's been a couple yeas since I've lived in the states and even longer since Netflix left me with any reason to ever visit a video store , but back in 2004 or so I used to have that monthly no-limit rental service at both Blockbuster and Hollywood Video and for a brief period I tried to keep up with ALL of the new movies , which included this horizonless stream of train wrecks that seemed to come out of nowhere . And in many ways , that's what Laid to Rest is , but in some interesting other ways , it's not . Yeah it's true that the story is a prime example of mind-numbing pointlessness , but it would be a mistake to relegate the thing to the dark world of bottom shelf obscurity . Sort of . You see , there's not a scrap of originality or significance to the movie , but it is a perfect example of something bigger that is happening around us in the movie world at large . 80 years ago , movie-going audiences would have been shocked out of their chairs to see a man and a woman kiss on screen . Hell , 50 years ago they were still pretty uncomfortable with it . 10 years ago , even the most brutally violent horror movies more often than not showed the KILLER during the kill scenes , as movie blood sprayed all over them . Then Scream came along ( by the way , true story ? just this second I mis-typed " Scream " and it accidentally came out " Scarem . " Interesting . ) and we saw the hugely famous Drew Barrymore get stabbed in the chest in the opening scene . No cutaway or anything , remember that ? The movie briefly goes into slow motion and audiences the world over were shocked that we were actually looking at this knife going into this girl's chest . I'd been watching scary movies for years by that point and even I was pretty amazed . Strangely , to this day it is still a scene that makes me a little uncomfortable . Now , on the other hand , such a thing is as tame as those monster movies that had people jumping out of their chairs in the 1950s , so we get movies like Laid to Rest which , if you were to show it to some of those audiences , would probably flood the theaters with heart attack victims . There is no cutting away here , man . Not by a long shot and it's going to be a pretty good idea for you to be well aware of that before you start watching it . Such a movie could never be released in wide theatrical release , you understand , but that's the huge shift that's taking place in the movie world right now . Making movies is getting easier , nearly to the point where any jerk with a camera and a computer can get a movie made as long as he can find someone to distribute it . Of course , it's to be expected that these movies are almost uniformly awful , and Laid to Rest is a prime example . It's pretty bad , but these things are getting better and they're only going to continue to get better as people learn to make better and better movies with simpler equipment , at which point the direct-to - video market will grow and improve , and the important thing is that all of this will happen beyond the grasp of the censorship-happy MPAA . The result , of course , is that we get movies like Laid to Rest which feature nothing but the grotesque developments of pushing the violence envelope , which is really all that this movie does . Like literally . The movie has absolutely nothing to it except violence , which is why all this stuff about the MPAA came to my mind . There is no backstory to the killer in the movie whatsoever , or really any backstory to the story itself . Some big-breasted brunette wakes up in a closed casket , no idea who she is or why she's there . She manages to knock the thing over and escape , but before she gets out of the funeral home she witnesses a man wearing a chrome skull mask brutally kill another man , and then the killer comes after her . Why does he want to kill her ? Who knows ? Who cares ? Any explanation would just waste time . We understand that this is a slasher movie , and this particular slasher movie has no interest in such time-wasting things as character depth or coherent story structure . The important thing is that for the rest of the movie he relentlessly pursues her , viciously killing anyone who gets in his way with a serrated , double-edged knife . Gore hounds will be highly impressed , as the movie is astonishingly and graphically bloody . We get sustained shots of the killer sawing away at various body parts , and one scene where we the central cast pops the lids off of a succession of coffins , revealing some of the killer's past kills , which he has taken the time to save , for future reference , let's say . I won't go into any details about the state of the victims in the coffins , let's just say that they are one of many reasons that the movie is not for the faint of heart , or the squeamish , or really anyone who , for example , would feel some hesitation at taking up the opportunity to do a little dissecting work on a human cadaver . But the rest of you are going to love it ?
Why can't people wish right ?	This episode reminded me of that half-assed remake of Bedazzled with Brendan Fraser and Elizabeth Hurley . Remember that ? He would make wishes and something would go wrong and he would make another wish , overcorrecting his mistake in the last wish in the most spectacular fashion . I seem to remember Fraser's character wishing , for example , at one point to be the most emotionally sensitive man on earth . What ? Why ? Can he not see that that wish can't possibly go right ? Anyway , it's the same problem in this episode . Arthur and Edna Castle own an antiques shop and are experiencing tremendous financial difficulties , until one day a poor woman comes in to sell them an old bottle which looks like garbage but which she claims to be a family heirloom . Out of the goodness of his heart , Arthur gives the woman a dollar , but later breaks the bottle in frustration , releasing a genie . I've always dreamed of this happening to me and I've thought countless times about what kinds of wishes I would make , which is why it's so hard to watch someone make such dumb wishes as Arthur does in the movie . First of all , in order to find out of the genie is for real or not , he wishes for a pane of glass in his counter to be fixed , and poof , it happens . He's incredulous that it worked , and I was incredulous that he would throw away one of his wishes like that . Real or not , you might as well find out by wishing for something good , right ? Anyway , the genie warns him to be careful what he wishes for , because there are always consequences . Arthur is unconcerned , and places a seemingly safe wish - for one million dollars . Sadly , it turns out that in the early 1960s , the government took what I believe was just over 94 % of prize money , so after giving away tens of thousands of dollars , Arhtur and Edna find themselves with $5 left and still the mountain of debt piled on them . Having spent two of his four wishes now and instead of wishing for something safe , like $10 million tax free or his debt to be wiped away , he makes the astonishingly foolish wish to be the leader of a country who can't be voted out of office . What are you thinking Arthur ! ? ? ! The wish is so foolish that he deserves for his wishes ultimately to be wasted , although this feeling that he deserves what he gets cancels out the show's message , which is to be careful what you wish for , and also to take note of how lucky you are . Things could always be worse . In Arthur's case , he's struggling but ultimately learns that things aren't so bad . Before he met the genie , for example , he didn't have to live with the knowledge that he had been handed an opportunity to turn his and his wife's lives around but blew it completely . Note - if you ever find yourself in a situation where a genie comes out of a bottle and offers you three wishes but warns you of the consequences , just so you know , here are exactly the words you should say : " I wish for a clearly typed note on standard notebook paper , listing the three best and safest wishes that I , ( insert your name here ) , can make . " And for those of you in the screen writing business , if you're interested in an actual challenge , feel free to make another genie show using that one !
Works well enough . . .	I have noticed on the IMDb review boards that this is one of the less popular twilight zone episodes . I agree with certain aspects , it's shot on video and comes with all of the limitations that that implies , the set looks cheap and the story is hardly the most interesting thing in the world , but it was interesting enough , at least in that it seems now that Liar Liar may very well be a total rip off of this single episode . If you can watch this movie and not think about Jim Carrey then you must not have seen the movie . In the show's defense , this one paints a much clearer picture of the society into which it was released , in it's suggestion that all car salesmen and politicians are liars ( this doesn't seem to have changed much ) , but particularly in the ending of the show , which will now be lost on the majority of modern audiences unless they are more familiar with American history than , sadly , most Americans are . The show was released on the same day that Kennedy was inaugurated , giving it that strange feel that sometimes happens when imagining the normalcy that was taking place just before a national tragedy , although I have to imagine that at the time it must have felt just a bit like some political preachiness . This is one of the simpler twilight zone episodes in almost every way , but the story moves along well enough despite it's relative lack of creativity , and the performances are satisfactory . It's not the best episode , obviously , but I have to say that you should be able to tell without even seeing it that the hugely negative reviews here on our beloved IMDb are blowing the drawbacks out of proportion . . .
Dumbest super-genius criminals ever . . .	I think the whole " million dollars worth of gold " argument is not necessarily important . I agree that it's the dollar that loses value and not gold ( and even now the manufacturing of gold seems a little too far-fetched even for the twilight zone , although if any society would manufacture one of the world's most valuable precious metals into worthlessness , it would be America ) , but the main problem is the mean guy , the " mastermind " of the whole scheme , displays incredible brilliance in planning and pulling off the suspended animation , and then for some reason seems to wake up afterwards with the IQ of a raisin . The plan - hijack a train in the modern day , 1961 , use a special gas to put all of the passengers and crew to sleep while they help themselves to the cargo of gold bullion , hide the bullion in a cave and then put themselves into suspended animation for 100 years while they let the whole crime blow over . Surprisingly enough , I had no problem with the whole suspended animation thing . I was a little dismayed at first that they were going to ask us to believe that these guys could put themselves to sleep for 100 years in a bunch of plexiglass boxes in a cave in the middle of the desert , but the use of the air locks and the special gas made it believable enough for me . But for me , the episode just falls apart after they wake up . We'll forget about the fact that the gas is miraculously able to cake them up not only 100 years later but within seconds of each other . The problem is the behavior of the characters . Farwell is the ringleader of the group , the designer of the gas and the planner of the massive heist itself , but as soon as they wake up in the future , he immediately and stupidly ruins his own plan . First of all , I'd like to know what manufacturer was making trucks in the early 1960s that could sit for 100 years and then start right up , but failing that , I'd like to know why this guy chose to deliberately destroy it , stranding him and his last remaining cohort in the middle of the desert with tons of gold . I am of the opinion that you can't hit an able-bodied person with a car or truck ( especially a hundred year old one ) in a wide open area at close range , especially with as much warning as the guy in the show had and as many huge rock outcroppings as he had to hide behind . Farwell made a enormously blunderous attempt to kill one of his fellow criminals due to some trust issues , leaving him and the last guy , De Cruz , with no option but to carry their gold to the closest town . And sadly , that's still not the stupidest thing this guy did . Later down the road , he apparently left his canteen full of water behind during one of their rest stops . Who leaves their canteen behind while wandering through the desert ? Maybe he was just not concerned about water . De Cruz certainly isn't , as he gleefully sells drinks of water to Farwell for the price of one gold bar . He thinks he's all clever , not realizing ( despite having been carrying them for so long ) how heavy gold is . Personally , my growing load of gold would be just as worrisome to me as my diminishing supply of water . That canteen wouldn't have lasted the two of them an hour in that sun . There is a clever and interesting twist at the end , although not one that has any basis in reality , but it's okay because it doesn't need to be based in reality . In time travel stories , the future is infinitely more difficult to portray than the past , for obvious reasons , and even though the only really futuristic thing we see is a car , it's pretty impressive , even for the time period . This is a fun episode with high entertainment value and some valuable and insightful commentary about materialistic greed , but the sheer dumbness of some of the characters takes away from the episode quite a bit . Note : be sure to catch Serling's introduction of next week's story at the end of this episode , after which he does a clownish plug for a brand of cigarettes called Oasis ( notably long since out of business ) . It's interesting to consider the difference between then , when such a product advertisement would be acceptable on a family TV show , and now , when the producers and television station and whoever else would be saddled with massive fines , as well as the advertiser ( host and subject ) suffering tremendous reputation damage . But hey , with the corporate sponsors , maybe now they can afford to stop shooting the episodes on videotape ?
A feast for lovers of abstract art , but others may find it to be too much of a bad thing .	Magnolia had the potential to be a very good movie , and in most ways it was . It opened with a fascinating feature of seemingly impossible coincidences , and as it progressed the viewer realizes that the many separate stories within the film itself come together in amazing ways . In this way it delivered spectacularly on its already defined premise , but to the average movie-goer , there may have been too much intense and confusing emotional turmoil within the rest of the film . Virtually every single character displayed a lengthy crying scene , and while the characters personalities were very well portrayed , three hours may prove to many people to be too long to watch so much negative emotion . Keep in mind that 67 % of people surveyed ( according to Edwards Cinemas here in Fresno ) believe that the most important reason to go to the movies is " to laugh . " The ending of the movie was in my opinion the best part . I won't describe what happened in case people who haven't seen it may be reading this , but keep in mind that it is well worth sitting through the other three hours of the film . I think the first half hour and the last half hour were absolutely the best parts of this film , but the two hours in between could have benefited very much from a little editing . As it stands , I give it six stars , but hey , maybe I was too tired to give it a fair chance , it was my fifth movie of the day after all . . .
Not very enlightening ?	Making the Earth Stand Still is a clever title for a documentary about this movie , and I can see why they would want to give this documentary that name despite the fact that it is not at all about making the Earth Stand Still . A more accurate title would have been Making " The Day the Earth Stood Still , " or , even more accurately , Remembering The Day the Earth Stood Still . If you are looking to see what kinds of techniques went into creating the effects seen in the 1951 science fiction classic , as I was , I would advise against spending two solid hours watching this documentary , because probably less than five minutes of screen time are spent on the subject . Even more oddly , the back of the DVD case lists as a special feature a " 70-Minute ' Making the Earth Stand Still ' Documentary , " which is off the mark by a good 50 minutes . I've never seen that happen before . The odd thing here is that I loved the movie and I respect this documentary for what it is , but it's really nothing more than the director and major surviving cast and crew talking about their experiences in making the movie , as well as great details about the events leading to production , where the title came from , reactions to the public reception , etc . These are all interesting things and I respect the massive achievements that can be seen in the film , but I really wanted to see how they made the earth stand still , what cinematic tricks were used , etc . I guess I just think that The Day the Earth Stood Still deserves a better documentary to accompany it on the Studio Classics DVD , which brings me to my next point . My biggest problem with this documentary is that it is unbelievably badly made , and at some points even depressing . Billy Gray , the man who played the young boy in the movie , provides an interview in which he talks about his experience on The Day the Earth Stood Still almost as if nothing important happened in his life since then , which may or may not be true , but his interview is pretty depressing . It seemed to me that he remembered making the movie with a profound sadness , manifested in his wish that he still had some of the diamonds used in the movie . Julian Blaustein , who seems to be suffering from the physical effects of a stroke or an aneurysm ( since I've seen similar features in my grandmother , who suffered a stroke not long ago ) , is lit so incompetently that not only does he appears completely washed out because of the harsh light , but his eyes even look like they're two different colors . Such bungling ineptitude associated with such a wonderful film is disturbing indeed . What lunatic did that lighting setup ? And what lunatic shot it ? That massive overexposure with the lights could have been easily fixed by adjusting the exposure on the camera . Even the editor could have cleaned it up quite a bit . This movie and the people involved with it certainly deserve better . On an informational level the documentary is great , but as I've mentioned , it is a technical disaster ; it doesn't even end , it just eventually stops abruptly . There are a great variety of things covered that were highly entertaining , but for a documentary titled Making the Earth Stand Still , some time had to be spent on the actual physical making of the movie , which was almost completely ignored . I don't think I would complain about it quite this much if not for the title and , even worse , the fact that at the end of the documentary we are treated to 20 minutes of people talking about their collections of The Day the Earth Stood Still memorabilia . There is , of course , nothing wrong with memorabilia . I was completely fascinated with the coverage of what happened to the prop used as the time machine in the 1962 version of H . G . Wells ' The Time Machine , which featured a similar documentary on the DVD , but that documentary didn't waste as much time as this one does . It doesn't present the information that the title suggests , and it spends too much time on something that deserves much less , if any . " The Collectors " portion of this documentary should have been a separate video on the DVD , in which case it could have been as long as they wanted to make it . I appreciate the documentary as far as giving a good look inside the heads of the filmmakers and much of the cast , as well as valuable insights into what was going on in the world at the time the movie was released . There are some wonderful stories about the prop used as the spaceship as well as the iron man , which was a statue in some scenes and a hulking costume worn by a man more than 7 ½ feet tall in other scenes , and there are some wonderful stories about that . It is a good series of stories told about the making of the movie , but it is not at all a documentary on how the earth was made to stand still .
Not quite as good as part III , but Bloodline is still a relatively watchable installment in the hugely successful Hellraiser series .	The year is 2127 , and a descendent of the maker of the box that opens the gate to Hell is trying to figure out a way to open the box and trap the demons that come out of Hell . He has commandeered a space station ( that he himself designed ) for this task . He opens the box , lets the demons out , and is detained ( people begin to investigate his questionable behavior on the ship ) before he can capture them . Almost the entire film is told in the form of a story which he tells the people holding him , in an effort to get them to let him go so he can finish his work . Needless to say , it takes a lot of gory deaths to convince them . There is a small bit of tension created by the fact that the entire time he is telling the guards what is going on , the Cenobites are out and are on the ship . However , this is largely forgotten about for the majority of the film because so much of it takes place in 18th century France , the time when the box was created . Basically , some toymaker makes the box , opens it , demons show up , and they terrorize his family for generations . You'd think they'd be grateful because he let them out into the world of the living . Anyway , the guy in 2127 has taken upon himself the task of building a NEW box that will be sort of an antidote to the first box , one that is designed so that it can actually trap LIGHT inside . It's an interesting enough story , and it was actually fairly entertaining , but the film itself was still somewhat lacking . The acting was pretty bad ( but at least Ashley Laurence was blissfully absent again ) , and there wasn't much effort put into the directing . The movement back and forth from the distant future to the distant past was also a bit detrimental at times to the tension of the story , but luckily the film did present a few cool new cenobites ( one that was satisfactorily created out of a couple of idiot security guards ) , and Bloodline also displayed probably one of Pinhead's best performances ever . I would say that Bloodline is more of an informational movie than a good Hellraiser movie . While it is interesting to watch , it is almost more informational than entertaining . So even though the movie itself may have been disappointing , I think that it is a good addition to the series as a whole . It works better within the Hellraiser series than it does by itself .
Undeniably skilled filmmaking , but the movie doesn't know where it's going .	Legally Blonde is obviously one of those silly comedies in the tradition of the much better Clueless ( what with all of the air headed blondes and big lawyers ) , but the film really loses its way in the final act . Elle Woods , a cutesy sorority president at the charmingly named CULA ( real creative name , guys ) , is jilted by her boyfriend when he breaks up with her on the night that she thinks that he's going to propose to her . He arrogantly tells her that he needs to find someone more serious , basically telling her that he is more interested in finding someone that will help him further his career than he is in marrying someone who loves him . Elle goes through a period of boyfriend mourning , and then decides that she'll follow him and go to Harvard Law school ( ' What , like it's hard ? ' ) to prove to him ( and the audience ) that she really does have a brain underneath all of that fluffy pink exterior . Her acceptance is barely , but successfully , made moderately believable , and she's off to Harvard in her Porsche Boxter and with her tiny tiny dog . As is to be expected , she encounters significant difficulties at Harvard because no one there takes her seriously , because she is obviously not one of the ' intellectual ' types that are commonly seen there . It turns out that her plans to win back her boyfriend , Warner , have backfired , because he has already gotten back together with an ex-girlfriend by the time Elle gets to Harvard , and this is when we really know that Warner will not be a part of Elle's future . His new girlfriend Vivian ( played by Selma Blair , who we remember from a significantly different role in Cruel Intentions ) , treats her no differently that many of her professor's treat her , as a dumb blonde who doesn't belong at Harvard . As a Harvard Law School graduate , I can completely understand the troubles that she is going through , because it is an intensely intellectual school ( disclaimer : I never went to Harvard Law ) . Elle deals with all of her problems at Harvard by keeping in touch with her air headed bimbo buddies from back at CULA ( I never went to UCLA either , but I've been there enough times to know that this really is what a good portion of the female population looks like at that school ) , as well as by forming a heart warming friendship with Stifler's mom ( ' Bend ? and SNAP ! ' ) . The overall plot is not really something to complain about . It's the same old underdog coming out on top premise , but Reese Witherspoon fits her role perfectly and there is plenty of comic relief to keep it moving and to keep you entertained . ( spoilers ) The part where the film really goes wrong is with the trial at the end of the film . It's great to see the progress that Elle makes during the case , but the outcome completely contradicts the rest of the film . There were some hilarious cross-examinations ( ' You bitch ! ' ) on the stand , but the end is awful . We spend the entire film watching Elle struggle through law school trying to prove to everyone , including her parents , that she has the mental capacity to get through it , but in the end , it is her knowledge of the beauty salon that comes to the rescue to help her win the case . Her entire speech as she is cross-examining the murder victim's daughter consists of little to no legal jargon whatsoever . Any ditz straight out of the hair salon could have convicted that woman . It's too bad that the movie got so lost at the end , because it was otherwise a very entertaining comedy . Elle is never for a second made into a believable lawyer OR law student ( the scene where she pretends to be Paulette's attorney in order to get her dog back , in which she spouts legal mumbo jumbo that she clearly doesn't understand , certainly doesn't help either ) , and we're left with a film that amused us for an hour and a half but didn't really do anything . We can only hope that the guilty party in any trial that Elle conducts in the future makes a mistake in commiting their crime that involves some sort of cosmetic augmentation that Elle can latch on to and use to solve the case , because the one we saw at the end of the film was , as they say , dumb luck .
Visually , Titanic was a stunning masterpiece , but the story and the acting were mediocre and sometimes just outright bad .	At first glance , Titanic is an epic film . The scenery and cinematogrpahy are spectacular , and it is just a beautifully photographed movie . However , when you look past the superficial beauty of the film , much like Armageddon , its numerous shortcomings become clear . First of all , Titanic suffered badly from the transition from the big screen to video . This took away a lot of the hugeness of the film , and this inadvertently places more attention on the story and the acting , both of which were the biggest problems with the film . I went to see this movie to see the sinking of the Titanic , not to see some elaborately fabricated love story . Titanic is a landmark film as a result of the sinking of the ship and the fact that it inexplicably turned out to be such a huge moneymaker . There is absolutely nothing great about the acting , the story is nothing that hasn't been seen dozens of times before , and the directing is awkward , probably due to the fact that James Cameron , who is an excellent director , is so used to directing the Frankenstein-like Schwarzenegger as the Terminator . This is not to say that the directing was bad , it wasn't at all , but there is nothing special to be said about the directing because James Cameron is not really a director of this type of film . Kate Winslet was beautiful in Titanic . She delivered a wonderful performance in the film and was very convincing , as was Kathy Bates ( as always ) and even Billy Zane . I normally don't like him , but he was playing a dislikeable character , which is probably why I enjoyed his performance so much . Leonardo DiCaprio , however , delivered the worst performance of his career . If you want to see him really act , watch The Basketball Diaries or , even better , The Beach . Titanic is a beautifully made film . It suffered in the story and the acting departments , but it is an entertaining and easy to watch movie . It was not , however , the best picture of 1997 . Not even close . There were probably 20 movies that were released in 1997 that were better than Titanic , but the Oscar's wouldn't have gained as much public support had they not given the Oscar to Titanic . It was a quality film , but don't be fooled by all of the hype .
Fun morality play , but stops making sense near the end ?	Two small time crooks , Chester and Paula , root through their latest haul in a shabby hotel room , lamenting the worthlessness of it all , until one of them stumbles upon one of their stolen items , a seemingly ancient and valueless camera without any apparent place to open it and put film in or take it out . They soon learn that the camera takes pictures of 5 minutes in the future , and do what any small time crook would do , they go to the races . It seems strange that they could go to the horse races and take pictures of the scoreboard and bet on the winners over and over without attracting any attention , but soon they find themselves with a huge pile of cash back at the hotel room , and then everything starts going wrong . Adam Williams plays the part of Woodward , Paula's escaped con brother , possibly the dumbest character ever presented on the twilight zone . Soon a Frenchman shows up in their room and notices that the camera says , in French , that it only allows 10 pictures per owner , providing Rod Serling with a great opportunity to make one of his exploratory statements about the human psyche . Obviously , the only thing on the crooks ' mind is greed , but Serling doesn't seem to know where else to go with this message . The Frenchman gives us an antagonist to our antagonists , plotting to steal the money that they won unfairly and unsquarely . But the ending of the episode is just too goofy to take seriously , even for a twilight zone episode . After learning that the camera only takes ten pictures per owner , rather than consider the possibility of each of them taking turns being the owner ( and thus getting at least another 22 pictures out of it ) , Chester and Woodward start fighting over it and end up falling out the window to the ground below . Paula gives a weak attempt at grief until she realizes that now all of their prize money is hers to keep , and just for the hell of it , looks out the window and takes a picture of her brother and husband dead on the ground below . What the hell ? Not only does she waste one of the two pictures left , but she takes a picture of something that surely she would never want to see in the first place . But soon we realize that this is crucial to the plot , as the Frenchman immediately shows up ad calmly begins collecting the money , since he has an airtight insurance against her telling the police , as this would put her in a , ah , fantastic plight . He tells her that there are not just two bodies in the picture that the camera spit out after she snapped one out the window , and rather than going to look at it , she runs to the window with enough velocity to trip and fling herself out the window to the ground below . Come ON . I can accept Chester and Woodward falling out the window while fighting over the camera , and I can accept Paula getting over their deaths immediately , as soon as she realizes that now all the money is hers , but then the Frenchman shows up and not only doesn't notice that there are four bodies in the photo that Paula took out the window and not three , but she manages to accidentally fall out the window herself . Now , at this point , it's getting difficult enough to believe , but then the guy notices that , wait ! There aren't three bodies , there are four ! Oh no ! ! The camera then pans away and we hear the sound of the Frenchman falling out the window too . I'm guess we panned away because they had run out of ideas for how four people could accidentally fall out of the same window within a few minutes of each other . The moral of the episode is clear enough , and it is an entertaining episode , but definitely has far more ' oh please ' moments than I have come to expect from your typical twilight zone episode .
Good action , good acting , idiotic one-liners , a bonehead story , and James Bond at his most reckless .	( spoilers ) The traditional opening sequence of Tomorrow Never Dies is excellent . Especially when compared to the horrendous opening of the awful film that followed this one , The World Is Not Enough . When we see James Bond steal the bombs from the Nuclear Arms Bazaar in Russia , overcoming every obstacle ( including an overdone gunfight ) , we expect an awesome film to follow , but to a large extent we are disappointed . I'm willing to accept the suggestion that a fighter jet could be piloted , at least temporarily , with the knees , if the pilots hands are busy trying to prevent the co-pilot from strangling him . I actually liked that scene , but for him to also be able to fly right underneath another jet ( I won't even go into the fact that the pilot of the other jet didn't seem to notice this ) and eject the co-pilot into the co-pilot seat of the other jet , thus blowing it up , is just too far . Still , the opening scene , ending with Bond victoriously asking where the recovered bombs should be delivered , leaves the audience with a smile and the hopes of a quality action film to follow . The story involves a high-powered media mogul who intends to instigate World War III in order to boost his ratings and make him ridiculously rich . Although , from the looks of his ? office , ' he already IS ridiculously rich . No , this isn't original at all , but at least the scriptwriters were courteous enough to put the quote that they stole and made a movie out of right into the dialogue ( William Randolph Hearst once said , ' You provide the pictures , I'll provide the war . ' ) . There you have the entire plot of the film . The famous quote ' Good news is no news ' is another stolen item that can be found in Tomorrow Never Dies , thinly disguised in the clichéd line , ' There's no news like bad news . ' As Bond first takes on his mission impossible , there is a good scene where he introduces himself as a banker to Mr . and Mrs . Elliott Carver ( the offending media mogul and one of Bond's own past lovers , respectively ) , but he revealed himself far too soon when he not so subtly make a comment about Carver's crimes . Sure , they have to get the movie going , but if he hadn't been so ham-handed in that scene , he might not have wound up in that sound proof room . Speaking of which , Elliott Carver , the media mogul , makes an extremely unimaginative villain for this 007 installation , and although he seems effective enough at first , he soon reduces himself to an annoying character who badly misuses his own power , leading to his own violent death in the spinning wheels of the horrendous exaggeration that was one of the tools he used to instigate his artificial war . Probably the best part of this whole movie is the unintentional comic relief . As I watched Tomorrow Never Dies , I found that I burst out laughing more often than I found myself on the edge of my seat . When Bond parks his car in the parking structure , after having stolen the decoder device , a bunch of bad guys arrive , tow truck and all , to break into the car and retrieve the decoder . It was funny enough when one of them tried the door handle , only to be given an electric shock , but when another one of them tried the other side , with the same result , I found myself in hysterics ! And then , just to make sure that Tomorrow Never Dies is not confused with an action movie that is to be taken seriously , a THIRD guy tries the door , receiving the obvious electric shock , after sledge hammers and machine guns had failed to provide entrance to the car . Which is weird , because the windows were shot out readily enough in the car chase that soon followed which was , by the way , the best action sequence in the entire movie . This is more of an action comedy than anything that Jackie Chan or Chris Tucker have ever done . The murders that James Bond commits in Tomorrow Never Dies are also fairly uncharacteristic . While they were stealing quotes to form the foundation of this film , one of the writers should have added in Arnold Schwarzenegger's line from True Lies , ' Yeah , but they were all bad . ' Bond drops a guy into the spinning gears at a Carver newspaper press , with bloody results ( and the obligatory cheesy one liner ? ' They'll print anything these days . ' ) , he shoots a guy in the face at point blank range , and he moronically endangers the lives of innocent people as he drives his car , remote controlled , of course , through the wall on the roof of a parking structure , raining large chunks of asphalt and a huge chunk of BMW down on the sidewalk below . The scenes that were more or less done right were very rare but it was good to see some miniscule bit of realism allowed into this otherwise extremely unrealistic movie . The car chase scene where Bond drives from the backseat was hideously exaggerated but it was also effective . The skydiving wasn't completely screwed up like it was in movies like Drop Zone and Moonraker , but it was still badly flawed . There needs to be a little more thought put into these movies , because even if James Bond is enough of a badass to ride a motorcycle ( BMW , of course , this IS a 2 hour commercial , after all ) like it had wings , no helicopter in the world can fly nearly inverted like the one near the end of the film did . But this is just the kind of nonsense that is commonplace in 007 movies , and after Tomorrow Never Dies , the James Bond creators manage once again to slap world audiences in the face and the wallet with another idiotic action epic , The World Is Not Enough , which comes off even worse than this installment .
The bad parts are pretty bad , but the good parts are creepy as hell .	This made for TV horror thriller is a lot better than it's ridiculous title would have you believe , which is really saying something since the title is actually a pretty apt description of what goes on in the movie . It starts out with a girl acting really strangely , running away something that isn't identified and then turning up dead . Her sister doesn't accept the police's quick decision to label it a suicide and close the case . Surely there is plenty of evidence to suggest that they are right , but then again , they don't take supernatural explanations into account so her sister Elizabeth decides to take the investigation into her own hands . Suspicious that the girl's school that her sister attended at the time of her death may have had something to do with what happened to her , Elizabeth enrolls into the school to do some investigating of her own . I don't know how fresh the idea of that premise was in 1973 , but it works pretty well here . There are some slip-ups , like when Elizabeth meets the Head Mistress for an interview and spouts some nonsense like " Picasso was a realist painter before he was an impressionist . " Not that I don't accept that someone her age would have any knowledge about that ( it is , after all , not exactly the kind of knowledge reserved for geniuses ) , it's just that it's so out of place in this movie . I guess I should respect such an attempt at three dimensional characterization though . Horror movies are , after all , historically lacking in this area . I got Satan's School for Girls on a 10-movie collection that I bought for $15 , since I have something of a love of old , crappy horror movies ( and you can't beat that price ! ) , otherwise I would never have seen it . To be sure , this is one of those movies that is actually worth watching but has a title that is incredibly efficient in making people want to see it . Who would want to watch a movie with a title like this ? I imagine that's part of the reason that the remake with Shannon Dougherty came and went instantaneously with little to no attention . And this really is unfortunate , because the movie certainly has some tense moments . The scene where Elizabeth goes searching the basement for the room where the painting of her sister took place is wonderfully creepy . Even that painting itself is a great prop . The psychology teacher in the movie is a little too obvious . I think it's safe to say that no character should ever act as evil or nutty as this guy did . When he's not threatening girls with a huge knife he's making rats go insane in his lab . This guy can NOT be well balanced . It actually is a pretty clever technique to have designed the cavernous basement like the rat maze in his classroom , but if the person acting insane turns out to be the bad guy then the movie is too predictable , and if they turn out to be completely innocent then it becomes too clear that the movie was trying to deliberately lead you in the wrong direction , which in turn requires a Scooby-Doo ending because they need to explain why we were wrong the whole time in thinking exactly what they wanted us to think . The movie takes something of a downturn in the third act , as the cheesy acting starts to tip the scales against the creepy atmosphere , which is no longer creepy enough to justify overlooking how bad the acting is . There is a ludicrous scene where the professor can't get out of a pond because there are girls all around him poking him with sticks . If they had established earlier on that he can't swim , fine , but any warm-blooded human being , man or woman , would have simply grabbed onto the first stick that poked him or her and yanked the girl holding it right into the pond . It would not be hard to do , obviously . But there I go nitpicking . I just have a hard time with scenes like that . It's like when someone takes a person hostage , holding a gun to their head while the whole police force stands with their guns aimed , and they all drop their guns like incompetent morons . In all my years of movie watching , only twice have I seen anybody acknowledge how effective it would be to just shoot the guy ( one was RoboCop , and the other was Charlie Sheen in Navy Seals ) . You wouldn't even have to kill him , Shooting the gunman in the arm would usually not endanger the victim at all and would completely incapacitate the gunman from being able to fire . There I go nitpicking AGAIN . Stop me next time , will you ? I don't remember there being any shooting in Satan's School for Girls ( although there is a gun ) , and there is little to no gore either , the movie is almost solely driven by its atmosphere , which most of the time is not very effective but a few times is VERY effective . For 70s horror , this is definitely one of the better ones ( excluding the giants , like The Exorcist , which are , of course , in a class all their own ) . Certainly worth seeing for horror buffs .
Not original in the slightest sense of the word , but good acting and entertaining comedy make this weak story at least a little bit better .	The Replacements , as I am sure hundreds of people have noted already , is yet another football movie . There have been only a few football movies which were very well made and resulted in quality films ( Unnecessary Roughness was fairly well-done , and especially The Program , probably one of the best ) , but it seemed that The Replacements was an effort to either revive that genre ( which is pretty much worn out ) or to cash in on its past success . The story is loosely based on and an updated version of the 1987 pro-football strike ( I doubt that the bullet riddled Porsche was a 1987 model ) , but the majority of the film is made up of an unimaginative story about " replacement players . " Almost the entire movie was put together using scenes that were disturbingly familiar to scenes from other films . For example , the actual replacement players were introduced exactly the same way that the ' replacement astronauts ' were introduced in Armageddon . The actual football scenes require no imagination at all , and could have come from anywhere , and the cheerleaders were a tasteless element of the film in the tradition of BASEketball . Besides that , how about the ending ? ( spoilers ) The team needs " heart " in order to win the big game , coach McGinty ( Gene Hackman ) says to the television reporter . He is obviously sending out a message specifically to Shane Falco ( Keanu Reeves ) , the team's ' star ' replacement quarterback . How touching . Needless to say , Falco decides to head down to the stadium to save the day , and boot the pro quarterback who had recently re-joined the team . Falco walks into the locker room at half time , everyone cheers , they go on to win the game . Does that sound familiar at all ( " Remember when B-Bobby Boucher showed up and the M-M-Mud Dogs won the Bourbon Bowl , do ya ? " ) ? Yeah , so Falco saved the day in true Waterboy form , and the movie ends just like every other football film ever made has ended . Despite the lacking story and the many unlikely events that take place ( " Is that your ride ? " " Yeah . " BAM BAM BAM BAM BAM ! ! ! ) , The Replacements was barely saved by some surprisingly good acting . I was sick and tired of Keanu Reeves ( until I saw The Matrix , where he delivered an excellent performance ) , and I expected a disappointing turn from The Matrix to a routine football film , but he was very convincing as the disillusioned quarterback who is suddenly faced with the chance to reverse his shabby reputation . Even Brooke Langton provides a good depiction of the only original cheerleader who is suddenly surrounded by strip club airheads and has some pretty good on-screen chemistry with the monotonous Keanu . The Replacements is a fairly good football film which doesn't really do anything that hasn't been done before , but at least it wasn't as terrible as Varsity Blues . It is worth watching to see the underdogs beat the odds and come out on top ( yet again ) , but don't expect any plot twists . If you've ever seen a sports movie , you know the basic structure that they follow , and you'll know what's going to happen from the very beginning .
" For $350 , 000 I'd do anything once ! "	Of course , when I say " do " anything once , I am paraphrasing something else that Seagal says in his first scene in this movie , something that would get my review swiftly booted off the IMDb were I to put the real line up there . But it's the perfect explanation of the character that Seagal plays in On Deadly Ground , which is also his directorial debut . He stars as Forrest Taft , a man with a job that is beginning to conflict with his morals . He works for Michael Jennings , the super-greedy and morally vacuous owner of Aegis oil , an oil drilling juggernaut of a company whose scary drilling practices are drawing enormous protests from environmental groups and the group of natives living on the land where the next big oil rig is meant to open . Michael Caine is wonderfully villainous in the role of Michael Jennings , but a little too much given that the movie has a serious message . In fact , that's the one really big problem with the movie . It approaches the very real issue of environmental protection and dangerous oil drilling practices , but it comes in this over - exaggerated form with hapless Eskimo victims , mass wildlife destruction , a super-evil oil business executive and one superhero who comes along to save the world all by himself . We get that oil drilling can be dangerous and we get that environmental groups and native inhabitants will be angered by the opening of a new oil rig in a pristine location , but do we really need to have a movie made where the oil company is opening an enormous oil rig in an untouched area of nature with shoddy parts , inefficient safety standards and basically in all other ways before it can be done safely ? True , it's easy to complain about these things at first glance , but if you consider the movie to be a dramatization of real life , then it starts to make a little more sense . Jennings is forcefully insisting on an early open date to secure drilling rights to the specific area , despite the fact that in order to make that date the rig will have to be open in a condition that is not only not safe , but will pretty much guarantee an oil spill and massive environmental damage . But the movie leaves all that up to you . Most people will just find it to be another trashy Seagal movie , only this time with a preachy political agenda . It seemed such a great follow - up to the outstanding Under Siege with it's great cast ( seriously , browse on through the cast of this movie , it's absolutely incredible ) , but it's probably that overt political preachiness that really brought it down with the popular audience . John C . McGinley , as always , is outstanding in the movie . He's a villain the viciousness of which I haven't seen in any other Seagal film to date . He plays MacGruder , the man hired by Jennings to remove any " problems " preventing the timely opening of the oil rig , and there is a certain scene involving MacGruder , an old man and a pipe cutter that is one of the more uncomfortable scenes I've ever seen in a movie . Pretty scary , man , but MacGruder gets his point across , you have to give him that . There are some moments of genuine dumbness in the movie , as is to be expected . For example , about 90 % of Taft's involvement with the oil-afflicted natives is pretty hare - brained . He comes into their midst and they smoke him out on something to kind of indoctrinate him into their clan , I suppose , and he learns about their native ways and their pure , natural way of life , which much be protected from the imminent arrival of Aegis oil's rig . And then , get this , at a key moment , they unveil a SNOW-MOBILE that they keep " just for emergencies , " so that Taft can make a daring getaway . I wonder if they know what that black stuff is in the engine of that thing ? But no matter . Jennings is a bad enough dude that we can forgive the natives a few quarts of the evil oil , right ? There is also the matter of the hand-slapping game that Taft plays in the saloon with a local drunken bully ( played by the " gas man " from Dumb & Dumber ) . This guy is bullying and berating everyone in sight , and Taft sits calmly , insisting that nothing can be done , until the guy pushes around one poor native guy too many , and decides to teach the guy a lesson in the form of a children's hand game . With that little addition , of course , that whoever loses gets punched by Steven Seagal . Ouch ! After losing many times , the bully is bleeding profusely and barely able to stand up , and Taft asks , " What does it take to change the essence of man ? " Apparently not a couple decades of violent movies ! I did read , however , an interesting reading of this scene by someone who suggested that the meaning of the exchange is in the last couple of lines . The bully realizes he's a bully that needs to change and says , " I need time , " and then Taft agrees and walks away , saying " I do , too . " Supposedly meaning we all have something in ourselves that we need to change . Like a bad habit of fighting violence with violence , maybe ? Taft then proceeds to beat up nearly everyone in the bar , which includes at least one elderly man . Unfortunately , the end of the movie comes in the form of a standard environmentalist speech , which attains a level of preachiness that no one will ever be able to miss . It's not a great movie but not the worst I've seen . Seagal has done much worse ! By the way , does anyone know what kind of car Seagal drives ? I'm guessing something big . I just can't picture the guy in a Prius .
Average .	I wasn't really sure what to expect when I rented this movie . I tend to be pretty impressed with psychological thrillers ( I loved In Dreams , for example , which was not hugely popular ) , so I thought I would give it a shot even though it seemed to be one of those movies that pops up at the video store , the direct to video nonsense that large chain stores tend to stock one or two copies of , like they're obligated to buy at least a copy or two of every DVD that comes out each week . That was clearly not the case at Blockbuster , as I had looked up new DVDs for this week on the IMDb and was very excited about renting Whispering Corridors , but was greeted with a blank expression when I asked the girl at the counter if they had any copies in stock . I finally decided to cancel my movie pass . At any rate , I rented Session 9 at the same time , because I was going to go to my brother's house to watch a movie and he is the manager of a mental health facility here in LA so I thought it would be fun to watch something like one of these . I have seen Session 9 before and was pretty impressed , but Madhouse did not meet my expectations . It is an interesting film and there are a lot of well-done aspects , but there are also a lot of not so well-done aspects . I grow tired very quickly , for example , of horror movies that take place in hospitals or mental hospitals that are so obviously horror movie sets , as was the case in this movie . There are a lot of efforts at jump out of your seat scares , most of which are executed with sound , but I think the most impressive thing about the movie was the editing . There are several scenes where there is very fast paced and effective editing which achieves a pretty good effect in creating a creepy atmosphere . Lance Henriksen's talent is completely wasted as the hospital director who appears offended that some rookie psychologist intern would insinuate that his filthy , filthy hospital could use some renovation , and he is promptly brought upstairs to the level 5 ward or whatever they called it , which is evidently without electricity . Nice . There is a slightly interesting combination of horror and psychological thriller here , but not quite enough to overcome a pervasive sense of predictability which is ever-present throughout the film , endlessly inviting you to call out smartass remarks , kind of like that goofy movie Hidalgo did . This is not a terrible film , but as I mentioned , it's part horror and part psychological thriller , and there are better horror movie and better psychological thrillers out there , and they're not hard to find .
True models of law enforcement .	First Blood is the unexpectedly simplistic story of a mentally unstable Vietnam veteran who returns to America and is shunned by the people who's freedom he was fighting for , as was so famously the case with so many soldiers returning from that war , regardless of how much or how little they believed in the war itself . I have to say here that the story is simplistic because it really boils down to John Rambo fighting a One Man War for his very life but really for no reason . His plans to visit an old Vietnam friend are crushed when he learns that that friend died of cancer that he developed from Agent Orange in Vietnam , and so he immediately becomes a drifter . Evidently he had no other plans and came from nowhere , and therefore has nowhere to go . I won't go into whether or not the book went into more detail about where Rambo came from or why he has no destination whatsoever beyond visiting his friend , because I haven't read it . I have , however , seen the movie , and at this point in the trilogy , I find it rather surprising that Rambo has become something of a cultural icon because of this film and the two sequels . In First Blood , as he wanders aimlessly down the highway , he stumbles into a small town and right into the town sheriff , who politely escorts him to the town limits , saying that drifters only cause trouble but he's more than welcome to grab a bite to eat 30 miles down the road . After being dropped off , Rambo promptly walks back toward town , is promptly noticed and arrested , and ultimately ends up in an all-out battle with what has to be the most incompetent police force on earth , then with the most incompetent state police force on earth , and finally the most incompetent national guard on earth . First the town police can't even get Rambo to put his fingerprints on the paper , then he manages to punch his way completely out of the police station while unarmed , then the state police starts a massive manhunt , apparently unable to find Rambo , who is conspicuously hiding out in his enormous log cabin in the woods , in which he builds a nice fire and takes a nap , and then the national guard is afraid to pursue him in a mine shaft , so they fire a grenade into it instead , but only after the senior officer importantly says , ' Wait , lemme get outta the way first ? ' Just so you know , the type of elite military forces that would be sent on such a mission are just that . Elite forces . And by that , of course , I mean these guys don't mess round . They don't respond to orders with ' No way , I ain't going ' in there ! ' The commanding officer of such a company would never , while under fire , call out , ' Who's got the rocket launcher ? ' Nor would he say ' Give that man a cee-gar ! ' ' Bullseye ! ' or , heaven forbid , ' Come on you guys , shoot ! ' Rambo's rampage is somewhat justified by the mental scars that he suffered from his training and work in the Vietnam War , although that topic only comes up right at the beginning of the film and then in the closing scene , when he suddenly starts ranting and raving about how bad the Vietnam veterans have it back in America , spouting more dialogue all at once than he had in the entire film up to that point . If he had been able to explain any of this to the idiot police officers in the beginning of the film , he could have saved himself a lot of trouble . Sure , we wouldn't have had a movie that way , but he wouldn't have had to throw himself off the side of a sheer cliff and into a tree to avoid getting shot , either . Not a bad trade-off , I should think . The reason it seems curious to me that this movie has inspired two sequels and a cult following is that , while it's true the movies are certainly fun to watch , the logic is nonexistent , even for a cheesy action movie . Rambo allows himself to be taken into custody by men that he could snap like twigs , then doesn't react to anything , including such benign queries as ' Name ? ' until he has a razor to his throat . By the way , this is the nicest criminal justice system I've ever heard of . Not only do they assign you a court date the very morning after your arrest , they even assign half of the police force to be on hand while they give you a shave so you'll be presentable in court . Even worse , the whole movie is based on irreversible combat training that Rambo is acting on , in massive self-defense , which is what causes him to enter into a one-man war against the town police force , the state police , and the national guard . Sure , soldiers come back with post-traumatic stress syndrome as well as the remnants of dangerous training that can lead to harsh reactions to small provocations and sleepless nights , because these people have been so heavily trained for combat that some of that remains after the war . What the movie catastrophically forgets is that , along with combat training , soldiers also come out of the military with intense respect for authority figures , especially those in uniform . Not Rambo . Not only does he treat the police as well as the national guard like the subjects of a hunt , he doesn't even respect the very guy that trained him . Somewhere along the way , it seems , Rambo snapped and lost all control of his abilities , becoming a dangerous weapon , a lethal weapon , if you will , who does , in fact , need to be stopped . Unfortunately , the guys who should be the good guys are such morons that it is impossible to root for them , even if they weren't led by the sheriff , who is the only really bad guy in the movie . First Blood is fairly clever as a manhunt film , but as an informational movie about what it's like for Vietnam veterans it's pretty outlandish . Sure , there are tons of problems surrounding that war and the soldiers did return and get pretty bad treatment , but Rambo is such a two-dimensional character that it's almost a shame to see him representing them . He came from nowhere and goes nowhere at the end , all we see is him going nuts . I hope the movie hasn't actually contributed to the problems that Vietnam veterans have had to face .
Payback is a good action movie but that's about all .	Mel Gibson has been so heavily typecast as the good guy that even in a movie for which the tagline is ' Get ready to root for the bad guy , ' he's not the bad guy . Quite the contrary , a premise like this is little more than a way to get people to expect a heightened level of blood and violence in the movie , it gives the special effects people an excuse to do creative things with ball hammers and to make the audience find even the most brutal murders to be ' quite fun and funny , ' as one IMDb reviewer put it . For some reason , however , I wasn't entirely amused to see a guy get shot in the shoulder and then the knee , and when he fails to produce a lighter when asked for a light , he gets a pillow pressed over his face and gets shot in the forehead . Granted , this was a very bad guy and had double crossed Porter ( Mel Gibson , the GOOD guy ) in one of the worst ways imaginable , and there is nothing that you want more than to see this guy fall , but that certainly doesn't make it amusing or even cheerful . I weep for the obvious descent of mankind into barbarism if people laughed at this . Let's consider the plot here . Mel Gibson is a criminal , and a good one at that . He and his wife are involved in crime that involves high risk and massive payoffs , and when one score results in the acquisition of $130 , 000 , he and she and their partner , Val ( Gregg Henry ) begin discussing the splitting of the money . Porter calmly says that they will split it like they agreed in the first place , even though it turned out to be less than they expected , and Val and Lynn ( Porter's wife ) turn on Porter , shooting him in the back , taking all the money for themselves to run away together , and leaving him for dead . Five months later , Porter is recovered again and is out to get his money by whatever means necessary . The important thing here is that he is obviously so disappointed when he is forced to use violence that his shoulders droop to let us know that it's the last thing in the world that he wants , and on top of that , he wants $70 , 000 , not $130 , 000 . All he wants is his share , even after all he's been through . So how's he the bad guy again ? Under the circumstances , it's amazing how obvious it is that presenting Porter as the bad guy is a weak ploy to get more violence into the movie , and it is a terrible sign of the state of our society that people enjoyed this . Try watching a movie like Payback and then watch Michael Moore's brilliant documentary Bowling for Columbine , you won't be so eager to root for the ' bad guy ' after all . On the one hand , Payback is a quality action film with plenty of car crashes and guns and killing and death , all the necessary ingredients for an action film these days , but the premise is such a weak scheme that it drastically lowers the rest of the movie . Lucy Liu , however , can be seen in a relatively early role looking sexier than anyone should really be allowed to look in a movie . I was almost depressed when it was over , she looked so good . I do not want to give the impression that Payback was a bad film or that I completely condemn it for it's ploy to get as much violence as possible into it , I just think that it could have been a much better movie if they hadn't laid so much emphasis on its violent content . Even the obligatory action movie hottie only added to the enjoyment of it all ( I'm sure female viewers felt the same , of course ) , so it is certainly a movie that is likely to be enjoyed by action fans . The rest of you , however , may want to be a little more careful . The violence , at least at one point , is literally stomach-turning .
Almost immediately forgettable , Deterrence is an extremely simply made " thriller " that bores more than it thrills .	I didn't expect much from Deterrence to begin with ( it was recommended to me by someone with consistently ridiculous taste in movies - no offense to him , of course ) , but I was still disappointed . First of all , the entire movie takes place in a diner in some town in the middle of nowhere . As a film student , I realize how expensive it is to move to different locations ( or even just be ON location ) , to travel with an entire movie crew , and even that just to move a camera to a different angle could take all day and be very costly . But you need to keep in mind that in order to make a convincing " political thriller , " at least SOME of this needs to be done . I mean , there wasn't even a single SHOT that was not taken in this diner ( at least none that weren't borrowed from previous news footage ) . Besides that , the acting wasn't great . Timmothy Hutton was the only actor in the film of any consequence , and he delivered the only really good performance of anyone in the entire film . Kevin Pollack put forth a good effort as the inexperienced and overloaded new President , but he was terribly miscast . No matter how many people came before him in the order of assuming the Presidency , no one as short and bald as him would have generated much respect from the American people . I know that this is a prejudicial thing to say , but it's true . The American public does not respect a President AS MUCH if he ( or she , someday ) is not tall , good looking , full head of hair , etc . Appearance is extremely important , and Kevin Pollack doesn't have much of it . ( spoilers ) That little element bothered me , but I am more than willing to overlook it in the interest of enjoying the film . However , there are certain things that I absolutely will not overlook . The cook's suicide , for example . You have the stereotypical , uneducated black man working the grill in some hole-in-the-wall diner , yet he seems to be very intelligent . After attempting to voice his opinion to the President about dropping the bomb , he is rudely interrupted and entirely ignored . When it seems that the bomb will inevitably be dropped , he KILLS himself . What the hell is that all about ? ! Is that a subliminal message being sent out to the public ? You can't change what the government does , so if you don't like it , suicide is surely the only answer . This suicide was completely unnecessary to the story and was thrown in for no other reason than to have a couple of deaths in the film , as well as to kill the only guy who knew the codes to drop the bomb . The makers of Deterrence clearly did not blow much of their budget on writers . Even though every part of the film that did not take place in the diner was conducted over the phone , Deterrence clearly tries extremely hard to stimulate the emotions of the audience , but the simplicity of the story and the quickly thrown together script reduce the film to bottom-shelf drivel that will very soon be forgotten . President Emerson not only made the offensive decision entirely too early ( it was clear that he would drop the bomb within the first half hour of the film ) , he also ignored the advice of his personal staff for the vast majority of the film . This is boring , boring stuff . I was not even moved the tiniest bit when the bomb was dropped and Baghdad ( the civilization where civilization began ) was completely destroyed , along with everyone in it . Way too simple , not at all convincing , and routinely directed , Deterrence plays like a book being read to the audience . Everything is implied , suggested , vicariously explained , and entirely without effect .
Mercury sinking ?	Okay , before you condemn Mercury Rising for being what it admittedly is , a cheesy action movie , you should at least consider that it accomplishes what it sets out to do . This movie was obviously never meant to win any Academy Awards ( otherwise they wouldn't have cast Bruce Willis , at least at that stage in his career ) , but it does have some effective action sequences . The problem that I have with the movie is not that it fails as an action movie , but that it could have been so much better . The good action sequences are padded with at least as many awful ones , and there was plenty of thought put into about 5 % of the story , while the rest is on auto-pilot . There is a great opening action scene where Arthur Jeffries ( Bruce Willis ) plays an undercover FBI agent acting as a robber in an effort to end a bank robbery safely , before the trigger-happy cops outside suddenly decide to open massive fire , completely unprovoked by anything except the passage of time . What follows is one of those endlessly satisfying scenes where the angry hero stomps out to the official in charge who's stupid decision resulted in the deaths of all those bank robbers , criminal or not , as he defies all ranking by smacking him in the face with his pistol , although I can't help wishing that he had done something even more . Unfortunately , this is one of the most satisfying scenes in the movie , which goes gradually downhill from here until the end . Miko Hughes , one of American's beloved child actors who can actually act , adds to his already extensive filmography with his portrayal of Simon Lynch , an autistic boy who loves puzzles a little too much . Autism is presented in a fairly straightforward manner , although the potential for massive intellectual processing is hugely enhanced and milked for all it's worth here . The problem with the movie is that it takes an enormously unlikely scenario related to autism and makes and entire film out of it . Simon has cracked a government super-code that was placed deep within a puzzle in a ' geek's puzzle magazine ' to test it's durability , and when he manages to decipher and call the secret phone number , all hell breaks loose . And by ' all hell , ' of course , I mean the rest of the goofy plot of the movie . The film starts off presenting an intelligent story about national security , until we realize that this is a code that they spent billions of dollars on without bothering to explain where those dollars went . This may be something that I just don't know , but what is it about a code that costs billions of dollars to make ? Is it the two guys in the little computer room who charge too much for their services ? Are the rates for Federal Hitmen getting out of control ? This is where the movie really slips , by the way . Instead of simply admitting that there is obviously a problem with the code , which can be solved by a 9-year-old boy , autistic or not , and then setting about changing the code , the FBI agents involved literally turn into murderers , sending out a hit man , black gloves and all , to murder the boy and his parents , erasing him from existence and then hoping no one ever asks any questions . The action in Mercury Rising succeeds , for the most part ( except for some awful blue-screen scenes , like the one between the trains ) , but it has enormous problems on a foundational level . Some stuff succeeds ( I rather enjoyed the scene in the wine cellar , but even this is founded on a movie with an unstable premise . I think that Roger Ebert pointed this out best at the end of his review when he says that if a billion dollar code can be cracked by an autistic boy , don't kill the boy , kill the programmers .
One of Chaplin's less successful early comedies .	While it's true that not all of Chaplin's short films are as stunningly brilliant as so many of the films for which he later became famous , it is also true that there is a distinct difference in quality between the early films in which he acted as well as directed , and those in which he was directed as an actor by someone else . Mabel's Strange Predicament is one of the ones in which he only acted ; he was directed by Mabel Normand , with whom he did not have the most friendly relationship when the film was made . The first unusual thing about this film is that it is in French ? at least , the film is intertitled in French . Charlie plays the part of a drunken man at a hotel who comes across Mabel in an upstairs hallway , after having locked herself out of her room in her pajamas while chasing after a ball with which she was playing with her dog . When Charlie arrives and the two of them are embarrassed and amused , it seems that this is the strange predicament to which the title refers , but then Charlie chases her down the hall , and she ultimately winds up hiding from his drunken , amorous advances under the bed in a neighbor's room across the hall . There is a lot of confusing action in Mabel's Strange Predicament , such as the well dressed man who bears a striking resemblance to Marlon Brando ( Marlon Brando 1972 , not Marlon Brando 2001 ) who comes into the room and seems exceedingly upset about Mabel and her dog under the bed ( wasn't the dog locked in the room across the hall ? ) , as well as the film's conclusion , which consisted of a huge amount of confusion and anger and fighting in the hallway . Clearly , there is room for plenty of Chaplin's characteristic slapstick comedy with this type of film . The film starts off with him downstairs falling over various chairs and getting into brief brawls with the waiters , and there are also things like the scene where he is chasing Mabel down the hallway and accidentally winds up kissing a man after she evades him . Charlie Chaplin's and Mabel Normand's volatile relationship seems to have played a role in Charlie's character in this film , because he is little more than a drunk who gets out of hand and causes a lot of trouble . He is a mere nuisance on the restaurant level of the hotel , and at the end , his character has the grand exit of staggering off down the hallway , seemingly too drunk to even realize what is going on . In this way , this is a disappointment for Chaplin fans , but it is a curiosity piece to see what results when he works under a different , and far less talented , director .
Not a great film in any sense , The Astronaut's Wife is entertaining in the sense that you feel you are being led up to an excellent climax , but when it is eventually reached , it is disappointing and retrospe	SPOILERS SPOILERS Unfortunately , Charlize Theron has reached the point where she can't really play roles like the disturbed wife because she just comes off as annoying . She was good in The Devil's Advocate ( in almost exactly the same role as she played in The Astronaut's Wife ) , but that was probably just because every other element of that film was so well done . I just can't become interested in watching her do these whiny crying scenes anymore . However , Johnny Depp delivered an excellent performance as the newly disturbed husband , even though the character himself was shallow and ultimately uninteresting . Despite this mediocrity in terms of Depp's character development , his creepy performance made it fun to watch . SPOILERS My biggest problem with this movie is that it builds up and builds up and builds up and then just stops . And it was even a good story up until the last 30 minutes or so . The blackout in space , the strange behavior of the two astronauts , Depp's sudden and mysterious promotion , the whole thing with the twins , it was all coming together so well . But then , you get the same old crap that you always get with movies like these . The wife starts to suspect , husband starts to get subtly aggressive and threatening , wife inexplicably wants to do the traditional ' right thing , ' husband doesn't like it and ultimately gets killed , wife goes on to find her perfect man . Come on , whose idea was it to slap this awful ending on to what could otherwise have been a great film ? I don't mind Charlize wanting to do the thing that is traditionally accepted by society ( the backwards religious community , anyway - the only people likely to complain , had it been done differently ) , but I was just completely put off when she seemed to fall in love with these alien babies . She KNEW something was horribly wrong , yet she just HAS to have these kids . And what does she get ? Two creepy twins ( collectively of Big Daddy fame ) who resemble the kids from The Village of the Damned . This is not a good message to give to our society . Basically what they are saying here is that even if you find out that you are pregnant with the offspring of an other-worldly species intent on world domination , you should still have the baby ( or babies ) . Yes , abortion is THAT wrong . This is just ridiculous nonsense , and is one of the main points where the film really went horribly wrong . It's almost worth watching just for Johnny Depp's fascinating performance , but be advised that it is ultimately a very disappointing movie .
Is the 007 series suffering from the same big-budget , low-thought production system that seems to be plaguing the Lethal Weapon series ?	( spoilers ) The Lethal Weapon series began with a succession of excellent action films , but as of late , particularly in the fourth installment , the content just went overboard and much of the quality was lost . This same thing seems to have happened with the latest installment in the James Bond film series , and although The World Is Not Enough does have its redeeming values , its blunt financial motives are all too obvious . Clearly , the ' Bond girl ' is a significant tradition in any Bond film , and the casting of stunningly beautiful Denise Richards in this role would reveal the film's commercial intentions all by itself . But on top of that , they throw in a hilarious name ( Christmas Jones ) and claim that this heartthrob is a freakin ' nuclear physicist . Watching Denise walk around in her cute little shorts and halter-top while she talks about plutonium and physics is just funny , and it takes away any possible chance of her character being taken seriously . If they expect her to play the part of a highly educated physicist , they could have at least dressed her to look less like a high school girl . The World Is Not Enough starts out with the traditional Bond opening , with the cool , collected Bond conversing with the enemy only to wind up making an elaborate escape and barely getting away with his life . Some things about this scene just come off as weird or incorrect . For example , consider the fact that while the opening scene takes place in Europe , the police officers that burst into the room are speaking Spanish . I really hope that I am just missing something and that that wasn't just randomly thrown in . The action was excellent , but in most cases it was so ridiculously exaggerated and unrealistic that it made it funnier than exciting . I realize that this IS James Bond , and this is the kind of crazy stuff that he is famous for , but it is a little upsetting that the screenwriters couldn't come up with some kind of action that is possible in real life but still creates thrills and excitement . Does that little speedboat that Bond takes off in have wheels ? It's cool to see a boat jump up on land and slide a bit while the hero jumps out and makes a heroic rescue or something , but this thing was STEERING . Bond was literally driving it around the streets , and don't get me started on the idiotic underwater scene . Also , there obviously wasn't much proofreading done on the scene where Bond and Jones jump off of the vehicle in the tunnel , while traveling at 70 MPH ! ! Surely the typical Bond film's audience is aware of what would happen to someone who hit cement while traveling that fast . And especially in a tunnel , that's probably certain death . And it was not a very brilliant idea that was devised in order to get a jumping - out - of - a - helicopter - on - skis shot ? the helicopter pilot tells them that the wind is too strong to land , and this is followed by a shot of the helicopter hovering over the mountain in an utter absence of wind other than what is created by the rotors . Bond and Elektra jump out and we get some unnecessary but beautiful scenery shots as the ski gracefully down the mountain in their cute little ski outfits . This whole scene is unnecessary and , to make it worse , it's followed by one of those breaks where the plot is explained boringly through a bit of dialogue . The narrative structure of this movie is badly flawed , with the action literally stopping periodically in order for the characters on screen to discuss with each other , in pure dialogue , what is happening in the story . This type of weak presentation is something that is more at home is cheesy action B-movies , and it's almost heartbreaking to see it in a James Bond film . There is also an awkward use of sound while one of these little duologues is taking place while Bond and Elektra King ( Sophie Marceau , one of the few reasons to watch the film ) walk through a crowd of people . There are people running all around them , and the camera is pretty far away , yet you can hear them perfectly as they speak in normal tones , and you can't hear the people running around them . The reasons for doing this are obvious , but it makes the crowd seem eerily silent . And then you have the helicopter with the circular saws attached to it . I sure hope that one of the writers was fired ( and beaten , for emphasis ) for THAT little idea . It's the other Bond tradition - the villain - that saves the movie . Robert Carlyle is wonderfully menacing as Renard , the bad guy who literally has no feelings because of a bullet that is lodged in his head and is slowly numbing all of his senses as it gradually kills him . Not only was he an excellent villain for this movie , but he also gave the best performance of anyone in the entire , film , followed closely by Judi Dench as M . While the concluding action face off between Bond and Renard is effective ( thanks , in no small part , to the quality performance from Carlyle ) and even fairly exciting , it dissolves into dumb action film cliché as Bond ( of course ) gets the girl . Granted , I wouldn't complain about that part , James Bond always gets the girl . But did we really have to have a shot where the distressed and frightened Christmas Jones happens to fall right into Bond's open arms ? That's bad form , as Hook would say . The World Is Not Enough is definitely a characteristic James Bond film , but I really wish that there was more quality involved in the formula these days , and less flying snowmobiles piloted by miracle marksmen . And if only they sold some of those x-ray glasses as collector's items ?
Start the unnecessarily slow moving dipping mechanism !	Although super-slow and plodding for a 007 film , Live and Let Die is notable as Roger Moore's debut in the role of james Bond , and the first movie with anyone other than Sean Connery as the famous secret agent . It takes a good hour before anything happens resembling any kind of action sequence , even the traditional opening action scene doesn't really happen . It starts with an interesting introduction to the story , where several secret agents are killed in mysterious circumstances in various places around the world , and Bond's mission , should he choose to accept it , is to investigate the killings and determine any connection . Since they happened within 24 hours of each other , some kind of connection is pretty likely . People complain about the voodoo content in this movie , but it has a bit of a black-sheep feel relative to its counterparts , if only because it's so slow and action-less . It is one of Roger Moore's best performances in the role , although that's not saying much since he was so disappointing in most of his roles , but here he just isn't given much to do . More importantly , much of the movie feels more like a soap opera than an action spy film . Whenever I watch a Bond film I'm always curious to see what kind of elaborate action set pieces they come up with , because love them or hate them , these are some of the most inventive action movies ever , but this has to be an exception . There is a short bus chase where Bond drives a double decker bus , some nonsense involving some crocodiles that are astonishingly easy to get away from , and your basic , run-of-the - mill speedboat chase that was about as exciting as your average Marine World ski show . You get a lot of speedboats chasing each other through some tropical marsh , constantly running up over some spits of land , through people's yards and swimming pools and weddings and whatnot . Yawn . I couldn't stop thinking about Police Academy , which at least was funny . But in the movie's defense , at least it has an interesting enough story , although it passes by in the background , behind the periodic love interests , the half-hearted action and the bizarre voodoo element . And what was the deal with that guy with the painted face ? I know it sounds like I'm being really harsh on the movie , so I should say in the movie's defense that I really appreciated it's having a black villain and the first black Bond girl . It's too bad that so many of the bad guys were black , but I liked the African American presence in the movie . I have read that this cost them some southern viewers , but I have no problem with that . Anyone who wouldn't watch the movie because there are black people in it can just stick their heads back in the sand , as far as I'm concerned . I should admit that I tend to criticize Bond films a little harshly because I am less tolerant of some of the more childish elements than the target audience is supposed to be , but I still think that Live and Let Die is one of the lesser films in the series . It's a strange combination of James Bond and the Hollywood voodoo films of the 1940s , although I couldn't help thinking about bad movies from the 1980s , like Gator Bait and I Spit on Your Grave and those cannibal movies that Ruggero Deodato kept making . Next comes The Man With the Golden Gun , which was disappointing for entirely different reasons . . . .
If you watch Armageddon , only watch it once . If you see it more than that , you'll realize how terrible it really is .	Armageddon definitely sets the record for fooling the most people into thinking it's a good movie . When I first saw it , I was blown away . I loved every second of it ! It was exciting , it was spectacularly done , the acting was great , the dialogue was funny , I couldn't think of a single thing wrong with it . Obviously , I bought it on video . Then I watched it at home , and saw for the first time what an awful movie it is . Armageddon manipulates the emotions of the audience like no other disaster movie ever has . The romantic scenes ( like those in The Rock ) are clumsily and randomly thrown in ( this way it will appeal to women , too , and therefore make more money in the box office ) . The tough guy acting , particularly ( and CONSTANTLY ) on the part of Bruce Willis as Harry Stamper , the world's best oil driller , was terrible ! There were so many scenes in this film that were thrown in for no other reason than to get a meaningless laugh or broaden the target audience that it began to get tiring trying to figure out which ones actually had anything to do with the story itself . Besides all that , there were also horrible discrepancies in the storyline . Early in the film , Dan Truman ( Billy Bob Thornton ) describes the effects of the asteroid collision as " basically the worst parts of the Bible . " Even the name of the film , " Armageddon , " is taken straight from the Bible . Given that , you have to wonder why there are so many times when the characters ( mostly Stamper and Truman ) ask God for help , ask God for just a little more time , pray that " God be with them . " Why are they asking God for help ? ! They just finished pointing out that it was God that sent the asteroid ! Why WOULD He help ? You can see how the hypocrisy of religion even manages to wiggle its way into Hollywood films . The dialogue of the movie also took a lot away from several of the action packed scenes . The phrase " She's gonna blow ! " is uttered so many times that by the time the scene's climax is reached it has no effect anymore . The predictability of the ending is also a serious disappointment . Furthermore , the logical errors were a little disturbing . For example , there was moderate WIND on the asteroid , as well as clouds of dust and smoke floating calmly around . That's funny , I thought we were in SPACE traveling at 22 , 000 mph . As a whole , Armageddon is an edge of your seat action thriller , but there wasn't a whole lot of effort put into it beyond special effects and sheer financial purging . It's never boring , but the structural , logical , and storyline problems take away a great deal from what could have been a spectacular disaster film .
A valiant and occasionally successful effort , but Beloved is an adaptation of a novel that is far too complex to ever be satisfactorily translated to the screen .	Beloved is a novel that relies heavily upon it's own language and the brilliant writing style in order to have its effect on the reader . One of its strongest points ( and these are countless ) is that it is about the period of American history near the end and immediately following slavery , when Negroes were still considered sub-human . It presents the story of the tremendous suffering of a few slaves during that time ( and , indeed , during their entire lives ) , but the important thing is that the book does this with a startlingly small amount of graphic images and direct depictions of violence or cruelty . Because the movie is a visual account of the novel , it is unable to do this . Sethe is a former slave who has suffered more hardships than most human beings ( although , given the allusions to life on Sweet Home , she has not suffered even there the most ) , and the novel is about her life experiences and those of the slaves close to her . The most glaring problem here , which may have been unavoidable , is that Sethe's flashbacks could not be presented in the film in any other way than as brief , shocking images filled with violence and blood . This is not a problem because of anything to do with gratuitous violence , but because in the novel , Sethe lets out brief snapshots of her memories ( which are too painful to directly tell as stories of her earlier life ) as though she does not quite realize that she's doing it , then immediately stops herself when the pain hits her . The magnitude of her suffering is reduced to split-second sequences of brutality , which are presented as such but with no explanation or hint that they are that short because they are too painful to be any longer . Besides the trouble that arises from having huge Hollywood superstars play the slaves here ( which is a negligible fact because the performances are so powerful ) , the performance of Beloved , the title character , is entirely off the mark . Beloved embodies the epitome of Sethe's painful memories . She is Sethe's daughter ( although not the only child ) that Sethe was forced to kill to prevent them from going into slavery ( thus providing the most significant act that allows us , indeed , FORCES us , to judge her as a person ) . When she is reborn from the river , she stumbles to 124 Bluestone Road , the house in which the majority of the movie and novel take place , and back into the lives of Sethe and Denver , the daughter that barely escaped the violence of her own mother's hands . The problem with the performance is that , while it's true that Beloved was killed when she was two years old , and has not matured a day since then except physically , she does not act like a two-year-old child . The Beloved in Toni Morrison's novel has the maturity of a two-year-old and the physical , motherly needs of a two-year-old ( most evident in her urgent need to be with Sethe ) , but she does not have the demeanor of one . I am reminded of John Malkovich's performance as Lennie Small in ' Of Mice and Men . ' Lennie Small is a huge , hulking man in the novel with a miniscule intelligence . He has the intellectual capacity and maybe even some of the same values as a seven or eight-year-old ( such as ' tenning dem wabbits ' ) , but he doesn't act like one . Thandie Newton remembers in her performance that Beloved was a small child when she died , but she overuses it to the point where she drowns out much of the rest of the effect that she has on the story and those around her . Most importantly , her overdone performance distracts attention from the purpose that she is meant to serve in the story . Beloved is the supernatural element of Toni Morrison's novel , who is there not because this is a supernatural story but because she represents the magnitude of the suffering that went on during slave times . She is a spiritual manifestation that requires no explanation except for her cause of death , and Newton's outlandish performance in the role reduces that effect because her behavior is not explained . The film stays true to the magnitude of sorrow presented in the novel , but it transforms it from the slow , relentless , and immensely complicated version presented in the novel and into one of visuals and performance , which challenges successful actors to present the lives of people who have suffered more than most people alive can imagine . The film succeeds grandly in presenting the society in which Negroes were not humans but property . Sethe did not murder her children , she destroyed property that does not belong to her . But the important thing that is lost here is the shock that is delivered by the subtlety of the content . The emotion of the novel is enormously powerful , and yet it is all so subdued that even white people are almost not in it at all . They are little more than a lumbering presence that never shows its face ( except for the single scene in the book that is presented from the point of view of white people ) , but is always looming dangerously just over the horizon . Beloved is a story that is too powerful to be told directly , because if it is , it will be weakened because the danger and the suffering becomes tangible , something that you can see and then forget about . The short descriptions and bits of events in the book force the mind to circle and work them until the full impact of their true meaning is realized .
Not as good as some of Hugh Grant's other romantic comedies , but Bridget Jones's Diary stands out as one of the better comedies of 2001 .	First of all , yes , I realize that it sounds kind of ironic to say that Bridget Jones's Diary is not as GOOD as other Hugh Grant movies , but keep in mind that even this hideously charming English actor has come out with some genuinely entertaining and memorable films ( I am thinking , in particular , of films like Four Weddings and A Funeral and especially Notting Hill and even several of his other films that are not Mickey Blue Eyes ) . With Bridget Jones's Diary , director Sharon Maguire approaches the daunting task of attempting to convince the ( American ) public that there is a big-breasted blonde played by Renee Zellweger who has made it to her thirties without ever having had a boyfriend , and the film that results from this effort depicts the point in her life where she happens to gain two boyfriends at once . At the time that Bridget Jones's Diary was released , Hugh Grant had recently starred in Notting Hill , in which he famously uttered the words ' whoopsy-daisy , ' removing any room for respect from his character that there might once have been , although at the same time making us love him whether we liked it or not as well as realize that his character was made un-respectable for that very reason . Because of this uncomfortable but ultimately pleasing love for his character in that film , we are willing to forgive a lot of the terrible things that he does in Bridget Jones's Diary , but only when we see him change from the womanizer that he amazingly plays in this film and reverts into the same caricature character that he always plays ( see my Mickey Blue Eyes review ) that we have grown to know and love , for the most part . Colin Firth , on the other hand , has just come out of his role in Shakespeare in Love , where he played the jerk who Viola De Lesseps was forced to marry , despite our desperate wish that she would find a way to escape the arranged marriage and marry her true love , William Shakespeare . Bridget Jones's Diary plays off of both of these past performances in the formation of its story , suggesting ( erroneously ) that the roles were written for the actors and greatly enhancing the effect of its plot . I remember watching this film and being disappointed from within minutes of the film that I was going to watch a childish exercise in the traditional romantic comedy ( indeed , it's not hard during the e-mail trading within the office to assume that Bridget and her boss , played by Hugh Grant , are going to go through some weak romance trouble and then wind up happily in love at the end of the film ) . There is an interesting introduction of the other love interest in Colin Firth's character , who she hates from the moment we meet him . And , if I may interject for a moment , on a personal level , my two best and closest friendships , with Ryan Collette and Kyle Blount , started exactly the same way . When we met in high school , there were times that we were literally inches away from fistfights , and now , several years later , they're brothers to me . There is nothing that I wouldn't do for them or them for me , and it's interesting to consider whether something like this inspired the introduction we see of Firth's character into the film or whether the writers were simply trying to come up with something original . In any case , it doesn't matter , because while the film doesn't exactly generate the most respect in the way that it plods through its content ( some of the interactions between Bridget and her two men are less than convincing , which is nearly catastrophic because the success of the film depends exactly on whether the audience is convinced of that very thing ) , there is a genuine element of not knowing how the story is going to end up . We are torn between our love for some of Hugh Grant's previous characters ( as well as our expectation that the more well-known actor will end up victorious regardless ) and our hatred from Colin Firth's character in Shakespeare in Love alone ( a testament to the quality of that movie as well as to his performance within it ) in trying to decide for ourselves what is to become of Bridget Jones's love life in the future . There's a scene where this indecisiveness between the two suitors comes to a climax , when they both get into a fistfight in the snow-covered street , but the uncertainty of who she is going to end up with pursues until near the end of the film , when it becomes progressively obvious . True , this is not the best love story ever presented on film , but Bridget Jones's Diary is definitely one of the better romantic comedies of the last few years .
Excellent performances saved this one from total failure .	( spoilers ) Brokedown Palace is a very effective and highly emotional film . It succeeds on many levels , but it also fails on many levels . While the film is totally unoriginal ( HEAVY emphasis on ' unoriginal ' ) , it is very well acted and directed , even if nearly every aspect of the story itself has very recently been seen in almost exactly the same way . Brokedown Palace is literally a remake of the stunningly powerful film Return To Paradise , which starred Vince Vaughn and Joaquin Pheonix , and which presented almost exactly the same story , except that the main characters were male and there were three of them instead of two . Alice and Darlene ( Claire Danes and Kate Beckinsale , respectively ) take a trip to Thailand together just after high school , to celebrate their lifelong friendship that is about to be separated by college . Once there , they almost immediately encounter a charming Australian guy who wines and dines both of them , sparking intense jealousy , and coerces them to accompany him to Hong Kong . While it's not hard to believe that , in their rush to get to the airport on time , Alice did not notice the extra weight of the narcotics that Nick ( the charming Australian guy ) planted in her pack , it was kind of a big risk that he took , assuming that they would be too rushed to notice that much extra weight in their luggage . One of the main problems with the film is that Alice and Darlene were so reckless when they first got to Thailand . Sure , this establishes the fact that they just didn't know better , hence increasing the emotion caused by their later misfortune , but some of it was just too much . Like when they were at the royal hotel and ordered all kinds of drinks on some random room's tab , and Alice says , ' Oh , they don't care . ' Naiveté is one thing , but that is absolute stupidity . Never mind the fact that they are in a foreign and significantly more dangerous country - pulling some moronic stunt like that will get you in big trouble ANYwhere . Another unnecessary element was the ordeal with Darlene's father later in the film . He shows up at the prison in Thailand and soothingly convinces Darlene that everything is going to be okay , that he'll make sure everything is fixed and she gets home safely and out of that damn prison . Then when Alice comes out , he basically tells her that he never trusted her and she can rot in that prison thousands of miles away from anything she knows , for all he cares . Why is it that this guy goes immediately from being a loving and caring father to an absolute worthless bastard ? I don't care how many times she got paint on his couch or got his daughter in trouble or whatever , that is no reason to leave her in a strange prison on the other side of the planet . That guy was a total dick , and nothing ever really even came of that scene . The legal ordeal that the girls went through involving the seedy lawyer played by Bill Pullman was also very interesting , but also grossly unoriginal . Alice and Darlene suffer the exact same troubles that faced the characters in Return To Paradise , with exactly the same result . While this was an entertaining and admittedly an intensely emotional film , without the quality performances Brokedown Palace would be little more than an instructional video about what not to do when on vacation in Thailand . The ending leaves you wondering if she ever really does get out of that prison , but we'll never know , because who the hell would want to watch a sequel to a film like this ? The film left so many loose ends that it almost cancelled out all of the things that it achieved . We know that Darlene goes home , and obviously she'll try to get Alice out , but they sure didn't have much luck up to that point . We only get a vague idea of what happens to Nick , and the film ends with Alice still in the prison , saying that she knows she did the right thing and that she remains hopeful that Darlene will fight for her until she gets released , too . Optimists are sure to get a good thrill out of this , but every single event in the entire film after they get thrown into prison suggests that Alice is never going to get out of there , at least not until she's an old woman . This weak ending ( although still very emotional , due to the quality acting from Claire ) takes a lot away from a film that was not that good to begin with . I suggest that you watch Return To Paradise instead - it's more original and MUCH better .
Classy old thriller .	It's amazing how times have changed . When considering the change from the plodding zombies in The Dawn of the Dead into the turbo-charged , sprinting zombies in the 2004 remake , I suppose it can be expected that a zombie film made in the early 1930s might feature some zombies that stand stark still for extended periods of time . Enter the legendary Bela Lugosi , starring as the highly creepy " Murder " Legendre , who controls the zombies by interlocking his hands and opening his eyes really wide . There is a contrived love story threaded through the narrative that serves to confuse why Rob Zombie chose this film to name his band after , although for such an early film it is highly accomplished . The atmosphere is creepy , especially during the scene early in the film that shows Legendre's zombie's at work ( which contains a sound effect that had to have influenced that cringe-inducing croaking sound in The Grudge ) . The performances are often cartoonish and overdone , and an almost intolerably slow pace makes it less thrilling than it could have been , but that and a persistently eerie atmosphere adds to the effect .
Another great movie gangster of the 1980s ? David Spade ! !	So what's happened so far ? A gaggle of society's goofiest citizens have taken advantage of a new policy to loosen hiring standards at the police force and actually made it through despite efforts from all directions to get them thrown out . They embark on their first assignment , which is to turn around Commandant Lassard's beloved precinct 16 , which has been dubbed the worst precinct in the city and given 30 days to turn around or suffer some major employee turnover , a fate which is relentlessly helped along by the eternally butt - kissing Captain Mauser . They display a spectacular feat of water-borne police work , saving the academy and then return in the next movie to beat the city's other police academy when it turns out that the governor decides it's not worth the money to keep them both open . Oh , and of course you all realize who is in this thing , right ? None less than Sharon Stone , David Spade in his first film , and Tony Hawk in an early stunt-skateboarding role ! You gotta see this ! This time , Commandant Lassard has come up with a scheme he calls Citizens on Patrol ( C . O . P . Get it ? Get it ? ) , in which he elaborates slightly on the plot of the original movie . You see , the police force has been stretched a little too thin and the public has developed a negative opinion of them due to the fact that they can't be everywhere at all times to stop every single crime in the city . So the natural solution , of course , is to train the public as deputy police officers and basically have briefly trained undercover cops all over the city . In fact , so close is the resemblance to the first movie that we are even treated to a couple characters who are forced to join the police academy or face jail time ? an idea suggested , of course , by Mahoney himself . This is the best part of the movie , by the way . There is a hilarious gang of skateboarding punks who are disturbing the peace left and right , headed by none other than David Spade , who is a hardened urban predator if I've ever seen one . Thug life , baby ! ! Sharon Stone also has a relatively small role in the film , although probably one of the ons that she would like to forget about , and Lieutenant Harris is back after being gone for the last two movies . All of the other relevant cast members return , with the addition of a new group of misfits , like the token fat black guy , David Spade and his idiot skateboarder friend , and Tackleberry's FATHER-in-law . Remember that guy ? Who is always gleefully punching out his son ? I can't wait until the grandparents start joining ! But don't worry , until then we have Mrs . Feldman to hold us over . Here's this sweet old lady living in a nursing home / military barracks and who has more of a love of all things camouflaged than Tackleberry himself . In fact , I was waiting the whole movie for her to tell her that she's his long lost mother , but no such luck . Something went wrong with the screen writing in there somewhere , but ultimately she turns out to be one of the most consistently funny characters in the movie . She's played with a good-natured smile by Billie Bird , who clearly enjoyed herself while making the movie . You can always tell when the actors are having a good time , and it always makes the movie better , which is good because this movie needs a lot of help ! Of course , it's not much different than the last three movies as far as being worth watching . Bud and his father are still trading punches and it's still more groan-inducing than laugh - inducing , people are still accidentally wandering into the Blue Oyster Club , which hasn't been funny for three movies by now ( Proctor inadvertently wandering in naked was the high point of this gag , but also the point where it becomes the most clear that the joke has lost its steam ) , and Jones is still doing that Bruce Lee impersonation which was funny in the first movie when I was a kid , but as an adult not so much ? But , Callahan has a great wet t-shirt scene that makes the whole movie worthwhile ! Oh , and was Mahoney's mischievous grin ever amusing ? That poor guy , man . His reputation has for some reason become so tarnished that he is seen by most of the public as even more of a washed up has-been than , umm , well no one else really comes to mind . Bill Paxton ? Nah , he's cool , I think . I never needed to forgive him for Weird Science , but Guttenburg unfortunately has a whole string of bad sequels to make up for , and Cocoon and Short Circuit are just not gonna cut it ! At any rate , super-gluing the loudspeaker to Harris ' face was funny , but why they missed out on the opportunity to have Harris screaming through it at high volume at the doctors in the hospital I just can't understand . The screenwriters are not scoring many points in this one ! But still , this is one of the better Police Academies so far . This one and part 3 are the best ones in the series that I've seen so far , despite the hilarious 1980s badness ( there's a boot - legging crime lord , for example , who operates his illegal warehouse standing around with a fistful of cash and a hula hoop around his shoulders ) , but there definitely are some fun gags . Harris macing his armpits is one is one of the more memorable gags in the whole series , along with Mauser getting his hands glued to his hair , and I have to admit that I enjoyed some of the scenes of the original recruits trying to recruit the public for the new C . O . P . program . It's not a good movie , but it's a good Police Academy movie !
Yes ! Finally some quality cinema from the teen slasher genre ! You see , it seems that someone has taken their love of scary movies one step too ? HEY ! !	( spoilers ) In a time when teenage slasher mystery thrillers are in tremendous overabundance , the sequel to the fairly entertaining Urban Legend is fortunately not a complete failure . I watched Urban Legends : Final Cut with very low expectations , which were the result of having heard that the movie was terrible , as well as my growing belief that a quality film in this genre , especially a sequel , will probably never be created again . The magic of the movies can only go so far . However , I was surprised to find that this particular sequel did have its redeeming values , despite the fact that it has the same old Scooby Doo ending , with the killer finally revealing himself and basically saying that he would have gotten away with it if it hadn't been for those pesky kids . The film starts off on the set of a cheesy movie , which seems to take place during a drunken college party on an AIRPLANE ( hence , ' cheesy ' movie ) . Luckily , this is revealed to be a movie within a movie , so it didn't really take away from the film as a whole , but Urban Legends : Final Cut definitely had its share of stupidity . The security guard , for example , who we remember from the first film , sure didn't seem to have learned anything from her past experiences . Not only do we find her dancing to Pam Grier films while HORROR movies are being made ( the perfect setting for a murder to take place ) but she also does she not believe the girl when she tells her that she saw a murder . And don't even get me started on the killer . Until the killer is revealed at the end , he is exactly the same as the now-boring killers in countless other rip-off films ? everything from I Know What You Did Last Summer and I Still Know What You Did Two Summers Ago to all of the Scream films , all of which ' borrowed ' this idea from John Carpenter's horror classic , Halloween . Seeing how Halloween was released about 23 years ago and has been ripped off in record numbers , I think that it's about time to come up with some different kind of villain . 007 movies always have these cool bad guys , but the teen thriller genre always recycles the now boring ? guy in the mask ' routine . I didn't hate Urban Legends : Final Cut because there really were a few scenes in the film that actually worked . For example , the scene when all of the students were watching the rushes and they saw the blonde girl's murder was actually pretty effective , in my opinion . Also , the scene with the bathtub full of ice worked pretty well , despite its lack of originality . But despite the unoriginal bathtub , the removed kidney was also pretty good , and this even evokes a painful reaction from the audience as the killer yanks her back in through the window by grabbing onto the freshly sewn wound through which the kidney was removed . OUCH . There was a lot of cheesy stuff in this movie , besides the tired inclusion of the mysterious killer . Much of the garbage is dumbly thrown into the dialogue in a number of wildly idiotic and clichéd lines ? ' This is my baby , baby . ' ' I won't let anything happen to you . I'll be there . ' But the story was actually pretty good , at least some of it was . The twin brother for example , keeps the audience guessing more than the killer does , because by this point , anything else will command more interest than the old who's-the-killer mystery . It turns out that he was telling the truth , but for much of the film after his introduction , it is never really certain whether the twin was really a twin , or if he was the same guy , in which case he would probably be the killer . The end of the film is punctuated by a very welcome cameo from Rebecca Gayheart , who should have played a substantial role in this film , given the way that the original film ended . This obviously wasn't done because everyone would know right away who the killer was , but there seems to be a rough transition between the two films because of this . All in all , Urban Legends : Final Cut is worth the time , but it is still not as good as the original , which was also not even that great . But don't be put off by low expectations , it's not THAT bad .
" This country is not kind to invaders ? "	First of all , the hype about The Kite Runner was wildly over-blown , and sadly , the movie is just as disappointing as the book . Most of the novel is outstanding , but it completely falls off a cliff at the end , and then closes with a happily-ever-after ending that seems just as tacked-on as the worst of the Hollywood offenders . True , the movie is remarkably faithful to the novel , but the whole story , especially because of the cartoonish confrontation at the end , gives me the feeling that it is little more than a childish revenge fantasy which is only legitimized because author Khaled Hosseini really can write . I was an English major when I was in college , and one of the things that I noticed in any creative writing class that I ever took was that , because almost every single person wrote stories starring themselves ( as Hosseini has clearly done and like , for example , Stephen King almost always does ) , many of them wrote stories about something bad that happened to them , in which they augmented the wrong committed against them and then issued a perfectly planned and executed retribution against their offender . This , ladies and gentlemen , is what you have with The Kite Runner . Now , I won't say that Hosseini was bullied as a child lived in a harsh environment and therefore wrote a heroic story about that . Indeed the setting in Afghanistan and the oppressive atmosphere is both well-presented and an important , real life issue . But when the Taliban appears and starts stoning adulterous women to death in front of packed stadiums and bad guys parade little boys around in make-up and get shot in the eye with sling-shots , then it all becomes clear what's really going on . I remember that the novel was extremely popular when it was released and I remember being at a loss to explain the fame after I read it . It is , indeed , a page-turner , but it has an unfortunately combination of amazingly realistic descriptions and situations with goofy , over-blown movie villains that gives the whole thing a feeling of being an artificial contraption drummed up by someone trying to make his way into the writing business . But hey , Hosseini has succeeded in making the artificial successful twice now , so maybe it's me who should take some advice . But I think it would be difficult for anyone to argue that Hosseini has succeeded as much in the quality of his story-telling as he has in the BUSINESS of story-telling . In that regard , this is definitely a success story ! I also feel like a lot of people are going to pick up on the arrogance of presenting America as this holy land , a paradise on earth where all you have to do is get there and everything will be okay . Of course , it is true of the little boy living under the iron fist of the Taliban , but it's that kind of thinking that has gotten America into a lot of trouble in the past . And I also love how Amir , our hero , goes to Afghanistan but doesn't know enough not to stare at a passing pickup truck full of bearded guys holding AK-47's . Smart . And by the way , can I just say one thing ? What is the deal with the Taliban ? Those people are totally insane . Oh , and the best thing about the movie is that little kid who played Hassan . He had the most important role in the movie and he was OUTSTANDING .
In-depth look at the history of the cell-phone .	This is an interesting addition to the DVD for Cellular , it's basically a lot of telecommunications engineers talking about the history of cell-phones from the " brick " of the 1970s to the 4 ounce video camera phones that we use today . It's like that educational video about rats that is on the Willard DVD . You haven't seen that , but it's basically a learning channel video about rats and their mating habits and whatnot . Celling Out looks like it was made for the History Channel or the Discovery Channel about the history of cell-phones . It has nothing to do with the making of the movie , but is interesting nonetheless . It also makes a pretty funny comment on the commercial success of cell-phones , as far as people making phone calls that they wouldn't otherwise have made . One guy makes especially amusing comments about the triviality of a lot of the conversations that people have with each other on cell-phones . They trace the transformation of the cell-phone from a communication device and into an entertainment center , even as a dating device . One guy even asserts that it's the cell-phone into which all other common devices will be absorbed ? TV remote , laptop computer , palm pilots , etc . Cell phones have revolutionized the way people communicate , and this short documentary goes into great detail about both the pros and cons of these advancements in technology , although it does make a complaint about them that I've never understood . Larry Cohen , co-writer of Cellular , mentions that he doesn't want to be reached at all times , he doesn't want someone keeping tabs on him all the time . This has always seemed like a trivial and even paranoid complaint . I've never seen a cell-phone that couldn't be turned off . It's too bad about the ending , because once the documentary gets into hypothesizing about the future , there are some pretty outlandish claims being made and the revelation that the people interviewed in the documentaries might be a little more obsessed with cell-phones than is quite healthy . The assertion is made that sometime in the near future cell-phones will be embedded under the skin behind the ear , which can stretch to believe , and that you will be able to make phone calls just by thinking about it , which I don't believe for a second . Maybe I'm just shortsighted , but it doesn't seem that that can happen without opening up the skull and connecting the cellular implant directly to the brain . Forget about whether or not the technology will ever be available , the question is whether people are going to want to have their skulls opened up so they don't have to dial phone numbers anymore . This is the kind of thinking that led people 40 years ago to assume that there would be flying cars by the year 2000 . Well , here we are in 2005 and people still tend to like to have their cars running along the ground , and I have a hypothesis that it will be quite some time before popular opinion will involve mass approval of brain surgery to avoid dialing . Other than that , however , this is a very informative , if not especially interesting , documentary .
This is just about what I expected .	Jerry Bruckheimer and Michael Bay are back from Armageddon fame to once again present to us another tremendous disaster story interspersed with some elaborate and manipulative romance . The film mainly follows the lives of two life long friends , Rafe and Danny , as they grow up obviously meant to be fighter pilots , and the struggles with their friendship brought on by World War II . At least half of the film is made up of this drawn out love story , while the other half covers the Japanese invasion and bombing of Pearl Harbor . This is the reason the movie is so damn long , too . If they had left out this dumbass romance , or at least not drawn it out so much , we would have had a war movie of normal length that would have been much better . The editing between the love story and the actual war coverage is surprisingly awkward and abrupt , initially leaving us with the feeling that we are watching two completely separate movies that were edited together . The actual bombing of Pearl Harbor is spectacularly done , I have to admit that . The Japanese were obviously made to look much more evil than they were , because this is told from the American point of view , but the special effects and the torpedoes and the entire battle scene at Pearl Harbor was amazing . Cuba Gooding Jr . has a tiny tiny role as the black man who is not allowed to do anything more than cook during his entire time in the Navy , and who ultimately is able to man a gun during the battle and make a difference . This is a noticeable digression in the same vein as the over-simplified African American presence seen in Mel Gibson's The Patriot . It makes you think that Pearl Harbor was made by a bunch of rich white guys who , at the last minute , decided that they better put a black guy in the movie so they wouldn't get in trouble with the NAACP . Nonetheless , Cuba pulled off his overly small role very well , despite the fact that he was only given enough screen time to shoot down one Japanese plane , and that plane almost flew right into him as it crashed . As with any Bruckheimer film , especially The Rock or Armageddon , with which he also collaborated with director Michael Bay , the entire humanistic portion of the film was shallow and predictable . We get three main cardboard characters , Rafe , Danny , and Evelyn , and a relationship between the three that is entirely predictable . Nonetheless , some people may pretend not to know that , so here is the obligatory warning ? SPOILERS AHEAD . Rafe supposedly gets killed in combat ( he would never have survived a crash-landing into the water like that , but this is Bruckheimer , so we know he didn't really die ) , and of course , Danny moves in on his girl . Did anyone really think that Ben Affleck would be killed that early in the film ? So Danny goes for Evelyn with the ridiculous support of all of Rafe's friends ( this is another thing that would never have happened in real life ) , and then when everything seems to be going okay , Rafe comes back and everything gets mixed up again . Yawn . As the all-seeing audience , we know that Danny had no right to move in on his friend's girlfriend so soon after his theoretical death , so this is the point when we begin to suspect that Danny will be the one to ultimately be killed in combat , and in true Bruckheimer form , it will probably be in a heroic effort to save Rafe's life . And guess what . There are obvious references to the story structure of Titanic here as well as some scenes that are photographed and composed exactly like some of the battle scenes from Saving Private Ryan , but the film is obviously just trying to cash in on the success of those films . On a quality level , Pearl Harbor and Titanic are about the same , but neither even come close to the tremendous power of a real war film like Saving Private Ryan . I found myself several times thinking of Saving Private Ryan while I was watching Pearl Harbor , and the two movies are so different in their intentions ( Saving Private Ryan showed us the war , while Pearl Harbor tried to make us cry by showing how a few people were affected by the war ) that it almost seemed like I was watching a cartoon . This is why Pearl Harbor will never be considered a classic war film and will not be considered for an Oscar nod in any category . Bruckheimer and Bay make movies that are meant to please large audiences by entertaining them without making them think . This is why their movies are such box office hits but also such critical failures . There are always a lot of people who don't see how shallow these films are . For the most part , the action sequences are fast paced and actually pretty good , but they are NEVER realistic , which is probably one of the main reasons that a war film , made by these manipulative Hollywood bigshots , about such a closely scrutinized historical event just didn't come out right . The bombing of Pearl Harbor was obviously the best scene in the film , but was not realistic at all . It was , in fact , about as realistic as a fight scene in a Jet Li movie or a Jackie Chan movie . Fun to watch , but once you walk out of the theater and back into reality , you want to laugh . It's a shame that this scene in Pearl Harbor was padded with two and a half hours of fluff , because it could have been a significant part of a good war film . What a waste .
What the hell does ' blaxploitation ' mean ?	I imagine it has something to do with the weak script and plot that Coffy has , but this movie doesn't exactly exploit African Americans any more than a sex thriller like Poison Ivy or something exploits white people . Coffy isn't really that bad of a movie if you can look past the same old revenge plot and the fact that , while she's not bustin ' some hoodlum ass , Coffy is some sort of nurse in her spare time . This woman is like the black female version of Rambo , but the film doesn't really take itself seriously enough for this to be a problem . Coffy is a tough black woman who decides to take matters into her own hands when the law proves powerless to help catch the drug dealers who turned her little sister into a drugged out vegetable . To make matter's worse , a friend of Coffy's named Carter , a police officer , gets beaten ( in a pathetic fight scene ) and suffers brain damage , further enraging Coffy . The whole movie is about drugs and violence , and Coffy pretends to be Mr . George's newest ho so that she can get close to her enemies and bring them down from the inside . Mr . George , by the way , is a hilariously stereotypical 70s pimp , with his felt hat , ridiculous glasses , and matching pastel outfit that is so tight that he sports a cameltoe . While at a party with Mr . George , Coffy contaminates his drug supply , replacing his cocaine stash with sugar . This is the party where that classic cat-fight scene takes place , with Coffy getting into a side-splitting scuffle with all the rest of Mr . George's harem , and having committed the laughable idea of booby-trapping her hair with razor blades . Okay , now we're really getting to know how much this movie takes itself seriously . And I won't even mention the monstrous lesbian girlfriend of Priscilla , the character that was introduced just before the most idiotic fight scene in the entire film . And then there was the car chase near the end of the film in which the cop drives like a Duke of Hazzard for no apparent reason . While the movie is filled with crap like this and is therefore a definitive B-movie , there were some relatively interesting things going on . For example , it was actually pretty clever the way that Coffy was able to turn the drug dealers against each other so that she didn't have to do all of the killing herself . Also , while all of the fight scenes were awful , some of the violence was surprisingly , and often disturbingly , convincing . When George is dragged to death behind the car , for example , it was obviously a dummy being dragged but the fact that hate-crimes like this have been so notoriously committed against blacks , the emotional impact made it much more effective . Maybe that's what blaxploitation is referring to . The standard revenge plot is not given much of a twist in Coffy , and the closing scene with her walking alone on a beach at sunset doesn't really fit with the rest of the movie . There is some pretty funny dialogue , though . White Zombie fans are sure to recognize her quote early in the film just before she un-heads some drug dealer with a shotgun ( ' This is the end of your rotten life you mother-FCKIN'-dope pusher ! ' ) . BLAM ! ! Yeah Coffy ! And then at the end , some guy begs for his life while in a swimming pool while Coffy points a shotgun at him , and she says , ' Sheeeit , I ain't gonna kill you . ' BLAM ! ! Yeah Coffy ! It's no secret that this is not Oscar material . It's a cheesy action film with bad acting and a recycled story , but if you keep that in mind when you watch it , it's actually enjoyable , at least on a few meager levels . Maxim magazine lists Coffy as number 7 on its list of the 50 best B-movies of all time , and there can clearly be no mistake about its status as a B-movie . Enjoy , but be aware of the movie's limitations .
" It's a matter of the mind being mightier than the bosom . "	I gotta admit , ladies and gentlemen , I don't really find this stuff amusing anymore , but for some reason the Police Academy movies are still their own brand of fun . I was just reading through some of the message boards about the movies on the IMDb about what peoples ' favorite scenes were from part 3 and from the series as a whole , and not one of the scenes mentioned was genuinely funny to me anymore . I remember when I was a kid I loved the movies unconditionally and used to drive my brother insane because I always wanted to watch them , but I can't really remember if I just found the movies fun or if I actually got some good belly laughs out of them . Regardless , the vast majority of the comedy has not dated well , but they are still an amusing romp through the hilarious clothing and comedy styles of the 80s ! This time around , Commandant Lassard finds himself in a bit of a moment of crisis as the governor decides that it is no longer financially reasonable to maintain two police academies ( the other one headed by the beloved Lieutenant Mauser from part 2 ) , and so one of them will have to be closed . Which academy will be closed depends on performances during a period of observation by an evaluation team . Needless to say , Mauser employs the help of the hilariously idiotic Proctor and the same two goon cadets , Copeland and Blanks , who have been employed by both Mauser and Harris to create problems for our cast of heroes since the first movie . In order to save Lassard's academy , and their own beloved alma mater , from being closed , all of our favorite Police Academy cast members have been brought back from Their First Assignment to become instructors at the academy and ensure that the place looks good . So there you have the setup and the basic plot , and other than that it's essentially exactly the same movie as the first two . The characters are the same , the music's the same , the good guys and bad guys are the same , just the skits are different and this time we have the addition of a few negligible characters , the token geek ( Sweetchuck ) , the token Japanese guy ( who really serves no other purpose than to grin like an imbecile and become mesmerized by Callahan's prodigious bosoms ) , and also the ridiculous additions to the force of Fackler's nutty wife and Tackleberry's nutty brother-in-law . You know , the guy who is always trading punches with his own father . Can you imagine putting a police uniform on such a man ? Only in a Police Academy movie ! There is not really anything of special note that happens during the movie , although it is a little revealing that this is arguably the funniest installment in the entire series . In keeping with the two preceding movies , we are introduced to the characters in the same way , by glimpsing them in their current lives before the needs of a new movie call them back to the Police Academy world . Hightower is dressing up as an old woman in order to catch purse snatchers in the park , Tackleberry is playing safari in the backyard with his brother-in-law , Fackler is trying to prevent his wife from joining the force ( in a scene eerily reminiscent of his first scene in the original movie ) , and Mahoney is a ? women's basketball coach ? Whatever , it doesn't matter what they're doing , their current occupations or pastimes or whatever are just little jokes as they're introduced into the movie . Unfortunately , it's hard to imagine a time when Mahoney's constant flirtations were not as purely creepy as they are now . And that mischievous grin he gets when he's about to play a trick on someone . I need a lot of beers before that's funny , although I would be lying if I said the Police Academies aren't a lot of fun after the beer count enters the double digits . Unfortunately , there is also a definite feeling that in this installment the movie has turned into even more of a series of goofy jokes . Of course , the whole series is a bunch of goofy jokes , but I think that the second sequel is the first time when the characters that we know are used to throw in some moronic sight gags in order to get a cheap laugh , like when Tackleberry pulls out his gun and shoots a payphone because the operator refuses to relinquish her quarter , or Proctor getting locked out in the hallway ass-naked by a prostitute . On the other hand , my beer count was getting up there by this point , so I found both scenes to be pretty funny . It is important to realize that director Jerry Paris developed most of his directing experience on television comedy series , which may have something to do with the , ah , conspicuous lack of subtlety in a lot of the sight gags in Police Academy 2 and 3 . It's interesting to consider the impact that his personal directing experience before coming into the Police Academy series may have shaped the series as a whole , which moved in that direction and then never managed to get away from it . Ad now it seems that Steve Guttenberg is attempting to put a Police Academy 8 in motion , in which case I can only hope that he doesn't try to reinvent the series , although I have a feeling that it would take nothing less than a total reinvention to make yet another sequel worthwhile ?
Disappointing .	I rented Paparazzi , which looked like the potential for it to suck was pretty high , so I got King Arthur just to have something to fall back on . Besides , I have been meaning to see it for months , since I never got around to seeing it in the theaters . As it turns out , I was completely wrong . Paparazzi was outstanding , it was King Arthur with all the suck potential . The movie bills itself as the truth behind the legend of King Arthur's knights , which should have been a warning sign to me because Hollywood is not exactly who you want to turn to for the truth behind stories and legends that are centuries old . And after watching the movie , I am reminded of a possible truth of King Arthur that I actually learned in a historical literature class at the University level , which was that there was more than likely not literally a " round table " involved . This movie disagrees . A big step that the movie makes in trying to live up to its promise of providing the reality behind the legend is that Guinevere and Lancelot are not lovers , they just flirt a lot . Lancelot is far too loyal to Arthur , whom he serves and who IS Guinevere's lover . I guess the fact that a Hollywood movie that has two sexy actors of the opposite sex not ending up together at the end of the movie is a good way to give the illusion of reality . By the way , I say illusion based on my immense doubt that the movie really has much to say about the reality behind the legend of King Arthur , not because of any deep knowledge on the subject myself . If you want an interesting story about the time of King Arthur , Mark Twain wrote an outstanding book called " A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court , " and I very highly recommend it . It is incredibly well written and is a fascinating story , and probably involves more truth about the legend , even though it contains a bit of time travel . Merlin is even more different than his legend in that book than Arthur . Twain actually makes him a villain in his book , which threw me off because my previous knowledge of the legend came mostly from The Sword in the Stone , one of my all time favorite movies . I have to say that I was impressed with Keira Knightly's performance , although under certain conditions . I loved her performance , but her part was badly written . She is given cheesy lines but delivers them as well as they could have been delivered , and here's the even weirder part , I liked her better in this movie than I did in Pirates of the Caribbean , although I liked Pirates of the Caribbean much more than King Arthur . This is also one of those times that I have to disagree strongly with the critics , who compare it to " last summer's disappointment " ( London Times Online ) or " the flat out silly " ( Roger Ebert ) Troy . I liked Troy . Maybe I should acknowledge that it's possible that I don't know what I'm talking about . Nah . The climactic scenes of the movie involve lots of stabbings and swordplay and skewering and whatnot , reminding me that I'm really getting tired of these epic battle scenes . They blew me away in Braveheart , but have become so commonplace that they become tiresome to watch because I've seen it all so many times before . At the very least , they really tried to keep the digital effects to a minimum with the battle scenes , which I appreciate . And here's another odd thing , minimizing digital effects was certainly not a priority in Troy , and I liked that movie much better . I think that the small fights were so good that I was able to forgive the tedious digital battles . For a Hollywood Arthur , Clive Owen delivers a fine performance . He looks the part and he is one of the relatively few characters in the film who doesn't have an accent that is wildly out of place and time . James Bernardelli points out that the legend of King Arthur is one of the most enduring stories in all of European culture , a statement with which I whole-heartedly agree ( which is also significant because I usually have the exact opposite opinion as he does about movies ) . And given that , it is hard to believe that what is presented in this movie is what grew into that legend .
When you watch Dragonheart , keep in mind that it is a FANTASY movie . Evidently in fantasy movies dragons can remove 50 % of their cardiac system and donate it to a human , granting him immortal life , at least	Dragonheart didn't have much promise from the start , which is probably why it is not very well known . Or maybe it's just because it wasn't very good . Okay , it was a fairly entertaining movie , it had amazing special effects , but the entire premise was just asking too much , even for a fantasy movie . I am willing to accept the idea of dragons and dragon slayers , I'm even willing to suspend disbelief to the point where a dragon slayer might form some sort of twisted symbiotic relationship with the last of the dragons as a means of mutual gain , but a dragon giving his heart to a human ? Come on , you have to draw the line somewhere . Besides that , Sean Connery was horribly miscast as the voice of the menacing but strangely lovable Draco , the amazing CGI dragon with the interspecies adaptable heart . Sure he's from Scotland so he didn't have to fake the accent ( which Dennis Quaid didn't even try to do ) , but the problem with Sean Connery is that no other actor in the world sounds even a tiny bit like him . When I was watching the film , I didn't see the dragon talking , I saw Sean Connery standing in a windowless room somewhere talking into a microphone . That was the main thing that bothered me about the Dragon ; other than that I thought that Connery did a good job as the voice of Draco . The biggest problem with Dragonheart , in my opinion , is that the story is flawed . Like I said , even for a fantasy movie , it is just too much to ask for the audience to believe that a dragon could ( or WOULD ) donate its heart to a human to save a life . Are dragon's really that compassionate ? I doubt it . Maybe I'm just not enough into dragon magic and Dungeons & Dragons and things like that , but I was not too impressed with Dragonheart . Fans of the genre are sure to love it , though .
A curiosity piece but what was the deal with the romance ?	I watched The Mystery of the Wax Museum because I recently watched the House of Wax remake and so of course I had to go back and watch the original even though I didn't really like the remake , and Mystery happened to be a double feature with the original House of Wax . Having not seen the 1953 film yet , I'm impressed with the level of real tragedy that is infused into this film , which could very easily have just been a cheap exploitation horror film , like the 2005 version . For obvious reasons , the curiously named Ivan Igor , creator of the Wax Museum , reminds me very much of the Phantom of the Opera , film fans are sure to relish the clear influence of The Cabinet of Dr . Caligari on this film , and the rest of us will certainly get a kick out of watching the techniques of one of the earliest real horror films . Ivan Igor has been a struggling artist for some time , and just when it seems that his craft is about to take off into the public eye and make him famous , his partner , with whom he collaborated to rent the building in which he keeps his collection of wax figures , storms in and insists that he wants some insurance money back that he wasted on renting this place out , and before Igor can explain what happened only minutes before , he throws a match and the whole place explodes into flame , burning to the ground in minutes and hideously burning Igor . Injured to the point where he can no longer use his hands , but can only verbally direct other artists in how to do his work , Igor is never able to regain the level of quality that he was able to create himself , and thus ultimately he comes up with the idea to simply coat real corpses with wax and set them up as displays . And thus begins the premise that takes up relatively little of this film but which basically runs amok by the time the 2005 version was released . This one concentrates more on the struggles of a cute blonde reporter trying to get a good story and save her job than it does on the mystery of the wax museum , but once the two stories really start working together the movie flows really well . It's just too bad about the romance at the end of the film . What a joke . Nevertheless , still worth seeing , especially if you're interested in the House of Wax films or horror films in general .
The movie falls apart right about the same time that the ship does .	The problem with Red Planet is that there is too much known about it before it begins , and this is not only because of previews , but also because of common sense . About halfway through the film , for example , there is a lengthy scene of completely false tension , where the three survivors are helplessly watching their oxygen timers count slowly down to zero , knowing that they have nowhere to go and nothing to do but wait to suffocate . Obviously , we know throughout this entire scene that all they have to do is take off their helmets and start breathing , because if they die like that the movie's over . I suppose some tension might be derived from the fact that THEY don't know they can breathe the air on Mars yet , but since we're a thinking audience , a scene like this falls flat because we already know they're going to survive . I liked some of the things in the movie . It was pretty interesting when they finally arrived at the base on Mars and found that it had been completely destroyed , and the conflict was introduced very early as the ship begins to break apart as soon as they arrive into Mars ' atmosphere , forcing the team to split up for the rest of the movie , but then you realize that every bit of power failed on the ship and yet they still have gravity . Earth has become so polluted that humankind needs a new home , and nations around the world have combined their knowledge and money and space travel capabilities to launch this completely English speaking crew into space to test out the possibility of humans someday living on Mars . Algae has been launched there over a period of twenty years to try to build up an atmosphere of oxygen , but all the algae seems to have disappeared , and one of the mission's objectives is to find out why . I like that they came up with an interesting reason for the algae having disappeared , but I don't like the fact that the screenplay pretends that there can be breathable oxygen on Mars , while an entire Earthful of humans are sending up a manned spacecraft into the atmosphere and don't realize it . Missions like this are not cheap . No spacecraft , manned or not , is sent to another planet without extremely detailed knowledge of that planet's atmosphere . ( spoilers ) That was a hell of an oversight , but I liked that the movie didn't just have them meet some hugely disappointing Martians for our heroes to escape , but the villain that IS presented , while creative in a sense , is even worse . The mission included an exploration robot named AMEE , which for some reason comes with a ' Military Mode . ' I guess this is done in case they should run into any Martian terrorists during the mission . And since AMEE comes equipped with detailed knowledge of the weaknesses of human anatomy , it seems that her designers were concerned about HUMAN Martian terrorists . Not a lot of thought put into this aspect of the movie . Obviously , not a SINGLE person on the crew sent to Mars read the sticker on the back of AMEE , which clearly read , ' WARNING : SEVERE SHOCK OR JARRING OF THIS ROBOT WILL IMMEDIATELY TURN HER INTO A TERMINATRIX . ' On top of that , Red Planet contains probably the biggest loose end that I've seen left loose in a movie since Planet of the Oops in 2001 . Evidently some multi-cellular organisms have evolved on the surface of Mars ( feeding on massive fields of algae , yet another thing that the stupid humans on earth didn't notice ) , that eat just about anything digestible that they come into contact with . Two crew members are lost to them , but not before two of them ( note , the number required for breeding ) can be captured in a steel capsule to be taken back to earth and studied . Just before one crew member succumbs to the little critters , he tosses the capsule to the one member surviving ( Gallagher , played by Val Kilmer ) , insisting that he bring it back to earth with him . At this point , it's perfectly natural to expect that they would have one more uprising just before the end of the movie , or that they would stow away on the ship and create havoc on Earth , like that spider did in Arachnophobia , traveling back to America in that coffin . Instead , Gallagher takes the capsule and the creatures are gone from the story completely as though they were never even there . When the crew took off their helmets and found a breathable atmosphere that no one ever knew about until then , I thought THAT was an oversight , but this , THIS violates even the most basic rules of story writing . One of the first things that you learn about writing stories is that every scene must have a reason for being in the story . If it doesn't , take it out . The fact that the creatures play no role in the outcome of the movie renders their existence in the movie meaningless beyond just having some fancy special effects showing some creative Martian creature . There is so much that could have been done with those animals , which is why it was so disappointing to see them just disappear like that . Things like that are only excusable in movies that promise sequels , or movies that show the creatures remaining as a way to signify an amusing false sense of security , like in Little Shop of Horrors . I just don't really foresee much chance of a sequel to Red Planet . As a science fiction film , Red Planet is entertaining and fun , but there are oversights like the ones I've mentioned that just show that not much thought was put into the screenplay , and something like that alone can completely ruin an otherwise decent movie . The performances all around are more than satisfactory , there is a lot of focus on characterization and the interaction of the crew members and the problems that can arise from questions of trust and questions of faith in machinery that has never been properly tested before the mission ( since it was never sent into space until the mission ) , but there's nothing worse than being impressed by some parts of a movie and slapping your forehead about other parts . The movie provides a great Martian landscape , it contains a thrilling landing scene , in which the pod carrying all of the crew members sprouts huge air bags on all sides to provide for a relatively soft landing , only to roll right off a cliff , and there is even a question of God and religion to add to the complexity of the plot , but there are unfortunate shortcomings that really slow the movie down and prevent it from being as good as it should have been . The talent was there during the production , it just seems like both the script and the final film needed to spend a little more time in the editing room .
The film hangs from the script like a sack of potatoes .	In one of Hitchcock's slowest moving films , we see the tense interaction between two feuding families with different plans for the future of their community . There is a piece of land at the center of the dispute , which one family wants to use to preserve a life of family and tradition , and the opposing family wants to use to build a scenery-killing but productive factory . The film is based on a play and is not only extremely slow moving , but Hitchcock , with the exception of only a few scenes , simply points and shoots throughout the majority of the film . In the film's defense , the script is exceptional , but the problem is that the film is a technical mess , with the sound quality coming and going with such extremes that at times no audible dialogue can be heard at all . You can catch the crackling pace of the script but there are so many scenes where the film drags almost to a stop and Hitchcock does little to make up for it . The pace picks up slightly when the scandal involving the daughter in law comes in , but compared to what we have come to expect from Hitchcock , both before and after this point in his career , cause this one to fall pretty low on the relevance scale . A curiosity piece for Hitchcock fans and completists , though .
Who's that guy ? That's George McFly !	Charlie's Angels is a pretty sad attempt to cash in on the looks of three of the more attractive actresses working today ( although I am sad to say that Drew hardly fits in that category anymore ) , and the film's similarity to the traditional James Bond formula is a little hard not to notice . Cameron Diaz is an absolute bimbo in this movie , and although Drew Barrymore plays a relatively respectable character , her effectiveness isn't that great , especially given her whiny performances in such recent movies as Home Fries , Never Been Kissed , and The Wedding Singer . The biggest contribution that Drew made to this movie was getting her boyfriend to take a bit part in it . Despite the lack of creativity and the blatant sexual exploitation of Charlie's Angel's , there can be no denying the fact that it just had some good action and at least a few scenes that were really good . There was some fighting action that was really fun to watch , despite the fact that the cinematography was literally stolen from The Matrix , and let's not forget the fact that the Thin Man , with whom the angels had their first confrontation and who made surprisingly classy appearances throughout the film , was the guy who played George McFly in the great Back To The Future trilogy ( well , part I and some of part II , anyway ) . Those are some of my favorite movies ever , and I haven't seen him in many other movies , so I thought it was really cool to see him in a movie again . Charlie's Angels is an un-creative action crime film that continuously and excessively exploits the hotties that star in it , and relies almost solely on their looks as well as some flashy music to push the movie along . There can be no doubt about the fact that the music in the film was thrown in just to promote the soundtrack and make more money . There was hardly a second that went by that there wasn't another song playing , regardless of whether or not it had anything to do with what was happening on screen . There's so much trendy music packed into this movie that it almost overshadows everything else . Notice that they put that ridiculously popular Jennifer Lopez song ( the title of which I don't know or care to know and , of course , by ? ridiculously popular , ' I mean that it's ridiculous that it is popular ) over the end credits . Some of the music was good , but it was poured on so thickly that it becomes cloying and suffocating . LL Cool J definitely said it best during the opening scene of the movie , ' Walk out . '
Reindeer Games attempts to run with the likes of such classics as Reservoir Dogs and Pulp Fiction , but unfortunately it falls significantly short .	Reindeer Games is a good thriller . It is fun to watch , it has a good story , it's entertaining , and even most of the acting is respectable enough . However , as a whole , the film is pretty weak . Ben Affleck is a car thief who is serving a six year sentence in prison . His cell-mate is a man named Nick Cassidy ( James Frain ) , who seems to have met a beautiful woman named Ashley ( Charlize Therun ) in some sort of prison pen pal system . Rudy and Nick are scheduled to be released on the same day , but Nick has a run-in with a convict and winds up getting killed . Upon his release , Rudy has the bright idea to pose as Nick Cassidy so that he can get , uh , better acquainted with this Ashley girl that he has been hearing about for so long . Unfortunately , her truck driver / amatuer criminal older brother has found out from his letters to her that he previously worked in a casino , and he and his gang want Nick's help ( whether he's willing to help or not ) to rob that casino . Unable to prove that he's not Nick Cassidy and unaware of the design of the inside of the casino , Rudy is then faced with the challenge of successfully robbing this place so that the gang doesn't kill him , while at the same time avoiding getting caught so that he doesn't go back to jail for the rest of his life . The story is good . The huge holes ( why would someone as beautiful as Ashley turn to a prison pen pal system to look for dates ? ! ) are covered up pretty well by the time the film ends , and luckily the acting , for the most part , makes up for the crudeness of the script . The plot is derived from Quentin Tarantino's trademark of showing the end of the story at the beginning of the film . This is always an interesting thing to see , especially in a film like this . However , probably the most disturbing thing about Reindeer Games is the extensive and inexplicable use of blue screens and deep focus photography . There were a lot of shots that showed a face or a gun or something close to the camera , and everything else in the shot , everything that is far away from the camera , is also in focus . There is nothing inherently wrong with this , but it is unnatural , and it calls attention to the fact that there is a movie camera right there . Filmmaking is one of the few professions where invisibility is a goal for success , and while this deliberate violation of that rule is not necessarily prohibited , it should only be committed with good reason . There were scenes in Reindeer Games where I couldn't figure out why deep focus photography and especially blue screens were needed . Despite all of that , however , it did give the film a very distinctive look . Despite the film's numerous shortcomings , Reindeer Games is a fairly well-made crime thriller . I've seen Gary Sinise look better in other films ( see every other film he's ever been in except Mission to Mars ) , and Charlize is not entirely convincing at times , although she did deliver a satisfactory performance , all told . And most of all , if you like plot twists , check this one out , because there are plenty .
And the people bowed and prayed ?	When I write film reviews , I almost never give movies a score of 1 , no matter how badly I hated it , unless it is completely incomprehensible on any level , generally a movie that literally has no discernible plot ( unless it is a film that is meant to have no plot ) . There's a ridiculous horror movie called Nightmare Weekend , for example , that deserves a 1 for that exact reason . All three Scary Movies deserved a vote of 1 , if even that high , even though they had clear plots . Those are in a curious group of movies that are so bad they deserve special recognition . With The Loss of Sexual Innocence , you have a movie that has no plot but whose style and philosophical depth gives it the right not to have one . It's a weird movie that is strung together like a lot of completely unrelated scenes one after the other , but it plays like a series of dreams that come together at the end and then meaning kind of hits you . It's notable that so much of the movie seems meaningless and random and yet at the end of the movie the message is so powerful that it's amazing that you hadn't caught on already . I don't pretend to understand everything that the movie is trying to say , but if nothing else the movie is stunningly photographed . Even the uncomfortable and ugly scenes are cleverly shot . Consider , for example , the various ' Scenes from Nature . " All of them are very short and wordless and contain something like a naked person emerging from a still pond , walking up the bank , and looking around , but they are some of the most beautiful shots in the movie , and not just because of the nudity , obviously , since the nudity is total and yet none of the scenes are even remotely sexy . They clearly represent a time of total sexual innocence , since they are so clearly meant to signify some type of Adam and Eve scenario . In the third scene from nature , there is a black man and a white woman walking down to the still pond that the first two scenes from nature showed them emerging from , and after catching a fish and having no idea what to do with it , they marvel at their urination function and the differences between their bodies . From there we cut back to the present , where the rest of the movie takes place , and watch a series of people acting not nearly as sexually innocent as that man and woman were . A little more than halfway through the movie we see the woman wandering through the garden , I guess you could call it , and she comes across a statue of Jesus on the cross and then a rusted out automobile . She's fascinated by it , and then she goes around and starts eating things off of the trees which , if I know anything about the Garden of Eden , is some pretty reckless behavior . Ultimately she and the man eat off of the trees until they make themselves sick . When they wake up after being down with the sickness , their innocence has been lost , they see each other and the world differently than before , and they ultimately manage to get themselves kicked out of the Garden . The movie cuts back and forth between modern times and this sort of ancient Garden of Eden setting , interestingly showing innocence lost in both of them in a way in which they kind of meet up at the end , and one of the characters turns out to be the filmmaker making a documentary of it all along the way . There is a powerful scene near the end of the film in which the filmmaker and his crew are traveling across a desert and , after getting into an argument about an interesting thing that they hear on the radio , they hit and kill a young boy from a tribe of blue people who evidently live in the desert . The first thing that struck me about this scene is not that it showed how this filmmaker and his crew had long since lost their innocence , but how it turned out that they were not the only ones . The movie is not about how any certain people have lost their sexual innocence or any other kind of innocence , it's about how the entire human race has lost their innocence . Oh and here's some advice , watch the movie with the subtitles on , because it switches back and forth between various languages and is also recorded so quietly that many times you can't hear what people are saying even when they're speaking English .
Some funny parts , more stupid parts .	It should be noted that stupid parts are often funny , too , I still haven't figured out what it is exactly that makes one stupid scene funny and another one just stupid and vulgar . The mashed potato scene in Scary Movie 2 , for example , was not funny by any stretch of the imagination . If you really liked that , you should try hanging out in a mental hospital or a physical therapy ward or something , you will be in absolute hysterics . Then again , I loved the Ace Ventura films , and stupidity is the foundation for most of the successful comedy in it , at least to me . Now , when I watch a comedy like Dodgeball , clearly I am looking at the ratio to stupid scenes that don't work and stupid scenes that work . Dodgeball had more of the former . The story is about a regular guy who owns a gym and an obscenely rich and snobby guy who owns a massive gym across the street from him and who spends not a little bit of time trying to run the average guy out of business . Thhe initial problem that I had was that Vince Vaughn and Ben Stiller are very different actors , not the least reason for which is that Vaughn can play characters as different as the characters he played in Clay Pigeons and The Cell , whereas Stiller plays exactly the same character in every movie , he only seems to alter how irritating his characters are ( think Meet the Parents vs . his character here ) . Then again , he capitalizes on his weaknesses , kind of like David Spade . But in the movie , Vaughn reminds me of a guy dealing with some drunken jerk at a party , trying to shrug off his ridiculous and embarrassing behavior but eventually giving in and knocking the guy on his ass . Stiller is so over the top that there is no way to take him any more seriously than as a comic book villain . He is tiring to watch before the first third of the movie is over . There are effective gags in the movie , it is not all bad . The plot is fun to watch , because not only is White Goodman ( Stiller ) annoying to watch , but he is also a complete jerk , so you really want to root for the underdogs , and the movie makes very sure that you see them as underdogs in every way imaginable . But it should be noted that the best scene in the movie involves Vince Vaughn at the airport , having given up on his team , when he runs into someone that I won't reveal . They have a normal conversation , no over-the-top antics , and it's the funniest thing in the movie . Then again , maybe I just thought so because I enjoy ridiculously long bike rides .
The early , dry political comedy of Michael Moore ?	Sort of like how you could see the style of the Wachowski Brothers in their 1996 film Bound , you can also see the developing style of Michael Moore in this early comedy , a ham-handed political lash at America as compared with our angelic neighbors to the north . There are certainly a lot of things that we could learn from Canada about living among each other in peace , and Michael Moore wants everyone to know that , at the same time as he makes fun of their apparently childish approach to crime control . It's an occasionally clever political romp that is never laugh out loud funny and doesn't contain a single noteworthy performance , but I suppose it is interesting enough , if only as a curiosity piece about the early work of Michael Moore , who has made inarguably the most controversial and notorious political documentaries of all time with Bowling for Columbine and , even more , Fahrenheit . And , of course , Moore makes an appearance in the film as , well , as himself , really ? a loudmouth political activist .
The most star-studded one so far !	The above statement is relative , of course , but whenever I watch old movies like these , I always watch for actors who later went on to more visible careers . I guess it would be more accurate to call this the most star-studded Friday since part 1 , since Kevin Bacon's later career probably overshadows all of the semi-famous actors in this movie combined . There are some interesting connections , however . Watch for Judie Aronson , for example , who later became hugely famous for her role as Hilly in Weird Science ( in which she plays the girlfriend of Robert Rusler , who you might remember getting slashed up by Freddy in Nightmare on Elm Street 2 ) , Corey Feldman also has a pretty significant part in this film , although he looks about half the size as he did in The Goonies , which was released the year after this movie . And of course , my favorite , Crispin Glover , who later went on to costar in the massive Back to the Future trilogy , as well as the only interesting role in either of the Charlie's Angels movies . I loved his role in this movie because it fits his later iconography so well ( maybe it even caused it ) ? he's kind of the geeky guy who gets shunned by the girls and , in one of the greatest scenes in the movie , demonstrates the reason for that when he dances . WOW . At this point in the series it begins to become increasingly clear that each movie is something of a rehash of the same plot and ideas ( not that you would expect anything hugely different from a series like this ) , especially because the movie starts off with ten minutes or so of review from the last movies , as one of the characters from Part 2 tells a story around a campfire to the latest group of Jason fodder about what happened in the last three movies . Basically you see all of the grisly murders as this guy describes them , reminding returning fans of what happened in the last three movies and informing people who jumped right to the final chapter of what Jason's all about . Sort of catches you all up without even having to watch the other three movies . It's an interesting setup this time , with a lot of kids renting out a cabin next door to a family who lives there permanently ( Feldman plays the young son in this family , fascinated by the promiscuous antics of the new college kids next door ) . The basic message of each film having a lot of teenagers making out and getting naked and subsequently getting killed seems to take on a little bit more meaning in this movie as little Tommy ( Feldman ) gawks intently and wide-eyed at a girl undressing in the other house until his mother comes in and closes the curtains . Even though it's still pretty muted by the abundant killing and gore , it seems that the teens who have sex and go skinny dipping and whatnot are getting killed not only because Jason originally drowned because the people who were supposed to be watching him were making out at the time , but also because of the effect that their carelessness could have on kids like Tommy . Could it be that the Friday the 13th movies actually have a positive message ? It seems even more apparent that that might be the case when you examine the target audience . I wasn't watching movies like this when they originally were released ( since I was 5 years old at the time ) , but they're clearly geared toward teenagers much like the ones in the movies , out to have a good time with all their friends on a Friday night , and what better way than for everyone to go to a scary movie so the girls get scared and cling onto the guys ? That's a pretty big goal for just about every teenage guy , to get girls to cling to him , and while I doubt the movies had much of an effect in getting them to say ' You know , maybe we should wait until we're married ' or something , it's still a pretty cleverly subtle message . On a aesthetic level , the film has made a huge jump from part 3 . I think that for the rest of the series , there is never again as sudden and significant an improvement on the actual film quality , which seems to have been shot on genuine film , while the earlier films look like they were recorded almost with videotape on a home movie camera . The quality of the picture is much better , and there is even an extension on Jason's personality , even though I think in the end it works against the effect of the movie as a whole . In this installment , Jason does a lot of things to reveal his murders and scare his future victims at the same time . One of the bodies is nailed to a doorway ( leading to the gut wrenching necessity of it later being ripped off ) , throws a girl through a window like a baseball , plants a body in a closet so that it will tip out when one of the kids opens it , etc . It's actually pretty amusing to picture Jason doing this , and the fact that he actually breaks into a run in this movie increases the level of campiness almost to the breaking point . There's plenty of unnecessary nudity to keep the guys happy ( even some male nudity thrown in there for the girls ) and lots of brutal killings in keeping with what the movies are all about . I was actually pretty impressed with this installment , but mostly for things like that actual aesthetic quality of the film itself , the performances from so many actors that I recognized from later movies , the difference in the way that Jason acted ( even though the actor playing Jason , Ted White , had his name removed from the film because he wasn't proud of his performance ) , and the fact that the movie actually had some originality thrown in for good measure rather than just having a lot of teens go up to the lake to be rebellious and end up getting killed . The addition of a neighboring family with a young son ( who ended up playing such a significant role that he stays on even for a couple more movies ) was a nice touch , and while the killings were pretty much going through the motions , the movie marks a turn away from the rather rigid plotline seen in various forms the first three movies . Not a classic , and certainly not the final chapter , but this is one of the more entertaining and clever of the Friday the 13th movies .
Sigh . It was good , but only as a good dose of mindless action . On the other hand , it also had the same drawbacks that The Rock , Armageddon , and Enemy of the State had .	Gone in 60 Seconds was a true Jerry Bruckheimer film . It has the fast-paced action , the big Hollywood stars , the fancy camera work , and the awkwardly tacked on bit of romance , but overall it was a disappointment . Much like Mission : Impossible II , it had great stunts , but they stretched the imagination to the breaking point ( a scene on a bridge packed with traffic late in the film comes immediately to mind ) . Nicholas Cage plays a retired legendary car thief named Randall Raines , who now runs a go-kart track for kids , what a nice guy . That's even more manipulative than his name in The Rock ( Stanley Goodspeed ) , another Bruckheimer film . And yes , someone does manage to say , " When it Raines , it pours , " although the line seems to have been meaninglessly thrown in . The film also had a few continuity problems as well . At one point , the thieves are stealing a beautiful Cadillac SUV out of a garage in a residence , in the backyard of which there appears to be a jumping barbecue party going on . This was at only a couple of hours before the deadline at which point the 50 stolen cars were expected to be delivered . At one hour to that deadline , the sun is up . That party was either still going strong at 6 o'clock in the morning , or the next scene took place on the other side of the planet . Despite numerous problems like these , Gone In 60 Seconds had its redeeming values . The cars were absolutely beautiful ( especially the 1967 Cobra which , like many of the cars , got beaten up pretty badly ) , Robert Duvall was excellent as the father figure to the reunited band of car thieves ( dubiously named Otto ) , as was Delroy Lindo as the traditional curious cop . But as a whole the film relied too much on the stunts and the cars to carry it along . The story was weak , and the ever-present love-story was badly tacked on . This is not a film to miss , but it is also not a film to actively seek out . If you happen to be at a friend's house someday who owns it or has rented it , watch it and revel in the fact that you didn't pay eight bucks to see it . If you never get around to watching it , you really didn't miss much .
On the positive side , Vertical Limit wasn't the exact re-make of Cliffhanger that I thought it was going to be .	( spoilers ) Here's the intricate plot : a bunch of people go up a huge cold mountain , stuff goes wrong , some people live , some people die , some people come back down the mountain , some people don't . Maybe I left out a detail here and there , but that's what it all boils down to . Extreme sports fans are sure to be happy to see Vertical Limit , but will probably also be disappointed because movies like this almost always screw up or manipulate some crucial reality about the sport being portrayed , like the way skydiving was pathetically presented in Drop Zone . And Vertical Limit is clearly no exception . It's a formula film , so there's really no question from the beginning how it's all going to pan out , and the main plot can therefore be largely overlooked for simple lack of interest . However , there are a few surprisingly interesting subplots , such as the one about the climber-turned-mountain-man who remained on the mountain to search for his wife's body , because he suspects she was killed . That's the subplot to really pay attention to , because even though it's not exactly breathtaking , the way it ends is probably the best part of the film . There were a lot of good characters in the film , such as the two brothers who practically lived on the mountain , but the whole thing with Chris O'Donnell's character making a heroic mission to the top to rescue his stranded sister is just the same old crap that Hollywood constantly cranks out . It's so predictable that you already know how it's going to end after just watching the preview . Given that , and the fact that O'Donnell's ridiculous leap over the canyon in that preview probably drove off the majority of the thinking public , it's amazing the film made any money at all . Vertical Limit is recycled garbage with one or two minute ideas thrown in , resulting in a goofy thriller that is sure to be forgotten right quick .
Manny , Moe and Jack . . .	This is the first of the Shemp shorts that I've seen , and while some of the gags were not the cleverest I've seen from some the Stooges ' earlier works , there were also some pretty good sight gags in this film . Moe comes off as a pretty mean guy at the beginning , and cooking lunch on the linen press was hardly impressive , but the ironing scene was funny , as was the fight scene at the end . Besides that , you just have to love the characteristic sound effects . A burglar runs into the Stooges linen shop , curiously named Pip Boys , followed by a police officer , who the Stooges promptly begin trying to sell new clothing to . They are not doing very well in their business , and when they discover that the burglar was in their shop and not only is there a reward available for his capture but he also left a piece of paper with a combination written on it , they frantically begin their efforts to cash in on the opportunity . It's a very simple premise devised as a ploy to allow for some of their characteristic slapstick comedy , but that's what these shorts were made for . I found that the funny parts and the parts that just seemed to fall flat just about evened each other out , and while I tend to be more impressed by earlier works like Disorder in the Court , one of my favorites , Sing a Song of Six Pants is an entertaining short film .
Dramatized for effect .	The Day After Tomorrow is one of those movies that comes along occasionally that operates on such a massive scale that it's sure to be a success even if for no other reason than because it takes place in such a massive setting . I think that a large part of the appeal of disaster movies comes from the possibility of seeing somewhere near where you live or a place you've visited . The fact that that place is spectacularly destroyed is just an added bonus . The story is so ridiculous and yet the movie is so entertaining that this HAS to be true ! Here is an odd little factoid ? Steven Spielberg and his crew of special effects wizards were able to put dinosaurs on the screen with startling realism back in 1993 . Now , more than a decade later , it seems that special effects teams can't even create realistic looking wolves . Sure , I realize how hard it must be to do those kinds of special effects , but wolves are alive today . These people could have observed how they move in real life rather than indirectly through the movements of other animals , as the special effects teams did for Jurassic Park , but given what they put in this movie , there's no way they bothered to do that . If these animals absolutely had to look so cartoonish , was it necessary for them to ACT so unbelievably weird , too ? There's a scene where our hero , Sam ( Jake Gyllenhaal ) , runs past the open door of a room where the wolves are feeding , and the instant he passes the door , one of the wolves literally shoots out of the room and slams into the wall as Sam goes past , as though the thing were hurled by a catapult at the doorway . I imagine they wanted to make the wolf look furious with this potential invader and desperate to protect its newfound stash of food , but even the most wild animals rarely throw themselves at solid objects , such as walls , with enough force to break every bone in the anterior portion of their body , surely killing themselves in the bargain . At any rate , the most interesting thing about the movie is undoubtedly exactly what inspired the majority of the audience to see it in the first place , the possibility of massive , worldwide destruction as a result of melting polar ice caps . The logic of the science makes perfect sense . Global warming leads to the melting of the polar ice caps , which in turn leads to astronomical amounts of fresh water added to the world's oceans , which in turn leads to a catastrophic rise in sea level and massive global climate change . What doesn't make quite as much sense is the suggestion that all of this , from start to finish , happens in something like seven days . If you know anything about geologic history , feel free to skip this paragraph , I just thought I'd throw it in as a curiosity point . Scientists say that if you compress geologic time into a 24 hour period , humans appeared on earth at roughly three seconds before midnight . In geologic time , those three seconds represent millions and millions of years . The point is , NOTHING happens of any worldwide significance in a matter of a week . Even a nuclear bomb , which could effect people all over the world , would not effect the climate on any significant or permanent level . The science in the movie is very different from a nuclear bomb , but it's the kind of thing that , at the very shortest , would take thousands and thousands of years . Not that I have a problem with something like this being sped up for the effect of a movie like this , but sometimes this idea can be taken a little too far . In one scene , for example , Jake is literally chased down a hallway by an instantaneous drop in temperature so extreme that it will kill him the second it reaches him . Maybe that was the one step too far . The Day After Tomorrow is famously politically charged , almost overtly blaming Republicans for ignoring the environment until it's too late . Not only is the movie based on global warming , a subject which Republican politicians tend to write off as nonsense , but there is a vice president in the movie that is meant to look and act like Dick Cheney even more obviously than John Travolta was meant to look and act like Bill Clinton in Primary Colors . Another pretty clear knock against conservatives is in the scene where massive numbers of Americans are pushing across the border into Mexico , becoming the illegal aliens that conservatives so desperately want out of America today . Before I come off as attacking Republicans and conservatives myself , I should mention that the very name conservative inherently refers to people who want America to remain the way it is . In essence , they don't want change , especially on a cultural level , and immigrants , from whatever country , threaten that desire because they're different . It is not the people themselves that they hate , it's not racism that makes conservatives want these people prevented from coming to America or at least documented while they're here ( which I like to think is a goal mostly for Republicans and Democrats alike ) , it's simply a desire to preserve the culture of America that is separate from the cultures of the rest of the world . This movie suggests that a better situation would be a worldwide culture , a culture of humanity , which doesn't have to worry so much about borders when a worldwide catastrophe strikes . So anyway , about the plot . The entire situation is predicted in a scientific model created by Jack Hall ( Dennis Quaid , not to be confused with Aaron Eckhart , who figured out that the earth's core had stopped spinning in the far more ridiculous The Core ) , who goes through the usual difficulties in getting anyone to listen to him . When he finally gets access to Vice President Cheney , who listens with one ear while hurrying down a hallway , the VP writes him off as he might be expected to . Not necessarily because he's Dick Cheney , but because he's trying to say that the world's gonna be an ice cube in a few days . Ultimately he gets the attention not only of Vice President Cheney , but the President as well , who he briefs personally when it becomes clear that he's probably right . He write off the entire northern hemisphere ( cut off at right about the middle of the United States ) , saying everyone north of that line is basically lost . His credibility is solidified when it is revealed that his son is in Manhattan . So here's where the plot stumbles a little bit . Jack tells them to evacuate the entire country south of that line , which horizontally bisects the nation , and while they do that , he sets off to WALK to New York to get his son . There are a lot of obvious questions that arise here , like the fact that we know time is extremely limited , so how long does it take to hike through massive quantities of new snow ( inches of powder and base are not specified ) , even while driving some amount of it ? Clearly , the roads are not going to be too navigable in such conditions . Also , what's the point ? Wouldn't he just freeze along with his son once he got there , even if he found him ? Doesn't the rest of the world need his expertise , since he was the only person who predicted what was happening ? All of this logic is buried under the distractions of seeing snow in New Delhi , hundred-foot ( or more ) tidal waves flowing around the Statue of Liberty and smashing into New York City , a tornado shredding the Hollywood sign , and a Russian supertanker drifting down the streets of Manhattan . By the way , there's another problem . Did they not learn anything from The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen ? How deep was the water ? I don't think New York flooded past about the 8th or 10th floor , and a tanker that size would need a lot more depth than that . Keep in mind that any ship floating anywhere needs to displace an amount of water that is equal to the weight of the portion of the ship that's above water . Maybe it did , I don't know . At least they didn't have that happening in Venice , Italy , which has walkway brides every block or two . ( possible spoilers ahead ) Being a movie in which lots of people are killed , it isn't really any surprise that every single major character survives , that's just the way movies work . It may have been a little more effective if at least one person of importance were sacrificed though . Say , for example , a character with a significant enough part to have a name . Not that I like to see people killed , but even a little cancer patient who is really in the movie for no other reason than to be saved . There's an emotional scene where the nurse leaves , hoping to seek survival , while Dr . Hall ( Jack's wife and Sam's mother ) , tearfully stays behind , unable to leave her patient and mentioning that she has sent for an ambulance , which she ( and we ) knows will never come . Later , a superhuman emergency medical technician walks down the frozen hallway , saying he had heard someone was left behind and that he had brought the ambulance they had asked for . GIVE THAT MAN A MEDAL . Not only did he not abandon his duties even though the vast majority of New York had been killed , he was able to then pick out which of the millions of victims were still alive and even get an ambulance there , despite the fact that New York is under about a hundred feet of snow and solid ice . This man is the biggest hero in the entire movie . The Day After Tomorrow is hugely entertaining , it fuses all kinds of genres together , and it has stupendous special effects , but the human aspect is so cloying that it unfortunately becomes something that needs to be overlooked in order to enjoy the rest of the movie . At the end , the movie saves itself from total logical annihilation by showing lots of helicopters picking up people from the roofs of the frozen buildings in New York City , so we're not asked to believe that the main characters were the only ones in the city to survive , but the movie still shows the decimation of half of the human race and the start of a new ice age while still making room for a shy romance between Sam Hall and one of his fellow academic decathletes . The necessity of the Romantic Subplot has been taken even past Bruckheimer-esque extremes . Given the extent of the goofiness of this movie , one can only wonder now whether or not it will actually be taken seriously by enough people to have any effect on the upcoming presidential election .
It's no James Bond , but still good , clean , dumb fun .	Okay , so something happens in the first few minutes of Police Academy 5 that must surely be the most meaningful and artistic bit of creative story-telling that has happened before or since in the entire series . As Captain Harris and Proctor are breaking into Chief Hurst's office to get their hands on his files , Proctor worries that they're breaking the law . " We're not breaking the law , Proctor , " Harris assures him . " We are STRETCHING it . " After he says this we cut to Proctor , who pulls on a piece of bubble gum between his fingers which stretches ? and then breaks . In a rare moment of thoughtfulness , Proctor appeared to me to look at the gum and discover the stretching and breaking are pretty much the same thing . At any rate , it's telling that such a simple thing should come across as one of the most creatively meaningful things in the series , but I do have to say that Police Academy 5 is not nearly as bad as I have read that it is . In fact , I would go so far as to say that it's one of the better sequels in the whole bonehead franchise . In his search , Harris has discovered that Lassard has reached the state's mandatory retirement age and thus sets about on a mission to force him into retirement so that he can take over the job himself . The only problem , of course , is that Harris still doesn't command a scrap of respect from anyone in sight , while Lassard lovingly oversees his academy like a clueless grandfather . You see , he is so good at obtaining the respect of his men through the timely feeding of his ever-present goldfish that he has earned himself the coveted " Police Officer of the Decade " award ( normally I would think that such an award would go to an actual police officer , but that's just me ) . So a ceremony is scheduled to be held in his honor in beautiful Miama Beach , so the whole Police Academy Crew packs up and heads on down to the sunny south for the festivities . Harris , of course , employs Proctor's considerable wisdom and skill to book them two first class tickets to Miami , and the two end up traveling on a rickety plane full of farm animals with loose bowels . The crime this time is a group of astonishingly stupid diamond thieves , who manage to pull off a brilliant diamond heist and get away without a trace , but can't make it through an airport without tripping all over themselves and accidentally swapping their diamond-laden bag with Lassard's goldfish-laden bag . You have your small-time crime boss with the slicked back hair and quick tongue , and his two meathead sidekicks who hop along behind him going " whatever you say boss " and " boss are you okay boss ? " If only they had taken these bumbling morons down a notch or two , they could easily have been the funniest thing in the whole movie . The rest of the movie follows the diamond thieves as they try to get their diamonds back before the real crime boss kills them all , and before Lassard figures out that that video camera that he's using isn't a present from the guys but the hiding spot for the stolen diamonds . As you know , this is the first Police Academy movie that's missing Steve Guttenberg as Mahoney , and he's replaced by the charming Matt McCoy , who plays Commandant Lassard's nephew Nick , an ace Sergeant on the Miami Beach force . The character is a noble effort , but Mahoney is definitely missed . I must have watched this one the most when I was a kid because I remember it more than any of the others in the series , and I watched them all over the last couple weeks . I particularly remember the scene when Tackleberry fires off the assault weapons in shooting practice and then when they try to take the guns back he says , " NO ! ! I NEED these ! ! " Classic ! This particular installment in the series is famously bad , but anyone who tells you it's not any fun definitely needs to lighten up a little bit . The plot culminates in an exciting sequence when the little crime boss gives in to the frustrations of multiple failed attempts to get their bag back and just decides to kidnap Lassard in front of the whole congregation . Lassard of course , true to form , thinks it's all a demonstration and even helps the bad guys out along the way , winning their friendship and respect in probably the funniest element of the whole movie . Of course the fourth sequel in the Police Academy franchise is not a good movie , but it was never made with any Academy Awards in mind . In fact , since there are no wet t-shirt moments like in part 4 ( actually I was a little disappointed by this ) , you might even say it's a kid's movie , since it's the kids who are going to enjoy it the most , except for those of us who haven't seen it since we loved it as kids ourselves . By the way , if you manage to get it on DVD , make sure to check out the little ten minute documentary about it , it's hilarious ! I loved the ones about the earlier films , where they get most of the original cast together to talk about their experiences in making the movies . My favorite is Mission to Moscow , where producer Paul Maslansky talks about what a great film-making event it was making Police Academy 7 , finally and officially revealing himself to be genuinely delusional . But this one comes close ! Here's an actual quote from director Alan Myerson speaking about part 5 ? " For it's day , it was just short of a James Bond movie . " Uh-huh . Note - at one point , one of the bad guys calls Harris " sharkbait . " If they had copyrighted that , think of the killing they could have made off of Finding Nemo !
Let the overacting begin !	As I got to Part 5 , I was amazed that none of the Rocky movies were bad . Part 5 is the weakest of the entire series , but in a series this long there are almost always at least one or two that are just train wrecks , but the only really bad thing about Rocky 5 is that Stallone overacts so much . There is a definite feeling that by now we understand the majority of Rocky's life as an amateur and then professional boxer . By this point , it's not hard to watch the movie feeling like you know him personally . I think what made the Rocky movies so good and the Rambo movies so bad is that Rocky is just an incredibly likable person , while Rambo was tragically born without a shred of personality . It seems that Paulie has unknowingly signed over power of attorney to their accountant , who did a little gambling with the Balboas ' money thinking he could win big and then return it before they even knew it was gone , and ultimately they end up losing millions . They are forced to sell everything and basically start over back in the same neighborhood where Rocky lived before he fought Apollo Creed . Thankfully , the son has been recast after they cast that goofy white kid in Part 4 , although now he's a rich , geeky , spoiled punk . He has become accustomed to living the good life and sinks into depression when they have to sell all of their material possessions and revert back to the sad life that his father grew up in . When they move to the bad neighborhood his naiveté makes me think of an ignorant prince gleefully attempting to mingle with the common folk , thinking maybe he can make friends with them by commenting on how charming and cute their poor lifestyle is . Dumbass . Soon Rocky is preoccupied with a promising and ambitious young boxer that he meets one day on the street corner . His son is preoccupied with the punks that keep beating him up at school but Rocky never seems to have time for him anymore because he's putting so much time and energy into training this new guy , curiously named Tommy Gunn . Unfortunately , things pretty soon begin to go south when the press keeps labeling Tommy " Rocky's Pupil , " " Clone , " " Robot , " etc . The conflict of the film is centered on Rocky not allowing Tommy to fight for George Washington Duke , a major boxing promoter who wants to make Tommy his next protégé . The problem is that the conflict comes from Rocky telling Tommy that Duke doesn't care about him , he only wants to make money off him and then throw him away when he's no good anymore , but in the real world there's really no problem with Tommy fighting for Duke . Yeah , Duke has no personal interest in the guy and no emotional connection , but all Tommy wants is a chance at a real career in boxing . He doesn't need a best friend or a father figure , he just wants to get recognized and make some money . And Duke could probably make that happen a lot better than Rocky could . But Rocky is Rocky and we love him , so when Tommy disrespects him , taunting him and challenging him to a fight to prove himself once and for all , we want to see Tommy have his ass handed to him . Rocky , meanwhile , has developed neural damage from all the blows to the head that he's received throughout his career , making a prize fight impossible because no doctor is fool enough to give him medical approval to fight . From there , the movie goes in a slightly different direction . It's not as exciting and big as the previous movies , but is still a good ride . The biggest problem with the movie , however , is the son , who is not only a rich geek but also an arrogant little bastard with no respect for his mother or father or anyone else . He throws a hissy fit on Christmas Day and takes off with his little friend , and soon even shows up wearing this long , dangling earring and talking all tough to his dad . I haven't seen a kid in such need of a good smack since Stallone's other son in Over The Top . WOW . The problem is that Rocky is too benevolent and too likable , so when his son acts like this , it is only natural to side with Rocky and wish he would just send the little punk off to military school or something , but instead Rocky works to earn his respect . The movie goes in a completely different direction than the previous films and is noticeably less impressive , but the heart's in the right place and when it comes to Rocky movies , that's the most important thing ?
Just a rehash of the classic Pinocchio story .	Even though this film was badly lacking in the originality department , it had its redeeming values . The special effects were fairly well-done , the story was well-told , and Oliver Platt ( as usual ) was for some reason a lot of fun to watch . Overall , however , it was entirely too long , and it was hard to believe that it would be so easy for humans to fall romantically in love with a character like Andrew , whether he was human or not . This seemed to be a vehicle for Robin Williams to exercise his comedic skills , but he just didn't get to do as much of that as he probably should have to make this a much more entertaining movie . The majority of the audience will walk into a Robin Williams film expecting at least a few side-splitting laughs , but instead , with Bicentennial Man we are surprised with an emotional and at some points heart-wrenching story about a human trapped inside a robot and cursed with endless life . The film is entertaining and worth watching , but Williams is a much better comedian than dramatist .
I really wanted to smack the kid in this episode . . .	Interesting enough episode , although the ending really blew it for me . I have been losing taste very , very quickly for anything involving Matt's sex life . After the self-circumcision I was ready for that whole thing to just be put to rest for good , but I guess the show is about surgical bodily mutilation so such a request sounds a little ridiculous . I liked the way the whole story about his first sexual experience was handled , it was a great bit of fear when he thought he might have an STD , and hopefully the teenagers in the audience will take note . I am a pretty liberal and tolerant person , but the transsexual thing was pretty distasteful to me . I was surprised that I was having a hard time eating while I was watching the show , but I guess Nip / Tuck isn't the best show to be watching dinner in front of , you know ? But the thing that really drove me nuts was at the end when Christian had bought the Lamborghini and tossed the keys to Matt so he could drive . Matt pauses for a second and then tosses the keys back , saying You know what , I'm not you , uncle Christian . I want a girl to like me for who I am , not for the car I drive . Holy crap I wanted to punch him . I've already contacted all of my friends and family to tell them that if I ever turn down a chance to drive a $250 , 000 car but pass it up because I want to be liked for who I AM that could they please beat me about the head and shoulders with a large blunt object . I'm not picky . A toaster or an external hard drive or maybe one of those Kryptonite U-locks or even a garden hose would suffice . But it would be of the utmost importance that I learn a very , very valuable lesson . I already know enough not to try to circumcise myself though , so any beatings would not be necessary were I to attempt that . Maybe some kind of psychiatric intervention would be prudent in that situation . . .
Standard Segal with a bigger budget . . .	Urban Justice is your basic revenge story . Seagal plays an older , fatter version of himself on a mission to avenge the murder of his son in beautiful Compton , California . Seagal is undeniably past his prime now , although it's still fun to watch him cruising solo through the streets of east LA smacking gangsters around . It's pretty sad when they give him too much slang , though . He's a middle aged father , he shouldn't be speaking like a 19 year old gang member ! Essentially , he is basically Rambo , patrolling gang-infested streets alone and , as they say , bringing fists to gunfights , but he's Seagal , he can get away with that . There's nothing new here and sadly the only reason to watch it might be to see what Seagal looks like these days . He can still fight , but Urban Justice is no Out for Justice .
The experiments continue ?	In Chaplin's first handful of short comedies , there is a very clear pattern of experimentation going on as he discovers where his real talent lies and while the personality of the beloved Tramp evolves and makes itself known . In Tango Tangles , or Charlie's Recreation , we see a bit of a digression as not only does Chaplin's character revert back into the ' obnoxious drunk ' half of his on screen persona , but is also overshadowed by the clearly talented and , in this film at least , almost equally large screen presence of Ford Serling . Serling has been credited by some users as deserving at least some credit for inspiring some aspects of Chaplin's character , which I can accept , because the motions and overblown mannerisms are similar to some of Chaplin's later work , although I think it's important to point out that if Chaplin did learn from Serling , he most certainly saw his technique and improved it , maybe even perfected it . At the beginning of the film , it is clear that Serling has an intense presence , but as the film goes on , the infancy of screen acting also becomes apparent . It seems here that actors did not know where to stop when flinging themselves about in the outrageously overblown antics that must have been common in slapstick comedy for the stage . They slap each other in the face and then stumble about in a bizarre state of semi-consciousness , wobbling on their feet while their arms swing limply , eyes bulging and head bouncing from side to side like a superball in a box , before eventually falling over backwards and flinging their legs up over their head far enough so that their toes touch the ground behind them . Not that this is all bad comedy , just a sign of how different the things were that made people laugh in 1914 compared to today , as well as a curious look at the development of slapstick comedy for the screen . As far Chaplin's performance , it is also clear that the Tramp was still in the future , as he appears in this film without a mustache and therefore looking entirely like someone else . As I mentioned , he once again plays a belligerent drunk , stumbling around and callously punching and pushing people and throwing things at them as he staggers about the set , also in a bizarre state of semi-consciousness . Fatty Arbuckle also puts the majority of his talents on hold to star in this short , as he , Chaplin , and Serling all compete viciously for the affections of the hat girl , with what probably used to be hilarious results . By now , the film is one of the lesser of Chaplin's very early films , but remains an interesting milestone on his way to making his own far superior films .
Is it just me or was John Woo just not trying ?	John Woo gets a lot of good press as an outstanding action director , but he seems to be hit or miss to me , with more misses than hits . I haven't seen many of his extensive list of Chinese films , except for Hard Boiled , which I found less than impressive , like the spectacularly disappointing Windtalkers . Hard Target is his first effort in Hollywood , until the far superior Broken Arrow and Face / Off . The movie bears striking resemblance to Surviving the Game , although can't be accused of stealing the idea , since that movie came out the following year . Sadly , this movie plays like a lot of bizarre action movie experiments strung along a thin and uninteresting plot . There is some goofy and distracting slow motion used during the fights , which had a strange charm in Kickboxer but just look odd here . The story is mainly about a couple guys who provide an opportunity for wealthy people to hunt and kill someone , for a cool $500 , 000 . " It has always been the privilege of the few to hunt the many , " the villain explains , although the movie goes on to show that the few , to the contrary , hunt the few . That is until Van Damme's perfectly named character , Chance , becomes the hunted , in which case it is the many hunting the one . And not doing such a bang-up job of it , either ( " It appears your trophy is ripping us a new orifice ! " ) . The setting is New Orleans , which for some reason seems to be totally deserted ( except for a single scene that I can think of at the moment ) , giving the movie a cheap soundstage feel , and features a paper thin movie villain who's only bit of personality comes from his sidekick . I can't remember his name so I'll just call him Imhotep . Huge amounts of money are mentioned throughout the film , I suppose to remind us that we are dealing with people who think nothing of $500 , 000 or $750 , 000 , but when you toss in numbers that big it just starts to feel fake and contrived , like in Sudden Death , where the bad guy wanted to steal something like $2 , 000 , 000 , 000 . Why not $20 billion ? Or how about a bazillion ? That would be exciting . As I said , the plot is unimportant . Ultimately we get a situation where Chance is being pursued by the bad guys , although this time not some rich lunatic who wants to feel the power of killing another man , but by about 20 guys who get in on the hunt for $750 , 000 each . I can't remember if they were charged that much or paid that much , but it's telling that it really doesn't matter , neither situation would work . Why would anyone pay that much money to kill someone ? And even if they would , where does Fouchon ( Henriksen ) find these guys ? And there were more than 20 of them , so if he's paying them , why would he blow more than $15 , 000 , 000 just to kill one guy ? Clearly there is not a lot of thought put into this screenplay ? Anyway , we get a lot of action clichés , which sadly seem to be something that John Woo is really good at . I especially love the scene where Chance punches a rattlesnake in the head and then bites off its rattle , so that the bad guys chasing him won't hear it rattle just before it attacks them . Truly bizarre , but unique , to be sure . There is also a scene where Chance kicks a gas can ( that is clearly almost completely empty ) at a bad guy , and then he shoots it and it explodes like it was full of nitro-glycerine . Hey , maybe it was . Ultimately , the movie culminates in the same shootout we've seen 1000 times , except that this time it's not just an old warehouse , but an old warehouse full of what appear to be parade floats . I hadn't seen that in a movie before . It's a unique set , to be sure , but if nothing else , the cartoonish villain ( a criminally misused Lance Henriksen ) ruins it when he loses his temper and starts firing pot shots at the floats , which explode like fireworks . Then there is the matter of the anonymous motorcyclist bad guys , who are dressed from head to toe in black and literally pop up exactly like pop-up targets to be easily picked off one by one , just like the bad guys did in Windtalkers . John Woo always overdoes his gunfights , and here is no exception . Every bad guy literally gets shot 10 or 12 times ( except for Fouchon , who gets shot about twice as many times ) , but at least Chance remembers to reload , pulling one clip after another out of the back pocket of those skin tight jeans . If nothing else , at least the movie provides a brief educational lesson about military hardware near the end . You may not have known this before , but evidently you can just untwist a live grenade like a soda bottle to diffuse it . Imagine if that knowledge fell into the wrong hands ! The movie ends with a Creedence Clearwater Revival song that has appropriate lyrics for the movie but is otherwise totally out of the blue and musically just doesn't fit . The rest of the soundtrack seems to have been inspired by Van Damme's hair , which is probably the most memorable thing about the movie . In his first American action effort , John Woo swings ? and misses . . .
Too early .	Being a fairly die-hard Jim Carrey fan , I hesitate to condemn this movie as much as many people have . I've even seen the movie ridiculed on The Simpsons ( in one episode , I think Homer and Bart find some kind of secret vault , which contains The Cable Guy script , the GOOD version , which apparently never saw the light of day ) . Where the movie goes wrong is when it tries to turn from a comedy and into a thriller . Coming fresh out of such hilarious appearances as the first Ace Ventura sequel , Dumb & Dumber , Batman Forever and the somewhat less impressive The Mask , it was just too early for Carrey to move from such over the top performances and into the realm of playing a threatening stalker . Maybe not even too early , just too sudden of a change . Later in his career , Carrey would prove his impressive ability to play dramatic characters , in movies like The Majestic , The Truman Show , Man on the Moon , and by far the best so far , Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind . Even now I don't think Carrey could pull off a threatening character , but not through any fault of his own . For the same reason that Denzel Washington simply can't be killed Godfather style , Carrey can't be frightening or scary . The man's loved . Matthew Broderick turns in a sufficiently self-pitying performance as Steven Kovacs , recently dumped by his girlfriend and moving into an apartment by himself . The cable guy picks up on the heartbreak in the air immediately , and then proceeds to begin a relationship with Steven by hooking him up with free cable . I'm almost sad to see how completely Broderick has lost the slick confidence that he enjoyed as Ferris Bueller , but such is life . Much like many child stars , he grew up to be something completely different . At least in the movies . The movie succeeds in showing the gradual deterioration of the friendship between the unnamed cable guy and Steven , which gradually changes from a casual friendship to genuine stalking , with Steven's own friends and family thinking that he's overreacting to the cable guy who has charmed his way into all of their hearts . But it doesn't know when to stop . The cable guy didn't have to go crazy in order for his stalking of Steven to be effective . Indeed , a good comedy would have avoided that like the plague , but The Cable Guy runs for it . Not only does he become a dangerous stalker far beyond the criminal border , he turns into a movie villain , like in a trashy mystery / thriller . It fails where a movie like Shaun of the Dead succeeded spectacularly , in blending two genres that don't fit together very well . As I find myself saying all too often , it tries to do too much and ends up not doing much at all . At the very least , however , I have to admit that I was still impressed with Carrey's performance , at least in the first half of the movie . That basketball game was absolutely priceless , it's just too bad that the rest of the movie didn't go in a similar direction .
Average . . .	Beautiful is a film that delivers a surprisingly healthy message but unfortunately is only likely to be fully appreciated by those people freaky enough to understand Mona's ridiculous obsession with beauty pageants . It was bad enough that she spent the greater portion of her formative years sitting in front of the TV watching these pointless contests , but later in the film it turns out that she has aggressively alienated her own daughter because she is so bent on winning one of those stupid awards . At almost two hours , Beautiful tends to run a little long , especially for a film with such a questionable premise , but the ultimate ( and , admittedly , wholely predictable ) conclusion almost makes it worth while . But not quite . There's nothing spectacular here , but it does make an important comment on modern society's excessive focus on superficial beauty . However , if you want to see that particular area touched upon in a much more witty and entertaining and talented film , watch American Beauty . American Beauty is the kind of film that Beautiful tries to be , but it just doesn't come out right .
I once heard a film critic call this movie the " unnecessary colorization of a classic , " and I have yet to hear it described more accurately .	Gus Van Sant's scene for scene and word for word re-make of Alfred Hitchcock's timeless original is both unimaginative and pointless . I've read other reviews of this movie , and I hear people talking about how this is a good way to make older movies more accessible to today's audiences . More accessible ? Are you kidding me ? Every video store on the planet carries the original Psycho , is it that hard to go out and rent it ? Who cares about today's audiences ? I see no reason for anyone to go to any extensive effort to get these ignorant people to watch one of the greatest films ever made . If they are too materialistic to watch a film in black and white , it is entirely their own loss . Re-making classic films does not make movies more accessible to today's audiences , it further clouds the vision of the more ignorant moviegoers today who refuse to watch old films because they are black and white . Re-makes such as this one breed ignorance . We are now plagued with a generation of morons who now more than ever refuse to watch the original because the new one MUST be better , it's in color ! I don't care who refuses to watch what movies and for what reason , I'm just trying to make a point that re-making old movies , especially EXACT re-makes , is entirely unnecessary and does more harm than good . Why do we even teach history in schools ? Why don't we just " update " all the things that have happened in the past , so that they will be " more accessible to today's audiences ? " I bet a year 2000 version of the bombing of Pearl Harbor or of the Nazi death camps would be a lot more interesting than these boring , grainy , black and white documentaries that we have to deal with today ! Stupidity . History is there to be learned from , not " updated . "
I wasn't sure to expect a great comedy because Jack Nicholson was in it or a ridiculous comedy because Adam Sandler was in it , but I should have known .	Jack Nicholson has an endless ability to entertain , he's one of the VERY few men in Hollywood that are just fun to watch almost regardless of what movie they're in , but unfortunately he is not able to overcome Sandler's equal skills in goofy childish humor , which generally serve to dumb his movies down and challenge the audience to pretend they're not watching a kid's movie packed with bad taste . Anger Management definitely had its share of good moments , but as a whole it's one of those movies that is going to a very specific destination , and had better do something interesting along the way . The problem is that the only interesting thing it does along the way is give Adam Sandler one excuse after another to get angry , combining the hilarity of his desperate attempts to control his anger in Happy Gilmore with his sudden outbursts of gratuitous ( and strangely satisfying ) violence from The Waterboy . Jack Nicholson is great as the questionable anger management therapist , although I'm still not 100 % sure why he signed on with what was sure to have been from the beginning just another goofy Sandler comedy , although I'm sure he had a good time making the film . Just before I saw the movie , I was getting ready to tape the MTV Icon show about Metallica , and I caught the last half or so of a show called Punk'd , that featured Brittany Spears and that guy from that one TV show , the 70's Show I think , and basically they played a lot of pranks on different people and each other in a thinly disguised Tom Green style . I normally don't watch much TV , so I was surprised to watch a few minutes of that show and then see almost exactly the same thing in Anger Management . Jack Nicholson's character in the movie was the type of anger management therapist whose therapy consists of similar tactics , playing pranks on people in order to get them to recover from their anger without even really realizing that their therapist is doing anything other than screwing with them to piss them off even more . There are plenty of tricks which would not get very far in the real world without resulting in a pile of serious lawsuits , regardless of how many judges you know . We never find out , for example , who the owner of the ill-fated Lexus was , and I'd like to hear what kind of insurance company would buy a brand new Lexus that fell off a building just because it had a business card on it . Maybe he knows some people down there , too . The therapy sessions are some of the best scenes in the movie ( besides the singing parts , which were so funny that I might try them out myself the next time I get mad ) , but there are only two or three of them , and even those are a little contrived . John Turturro has a great role as one of the other people in the therapy group , a man who has an intense anger problem and is in constant need of help with it , and of course Sandler fans will have a blast pointing out all of the actors that turn up in all of his movies . Sadly , however , they may have more fun doing this than watching the movie . ( spoilers ) The end of the movie contains a brief scene that goes back and explains what was happening in key scenes , which is a universal sign of weak script-writing . Unless this is a Scooby Doo cartoon , there had better be a better way to explain to the audience what happened . In this case , the movie allows us to believe something that is obviously untrue just so the rest of the movie makes sense . For example , we are initially led to believe that the entire reason for the assignation of anger management therapy in the first place , which leads to the premise for the rest of the movie , was because of a scene on an airplane where Sandler was badly mistreated by the attendants and then assaulted by a man pretending to be a security guard , even though he was just a disgruntled passenger . If you look at the movie overall , the only message it delivers is about staying in your assigned seat on the airplane . Everything always works out a little too conveniently and according to Nicholson's dubious plan , which is occasionally accounted for only by suggesting that he knows certain people that helped his plan along , such as the judge and the radio newscasters at the baseball game . It's like The Cable Guy with anger management therapy instead of cable . I was just waiting for Sandler to try to call the police on Nicholson , only to have Nicholson grin and say to the officer , ' How's that therapy working out for you ? ' Of course the movie ends with Sandler getting the girl in front of a whole baseball stadium full of people , as Nicholson smiles at the top of the stairway and walks off into the stadium like a guardian angel . Very cute , but hopefully no one ever took the movie as something that was meant to be taken serious at all . The way the movie eventually works out is not entirely unsatisfying in any way , despite how obviously contrived it all is , but it is just packaged a little too neatly . Most movies are packaged pretty neatly these days , but the reason this causes a problem for Anger Management is because it is a movie with such a huge amount of variables . There are so many risky stunts pulled and so many different explosive characters that it is just too much to ask us to believe that it could end not only as happily as it did , but with a whole stadium full of people cheering for our hero and his girlfriend at the end of the movie . Anger Management is not a bad date movie , but it even presses the boundaries of this genre pretty hard at some points . I am a little confused as to who exactly the target audience is for a movie like this , besides the obvious Sandler fans who will watch any movie that he comes out with ( I happen to be among this group , just not the group that will love any movie that he comes out with just because he's in it ) , but it's unfortunate that there are so many Jack Nicholson fans ( more than likely a group of people who have slightly more mature taste in movies ) that are going to hate it because Nicholson's skill was not able to pull the movie away from Sandler's childishness . Sadly , the movie is something of a kid's movie that contains one too many lesbian adult film stars to be any good for the kids to watch . Evidently Sandler and his producers are operating under the firm belief that their audience has increased in age but not maturity . Anger Management is made for the kids who have grown up and now want to see what they weren't allowed to before . But hey , at least they tagged on a cute ending .
" The word ' mistakes , ' sir , is one that does not appear in my dictionary ? "	Our first look at Johnny English is as an ultra-smooth secret agent , which turns out to be a dream sequence as we meet the real English , a bumbling desk jockey who fantasizes about a life of danger . The movie turns in a completely different direction when we realize that this is a dream sequence , and I have to say that it is not a disappointing turn at all . Far from being a wild turn from Atkinson's most successful character , Johnny English is basically Mr . Bean playing James Bond , and in true Bean style . This is an excellent premise that allows for plenty of mishaps and mayhem , but unfortunately it also takes away some of the movie's intended effect , because we know that just about everything English does will be wrong . Because of that , a lot of the biggest screw-ups are immediately obvious and then become tiresome as they play out , such as English sky-diving onto the wrong building and holding a lot of doctors and nurses hostage , holding up the wrong funeral and dancing on the coffin of a grieving family , and attempting to pull off the plastic face of the wrong Arch Bishop in front of an astonished crowd . Nevertheless , the movie very successfully emulates the look and feel of a Bond film , even more than the far superior Austin Powers did ( or either of the hugely disappointing sequels ) , and there are some genuine laughs . John Malkovich , as well , is surprisingly convincing as the French villain , illustrating once again the British distaste for French people , a widespread feeling that I don't really understand , but have seen evidence of it in several movies and TV shows ( Atkinson also lampoons them in the TV show The Thin Blue Line ) . Malkovich takes on a fake French accent , but for some reason it is not distracting . Maybe it's because of the movie he's in , which doesn't expect any part of it to be taken seriously . The premise is also overblown in the traditional Bond way . Pascal Sauvage ( Malkovich ) plans to steal the crown jewels , force the Queen to renounce her authority , get himself crowned king , and turn all of England into the world's biggest prison . You see , he has become a billionaire as the owner of something like 500 prisons in 60 countries , so why not close them all down and just own one country that is just one big prison ? Upon learning about the villain's goal , I wondered how the movie was received in England . During his speech where he describes his plan to his cronies , Sauvage his goal for the future of England as something like " 210 , 000 square miles of prime real estate conveniently separated from true civilization by 20 miles of ocean , and soon available for the entire world to dump their human waste into . " True civilization ? Human waste ? Those are some pretty strong words , even for such a goofy movie ! Nevertheless , the movie in undeniably fun , although it does have the feeling that it is made up of not quite enough good material stretched over a running time that's too long , even at a modest 80 minutes or so . Natalie Imbruglia shows up in a throwaway role as the Bond girl . She is beautiful and fills the role well but isn't really given much to do but show up occasionally and recite her sparse lines . There are some brief sex jokes that might make it not the best thing to show to the youngest viewers , although they are the ones that would probably appreciate most of the humor . All in all not a bad film , it's vintage Bean material that even with his astonishing incompetence he could manage to go from being a fifth-rate secret agent to quite literally being crowned the King of England ( entirely by accident , no less ) , but Rowan has done much better .
Gammera's explosive debut . . .	Gammera , one of the most famous Japanese monsters to hit the big screen in the 1960s makes his debut in this zero-budget , politically charged monster thriller . It is interesting to consider the tensions that were taking place between certain nations at the time that the movie was made , especially between the U . S . and the former Soviet Union . There is no effort made to disguise the animosity that existed between the two , more than likely since that bitterness was needed as a catalyst to bring Gammera back from 200 million years of hibernation . The U . S . shoots down a suspicious bomber , which turned out to be Russian , over the arctic region . As is to be expected from those sneaky Russians , the bomber was loaded with hydrogen bombs which , upon impact , explode with sufficient force to not only thaw but also infuriate the sleeping Gammera . Lots of havoc is wreaked upon poorly constructed models of cities and airplanes and landscapes and such , and there is some strange subplot about a little boy obsessed with turtles who wants to expose Gammera for the gentle creature that he really is . Inspiration for the Iron Giant , maybe ? The special effects are astonishingly bad , but there was no budget and in the movie's defense , I have to say that the people involved in making it knew that they had no budget but they took very seriously their task of doing as much as they could with as little as they had . Classic Japanese monster fare .
Fast action and paper thin characters . . .	There are certain action movie premises that never go away despite the fact that they always produce movies that are clones of countless unimpressive action movies that came before . The kidnapped child , the raped and murdered wife , the otherwise wronged family , or in this case , the crusade against corrupt businessmen , smugglers , drug dealers , etc . Take your pick , they generally all turn out about the same , don't they ? Jason Statham is inarguably today's fastest rising action star . He blasted onto the scene with Lock , Stock and Two Smoking Barrels ( a smashing action movie despite what I can't get over thinking is just the goofiest title ) and soon followed it up with other action movies like Crank and Snatch which are absolutely overflowing with awesomeness . The Transporter movies are great vehicles for Statham , although this one was hardly an impressive first outing . It starts out great , with four guys scrambling madly out of a bank they've just robbed and jumping into his car , where he calmly sits motionless and informs them that there are four of them but the deal was three and then proceeds to list off all the reasons why four guys just won't do , including that it throws off the weight calibration of his suspension and will exceed the amount of gas that he has allotted for this particular delivery . The situation is , ah , resolved , and he puts the pedal down and leads the French police on an exaggerated high speed chase through the streets and alleyways of Marseilles that is so overblown that it promises to become one of those movies like Wanted or Shoot ' Em Up that are soaked in every excess imaginable but are nevertheless tons of fun . And for a lot of the movie that's what we get , but unfortunately its also populated with paper thin characters and cartoonish villains involved in a preposterous human smuggling plot . But I'm getting ahead of myself . Statham is , as the title informs us , a Transporter by trade . He makes his living by delivering things without asking questions and commands a conspicuously massive salary . The shadiness of his clients is to be expected , hence his insistence on never giving his or learning their names . He has three rules about his services ? I forget the order , but they involve never changing the deal in any way once an agreement has been made ( hence the tense confusion at the beginning of the movie ) , never giving names , and never looking in the package being delivered . When you're dealing with the kind of people that he deals with , it's generally best not to really know much about what's really going on . Especially when you have a friendly but attentive police detective making occasional house calls to your beautiful beach house and wondering about things like getaways being made in cars exactly like yours and when that last car later gets found blown to pieces with two police officers in the trunk . If nothing else , the French seem pretty generous with the benefit of the doubt ! But despite this string of good luck , he breaks one of his own rules on his latest delivery , accidentally buying an Orangina for the contents of his package and then letting her go off into the woods to pee . We never learn much about why he was asked to deliver this stunningly sexy Chinese girl in the first place , but it soon becomes clear that her family is involved in a massive smuggling operation involving smuggling bedraggled Chinese people out of China . Incidentally , I watched the movie last night in China with a bunch of my Chinese friends . They were not amused . The rest of the movie , unfortunately , is an exercise in Action Movie-making 101 . It's flooded with action clichés and predictability , which is disappointing even though there wasn't really a time in the first half of the movie where it promised to be anything different . But the bigger problem than the clichés and the predictability are the sheer lack of thought put into the script and the senselessness of the entire premise itself . You see , the Chinese girl's father is currently smuggling " 400 people in a container " through Marseilles . Is this for real ? 400 people in a container the size of a semi trailer ? Shipping through Marseilles ? I had been under the impression that a container traveling from Hong Kong to , say , America takes something like 4-6 weeks . But to travel " through " Marseilles on its way to somewhere else ? Such a trip would take months and I'm just going to go ahead and guess that roughly 0 % of the cargo would make it through alive . I don't know much about the logistics of human smuggling , but I'm guessing that such a percentage would do some damage to your profit margins . But no matter . The evil criminal scheme behind the action is beside the point , it's little more than a catalyst to differentiate between the good guys and the bad guys and give them something to fight over . Jason Statham is cool as hell in the movie , but his costar may be a good Chinese actress ( she's much more famous here than she is in America , so's you know ) , but she just can't act in English . She reminded me of the horrendous performance by the heroine in First Blood Part II . At the time of this writing I've seen half of The Transporter II , which immediately comes off as a much better movie than the original , which places it in the diminutive category of sequels that surpass their original movies . Statham fans and hardcore action fans may get a kick out of The Transporter , but behind the high class action gloss and Statham's star power it's a b-movie at heart .
You know , I had a pretty rough day today myself .	SPOILERS SPOILERS This is a tiny bit of a digression , but I watched this movie when I was taking a break from cramming for two midterms that I had to take this morning ( I watched the movie last night ) . I had been studying for most of the day and decided to make something to eat and watch the movie for a while to take a break from the books , and right about the time when I realized that Will Dormer's ( Al Pacino ) inability to sleep was to play a major role in the plot of the film , I fell asleep . A little irony that I found too amusing not to share with you all . Will Dormer is a detective assigned to a case in Alaska about a high school girl who has turned up dead . He finds out early on his mission that he is being accompanied by an agent from Internal Affairs , sent along due to some suspicion about some of Dormer's cases . ( spoilers ) Dormer immediately finds himself adored by a young police woman in Alaska ( I think the name of the town was DeafMute or something ) who has studied his every move and all but idolizes him , an adoration to which he tiredly responds with a roll of his eyes . He's seen this sort of thing before , and he just wants to get the job done and get back to Los Angeles and away from all of these backwoods people . The film is a typical investigation film until a great scene where the cops find the victim's backpack and put it right back where they found it , and then announce on the local radio stations that they need the backpack that the girl left a party in , offering a reward . They set up a trap at the location , knowing that only the killer knows where it is so they hope he'll show up to get it . In a great case of police stupidity , one of the officers accidentally presses the button on a megaphone , alerting the killer just as he arrives and setting up a good chase sequence through the fog . This is where the real conflict of the movie is introduced . Dormer accidentally shoots his partner , the Internal Affairs officer sent to investigate him . Knowing that he will be blamed for the murder , he covers it up , making it look like it was the killer that shot him , and thus beginning an increasingly tangled web of lies ( have you ever noticed that lies tend to lead to more lies ? ) . We may begin to wonder for the rest of the film how likely it is that Dormer would have been blamed for the shooting had he simply told the truth in the first place . Sure , it would look suspicious since the guy was investigating him , but that is hardly proof of premeditated murder . He would have been innocent until proven guilty , and his guilt is not likely to have been proven beyond what was obviously an accident . The movie ultimately teams up Dormer with the original victim's killer , Walter Finch ( played by Robin Williams in a decidedly uncharacteristic role ) , who also may not have had such malicious intentions in the first place . Dormer crosses the line of the law when he decides not to tell the truth about how his partner died , and now he is going even further by teaming up with the killer to frame the girl's boyfriend for the deaths of both victims . This forces us to question a lot of assumptions that we take for granted about authority figures and criminals in modern society . We assume that the police are there to protect us ( although , we should always keep in mind the famous and all too true quote from some source that I don't know beyond the Skinny Puppy song that I heard it in , ' The police used to watch over the people , now they're watching the people . ' ) , and that they are the good guys out to catch the bad guys . In this case , assuming that Finch is telling the truth about what happened , the bad guy is not necessarily a bad guy ( although certainly not the most admirable character ) , and the good guy , the police officer , is even worse than the bad guy because he's trying to frame an innocent kid of murder . This also brings up another point , however , since the kid is also not the most admirable character . The movie not only makes us examine our assumptions of authority and criminals , but also of ourselves as we find ourselves hoping that they succeed in framing this kid , who we dislike enormously because of his inflammatory temper and his tendency to beat his girlfriend , who sought the company of the man who killed her in order to get away from him . In that way , he certainly played a role in her death . He was definitely not the most nurturing guy in the world . Will Dormer is the main character in the film , charmingly named because of his inability to sleep , which is undoubtedly brought on because he certainly has a lot on his mind . He has been assigned to find the killer of a high school girl , he has inadvertently shot and killed his partner who was investigating him for Internal Affairs , he finds himself identifying with the criminality of the suspect that he is trying to bring in , his own plan of covering up his own murder is falling apart , and all of this is taking place in a location where the sun never sets . No wonder he can't sleep . Up to this point , this is a great psychological thriller . There is relatively little action put together to add up to an enormous amount of tension , but this conversely makes you wonder about some scenes that seem to have been thrown in just to have a little more action in the movie , when next to none was needed . There is , for example , a scene where Dormer chases Finch across a lot of loose logs on a river and ends up getting trapped underwater , which is one of the more tired action sequences of the thriller genre . This scene stands out so far from the tone of the rest of the film that it seems to belong in a different movie . But more importantly than that , the movie really starts to fall apart at the end when Dormer and Finch turn against each other and the movie devolves into a typical shootout . This is the point where the film lets us know that these two characters were trying to put a plan into action that could never work , they were on a doomed path . So don't try this at home , kids . The whole set-up of the interaction of Finch and Dormer falls apart into low-rent action , which reminds me of the ignored opportunities of Hollow Man and , even more , the similarly obligatory ending of the recent Robert DeNiro film 15 Minutes , which was a tremendously well-made film with a conclusion that is just as much on auto-pilot as this one is . We get the nice poetic justice as the two major criminals in the film shoot each other simultaneously , and Dormer is given a chance to do a deathbed conversion , redeeming himself in the eyes of Ellie Burr ( the young policewoman played by Hillary Swank who admired him at the beginning but eventually discovered his secret ) , urging her not to throw the one piece of incriminating evidence into the river but to turn it in so this whole sordid mess can finally be resolved . Very nice , but this convenient ending just doesn't do justice to the effective tension created in the first half of the film . Like the two main criminals , the ending is almost a polar opposite of the beginning , leaving us enormously entertained but eventually disappointed . And in case you were wondering , both of my midterms today went remarkably well .
Saving Private Burnett .	Behind Enemy Lines is a classic example of a story that was told in order to be made into a neatly packaged action film . Owen Wilson plays the part of Lt . Chris Burnett , a fighter pilot in the Navy who , after seven years of service , has yet to see a single day of the kind of thing that he has been trained for . In a memorable scene with his superior , Admiral Reigart ( Gene Hackman ) , Burnett defiantly states that he joined the military to be a fighter pilot , not a cop , especially not a cop walking a beat that no one cares about . This scene sets up all the cutesy emotional hoo-hah during the rest of the film as Reigart acts like saving Brunett is just as important as if Burnett was his own son . I like that the old American adage of never leaving a man behind is so strictly defended , but it's done by turning Reigart into a sort of reluctant but total father figure , the same way that Detective Gerard was at the end of The Fugitive . But in that movie it was okay because it didn't pervade the entire film , and Gerard had reasons developed throughout the story for acting that way towards Kimble . Burnett and his pilot , curiously named Stackhouse , are flying a typical mission , which is more of a flying exercise than a recon mission , when they spot some unusual activity on their radar and , both bored out of their skulls at the routine of their time in the Navy , decide to fly over it and test out their ' shiny new digital camera . ' When they fly over , they capture a lot of pictures of Serbs engaged in illegal military activity , in violation with a recently established peace treaty . I am not an expert in political matters , because most of the time I prefer to lose myself in the world of movies than watch the news , but something tells me that there are a few countries that are not going to be entirely thrilled with the way they're portrayed in this film , such as Bosnia and Serbia and France , given the antagonistic Admiral Piquet , played by Joaquim de Almeida . Speaking of Joaquim de Almeida , you may remember him from his role as Bucho in Desperado , where he played an evil mob boss in Mexico , in charge of a lot of startlingly moronic henchmen , the stupidity and incompetence of whom is only matched by the Serbians chasing after Burnett for the majority of this film . Roger Ebert mentions that Burnett is a guy begging to get shot and the Serbs are a lot of guys who couldn't hit the side of a Serbian barn . Pretty good observation , since there are numerous scenes in the film where Burnett is in a wide open space literally being shot at by every enemy soldier that ever shows up on screen in the film , and doesn't even get a scratch . Makes you wonder if they've ever shot a gun before . There is one man who asks to be the only one allowed to go after Burnett , obviously hungry for killing since he's an evil Serb , and then can't hit Burnett even when he's sitting still on a concrete outcropping and the sniper has a perfectly clear shot . Back on the ship , meanwhile , Reigart is struggling to get permission to send a rescue mission out to pick him up , but in probably the only interesting part of the film that is not superficial action , he is unable to because even though they proved that the Serbs were involved in illegal activity , Burnett and Stackhouse also violated their mission course and so shouldn't have been there in the first place . Passing over the border into Serbia could cause some serious warfare that could potentially cause a lot more killing than just of Stackhouse and Burnett . This is an interesting dilemma that Reigart must face , and the way he gets through this and on to the obligatory happy ending where everyone flies off happily ever after into the sunset is probably the only thing in the film that's not completely predictable . ( spoilers ) As far as an straight up action film , Behind Enemy Lines succeeds . There is plenty of fast action and lots of explosions and shooting and killing and a thrilling plane sequence near the beginning where Burnett and Stackhouse suddenly find themselves trying to evade two heat seeking missiles , but this is about as far as the movie goes . There is tons of sappy crap , like when Burnett is sleeping in the woods and hears Stackhouse whisper his name in a dream , waking him up just in time to flee from the sniper and thereby saving his life from the grave , and even worse than that , there is a slow motion sequence late in the film where Burnett is facing the helicopters finally there to pick him up , but shakes his head no and runs back to retrieve the digital pictures so that Stackhouse would not have died in vain . It was a smart thing to do not to have had Stackhouse die for nothing , but having Burnett do it smack in the middle of a hail of gunfire from both sides ( evidently the Serbs can't hit hovering helicopters , either , even at close range ) was just too much . The end of the film is a massive copout , ending with nice slow motion shots of each character as we're given text explaining what they all do after the end of the movie , pretending that this was based on real events . This is the weakest way that action movies can end , and is only used when there is a good reason to know what the characters did after the movie but no good reason to show it , if it's a cheesy comedy and these last lines just provide one more cheesy laugh , or if there is just not enough money to film it . Either way , in this film it is just done so that they can tell us what we already know , such as that Burnett stayed in the Navy and Admiral Reigart did , indeed , lose his command for his decision to go after Burnett behind enemy lines . It surprises me that this movie is not a Jerry Bruckheimer production in the sense that all the goofy sentimental crap of a Bruckheimer film has been thrown in , such as Burnett hearing his dead pilot whisper his name in a dream just in time to save his life , and all the fast-paced , sugar-coated action , but on the other hand , there is no cheeseball romance thrown into the movie to dumb it down , and that is one of the few things that we can be thankful for . The imaginary satellite that allows Reigart and his crew to watch as the enemy soldiers approach Burnett's motionless body was interesting in that they are all watching this but don't have a clue how they can be that close and not see him , but it cancels itself out because it is so fake that it's almost funny . Even if there were satellites that could show what is happening with that much detail , there's no way it could stay in one place long enough to create a perfectly still image like that . Interesting to watch , but like the rest of the movie , there's really not much going on underneath .
The latest installment in the brilliant Jack Ryan series from Tom Clancy falls tremendously short of it's predecessors .	The Sum of All Fears is exactly what it was advertised to be - a fast paced military / political thriller , and it even comes out bearing more weight than originally intended because of the effects on the world of the September 11th attacks , which occurred before the film was released but after it was filmed . Ben Affleck stars as Jack Ryan in this film , but is not able to capture the same power and effectiveness of Harrison Ford ' or even Alec Baldwin's Ryan . I've heard a lot of people complain that Jack Ryan is younger in this film than he was in the last ones , and that this is somehow supposed to count against the film . Maybe this is a prequel . Maybe they wanted to give the series a boost with young actors . Maybe it took place earlier in Jack Ryan's career . Who cares ? Did you not notice the lowly profession that Ryan was also given in this film ? It doesn't matter even a tiny bit that Jack Ryan is younger here than he was in Clear and Present Danger . I would think that if you missed the plethora of ligitimate reasons to pick this movie apart and had to focus instead on Ryan's appearance , you would at least be more concerned about his strange ability to morph into completely different people from film to film . As far as being an involving and tense thriller , The Sum of All Fears delivers spectacularly . It has a brilliant story that involves a right-wing neo-Nazi with the idea that with the use of a nuclear weapon he could create a war between two of the most powerful nations in the world ( America and Russia ) , and the Aryan fascists could take over in the radioactive aftermath . I was particularly impressed that the film has the guts to portray the Americans as the primary aggressors ( although also as a country led by a lot of men capable of yelling at each other like high school kids at a time when their focus is more crucial than ever ) and the Russians as the ones that are the first to agree to back down . The film starts to trip a little bit when it pits Ryan , now a lowly analyst with little to no say in the proceedings during the government meetings , as the only man capable of preventing World War III because of information that he has about the origin of the bomb that was detonated in Baltimore at the Super Bowl , killing thousands and thousands of people and infecting countless more with radiation ( as well as providing the most shocking scene in the entire film ) . It's such a disappointment to see such a strong film brought down by so much cheesy Hollywood crap , it's almost like a Schwarzenegger movie or a Van Damme movie or a Steven Seagal movie , where everything is up to one man to come in and save the day . If there is only one thing that The Sum of All Fears has more than it's share of , it is cheesy Hollywood crap . Aside from the hero-of-the-day structure , the film races along at a fever pitch as the tension between Russia and America comes to a head , with each country holding a twitchy finger over the big red button , but it is anchored down by a lumbering romantic subplot that , like just about every Jerry Bruckheimer movie ever made , does nothing but stop the film in its tracks and vainly attempt to attract a female audience . The film is weighed down by things like this , and by it's awkward attention to detail , which is tremendously informative about things like military tactics and national security , but glosses over things like a missing nuclear weapon ( I would think that there would have been at least ONE person who casually mentioned at any point after the bomb went missing in 1973 , " Hey , what ever happened to that nuclear weapon that we sent up on that plane that no one ever saw again ? " ) . ( spoilers ) I'm not even so concerned about the sudden installment of a girlfriend into Jack Ryan's life , but more with the fact that the movie is so reductive about the tragedy that occurred in Baltimore , and this goes on throughout the entire film . When William Cabot dies , for example , the last thing that he says is to ask if Ryan's girlfriend is okay . On the one hand , I can understand that in such an explosion , most people would be most concerned about people they knew who may have been hurt , but in the film , this is done so that when we see them having a cute little picnic on the White House lawn at the end of the film , it means that all ends happily and thousands and thousands of people were not really killed in that explosion we saw earlier . The end of the film is one of the most intensely disappointing endings I have ever seen , by far overshadowing the weighty drab of the romance and the hero plot and the fact that we never find out what that gift was that Ryan's fairy godfather gave him for his and his girlfriend's anniversary , which he mysteriously knew about . I am not saying that The Sum of All Fears is a trashy or bad movie , it is a capable thriller with an excellent story that is able to survive the characteristics that it has in common with the typical Bruckheimer films , but it's weaknesses are emphasized by the juxtaposition of it's enormous potential and the goofy crap that was thrown in and which had such a massively negative impact on the film as a whole . Like Pearl Harbor , this movie could very easily have been a truly great film with real life meaning , but instead they chose to gloss it over and sugar-coat the painful content , making the audience look the other way at the cute couple at the end of the film and convince themselves that if such an event occurred in real life ( an event which has been described as ' inevitable ' ) , a picnic on the White House lawn is how it would all end . Sadly , in real life , I think people would be a lot more concerned about the burning radioactive rubble that used to be Baltimore than they would be about that cute couple eating sandwiches in front of the White House .
" Anytime we have people immune to investigation , we'll always have those in government who are above the law . "	OK , so I have been a fan of Steven Seagal since I was a kid ( I can't remember why my parents allowed me to watch early Seagal films , by the way ) , and lately I have been going back and watching his oldest and best movies . Out of pure curiosity , I looked him up on Youtube because I realized that I had never seen a single interview of him , and the first thing I find is an interview where he says , " I was born clairvoyant , I was born a healer , and I was born very different . " He then goes on to claim that he , along with everyone else who shares his beliefs , is God , and then he apologized for any pain or suffering that he has ever caused any sentient being . Unbelievable ! I don't know this guy at all ! Anyway , Above the Law is totally different from how I remember it . I mostly remember Out For Justice , which remains my favorite Seagal film but which I hadn't seen for about 15 years until yesterday . In watching Above the Law again , I was struck by how gritty and poorly made it is . It starts out almost like an autobiography of Seagal . He tells his own story , about how he studied Aikido in Japan and soon found himself studying with the masters , but then he gets drafted by the CIA to go to Vietnam and all ties with reality suddenly end . Not that there's anything wrong with that . Seagal is a powerful action star , and the film moves along at a fast clip as he is brought to Vietnam and almost immediately begins lashing out at military corruption as he sees a group of superiors mistreating prisoners . He is promptly booted from the military and becomes a cop in his hometown of Chicago . We jump to years later , he's married and has a kid and a comfortable life as a police officer , but it seems that he never lost the bad taste in his mouth after seeing those officers interrogating an Vietnamese prisoner about drugs . Soon learns of a pretty major smuggling operation involving drugs and plastic explosives . As he investigates deeper and deeper he discovers an intricate plot to assassinate a senator . And when I say intricate , I mean far more involved than the rest of the movie is able to carry . The movie is slow-moving and confusing , and the action is sloppy and careless . Nico , for example , at one point is on the roof of a moving car being fired at by two bad guys inside the car , neither of whom can manage to hit him even though he's less than a foot away from their heads . Makes me wish I was a bad guy in an old Seagal movie ! There is , of course , not an ounce of subtlety in the movie . I especially love the characterization . There is one scene where Nico is driving his car and he stops for some schoolkids to cross the road , waving and smiling to him as they do . Seconds later , the bad guys jump out of a nearby van and shove the kids out of the way and start shooting . Real deep character development there , guys ! Ultimately the movie makes a comment ( which is spoon-fed to us as the end credits start to roll , by the way ) about how as long as we have people who can escape investigation we'll always have people who are above the law . That strikes me as a little self-explanatory , but I can understand the message about the corruption of people in the CIA ( or any other government institution ) being who feel that they can do whatever they want and never have to answer for it .
Wait a minute , you can bring a dog on a plane ? ? ?	Snakes on a Plane is a movie of an increasingly rare breed . It includes a warning within the title , meaning that if you see a title like " Snakes on a Plane " and can't deduce that it's going to be preposterous in the extreme , then you deserve to feel ripped off . Now , like other laughable predecessors such as Anaconda , Battlefield Earth , and Gigli , it is more famous for being a bad movie than anything else . But unlike those movies , this is a GOOD bad movie , like Commando or Kickboxer . It's pretty clear that the movie was made in the over - the-top Grindhouse style and that it's meant to bring on laughs as much as action excitement . The special effects are a sufficient joke in themselves . The plot , as well , is meaningless . There is something at the beginning about a super-villain named Eddie Kim , who is on trial for the murder of a pesky prosecutor , whose murder was witnessed by Sean Jones , an all-American surfer kid in Hawaii . Neville Flynn ( Samuel L . Jackson ) heads up the FBI team assigned to escort him back to Los Angeles for Kim's trial . Sadly , what they fail to realize is that Kim is of the supervillain variety that is able to mobilize hundreds of illegal poisonous snakes from all over the world and get them placed onto a passenger airliner . What I love is that Agent Flynn takes over the first class cabin of an airliner bound for Los Angeles with such short notice that the stewardesses don't even know it's coming until they have to send the first class passengers to coach on their way onto the plane , but not with such short notice that Kim can't order the entire plane loaded up with exotic venomous snakes . Now THAT'S power ! But of course , it goes without saying that logic doesn't apply well to this movie . At one point , the co-captain of the plane worries that with the snakes crawling around in the air ducts , they might short circuit the whole plane and it will plummet helplessly from the sky . Are modern passenger jets really so poorly designed that some pests loose upstairs can doom an entire plane full of passengers ? It's also up for debate whether or not you can email pictures from a cell phone while at cruising speed . I happen to know that your standard cell phone is above reception only a few seconds after take-off . You'd be surprised how unconcerned cell phone companies are with considering elevation in their cell phone coverage . Maybe someone had a satellite phone . Lots of people carry those around ? There is , however , one thing that is certainly interesting to me . I live in China and I have a dog , and in about a year and a half I'll be moving back to California . My assumption is that it will probably be nearly impossible to bring my dog back home with me , and that the best I can hope for is months of quarantine and a staggering cost . I only wish it was so easy that I could just bring her on the plane with me ! ( spoilers ) Many reviewers defend the movie by saying that Kim , the bad guy , doesn't matter , it's the snakes that are the villain . Obviously , that's exactly right , but if the snakes are the villain , why have Kim at all ? He's introduced as this brutal gangster , and then at the end , once the snakes are taken care of , he disappears from the movie as Flynn and Jones go surfing . Maybe Flynn forgot he still had a super high-profile trial to attend to . Or maybe , like us , he realizes that the trial doesn't matter , and that after even a sparse 85 minutes or so of this movie , most of the audience is ready to go home . The movie is not a total loss , of course . There is definitely an audience , and definitely some situations in which many people who initially hated it could still enjoy it . Invite a bunch of your buddies over one night and have a few beers and watch this movie , and if you don't have a good time , you need to loosen up a little . There are hilarious special effects , a nice amount of bronzed blonde nudity , and someone gets bitten in every groan-inducing place you can think of . Like it or not , it's a rousing , stupid good time !
Bad for obvious reasons .	Saving Silverman is one of those hopelessly immature comedies that is sure to be either attacked or ignored by the critics . However , there are quite a few good laughs in the movie , due in no small part to the excellent comedic acting of Jack Black and Steve Zahn . You already know that Jack Black is going to be funny , if only because of his side-splitting performance in High Fidelity . Steve Zahn is even less of a leading man than Black , but he's just got this look and this demeanor that makes his lines in the film even funnier ( ' I'm hit ! I need backup ? ' ) . And Jason Biggs gives yet another performance that made me want to yank my hair out every time he was onscreen , making it almost comically ridiculous that he was cast as the ' romantic ' of the three guys . Amanda Peet , on the other hand , is beautiful in the film and is perfectly cast as the manipulative girlfriend . Wayne ( Zahn ) , J . D . ( Black ) , and Darren ( Biggs ) have been best friends since fifth grade , and one day that are at a bar participating in their usual drunken activities when Wayne sees a hottie across the bar and decides to try to set Darren up with her . It's never explained why a psychologist of such astronomical self-adoration is sitting at such a seedy bar by herself , but such trivial things are not expected to be explained in a comedy like this . This is how Darren meets Judith , who initially expresses no interest in him at all other than to get him away from her table , but after a bald magician hits on her , she tells him that Darren is her boyfriend , and this ' relationship ' continues until they are engaged to be married . ( spoilers ) In Jason Biggs's defense , he filled his role fairly well , but only because he comes across as such a complete moron that it's believable that he would be the kind of guy that would allow a woman to walk all over him in a relationship the way Judith does , and to alienate his best friends while she's at it . I don't know the guy in real life , but he has one of the most idiotic screen personalities that I've ever seen . Wayne and J . D . gradually begin to notice that Darren has ditched them for Judith , and they begin to devise ways to get his friendship back . They start off with simple things like Asking Her Nicely , but ultimately end up kidnapping Judith and faking her death , in a botched abduction that makes up some of the funnier parts of the movie . There are some unnecessary jokes made about sexual orientation , and a lot of ill-used actors ( R . Lee Ermey has fallen a long way from the spectacular days of Full Metal Jacket , where he played a role that was so good and so effective that it probably typecast him and badly damaged his career ) , as well as a cheesy obsession by all three guys with Neil Diamond , but there is some real comedy here . It's too bad about that idiotic ending involving Ermey and Black , but the antics of Wayne and J . D . as they attempt to get Darren back are almost endlessly amusing ( ' Judith escaped ! ' ' Der ! ' ) , and Neil Diamond himself adds significantly to the film , if only in the form of his excellent singing . However , it seems strange that such a respectable musician would lend his timeless songs to such a goofball comedy , but he played a good role . Saving Silverman is one of those rare comedies where the theatrical trailer is nearly as funny as the movie itself , but still doesn't defeat the purpose of watching the film . Other movies like Scary Movie 1 and 2 and American Pie show nearly all of the funny parts in the preview ( due to a pathetic lack ) , and then you spend the entire film waiting for something funny that you didn't see in the preview , and wondering why people around you are laughing at something that they've probably seen 5 or 6 times already ( the problem with watching as many movies as I do , as I've said once before , is that I see these previews sometimes 10-15 times before the movies are even released , a problem that made movies like Coyote Ugly even more unendurable than they already were ) . This is obviously not a real thinker of a film , but if you compare it to its peers ( the Scary Movies , American Pie , Road Trip , any movie that Jason Biggs has been in , for crying out loud ) , Saving Silverman is definitely one of the best . It's almost painful to watch Biggs in the kissing scenes ( because when he kisses a girl in the movie it looks like he's trying to swallow her face ) , and you just want to smack him when he takes Judith back after returning from the dead , abandoning the much more attractive Sally while he's at it , but the film as a whole is not entirely disappointing . Taken for what it is , Saving Silverman can provide for an enjoyable evening when you just want something to entertain you . Watch it for the excellent comedy provided by Jack Black and Steve Zahn as well as the quality Neil Diamond soundtrack , and best of luck in putting up with Jason Biggs .
Occasionally , Zoolander is painfully hilarious , but even that does not overshadow the pre-production goals of lucrative cheeseball comedy and the tasteless subject matter that resulted .	Zoolander is the story of the hottest but dumbest male model in the world , Derek Zoolander ( who happens to be living the skinny American Dream of getting paid vast amounts of money to have his picture taken and become famous ) , who grows disillusioned with the modeling industry after he is suddenly overshadowed by another male model at an awards show , and is then targeted and effortlessly brainwashed to assassinate the Prime Minister of Malaysia in order to perpetuate the male modeling industry . Evidently , that Prime Minister is just too set in his efforts to eradicate child labor in Malaysia , which would just be an unacceptable blow to the fashion industry , which relies too much on the efforts of such child labor . The first thing that strikes me about this plotline is that , with the astronomical amount of money that circulates in the fashion industry , most of which goes into the sickening paychecks of the powerful people involved in that industry , I would think that they could finally start paying regular prices for the manufacturing of the clothing that they use in their business . Why is it that the hugest and richest corporations always seem to be the ones involved in child labor ? One of the great ironies of capitalism ( and , indeed one of the more disturbing ones ) is that the more money people have , the less they want to spend . So we get these dirt-poor kids in foreign countries who spend long days in sweatshops making these products for next to nothing , and then the products are shipped here where they're modeled and then sold at astronomical prices . Besides that , I was truly shocked that they portrayed the Prime Minister of Malaysia , who is a real person , as the " antagonist " who wants to eradicate child labor laws , and they make him the target of this ludicrous assassination . As Roger Ebert mentioned , did NOBODY involved with the movie think that maybe that was in bad taste ? I'm sure that nobody who was involved in the overlooking of this massive point meant any harm by this , but Derek Zoolander also meant no harm in being brainwashed , but that doesn't make him very intelligent . It seems strange that the film is structured entirely around this plot to have Derek Zoolander assassinate the Prime Minister , and yet the comedy in the film comes entirely from his tiny intellect . The fact that we laugh at the hilarious extent of Derek's stupidity and the similar allusion to an alleged lack of cognitive activity in the fashion industry as a whole ( ' Derek , me help you did ! ' ) , and not Derek's working over by Mugatu , the real antagonist in the film , completely eliminates the need for any subplot , especially one that involves a plot to murder a real and highly respected world leader . While I was overall less than impressed by the film , I can't say that I didn't just about lose consciousness laughing so hard at Zoolander's response when J . P . Prewitt ( David Duchovny ) told him that Mugatu will most likely use some kind of auditory or visual Pavlovian response mechanism to get him to kill the Prime Minister ( ' An after party ? ' ) , and then again at Prewitt's response after having been shot when Zoolander takes off on his mission and steps on his glass-encased hand ( ' AAAHHHhhh you freakin ' idiot ! ' ) . THAT was some great stuff , and there are at least three or four other moments of quality laughs , but it's just too bad that there was so much tasteless content in the movie , especially since it went far beyond the childish and disgusting humor that usually plagues bad comedies these days ( American Pie , the Scary Movies , Road Trip , Sorority Boys , etc . ) . Watch the movie for the great interactions between Ben Stiller and Owen Wilson , but be advised that there is some truly tasteless and often offensive content in the movie , and it can't all be dismissed just by acknowledging the fact that it's just some goofball comedy .
One of Chaplin's lesser short comedies .	SPOILERS SPOILERS In The Park starts off with a scene that is very similar to one of Chaplin's other short films , By The Sea , where Charlie comes across a woman who is involved with another man . In this scene , Charlie approaches her and flirts with her while her oafish husband is temporarily away , and when he comes back , an argument ensues that ends with Charlie getting knocked backwards over a park bench . After this , however , the remainder of the film takes place in the apartment building where all three people live , even right across the hall from each other ( seems strange that they don't know each other ) . The thing that really takes away from this film is that there is so much that happens during the film that does not make much sense and is not explained , even in the limited way that is available in a silent film . For example , after having encountered the couple in the beach and after they have stormed off , Charlie staggers back home as though he is drunk , but we never see him drink , other than in an amusing attempt to drink from a water fountain in the park at the beginning of the film . When he gets to the hallway ( which can be recognized as the exact same hallway as was seen in another of Chaplin's short comedies , called The Rounders ) , he accidentally wanders into the wrong room , thinking it's his ( maybe it's because that was his room in The Rounders ? ) , and continues with his unexplained drunken behavior . He picks up a bottle , pours something out of it onto his hat , combs his hat briefly , and then drinks from the bottle . Clearly , this is something that is not uncommon to see Chaplin do in one of his films , but we have no idea why he is acting like that . Charlie eventually finds his way back to his own room , undresses at length , and crawls into bed , even though it could not have been more than half an hour since he was in the park , at which point it was broad daylight . As he is about to go to sleep , the other man's wife sleepwalks into his bed , and the better segment of the film follows . It is hilarious to watch Charlie trying to get this man's wife back into her own room without her husband finding out , and the scenes in which this happens are much better than the film as a whole , even though this also leads to more confusion as to what exactly is happening . The police wind up getting involved , and the film seems to end right in the middle of the final conflict . While it's obvious that In The Park does not compare to the high quality of the majority of Chaplin's early silent comedies , the style and the skill are unmistakable . Even though this movie has more than it's share of unfortunate shortcomings , Chaplin's presence alone makes it a very entertaining film .
Here is something you can't understand . How I could just kill a man .	It's a bit odd to say that the thing I liked best about Saw was that there was true suffering in it rather than detached horror movie gore , but that was the case with this movie . I am reminded of some of Wes Craven's early films like Last House on the Left and The Hills Have Eyes , which were essentially about people doing horrible things to other people . It's a lofty effort for a couple of first time filmmakers and is very good as a debut horror / thriller / crime film , and the almost universal comparisons to Seven are to be expected . They are , after all , perfectly justified . The problem is that Seven never stops being interesting , while Saw makes no sense on a second viewing . My roommate watched the movie after I had already seen it , and I sat and watched parts of it and was reminded of the supplemental documentaries included with the Vista Series edition of The Sixth Sense , in which it is explained that they went to great lengths to make sure that they were making the movie honestly , that you could go back after you knew about the ending and see that the movie still made sense . This movie has no time or interest in that , because while the twists and turns are great during a first viewing and it is tremendously successful at making almost every single character look suspicious at some point or another , if you watch it when you already know the end the entire thing falls apart . Adam and Dr . Gordon wake up to find themselves locked in a filthy restroom of sorts , each chained to opposite sides of the room with a dead body between them holding a gun in one hand and a tape recorder in the other . They each have tapes in their pockets , and once Adam gets a hold of the tape recorder ( by using his shirt to help him reach it , and at Dr . Gordon's suggestion , which will become important later in this review ) , they listen to the two tapes and are given instructions by the killer . Adam is a voyeuristic photographer , his job is to prevent his own death , while Dr . Gordon's job is to kill Adam or his wife and daughter will be killed and he will be left there to die . Thus begins a lengthy series of ever more complicated events set up by the killer which are very convenient for a structured screenplay but make no sense in reality . Then again , the application of logic is a great way to dismantle a movie like this , and it should be noted that the movie is , in fact , highly entertaining during that first viewing . I like to think that it's not until the second viewing that you realize how much you have been cheated . ( spoilers ) Because of the shock of the ending , for example , you forgot that Zap , the hospital orderly , at one point holds a stethoscope to the daughter's chest while he points a gun at her mother's head , listening as the child's heartbeat speeds up in fear . Was he enjoying himself ? Kind of cancels out some of the sympathy you felt for him after he got killed at the end despite not being the kidnapper , didn't it . Then there was the issue of the objects just out of reach . Early in the film , it is Dr . Gordon that tells Adam to take off his shirt and use it to reach the tape recorder in the man's hand in the middle of the room , then later in the movie Dr . Gordon finds himself unable to reach the cell phone , which is ringing , so he takes off his shirt and ? uses it as a tourniquet to cut his foot off . What ? ? Given that the phone was about 8 inches out of his reach on linoleum , he may have been able to save his foot had he used his shirt to get it , like he suggested to Adam earlier . He must have been under a lot of stress . There is a good scene early in the movie where Adam finds the two saws and tosses one to Dr . Gordon and they both start sawing frantically at the chains around their ankles . Adam breaks his saw and Gordon soon gives up , realizing that it's not the chains the killer wants them to cut through , it's their feet . Reminds me of a great short story by Stephen King called " Survivor Type " where a man is stranded on a desert island and quickly finds himself with very , very little to eat . All in all I enjoyed the movie , it had a good surprise ending despite the fact that the path leading up to it was heavily and clumsily manufactured . It is an entertaining horror film , not a great one . Cary Elwes provides a bit of star power , but sadly delivers the worst performance I've ever seen him do , it was even worse than Liar Liar . If there is one thing I learned from this movie , it is that Cary Elwes can NOT cry on film . WOW . His emotional scenes were some of the worst I've ever seen . Clint Eastwood can cry better than this guy , and he makes Samuel L . Jackson look like a care bear . Schwarzenegger can cry better than this guy , for crying out loud . Maybe that's why he was so convincing in The Princess Bride , because Wesley was completely devoid of all emotion for most of the film . Whatever the case , this is still an interesting film . Fans of the great thrillers like Seven and The Sixth Sense may find themselves unimpressed if you go into it expecting more of the same level of quality , but horror fans are sure to get a kick out of it . At least the first time .
" Every man for himself , and God against all . "	It's too bad about the last third of this movie , because it really works pretty well as a comic book movie before the bad guys start drinking the serum and transforming . It takes place in a swamp and throughout most of the movie looks exactly like some of those stupid , stupid exploitation films like Gator Bait and Day of the Woman , but it completely loses track of itself in the third act . The story concerns a scientist who has created a serum that allows stupendous plant growth , which he plans to use to help feed the world , " say by the year 2001 when there are 6 ½ billion people on the planet . " Needless to say , his desire to do good with something so powerful is not going to fly in a Wes Craven film , so it's not long before a lot of trashy rednecks barge in heavily armed in full fatigues to take it away from him and deliver it to their evil boss . The best parts of this movie are the scenes at the beginning that show the discovery of what the serum does . At first it looks like some kind of explosive liquid that looks exactly like the serum that Herbert West created in Re-Animator , but soon one scientist notices that the spots on the floorboards where it was flung to show its explosive properties have begun to grow branches . The interest level at this point in the movie is on a step uphill , so it's almost heartbreaking when the last half hour or so gets so bad . The Swamp Thing himself never looks like anything but a man wearing a rubber suit , but I'm willing to accept that because he was a human being before being affected by the serum , so let's not pick the movie apart because of him . The Day the Earth Stood Still had a great explanation for why the alien that stepped off of the space ship was a well-dressed man , and this movie has a good reason for the humanoid appearance of it's monster , and I have to admit that the special effects were fairly well done for 1982 . I also really liked the character of Jude . He is a really easy kind of character to criticize because he is just some kid that pops up in the movie , running a roadside liquor store , of all things , and operates as some pretty goofy comic relief . But his character is well written , if not tremendously well acted . I've seen this kind of character done badly before , such as in Gator Bait , I Spit on Your Grave , and Wrong Turn . There are times that the creature in this movie reminds me of King Kong ( such as when he's saving the damsel in distress from harm and lavishing affection on her in the wilderness ) and there are times when it reminds me of Frankenstein's monster ( such as when it reaches for the flowers in the trees , either pleasantly astounded by their beauty or , lest we forget , noting the species of flower that they are since , of course , he is a scientist underneath all of that rubber . I mean plant life ) . Where the movie really goes wrong is when it tries to show how the serum affects different people , like what they did ( with much better affect ) in The Mask years later . Evidently the serum does not make everyone big and strong , but only amplifies their essence . It magnifies what they already are , so if they are a big strong man with no inner strength , apparently they turn into pig-headed midgets in turtlenecks , whereas if they are a big bad guy ( like the badly written and badly acted big bad boss man in this movie ) , they will turn into some kind of photosynthetic werewolf . Ugh . But even worse , the movie switches from the swampy wilderness to a nightclub that makes absolutely no sense . Craven has already by this point inserted uncharacteristic and completely unnecessary nudity into the movie , but this place is the ridiculous combination of a high-class black tie restaurant and a trashy strip club . Half the patrons are wearing fancy clothes and half are dirty rednecks still wearing the fatigues that they were crawling around the swamp in . And then , of course , there's Alice Cable , there heroine , tied to a chair . This movie describes the true nuts and bolts of human life as " a million messy miracles , " and it believes in that statement in the design of its characters . The swamp thing is not a glorified superhero , he is a man that has been reduced to a plant-like creature , with some human properties and some plant properties , but without the full capabilities of either . This is not exactly what I have come to know and love from Wes Craven ( although not quite as uncharacteristic as Music of the Heart , where did THAT come from ) , but for the most part this movie is able to stand on its own and is a fairly entertaining comic book movie from the early 80s . And here's something interesting and a little disturbing ? according to the credits at the end of the film , the sound effects were created by " Jay's Meat & Provision Co . "
25 years ago this would have been science fiction . Today it's cliché .	Odd the way technology works . Less than a decade ago , there was this completely different technological world , a world of pagers , floppy disks , dial-up modems ( which are as obsolete as typewriters ) , and gigantic brick-like cell phones . I remember being amazed at that little tiny flap at the bottom of the phone , as thin as a credit card and yet able to pick up your voice and transmit it through the air . Now it's a feature so obsolete that it may as well never have been there . Sandra Bullock plays Angela Bennett , a lonely computer analyst who is so connected to her computer that she sits on the beach in Mexico , on her first vacation in six years , with her laptop on her lap . It's not only like a source of nourishment but her connection to the world and the establishment and maintenance of her identity . This is where her problems begin . Like The Manchurian Candidate back in the 1960s ( and again in less than a week from this writing ) , The Net plays on the popular fears of the society in which it is released . The Manchurian Candidate originally played off the fears instilled in people by the recently ended Cold War , while The Net , a much less potent thriller , suggests the scary possibilities of a world in which we are so inextricably connected to computers . Probably the most interesting thing in the movie now is the computers , such as the massive laptops with the tiny screens , the indispensable floppy disks which are now almost nonexistent , the graphics , etc . Angela Bennett has had her digital identity stolen and replaced with that of Ruth Marx , who has a lengthy police record and who thus takes over Angela's identity . It's pretty clever , I suppose , the way the movie presents Angela as though she hasn't left her apartment in six years and with a mother suffering from Alzheimer's ( and thus not able to help identify the real Angela later ) , but it's pretty hard to believe that not a single person in the office where she worked noticed that Angela started being a completely different person . She had no significant other , was not dating , and no parents who could identify her , but was she such a recluse that even the people in the office she worked in didn't even know what she looked like ? At any rate , the plot of the movie is pretty smartly created , although it is created as though it were an excuse for a lot of chase scenes , one of which takes place on a merry-go-round in a great homage to Hitchcock's Strangers On A Train , one of the many classic films to which the movie alludes , several of them other Hitchcock films . Bennett has been given a disk which contains a website , I suppose , which turns out to contain a weakness in a security system about to be set up to protect everything from banks to Wall Street to the CIA . By holding down Control and Shift and clicking on the little Pi icon in the corner of the screen , you are transported from a ludicrous page about Mozart's Ghost , apparently a god-awful metal band , and into highly classified government documents . The disk provides the bad guys with a reason to want to capture Bennett , and thus you have a movie . Angela goes from a comfortable but bored computer analyst , doing a lot of her work from home and ordering pizza on the Internet at the end of the day ( presumably one of the future possibilities of the internet which never came to exist ) , to a wanted fugitive , ultimately caught and put into a jail cell for someone else's crimes . She has lost her home , her job , her identity , her life . Bullock actually puts in a pretty good performance in the movie . I'm not a huge fan , but I appreciated the realness that her character had , since she is not an over the top actor , her characters are generally very real because she is as well . Where the movie trips up is that it tries to suggest that such identity theft could happen to anyone in our technological age , but given the effort put into presenting Angela as someone with no personal contacts with just about anyone , really it could only happen to someone like Angela , and are there really that many people that no one can identify by looks ? Even the guy at the local video store might recognize her as the lady who rents under her account . Oh well . There's also a glitch in the end of the movie that Mick LaSalle points out and that only people familiar with San Francisco , where the climax of the film takes place , will notice . As Angela rushes through a Macintosh exhibition at the real Moscone Center , she desperately tries to copy all the computer files before the bad guys get her . Pretty tense , but if she had been smart , she could have gone to The San Francisco Chronicle office , which is a block down the street from the Moscone Center . But hey , maybe the Chronicle doesn't have high enough walkways out back .
A crash course in wish making .	Okay , we all know that this re-make was made for no other reason than as an excuse to get Elizabeth Hurley into some ridiculous number of skimpy outfits , so there's no need to discuss that here . It's just a given . Brendan Fraser plays the part of a painfully geeky guy that gets no respect at the office and has a lonely life because he is so hopelessly nerdy , until one day when he shows up uninvited to the brewery to hang out with his work buddies and runs into the tremendously sexy Devil . She offers to grant him seven wishes ( it just seems like a good number ) in exchange for his useless little soul . And of course , there is a substantial romantic element to the story , which is universal for movies like this . Anytime you have a total dork like Elliott Richards ( Fraser ) in a movie , there is ALWAYS a girl that doesn't give him the time of day but with whom he works magic during the film . And now the nonsense begins . Elliott obviously starts off with all of the clichés ? I want to be rich , powerful , married to Allison ( the girl that doesn't ever notice him ) , yada yada yada . Being granted by the devious Fallen Angel , of course , all of Elliott's wishes seem great at first but then soon go horribly wrong , which leads to the dumbest thing about the whole film . After returning from each wish ( by dialing ' 666 ' into a pager that the devil gave him and that has 9 other useless numbers on it ) , he regroups , comes up with a tremendously over-compensated wish , and then tries again , only to have everything go wrong again . The obvious question is this , why didn't Elliott use any of his wishes to modify his previous wishes , rather than just starting all over and hoping all goes well ? He seems like a smart enough guy , however unpopular he is . You would think it would be easier to just say I wish that Allison was married to me AND loved me , and that I was not a Colombian drug lord ( and by the way , Elliot , specify your desired profession , you ARE dealing with Satan here ) . Can I say something here ? My father is an immigrant from Colombia , and the portrayal of the super powerful Colombian drug lord in this film is completely untrue and very disturbing . Clearly , the production team for Bedazzled was too dim to realize this , but Colombia is a third world country , and what you have there is a lot of poor farmers who are harvesting some crop to feed their families . It's AMERICANS who are spending billions of dollars a year to shoot this crap into our veins or snort it up our noses or whatnot . The drug lords aren't filthy rich Hispanics living in the jungle in Colombia , people , they're Americans living here . Despite the fact that the actual wish-making procedure in the film was just poorly presented , it made for some funny situations . The badly mangled Spanish-speaking portion of the film went on for WAY too long , but some of the later mishaps were pretty funny . I don't know why , but I just about fell off the couch laughing when those smart-ass guys came up and kicked sand at Elliott on the beach when he was the most emotionally sensitive man in the world ( what kind of an idiot would wish for something like that , by the way ? ) . Actually , that's the only funny thing that I can think of right now , but trust me , the move is not a total waste of time ( it's still pretty dumb , though ) . Don't rush out to the video store for this one , but it's worth sitting through once .
What's all this about Top Gun on the ski slopes and Endless Summer of skiing ?	If there's one thing I can say about Aspen Extreme , it is that it is not at all the Top Gun of the ski slopes , it's The Great Outdoors of the ski slopes . And by that , of course , I mean it's The Great Outdoors without John Candy or Dan Aykroyd . And by THAT , of course , I mean it's The Great Outdoors , but not funny . Oddly enough , the movie is more a combination of The Great Outdoors and Dumb & Dumber than anything else , but all of the comedy has been removed . In fact , the only thing that the movie takes from Top Gun is the cloying cheesiness and relentless predictability . Not that I didn't enjoy it . My roommate recommended the movie to me , lending it to me out of his DVD collection so I thought I'd check it out . I wasn't entirely disappointed in the movie because it featured some spectacular skiing scenery , but I enjoyed it for how bad it was just as much as I enjoyed the acting , story , etc . The story is about two guys living in Detroit and both working dead end jobs , when one of them gets a promotion to another dead end job and decides to just pick up and get out of town . I respect that , there's hardly a better way to make your life interesting when it's become too routine than to completely mix it up in a way that you don't know what it will all lead to . Just pick up and leave , when you think about it , there's no way you're going to become homeless ( although you might spend a few nights in your van ? ) . They start out not knowing anyone in town and end up with one of them sleeping with the richest woman in town ( that's Lloyd in bed with Mary Swanson ) AND the most frigid , uptight woman in town ( remember that cheesy teenage romance in The Great Outdoors ? Yeah . That . ) , while the other ends up getting involved with moving massive amounts of drugs to make a little extra money . By the way , if ever there walked the earth a man who could not keep his cool , he is in this movie . Dexter's paralyzing quickness to freak out is nearly a character in itself . T . J . , the more successful of the two , has vague aspirations to become a writer that come up when the screenplay needs them to , and is torn between sleeping with a good-looking wealthy ( and oddly motherly ) woman and sleeping with a more regular girl with a job as a radio host who cares more about him but is frigid , grumpy and completely uninteresting because of her total lack of personality beyond her aloofness . The film is best when it shows breathtaking shots of extreme skiing , but even then tends to trip up when it tries to tie un-matching shots together as it does numerous times in showing skiers going down the hill . There are times when it is amazing that they thought two shots could go together , but I'm willing to accept that for the sake of the story , which unfortunately is not very good . You have the love interest , the conflict to the love interest , the best friend in need , the over-the-top villain ( and they do NOT let you forget that this guy is VERY bad ) , etc . Overall not a bad movie , but comparisons to other classics like Endless Summer and Top Gun may run the risk of giving false expectations . This is direct to video fare , but in that genre you could certainly do worse . It's much better than Ski School , for example ?
How far would you go ?	I got this film on a collection of older mysteries that came with And Then There Were None . Normally I would have skipped over it but the reviews online said it was pretty good and since it's barely an hour long I decided to give it a shot . It is certainly a competent thriller , although with minimal production values , and the ending calls to attention a curious little hole in the mental health world that I recently saw brought to light in Dennis Lehane's ( the author of Mystic River ) novel , Shutter Island . When someone is called insane , any defense that they put forth for themselves all too often plays right into their accusers ' hands . David Ryder , the film's protagonist , is labeled insane at the end of the film , and the more he tries to defend himself , the crazier he looks . The movie takes place back in the days when you could wreck your car and then get it fixed for less than $50 , and the story concerns a highway accident , in which David runs down a man on the highway and kills him , only to find him missing after David calls for help . Throughout the rest of the movie , David is frantically trying to find out who took the body and why , and why no one will believe that he killed someone on the road . The movie makes you ask yourself how far you would go until someone believed that you had actually killed someone , and I have to confess that I would long since have left town . I'll be the first to claim responsibility in an accidental highway death ( and thank God I've never had to ) , but as soon as people started pointing guns at me for claiming to be responsible for accidentally killing a man , I would have gotten out of town in a hurry , I can tell you that . The plot certainly keeps you guessing , since it is definitely a mystery as to why anyone would steal and hide the body after David hit the man , but unfortunately when the mystery is finally revealed , to say that it is a letdown is something of an understatement . It keeps you going and keeps you interested , but the payoff is pretty weak .
Revenge is a dish best served cold , messy , fast , loud , and at great length .	Having been hugely impressed with House of 1000 Corpses , I was eager to see Rob Zombie's next directorial effort , but found that it fell short in a lot of areas . Midway through the film , for example , it roughly turns into an almost senseless mishmash of Texas Chainsaw elements , losing sight of the return to true horror that Zombie presented in his last film . I think that as I get older I have lost a lot of my taste for some of the things you see in horror movies , although it remains one of my favorite genres . I remember when I was in high school I thought the Faces of Death movies were the coolest things imaginable , and that anyone who could get their hands on the elusive Faces of Death part 1 achieved an almost God-like status , as did the first person who discovered the Traces of Death films , which were supposed to be even better . Today , you would have to put a gun to my head to get me to watch even a single scene out of any one of those movies . The horror genre as a whole , however , remains a lot of fun to me , because the movies are generally more fun than disturbing . But I think that when a movie or series of movies becomes sort of a contest to see who can come up with the sickest , most torturous and disturbing things that they can possibly put on screen , then the whole point is missed . I don't know , maybe I've just moved to a different wavelength . At any rate , The Devil's Rejects are your standard Texas Chainsaw family that lives on a farm covered with dozens and dozens of the mutilated bodies of missing persons from the area , and William Forsythe plays the detective with a special link to the case , who ultimately decides to take matters into his own hands when he finds the restrictions of police procedure to be too much to bear . I am reminded at times of the horrendously sick and disappointing Wolf Creek , but I will leave it at that . I have far too much respect for Rob Zombie as both a musician and a filmmaker to tie even any part of his film to such pure , authentic waste as the recently released Hostel from Eli Roth , easily one of the five worst films I have ever seen in my entire life . And not in a funny way , either , like Robot Monster . After I saw Hostel , I honestly wished for the end of Eli Roth's career , whatever effect that should have on the rest of his life . This is a man that simply should not be allowed to make movies . There is a point at the end of The Devil's Rejects where the movie could have gone in a different direction and done something completely different and probably bigger than it did , but its representation of futility and fate , while not exactly fresh , are at least somewhat satisfying . Although I have to say that I am much more excited about Zombie's soon to be upcoming contribution to the Halloween series than I am about this movie . I reckon this will become a footnote in his growing career . The movie gets hard to watch as the victims are punished and tortured , but William Forsythe offsets that for a while by giving them exactly what they deserve . There is a decidedly unexpected twist when the wildcard is once again introduced into the movie near the end , and I have to say that I'm glad that Zombie didn't just cop out and leave the ending open for a sequel . It's hard to watch at some points , but if you are a fan of any of Rob Zombie's work , I imagine there is something here that should entertain you ?
A stunning visual movie experience that was unfortunately brought down by the weak story .	Although The Beach was an interesting and well acted film , it ended up contradicting what it was trying to say at the beginning . The scenery in incredible with the beautiful white sand beach that is completely isolated from the modern world , and the transition between the two when Richard and Sal traveled back for supplies was startling and very well presented . The unlikely premise of the film , a young traveling boy searching for the meaning of his life runs into a seemingly insane man in a third world motel room who decides to give him the map to paradise and then kill himself is a little hard to believe , but Robert Carlyle was wonderful as that man , and he easily stole every one of the few scenes he was in . After that , it was a fascinating adventure watching Richard and his two friends journey in search of that paradise . However , the unlikely events that led to the formation of that friendship is another thing that took away from the story . After the shark attack ( not the laughable one where Richard actually wrestled with and killed the shark , taking it home for dinner , but the one where people were hurt and killed ) , the concept of paradise was a lot more realistic . It is true that a utopian society is not possible without some element of misery , and the man who was badly injured by the shark represented that misery . You cannot have absolute happiness without absolute misery . To put it in the classy and sophisticated words of Beavis and Butt-Head , " If nothing sucked , and like , everything was cool all the time , then it's like , how would you know it was cool ? " Richard's descent into temporary madness was a very creative and well done part of the film , in my opinion . The video game cinematography was not only original but it also cleverly represented his innocence and inexperience in the world . The acting in the film was very good , I think it should be noted that Leonardo DiCaprio delivered a brilliant and amazingly convincing performance , despite his terrible acting in Titanic . Besides that , the settings and camera work were excellent as well . Unfortunately , I just think that the story was contradictory and not thought out very well . The film stressed the importance of close friends and loyalty , but it seemed like it ended up emphasizing the importance of e-mail and iMac computers . Or maybe that was just a bit of clumsy and awkward product placement , maybe they were having problems getting people to bank-roll the film . Are they trying to say that a paradise such as the one in the film , if ever found , is impossible to keep ? As a whole , I think that the film is trying to portray the destructive power of greed , but the message is so clouded with other distractive elements that it ends up looking and sounding confused and contradictory .
It's all about the scenery .	I read one IMDb user's review of The Village which stated that M . Night made a mistake releasing The Sixth Sense because it made everyone in the world expect some earth shattering twist at the end of all of his movies , which is almost right . Luckily , this reviewer goes on to explain that M . Night has been trying ever since The Sixth Sense to recapture that awe that he created in his first major audiences , which IS right . In The Village , M . Night tries too hard to lead the audience in one direction that when we are brought back to reality it inspires an " oh , please " reaction rather than awe . I have tremendous respect for the immense film-making talent of M . Night Shyamalan , so I am not willing to fault him for making a weak film , but I am also not willing to see him create a weak film and then not say that it's a weak film . The look of it puts the time period sometime in the 1800's or an Amish community in Pennsylvania in the 1800s , 1900s , 2000s , etc . M . Night actually claims in the making-of documentary included with the DVD that the movie was set in the 1800s because he wanted to create an atmosphere of innocence . A small village of people seem to have been living under an agreement with some sort of malicious creatures that live in the woods that surround their village . They don't go in the woods , the creatures don't come out and hurt any of them . Because of M . Night's reputation for surprise endings , I doubt that many people read reviews of his movies unless they've already seen them . Even so , here is the obligatory spoiler warning ? SPOILER AHEAD ! What I like about the movie is that , while the twist is firmly in the realm of the ludicrous , it is at least very well explained , even if not ever credibly . There are vague explanations about how government officials have been paid off to prevent airplanes from flying over the village and terrifying the townspeople , no one is ever allowed to go into what is called an animal preserve , and in one of the last scenes , newspaper clippings reveal the suffering that many of the founders of the village have suffered , thus inspiring them to create it . I can certainly understand their motivations , especially since they have all suffered extremely , through the murders of loved ones , rape , burglary , etc . I live in Los Angeles and anytime I get a freaking parking ticket I just about want to move out of the country . But the problem is that they respond to their suffering by creating a society that is maintained by instilling fear in all of its residents . This fear is maintained much the same way that the fear of Voldemort was maintained in the Harry Potter stories . He is referred to as " He Who Must Not Be Named " by everyone except Harry Potter , who uses his name freely due to a total lack of fear . The creatures in the woods in this movie are referred to as " Those We Do Not Speak Of " as they are constantly spoken of in never-ending efforts to keep everyone scared . It is an interesting exploration of M . Night's technique , but the payoff is such a tremendous letdown that it is almost difficult to pay attention to the explanations that justify the possibility of the village's existence because of the disappointment . The movie is well made , the script is not .
Simple , basic logic is unusually destructive here , even for a horror movie ?	Quarantine starts off reasonably well , if not at all originally . A small film crew is doing a ride - along with the fire department to get a first hand look at what their daily professional lives are really like . The film is presented the film crew's unedited stock footage , so we get lots of video of the firemen acting not at all like firemen but instead like young men who are living in close quarters for long periods of time . Finally an interesting call comes in and the crew are called out to a building in town . Up to this point , the movie is presented in a style even more realistic than a documentary , because the footage that we see is not even edited . Once they arrive at the building , of course , weird things start happening . You know the premise , the movie is essentially a zombie movie , but a lot of the suspense and tension is predicated on the fact that this group of innocent people have been for some reason barricaded inside a building by the police , government , military , whatever . Soon we find out that it's the Center For Disease Control doing the quarantining , but the point is , the people that are meant to protect us are locking these innocent people inside a building and leaving them for dead and the people inside have no idea why . But here's my first question , how do you lock an entire modern fire crew inside an old , dilapidated building presumably made primarily of plaster and wood ? Later they discover that approaching windows is enough to get yourself shot , but after what happened soon after they arrived at the building , I am willing to bet that none of those guys would have been willing to spend more than two or three minutes locked unwillingly inside the building . Next , it seems that breaking through plaster walls is not the only bit of standard fireman training that these guys are lacking . When people start getting hurt , at one point one of the firemen calls out , " Is there a doctor in the house ? " I had been under the impression that in order to be a fireman you have to have some emergency medical treatment training , but I could be wrong . I had to do the training in order to be a summer camp counselor a couple years ago , but maybe sleep-away camps are just stricter than your typical major city fire department . Jennifer Carpenter is the lead character , the host of the documentary that the film crew was making . You may remember her from The Exorcism of Emily Rose , the astonishingly scary horror film that she starred in back in 2004 . Sadly , Quarantine just doesn't have the story or the content to give her much to do except run around looking scared . Her performance as Emily Rose was one of the best horror performances I've ever seen , but Quarantine just gives the feeling that she's waiting for an opportunity or a good reason to do some real horror acting . Overall the movie is not bad , but it is overwhelmingly casual in its presentation of a typical horror movie , this time with the slight variation that all of the victims are trapped in close quarters with the zombies . They have zombies trying to get them inside the building , and humans on the outside pointing guns at the building to prevent any escape and outbreak of the virus causing the zombiness . There is an interesting scene where the cameraguy actually uses the camera to bludgeon one of the zombies to death , which provides a unique point of view . I had never seen a zombie killed in a movie like that before , but other than that there is just not much special about the movie .
Early 80s slasher returns to bore us in 3D . . .	So 3D first earned a wave of popularity as far back as the 1950s , when audiences surely were convinced that they were seeing the movies of the future . Now we are half a century beyond that time and 3D remains little more than a mildly interesting gimmick , and even the most recent movies can't seem to resist stopping in their tracks to give us an effect that made the original 3D audiences scream and duck , thinking things were flying at them from the screen . It's natural to assume that 3D would be most effective in a horror film , where things like knives and bullets and pick-axes and killers and come stretching toward us from the screen , but sadly it seems that the whole 3D thing might never turn into anything more than a gimmick that , as is the case here , seems primarily needed to cover up tremendous shortcomings in the rest of the movie . That being said , it's true that the movie is wildly gory , and that some of the killings are actually pretty unique and creative , which is good because until recently 3D was mostly reserved for weak family movies like the recent Journey to the Center of the Earth . I was glad to see 3D in a horror film , particularly one that wasn't afraid to use the effect to intensify some already disturbing death scenes , but the recycled story and slew of ancient horror situations are a little too much to overlook . As you know , My Bloody Valentine is a remake of a 1981 Canadian horror film of the same name which , though largely forgotten today by most people other than the most devoted horror buffs , was actually one of the better ones to come along in the slasher-movie mania of the early 1980s . The story revolves around a tragic Valentine's Day from years earlier , when a cave-in in the mining town of Harmony resulted in seven men being trapped inside , where six of them were killed by the seventh , a Harry Warden , to conserve the depleting oxygen supply . The cave-in , by the way , was caused by the mine's owner , Tom Hanniger , who left his observation post to go to the Valentine's Day dance . If you've seen Friday the 13th , that scenario might strike you as oddly familiar , but actually it's not until the killings start that the movie takes the traditional 80s horror movie route and stops making any sense whatsoever . Harry wakes up a year later from the coma he has been in since the killings and makes the logical decision to kill the hospital's staff and then head back to the mine where , get this , the pretty young cast from this movie , including Tom , also happen to be partying the night away . Yeah , I love that . There's nothing to get you going on Valentine's Day than partying it up at the site of a grueling massacre . This is the height of horror movie romance ! Of course , no one really cares about the intricate plot details of the movie . The story actually has a mildly interesting set-up , but ultimately it devolves into your traditional slasher movie , with every stupid character and idiotic decision that you might expect to see . The second half of the movie moves into the thriller genre as an intricate scheme involving the town sheriffs past and present , Tom , Harry , and a girl named Sarah clouds the issue of who is the real killer after all . This story is padded with cheap horror scenes and gratuitous violence , and while the end of the movie is both an ancient horror construct and thus hugely predictable , it's still a little clever , and admittedly there are moments when it is interesting to see how the whole whodunit portion of the movie will turn out . It's true that it's almost impossible to see the killer in this movie and not think of one of the old slasher giants like Michael Meyers or Jason Voorhees having traded their William Shatner or hockey mask in for a gas mask and a respirator , but at least the technical aspect of the 3D was pulled off pretty well . It would have been more effective had the majority of the movie not been quite so dark , but there is also a Grindhouse-style over-the-topness that adds a much-needed element of goofiness to the proceedings that allow us to enjoy the gore without finding it disturbing and disgusting , like most of the Saw series or Eli Roth's stupendously crappy film Hostel . There you have horror at its most depraved and brainless . Strangely , after such a pervasive lack of originality and repetition of situations and scenes that we've seen in so many horror movies so many times before , it's really the ending that will end up bowling you over with its astonishing dumbness . I won't reveal how the movie ends , so I'll just tell you that not only is the movie's climax an enormous cheat , but it ultimately makes not a lick of sense . It's one of those situations where you might find yourself totally baffled for quite some time afterwards as you try in vain to piece together what actually happened . Despite all the copious violence , bloodshed and gratuitous nudity ( oh I forgot to tell you , there's a lot of nudity in this thing ) , there is also a sense of honesty that derails any possibility of accusing the movie of tricking audiences into theaters . If you can see a title like " My Bloody Valentine 3D " and you don't know what to expect , then you have only yourself to blame for any disappointment !
Now you're playing with power !	At this point in the series it seems clear that the movies realize that they are no longer horror films but gory comedies , since they have long since lost what little power they ever might have had to be scary . The alleged Final Nightmare starts off with a quote from Friedrich Nietzsche which carries an unusual amount of dramatic intensity for a Nightmare on Elm Street movie since it fits so well with the series ' running theme , and is then followed by a sophomoric quote from Freddy at his classiest , ' Welcome to Prime Time , Bch . ' This is followed by a parody of The Wizard of Oz in which we see Freddy flying on a broom and yelling , ' I'll get you my pretty ! And your little SOUL too ! ! HAW HAW HAW ! ! ' And thus is the tone set for the rest of the movie . Instead of taking place at the setting of a mental hospital , this one takes place at a zero security shelter for disturbed kids . And I say ' zero security ' very literally . Police find junkies on the streets and send them to this place rather than deal with the paperwork involved in putting kids in juvenile hall , and yet detention at the facility is literally based on encouraging them not to leave . It's like attendance is based on the honor system . At one point , one of the counselors ( and the main character in the story ) , takes John Doe , their newest guest , on a trip back to his home town to confront the demons that are messing up his cognitive function . On the way there they find three kids stowing away in the company car ( which is a decrepit old white van covered in obscene graffiti ) , planning to escape . Rather than return them to the facility , she has them drop her and John Doe off at their destination and promise to DRIVE THEMSELVES BACK IMMEDIATELY ! ! What kind of a detention center is this anyway ? In case you were wondering , no thought was wasted on how she and John Doe were meant to get back themselves . That being said , the rest of the movie really isn't that bad , as long as you keep it in context of such scenes as that described above . The movie takes place 10 years after part 5 left off , and our John Doe is a mystery character who suffers from amnesia and is not all that anxious to have it cured . The basic premise is that Freddy has a kid running around somewhere who he intends to use to bring him fresh victims , giving him more time to concentrate on expanding his territory ( ' There's an Elm Street in every town ! ' ) . The movie smartly concentrates on the possibilities offered by the blurring of the line between reality and the dream world of unconsciousness , which is the exact thing that made the original movie so successful . Back then , you had a villain that was morbidly likable and a premise to which anyone could relate to because it's based on the real life crossing of that line , which you never really notice doing . Unfortunately , the movie trips all over itself with a series of ridiculous killing scenes which illustrate the sheer extent to which writers are running out of clever ideas for how Freddy should claim his victims . One poor kid gets his ear cut off , then Freddy gives it back to him , the kid picks it up and says , ' Yes ! ! ' and then puts it on the other side of his head ( the side which still has an ear attached to it ) , and Freddy proceeds to make loud noises until the kid's head explodes . What the hell was that ? Breckin Meyer makes an early appearance as some Freddy fodder and suffers a video game fate in which the entire movie stops in its tracks so that Freddy can put his feet up on the desk and kill someone with a joystick . It's not hard to tell that this movie was made at the height of Nintendo hysteria . We do get an interesting look into Freddy's past in which we learn not about the disturbing method of his conception , but what hid life was like before he became the Freddy Krueger we know . The kids in the movie come up with a pretty clever ( and long overdue ) plot to kill Freddy once and for all , but it's good that this was not the final installment in the series , if only because it would have been such an anticlimactic close to a series that had thus far spawned five sequels and fans around the world . The film originally featured a thrilling 3-D conclusion which , to the best of my knowledge , has been scrapped by the DVD production , I imagine because of the necessity for 3-D glasses . Still , we get a look inside Freddy's brain as well as a host of other scenes ( including Freddy's alleged death ) , which surely must have been a blast to see in 3-D . Sadly , the rest of the movie probably couldn't even have been supported on this gimmick alone , because it certainly doesn't have a lot else going for it .
Kid auto races in drag .	Not much is the same about A Busy Day and Kid Auto Races at Venice except that for the early scene in this film where Chaplin is causing a disruption at a parade , where a camera crew are attempting to film . He begins as a member of the audience ( a female member , as it were ) , and almost immediately begins kicking and punching everyone in sight , and repeatedly being thrown into the same policeman , who seems each time to find the incident surprising and annoying but otherwise unimportant . As was the case in The Masquerader , Charlie is oddly convincing as a woman , and it is not until he starts throwing punches and kicks that it becomes clear that he is Charlie and not a woman . His diminutive stature and effeminate demeanor ( not to mention the absence of close-ups and the help of almost 100 years of deteriorated film stock ) help to pass him off as a woman , but his behavior is so familiar from so many short comedies full of punching and kicking that once the comedic violence starts , it's just Chaplin in a dress doing the same thing that he did in so many other films at the time . Of course , I say all of this in retrospect , because I am sure at the time audiences found the idea of a man dressing up like a woman and starting fights was endlessly hilarious , but the content of the comedy has not fared quite as well as Chaplin's later work . ( spoiler ) But at least since he insists on ending another film by falling in the water , he puts something of a spin on the idea here . I did , however , also find this film a bit interesting because it was filmed on location , so it shows a little of what Los Angeles looked like almost 100 years ago . I only wish I knew where exactly in LA it was filmed , just because I know the city so well and I love to think about Chaplin shooting his films on the same streets where I have been so many times . In A Day's Pleasure , for example , the opening scene is shot right next to his studio on La Brea Avenue , where I have been countless times , and I find it to be fascinating to look at that film and then go look at what the exact same spot looks like today .
Boring as hell until the end . . .	As soon as Sleepaway Camp ends it is instantly obvious that it will always be remembered for it's shocking ending and probably nothing else . The performances are horrendous , as seems to have been the style in 80s horror films , the story is as thin and tasteless as tissue paper , and the killings are nothing memorable , with the exception of the first one , where a man gets boiling water dumped all over him ( in an overwhelmingly unrealistic situation , but the lengthy shot of him screaming is pretty effectively unpleasant ) . I watched the movie by myself at night in my apartment on my university campus in central China , where I work as a teacher . At the moment we are nearing the end of our winter vacation , so on the entire campus there are only a handful of other people . Pretty effective environment to be affected by a horror movie . I'm a horror veteran , so I didn't expect to be unnerved at all by a cheesy old slasher movie , and I was right , until that ending scene . The shot of Angela with her mouth so wide open and her eyes bulging and peering to the side was one of the creepier shots that I've seen in a movie , especially an old 80s horror movie . There was a point in the movie where I was getting increasingly bored with Angela's endless silence , because I saw it going in one of two directions . It could turn out that she was totally innocent and was just a bonehead plot device to distract the audience's attention away from the real killer , or she could really be the killer , in which case the movie commits that age - old sin of the prime suspect acting extremely guilty because they ARE extremely guilty . I hate that . Oh and I have to say one more thing . The clothes that the characters wore were AWESOME . Especially the characters that were supposed to be tough guys , wearing tight cut-off jean shorts and tiny t-shirts that are cut off just below the nipples . HILARIOUS ! I can only imagine those guys ' kids laughing hysterically at the way their fathers used to dress !
At least they didn't take sides ?	In a time when the political world in America is so divided that almost no one can talk about politics without praising one side unconditionally and damning the other side unconditionally , it's nice to see a political parody that is daring enough to bash both sides . Unfortunately , it's not nearly as funny as it should be , but that's not entirely the fault of Trey Parker and Matt Stone , I think . Making the film entirely with marionette's is completely within the expected style of Stone and Parker , who go to great technological lengths to make South Park look as simplistic as it does , but there is an element of surrealism to it that takes away from the comedy . The opening scene , for example , is not only too realistic in appearance but also too realistic as far as things like that happening in the real world . You want to laugh at the ridiculousness of these string puppets blowing themselves up , but then you don't want to laugh at real deaths that are occurring in all too similar ways at this very moment . I got the feeling in the theater that a lot of people wanted to laugh at the puppets but weren't sure if the subject matter was funny at all . It wasn't . The musical scenes are the funniest parts of the movie , oddly enough , especially such scenes as our introduction to Gary Johnston , the team's infiltration expert , I guess , when he's singing a tasteful song in a Broadway musical called ' Lease , ' and by far my favorite , ' Pearl Harbor sucked and I Miss You . ' As Homer Simpson might say , it's funny because it's true . I went into the movie looking to see how the movie would smear the war on terrorism , not quite as much because of my own political views but because I tend to think that during a war is not the best time to oppose it with things like this movie . The movie does not dissent , it ridicules . Even with a foreign policy as disastrous as the current one , ridicule will not serve the same purpose as peaceful dissent . The movie does not , however , take either side , but rather sets out to offend as many people on both sides as possible . Personally , I found it just as offensive as I found it funny . Not much . The very title of the movie parodies what America role seems to think it plays in the world , which might offend Bush fans , and every major Hollywood celebrity who has spoken against Bush shows up in the movie pretty much just to get killed , which might offend more leftist viewers . I guess I just wasn't offended in the same way that I wasn't offended to see Michael Moore stomped by a gigantic elephant at the Academy Awards last year . This is all supposed to be simple , comedic fun . Not clean fun , but fun nonetheless . Speaking of the celebrities , I thought they were probably the best part of the film , even though they served no purpose other than to serve as fodder to ridicule the left , since the left tends to be so against the war that the movie exists to bash . All of the celebrities look startlingly similar to their flesh and blood counterparts ( except for Alec Baldwin and Michael Moore , who look absolutely nothing like their human selves ) , and besides , there's nothing like a good impression , right ? On the other hand , the way that reality is portrayed in this movie is a little off-putting at times . It is massively childish , as is to be expected from Stone and Parker , but it has a political consciousness , at least enough to understand that there is something seriously wrong with what is going on in the political sphere right now ( on all sides , not just with the current administration ) , but when you combine that consciousness with the childishness , you get things like death scenes reflecting genuine death scenes in real life , and they're supposed to be funny . I am truly thankful , for example , that Parker and Stone did not have the bright idea that they should try to make a beheading scene funny . I like to think that something that barbarically tasteless would get the movie banned ( if not prevent it from having been made in the first place ) , but there are scenes in the movie that didn't stop too short of that . Not many , but they're there . That being said , I'd like to reiterate that it is all in mindless fun , and I hope that Stone and Parker wanted to allow us to escape from the current tornado of politics and just look at it from a different perspective , hopefully give everyone on all sides a chance to laugh at themselves , but it makes the mistake of thinking , or at least trying to make people believe , that it really is all a joke to be laughed at . The movie does not exist to allow people to look at the lighter side of the war on terror , because there is no lighter side , and it doesn't exist to bash either side . It is a parody of many aspects of the current American position in the world , but it is the seriousness of that position and it's implications that makes some things in the movie , which were meant to be funny , hard to laugh at . I hope that people can take the movie for what it is and appreciate things in it that are genuinely commendable ( such as the startlingly realistic sets and the hilarious musical numbers ) without losing sight of the realness of the world that the movie portrays . And by the way , please don't e-mail me and tell me to lighten up . If you think I need to lighten up , you have lost sight of the realness of the world that the movie portrays .
Gimmicky fun . . .	Serling starts out this cute but not exactly clever episode with the bizarre claim that the neighborhood bar is a " uniquely American institution . " Really ? Had he ever been out of the country at that time ? I can't imagine he had never travelled before , which is why that's so confusing . Then again , his before and after monologues are quite often nearly senseless compilations of creepy sounding words delivered in his trademark way which , when really listened to and analyzed , often make remarkably little sense , although it's hard not to look forward to them . Unfortunately it's pretty obvious that they surely look great on paper but often don't translate to dialogue very well , especially given how enormously over-rehearsed his presentations often are . We meet an unassuming man named Luther Dingle , a failure of a vacuum cleaner salesman who suddenly finds himself embroiled in an argument over a sporting event . When he doesn't give an astonishingly violent bettor ( Don Rickles ) the answer he wants in regards to a recent boxing match , the guy deals him a massive uppercut , sending the poor Dingle sailing backwards through the air and over the bar . Not the most effective way to try to prove your point to someone , I reckon . Soon the episode's big set piece arrives in the form of a martian ( s ) , a huge two-headed robot looking thing with human heads which converse with one another , delivering such hilarious lines as , " Are you sure we're invisible ? " Someone get this guy a mirror ! Soon we realize that the martians are on the lookout for a human weakling on whom to try out a superstrength experiment , so they endow Dingle with the strength of about 300 humans , just after watching Rickles deck the poor guy again for giving the wrong answer about a baseball game from nearly ten years in the past . Serling's commentary about the inane behavior of sports fanatics is coming through loud and clear ! He immediately notices a strange sensation about himself ( does it tingle , Mr . Dingle ? ) , and then , like most other episodes that have a character suddenly endowed with super powers , he spends the first half of this episode trying out his newfound strength , often accidentally . The things he suddenly finds himself able to do are as simple as can be and never very interesting ( his vacuum cleaner is suddenly really light , doors and car handles come off in his hand , he can throw a football really far , etc ) , and then , also common among newborn super heroes , he can soon find nothing to do with himself , so in this case he sits on a bench in the park and tries to explain his situation to a total stranger . My problem with episodes like this is that the people with the super powers suffer so much . While explaining his plight to a woman on the park bench , he demonstrates his strength by lifting the bench , with her on it , high into the air with one hand , describing it as " the most of his worries . " What's to worry about ? Like the relief that Hector Poole showed in the episode " A Penny For Your Thoughts , " I can never understand why people struggle so much . Granted , being able to read peoples ' minds ( and not being able to control it ) could be a pretty disruptive power , but what would be so bad about being super strong ? It reminds me of that idiot politician in Heroes who wanted to keep his ability to fly a secret so it wouldn't hurt his political career . What the hell ? ? Soon Mr . Dingle finds himself being interviewed on television by a man who hosts a television show about " the unusual . " Surely this part wasn't so hard for Serling to relate to ! This is , unfortunately , probably the weakest part of the episode , as Dingle takes this highly publicized opportunity to demonstrate his power by breaking stuff . He karate chops a board in half , punches a hole in drywall ( not the most impressive feat to be pulled off by someone with the strength of 300 men ) , and rips a stool out of the floor . Personally I would consider more highly developed goals . I wonder if increased endurance would come with the increased strength ? If so , I would get myself a bicycle and work my way up to the Tour de France , and steal that year's victory away from Jacques Anquetil , and then maybe win ten or fifteen Tours in a row to take the glory away from that pesky Lance Armstrong with his meager seven wins in a row ( note : Lance is the king ) . But it is just then that Serling installs his social commentary , which like usual , is highly effective and non-preachy . The martians observe this childish display and are disappointed that this is all that Dingle thinks to do with his power , so they take it away from him in the middle of his performance . Ultimately this turns out to be a repeating experience for Dingle . On their way out with their disappointing findings , the martians happen to run into a couple of Venusians who are conducting a similar experiment , except this time involving extreme intelligence rather than strength . By a stroke of astronomical coincidence , they choose exactly the same subject , and Dingle immediately starts rambling on with meaningless technical mumbo jumbo about the physical complexities and probabilities of another baseball game , showing us that he hasn't learned anything and is now well on his way to disappointing yet another entire planet of disheartened beings . I imagine we're meant to wonder about what it is that would cause someone to misuse such wonderful powers , and it seems that Serling is making a strong comment about the over-indulgence in sporting event related activities . If that's the case , he would be an unhappy man in 21st century America ! Clever but not classic , this one is always good for some campy fun .
Very nice atmosphere . . .	While Nervous Man in a Four Dollar Room is not exactly one of the most interesting episodes I've seen of the show , the stifling atmosphere of the tiny room comes across very well . I almost felt claustrophobic at parts of it , not the least reason for which is the heat that accompanies the tight space . Joe Mantell stars as Jackie Rhoades , a small time crook who is hoping for one big score to get him out of his pathetic life , only to discover that the job , the details of which he spends the first half of the episode waiting for , involve committing a payback murder , a huge crime which he doesn't feel prepared to do . Unfortunately , he is forced to commit the murder under penalty of being killed himself . What follows is a battle of two sides of his mind , talking to each other through a magic mirror of sorts , in which the strong half ( in the mirror ) berates him about the life he could have had , had he been smarter and been able to stand up for himself . The effect of having a fake mirror is pulled off remarkably well , with the only real IMDb goof being the laughable claim that the buttons on his shirt weren't reversed . Come on people , quit with the ridiculous details . The performances , all two of them , are great and , while it's not the most deep and meaningful message I've seen in the series , it makes a good point about doing the right thing in the face of difficult circumstances and , maybe most of all , not taking any crap from crappy people . Not bad .
It seems zombie dogs will be around after we're all gone ?	What is the deal with Will Smith ? Every movie he comes out with is almost invariably going to be the best thing in theaters . I don't think he has come out with anything less than a hit since Wild Wild West , which itself was a hit but wasn't good . I've read that it's Smith's one regret , that the movie did so well despite being bad . I Am Legend , on the other hand , has all the ingredients of being a smash hit , and in most ways it is . There are more shortcomings in movie than we have come to expect from the latest Will Smith summer blockbuster ( or winter blockbuster , as it were ) , but I have to say that the portrayal of post-apocalyptic New York City is so good that most people will be more than willing to overlook a lot of these things . It's a zombie movie , to be sure , but a science fiction zombie movie , like only a few others , I think . Smith plays Robert Neville , the sole survivor of a man-made virus that has killed everyone in the world , it seems , except for the ones that have turned into astonishingly angry zombie-like creatures that only roam the streets at night . Neville has his trusty dog as his only companion as he desperately seeks a cure for the virus , spending his nights barricaded into a makeshift laboratory with steel shutters . As soon as we see him close those steel shutters for the first time , it's reasonable to assume that later there will be a problem with them . Unfortunately , the movie opens as a Ford Mustang commercial , with Smith racing down the empty , weeded-over streets of what was once New York City , his engine revving angrily as he guns is through the streets , hunting the occasional deer that are now roaming the streets . Sadly , he loses his dinner to a lion , who is a better hunter than he is . Yeah , there are lions there , too . Although I was a little put off by this at first , in retrospect I really appreciate the way they have presented the city's entropic regression into wilderness , with wild animals wandering and hunting where pedestrians once crowded . The first half of the film introduces us to the empty city and Neville's struggle to find a cure , as well as explaining the rules of the zombies , you might say , which are really not much different than your standard zombie movie , except that these ones are faster , stronger , and angrier . Oh and they can't stand sunlight , maybe because the creatures in Richard Matheson's novel , on which the movie is based ( after two other previous film adaptations ) are vampires . Neville spends his free time walking his dog around in certain stores , around which he has placed mannequins as though they are browsing shoppers , and with whom he exchanges greetings and small talk . This is a lonely man . It is the mannequins , however , that introduce the first major , major loose end . At one point Neville sees one of his mannequins placed somewhere other than where he left him , and he panics , screaming at the mannequin ( calling him by name , by the way ) and demanding to know what he's doing there . As he approaches , he is suddenly yanked off his feet by the rope that has been devised to trap him . He passes out hanging upside down but eventually escapes , barely making it back to his truck ( another Ford , of course ) before being eaten by CGI zombie dogs . He escapes relatively clean , although his own dog doesn't fare so well . It's a heart wrenching scene , and Neville is understandably devastated . This event causes something to snap in him and he goes on a nighttime rampage against the zombies , killing as many as possible with his car and forgetting to wonder who set that trap in the first place . It can be assumed that it was the zombies who set it , since during Neville's revenge campaign we can see that they have organized themselves into a stratified army , with foot soldiers and generals and everything . There is at least one shot that clearly shows one zombie general ordering forward a company of soldiers , who attack on command . This is a surprising development that sadly goes nowhere . Before long a woman and her young son come into the story at a crucial moment for Neville and explain to him that there's a colony of survivors in Vermont , leaving Neville to wonder whether this is true or not and leaving the audience to wonder what she's doing on Manhattan Island , all bridges to which have been destroyed during a military quarantine to isolate the virus . At any rate , such is introduced the film's major weakness , as Neville ultimately makes it to the colony while the narrator carefully spoon-feeds us the film's message and meaning . I love that . I Am Legend is definitely a fun movie . Like most of Smith's films , it's great popcorn fun , as they say . It is packed full of vacuous logic and plot holes , but that's part of the nature of this kind of film . The post-apocalyptic future is the thing that is going to be most remembered about the movie , and while there are an unfortunate number of other cheap weaknesses , it's still a fun ride !
USA vs . Russia at the heart of the cold war ?	Rocky 4 strikes me as a combination between a traditional Rocky film and an over the top 80s action movie . It seems that the Soviet Union has finally officially entered the world of professional wrestling , entering a contestant in the form of Ivan Drago , a stolid mass of scientifically trained punching machinery , played with effective stoniness by Dolph Lundgren . Creed and Rocky are undeniable boxing rock stars by now , as is unquestionably illustrated when we see that Creed learns about the arrival of the scary Russian one lazy afternoon when he's watching TV from his POOL . I didn't know people watched TV in their backyards during the day while lounging in their pool . Isn't the screen a little difficult to see with the sunlight ? No matter , because soon we learn that Drago can throw punches that deliver the intricately measured force of 2150 pounds per square INCH . It's interesting that this installment in the Rocky series has made the effort to actually measure and describe the force of the punches landing on our hero's head , but I calculate that the man's fists , with gloves , are roughly six square inches at the impact zone . Now , if my calculations are correct , at more than a TON per square inch , every single punch would send Rocky or any other human being doing backflips into the audience behind him . The point of all this force , however , is that Drago is a machine , the man is barely human , he's a biological experiment that the Russians have hooked up to innumerable different pieces of equipment and trained to be literally a scientifically flawless fighting machine . Apollo , however , is the one that loses his cool , not Rocky . At a press conference , Apollo loses his temper and berates the Russians in public , himself challenging Drago to a fight . Evidently he hasn't learned anything from the first two movies , because he lets his confidence run away with him , and again puts on an elaborate , ridiculous dance when he enters the arena . Of course , this whole fight is designed to generate anger from Rocky towards the Russian , and to show how little humanity Drago has left in him after all those years of scientifically guided training . They have trained the human being out of him , and someone needs to beat it back in . Notably , this is the first time real revenge has been a motive for Rocky . The fight between Apollo and Drago was supposed to be another spectacle fight , just a show to raise money and attention , but clearly Drago didn't understand that or didn't care . At any rate , Rocky demands a chance to fight Drago , but the Russians insist that the fight has to be in Russia because Drago has received too many death threats . This leads to lots of footage of Rocky training alone in the freezing cold of a Russian winter juxtaposed with images of Drago training in a nice warm lab surrounded by scientists . It's hardly fair ! ! Adrian , as before , is highly unhappy about the fight . She doesn't want Rocky to fight anymore because she's worried that one of these days he is going to be seriously hurt , and justifiably so . Rocky has taken more than his share of beatings over the years , and a Russian who can deliver the weight of small cars with his fists is not the kind of person I would want to get in the ring with either ! Part 4 is the first Rocky movie that had a noticeably and ridiculously cheesy musical montage , cutting in footage from the older movies and giving me the feeling that they just needed to pad the movie for sufficient running time . I can't think of any movie I've ever seen where a cheesy music video was put in and added anything to the story or made the movie better in any way . And there are two in this movie ! At any rate , I appreciated that the Russians assigned Rocky with two " escorts " who followed him wherever he went . I have been living in Communist China for two years , and trust me , the feeling of being watched never goes away and is never unjustified ! The fight itself , however , is definitely one of the most exciting of the series so far . Drago comes on like a machine , he is completely invincible and beats Rocky around the ring like a kid . The crowd , meanwhile , cheers against him . He's totally alone out there in the dead of winter in a foreign country , and it's not hard to feel a little scared for him . But the important thing is that , despite what Drago says , both fighters respect the other's physical perfection . Rocky says that he sees three of Drago out there ( " Hit the one in the middle ! " ) , and Drago tells his trainers that Rocky is " like a piece of iron . " Mutual respect changes the meaning of a fight like this drastically . It makes it much better . I am curious to know how the movie was received in Russia , because the Russians behind Drago are clearly the villains of the movie , and the story presents them as representations of the Russian government . Te " escorts " that followed Rocky around are nothing more than spies ( the real life ones are not impressive either ) , and the movie ends with an impressive but preachy speech about the importance of overcoming nationalist differences and people coming together . But preachy or not , the movie is still inspirational even after the Soviet Union has collapsed , even though it has gone much too far , ah , ' over the top ' in the exaggeration of reality department . While the original film is remembered as a boxing film that's not about boxing , part 4 is an action film that IS about boxing ?
Please do not eat peanuts and throw shucks upon the floor , it is both annoying and unclean ?	As Chaplin's earliest films continue to evolve you can see more and more of the sight gags that would become very common in his later films , such as kicking his cigarette when he throws it away , various kicking and falling routines , and one which would be used again in The Immigrant a few years later , holding a man up with a gun held between his legs from behind . This film has a more complex plot that the majority of Chaplin's short comedies that came before it , although I might have to admit that at times I found it to be a little bit hard to follow , maybe because the comedy was not quite enough to pull along the rest of the story , which itself is not quite strong enough to stand on its own . Charlie plays a janitor who , as is to be expected , gets himself fired in some hilarious way , and then later comes to the rescue when an employee with a gambling debt attacks a woman who catches him trying to steal from the safe to cover his debt . The story is not complex or even very interesting , but it's there , and it shows that Chaplin sees the lack of story in his films so far as is trying to improve that .
Popcorn political thrills . . .	First of all , I'm not a Tom Clancy fan , only because for whatever reason I've never gotten around to reading any of his books . I would say it's because so many of them are so huge , but I've always been a voracious reader . I've read almost all of Stephen King's novels , which are also pretty huge , and I'm usually reading three or four at a time . At any rate , I have nothing to offer as far as how closely the movie follows the source material , although I really think this is incredibly important when adapting books to movies . I have read a lot of criticisms of Patriot Games ( and even more of the sequel , Clear and Present Danger ) , and while I agree with mostly all of it , I still think Patriot Games is a good couple hours of good clean cinematic fun . But maybe that's just because I love Harrison Ford . Ebert makes the obvious complaint that Jack Ryan , when he finds himself in danger , sends his family to a remote cabin rather than a secure bunker at CIA headquarters , and it's true that this detracts from the movie , but you have to have a movie somehow , and that's a situation where making the smart , real life decision would cancel out the rest of the movie . If everyone in movies made the smart decision all the time , we wouldn't even have a horror genre , for example . Jack Ryan is described in Clancy's novels as having " undistinguished features , " which makes Harrison Ford seem to me like the perfect choice to play him , since I've always thought that , even though he's a brilliant and tremendously loved actor , he can't really act with his face very well . Consider one of my favorite examples of this , the close up shot of his face when he sends that kid into surgery in The Fugitive . You can literally see the effort he's putting into making his face do something moving , and it's just not happening . But the thing it , the shot still works . I don't get it , it's a mystery , as Philip Henslowe might say . Harrison Ford has played more complex characters ( and less complex , of course ) , and Jack Ryan gets better than this , but Patriot Games is a fun introduction of Ford playing the role , and is especially a must see for Clancy fans .
A Thing About Machines . . .	The first thing that will strike you about this episode of the twilight zone is the way it was shot , on video , as another reviewer has already noted . It looks totally different than other episodes because of this format , but I think it's mostly the uneven panning and tilting of the camera that gives the show a feel that it was shot quickly on a cheap set . It reminded me of the look of a show you might see made at your local TV station . The story is about a family that lives in a completely isolated world , with a controlled environment and man-made robots to do every chore imaginable , leaving the family , basically , with nothing to do but relax . The daughter of the family becomes unhappy with the situation and rebels against it , leaving her father , who created the robots , totally baffled as to her unhappiness and showing that scientifically brilliant minds do not necessarily have the first clue about what makes girls or children happy . How could he have based his life's work on something that would so quickly and so obviously make his wife and daughter miserable ? Then again , we begin to understand why he may have done this when the parents and daughter begin talking about grandchildren , and the mother is visibly upset . It reminds me of a horror movie that I saw years ago ( and can't remember the name of anymore ) about a family that had numerous children , all well into their 70s and 80s , wandering dressing and acting like children , because the parents so desperately didn't want them to grow up . At any rate , the father is upset at her request for the windows to be opened and the robots to be dismantled , having devoted his entire life to creating that situation , but ultimately obliges her . I imagine there is meant to be some suspense created when the robots object to being ordered to go and wait for him in his workshop , but I was more intrigued by the apparent fact that , in creating them , he had installed in them programming so that they would talk back , object to orders and / or requests , and argue with him . Strange . The ending of the episode gives a chill stronger than most episodes , although it makes no sense whatsoever . I won't ruin it ( although one IMDb reviewer has already done that ) , but let's just say we can chalk it up to some serious lack of foresight in the programming department ! Still a worthy episode and , because of the different way it was shot , with a distinctly different feel than most of the others .
Much better than I expected . . .	The beginning of Ghost Ship is immediately interesting in way that reminds me of the beginning of movies like Sphere or Event Horizon , or even the recent 30 Days of Night . The crew on board a salvage ship ( this is convenient for the plot ) comes across a massive passenger ship in an advanced state of disrepair floating aimlessly on the ocean . Upon closer inspection , they learn that it is a full-sized passenger ship that disappeared in 1962 and has been missing ever since . There is something inherently interesting in premises like this . First of all , the ocean is such a vast expanse of emptiness with such endless possibilities , and is also a place that we really know relatively little about , that it's hard to even try to imagine what kinds of things may have happened to kill an entire passenger ship full of passengers and crew , or what may have made them abandon ship en masse , especially since the ship was , ah , ship-shape enough to remain afloat for another four decades . My immediate assumption of a catastrophic sea storm didn't make much sense , since the ship remained afloat so long , and I remained hopeful that this wasn't going to turn into a monster movie , and for the most part I wasn't disappointed . Like so many other films , the worst thing about this one is the special effects which , as usual do little more than call attention to themselves as special effects . The atmosphere is remarkable , the rusty , desolated hulk brought to the screen with such realism that you can almost feel the coldness and wetness as they explore the decaying interior of the ship . In a lot of ways the movie resembles your traditional ghost story . In fact , I found it just a little disappointing that the ghost element was so strong . Of course , you have to have it , otherwise there would be no movie , but maybe here there are just a few too many age-old tricks , like mysterious opening door and visions of corpses and of course the cute little dead girl . On the other hand , with a cheesy box cover like this , I'm glad that the whole movie was a total mess . It seems that the missing ship was an Italian luxury passenger ship , so needless to say , if the crew can manage to get it back to land it could be worth millions . The crew are overcome with this possibility , even as it becomes the catalyst that begins to propel them to their deaths , one by one . In this sense the movie borders on becoming routine , although that opening scene , like the one in Cube , is definitely something to remember ! ! I've noticed some people point out goofs that are most certainly not goofs in this movie . One of the goofs on the IMDb goofs page claims that since the ship is floating north of the equator , it is floating in a counter-clockwise direction , so it should be it's starboard ( right ) side at risk of hitting land , not it's port ( left ) side , as in the movie . Why this use assumed that unmanned ships drift forward , as they're sailed , I can't imagine . Even more surprisingly , Roger Ebert makes the bizarre assertion that , if the ship were found in the Bering Sea , in the North Pacific , after a scheduled trip from Italy to America , then it must have sailed unnoticed and unattended through the Panama Canal , or else " no longer plays by the rules of the physical universe . " Yeah , the Bering Sea is a long way from the North Atlantic , but the ocean is a big place and 40 years is a long time . I'm willing to bet that if you set a ship adrift anywhere in the ocean and then check back in four decades , you too might find yourself surprised at its new location . At any rate , there are definitely some shortcomings to the movie , and it is not exactly a breath of life into the struggling horror genre , but it's interesting and fun and , despite those special effects , creates exactly the atmosphere that we would expect on board a long deserted ocean liner . Except the ghosts of course , but if there were no ghosts , well then the title would just be a bare-faced lie , wouldn't it ?
Bean goes to the beach ?	I have read that this is likely to be Rowan Atkinson's last adventure as Mr . Bean , and while I did enjoy the movie and I love Bean to death , I can't say that I would be hugely disappointed if that was true . I would be sad to see Bean retire , but I think it is better to do that now , at a high point in his career , rather than keep going until he becomes genuinely tiresome . Bean runs a very specific formula , and I have never been really disappointed by a Bean show or movie ( although I have to admit that the animated series does nothing for me ) , so it would be sad to see him , ah , overstay his welcome , I guess you could say . In Bean 2 , the lovable clown wins an all-expenses paid trip to Cannes , France in a church raffle , and it is notable that all of the mayhem that takes place in the movie is as a result of Bean's perfectly innocent efforts to get to the beach in southern France . Through a truly Bean-style Series of Unfortunate Events , he ends up obliviously involved in a kidnapping and all but causes a national emergency . It is hard not to notice some of Bean's traditional skits from his old TV shows recycled into this movie ( as was also the case in the first Bean film in 1997 ? including the turkey on the head skit , one of my least favorites ) , but at least they never look repetitive or cheap . The plot moves along nicely and , even with some of the more ridiculous scenes , never drags , and that means a lot in what is essentially a modern silent slapstick comedy . Willen Dafoe turns up , good-naturedly playing a wildly egotistical film director named Carson Clay , who we meet when Bean inadvertently stumbles onto his set as he's filming a commercial , and then Bean ruins / saves his horrendous self-glorifying film at the Cannes Film Festival . On the way there , Bean accidentally separates one of the Cannes judges from his son , who becomes Bean's increasingly willing sidekick for most of the film . What 12 year old kid wouldn't want to hang out with someone like Bean ? Bean gets to do his old gag by trying to entertain an unhappy kid ( on a train this time rather than a place ) , and the kid gradually opening up Bean is one of the best parts of the movie , and culminates in my favorite skit of all , when the two of them perform a dramatic interpretive dance to a moody opera as surprisingly talented street performers . Outstanding ! Bean also develops something of a love interest in an unbelievably beautiful French actress named Sabine ( hey , it rhymes ! ) , who wins his heart when he sees that she drives the same Mini Cooper that Bean's truest fans will instantly recognize , and just so happens to also be on her way to Cannes , given that she has a tiny , tiny role in Clay's film , which he wrote , directed , produced , edited , stars in , etc . The screening of the film within the film is also a charming scene , as Clay leans forward in his seat , completely engrossed in and irretrievably moved by his film , which is simultaneously boring the rest of the audience to tears . This is great stuff ! 12-year-old Max Baldry plays the " kidnapped " boy in the movie , in a great performance emulating a hugely popular and famous comedian that almost reminded me of little Jackie Coogan working beside Charlie Chaplin in The Kid in 1921 . Mr . Bean's Holiday is no comparison to something like The Kid , but it is a wonderful family film that is sure to entertain , and Bean fans are also sure to love it . Not his best work , but this is good , clean fun !
" Hell is other people . . . "	I can't remember where I heard that quote , but it's from some famous old author like Hemingway or Faulkner or , given the cynical hilarity of it , Mark Twain . At any rate , it is exactly this conviction that haunts poor Archibald Beechcroft , a man who can only be described , as one other IMDb user has called him , as a nasty old crank . He's bitter about life in general and the world around him , and has convinced himself that if he could only somehow get rid of every other in the world so he's the only one left , he would be ecstatically happy . I am always struck by the short-sightedness of the mindsets that start out a lot of twilight zone episodes and this one is no exception , obviously , but it ends up able to make a clever comment not only about human nature but also about that old saying about being careful what you wish , lest you get it . This seems to be among Serling's most cherished themes . It is interesting how quickly the real supernatural element of the episode is overlooked in favor of concentrating on the moral . Beechcroft learns about the power of concentration , which apparently is so strong that , just by concentrating , one can control the world around him , even to the point of moving objects and making things disappear ( like people ) . Almost immediately , he masters the power of concentration so completely that he is almost bored as he walks through his world able to bend every little thing to his whim . It's strange that he arrives to work one day after having made every other person in the world disappear , and yet he can't think of anything better to do than wander around his tiny office , straightening staplers and peering around that single room , glad that finally everyone is gone and he is not being bothered and has , as they say , no deeds to do and no promises to keep . Wouldn't you want to at least go outside if suddenly you were the only person left on earth ? Soon he begins to lament being the only person , as is to be expected , and wishes that other people were around so he had something to do . How about a shopping spree ? Why not go get a car and drive as fast as you want through town ? On the wrong side of the street , even ! Or go poke through other people's houses ? Interesting that one of the immediate responses to a show like this is what kinds of things it makes you think about yourself , about what you would do if you were the last person on earth . The answer to that tells a lot about who you are , I think ! But in that case , it seems that Archibald Beechcroft is not the most creative man . He has no personal interests , he has no creativity or imagination or outside interests . At the very least , he must hate reading in peace and quiet . So soon he wills the world to become full of people exactly like him , revealing the episode's second moral - about thinking about who you are and what kind of outward appearance you have . Apparently , he never realized how unpleasant he was , and needed a world full of himself to realize it . Being 1961 , we get a few shots of Shelley Berman , the actor , wearing different outfits to come off as different people , and a lot of other actors wearing astonishingly bad masks , I imagine which are supposed to look like him , and soon his lack of creativity bears it's head again and he just gives up and wishes the world back to normal . Interesting episode in its moral implications and its suggestion about accepting the outside world as it is , although overall the episode , like it's main character ( and not the least reason for which must surely be time restrictions ) seems to lack the creativity to really make full use of its premise . Just an aside - - when I was a freshman in high school , a good 15 years ago , there was a kid in one of my classes named Ryan Beecroft . When I first glanced at his name on the roll sheet I thought it said Ryan Beachcraft , so I starting calling him Beachcraft and the name stuck , I don't think anyone at my school ever called him Ryan after that . Ryan if you read this , email me !
Ah the follies of social classes . . .	The Silence , like many Twilight Zone episodes , has a good twist at the end that lands it solidly in the realm of the supernatural , but unfortunately ( and also like a lot of other twilight zone episodes ) , that supernaturalness is reached more because of the main character's astonishing stupidity than anything really supernatural . Not that there is anything wrong with that . I appreciate wildly different behavior from what I would expect from myself in a show like the twilight zone infinitely more than in , for example , modern Hollywood horror movies , so The Silence ranks as one of the more entertaining episodes to me . Regardless of why the twist is as shocking as it is , the story is undeniably absorbing . In a hugely exclusive men's club , one elderly gentleman is enormously disturbed by one of the members ' constant , constant babbling . It's clear that all of the men are more than a little irritated by this one man and his unending , horizonless barrage of nonstop speaking , but one of them much more than anyone else . So much so , in fact , that he bets the man $500 , 000 that he can't keep his mouth shut for a year . One IMDb user states that this was a huge amount of money for the time period . I'm going to go ahead and suggest that this might be an enormous amount of money for ANY time period . And for ANY bet . It reminds me of a particular sentence from one of my favorite books ( Mark Twain's " A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court " ) that , for some reason , managed to stay with me . The main character is describing a rather unfortunate relationship he is in with an intensely uneducated woman who never seems to stop talking . One day he wanted to say something to her ( generally he would just let her talk and let his mind wander ) , so he says something like , " One afternoon I interrupted her in the middle of a sentence that she had begun that morning . . . " You get the idea . This guy is one of those people . I hear that the main actor suffered an injury that prevented him being filmed in anything other than profile from the right . This sounds like gossip to me , probably generated by an unusual filming style , although not exactly impossible , I suppose . What I love about this episode is how confident at the beginning the man who suggests the wager is . He is absolutely certain that this man won't be able to be quiet for a year , saying that he might last several weeks , maybe even a couple months , but the idea that such a man could last a full year was preposterous to him ( and maybe to us ) . As the end of the bet gets closer , the man gets increasingly desperate , even offering the guy $1 , 000 and then $5 , 000 to just quit the bet and walk away , even though there was only a couple months or weeks left by then . There is one thing though , I was curious about what kind of a guy would not only accept this kind of bet , but what kind of guy had the free time to drop everything in his life and lock himself in a glass room for a year . Didn't he have a job ? The exclusiveness of the gentlemen's club suggests that many of its patrons were independently wealthy , but if that was the case , why accept the bet in the first place ? At any rate , the show makes a great comment on upper class superficiality and the lengths people will go to in order to make money and , even more , boast their wealth and social status . Both , Serling says , can lead to disaster . . .
Yes , it's foolish and campy , but that's exactly what it's supposed to be .	In Adam Sandler's tremendously successful 1998 comedy , The Waterboy , he plays the part of intellectually stunted Bobby Boucher . Bobby is a waterboy for various footballs teams , from whom he receives and seems to expect no respect whatsoever . This is obviously not the kind of movie that is meant to win any awards ( what Sandler movie is ? ) , but there is a definite place for movies like this . The character that Sandler creates is hideously annoying , but the comedy that comes from that is unmistakable . The laughs aren't very durable , but there are some good laughs that come from the lines that Boucher mumbles throughout the movie , and the situations are even better . While it's true that The Waterboy is a thinly veiled version of the age-old structure of the underdog coming back and winning big , the film as a whole serves its purpose well , as long as you keep in mind what that purpose is . You watch a movie like this in order to get a few cheap laughs , and that's exactly what it gives you . It's well written because it was made to be exactly the kind of movie that it is , and it can't be criticized for that . Kathy Bates is wonderful as Bobby's horribly over-bearing mother , and Henry Winkler , who was The Fonz about 1 , 000 years ago , has stooped to a heart-breakingly low level as the pathetic coach of the pathetic football team that Boucher saves as the star tackler . The scene with Coach Klein ( Winkler ) talking to his grandmother about his problems on a disconnected phone while wearing a pair of high heels is a particularly sad thing to see the original Arthur Fonzarelli to have degenerated to . On the other hand , the football scenes , which are clearly the emphasis of the film , are undeniably fun to watch . It's a classic underdog structure , but it's great to watch Bobby earnestly wish the opposing players the best of luck on the upcoming play , only to receive an offensive reply and then throw everyone else aside on his way to that player to deliver a massive tackle , even if it means sacrificing the play . We've already seen dozens of football movies , so we already know exactly how this is going to end , but luckily we have a lot of fun getting there . There is some shallow writing and an uninteresting romantic subplot ( involving the simultaneously hideous yet strangely attractive Fairuza Balk ) thrown into the film , as well as the obligatory happy ending , but as is generally the case with Sandler's movies , The Waterboy delivers what it is expected to deliver , as long as you don't expect something unreasonable from it . This was not meant to be a great film , and will be seriously considered that by virtually no one , but as a cheesy comedy with some genuinely amusing moments , The Waterboy is a huge success .
' Crazy , am I ? We'll see whether I'm crazy or not ! '	James Whale's Frankenstein is a VERY loose adaptation of Mary Shelley's 1818 novel . The spirit of the film is preserved in its most basic sense , but the vast majority of the story has been entirely left out , which is unfortunate . The monster , for example , who possesses tremendous intellect in the novel and who goes on an epic quest seeking acceptance into the world in which he was created , has been reduced to little more than a lumbering klutz whose communication is limited to unearthly shrieks and grunts . Boris Karloff was understandably branded with the performance after the film was released , because it was undeniably a spectacular performance , but the monster's character was severely diminished from the novel . James Whale's adaptation of the story of Frankenstein , while it is clearly and deservedly a horror classic , is tremendously less than it could have and SHOULD have been . There are unexplainable deviations from the novel , such as the fact that Dr . Frankenstein's name was , for some reason , changed from Victor in the novel to Henry in the film , and the film itself really only covers about a quarter to a third of one chapter in the book ? that's how much has been left out . There was probably only about 5 % or 6 % of the full story included in this film , and I am willing to guess that the sheer magnitude of ignored material in the original story is at least as much of a reason that there were so many subsequent Frankenstein films ( and Re-Animators and whatnot ) as was the film's commercial success . This may , in fact , be one of those rare cases where the imitators may have just wanted to do it right , or at least tell the REST of the story . Despite the fact that there was such a huge amount of material that was sadly left out of the film , it is still to be praised for many different reasons . Boris Karloff , for example , delivered a wonderful performance as Frankenstein's monster , and Colin Clive was absolutely amazing as Dr . Frankenstein . The make-up , especially ( and obviously ) on the part of the monster , was wonderfully disturbing , and even though so much was left out of the original story , it was clear that the monster was not inherently evil . The entire portion of the novel that is told from the monster's point of view is left out , the vast majority of his unfortunate experiences and his responses to them are removed at the expense of his character , his attempt to get Dr . Frankenstein to make him a female monster so that he will have companionship is left out , and his fascination with the world he found himself in was left out as well ( he read Paradise Lost just because it was interesting to him and to learn about that world ! ) . I was also slightly bothered by the way the ' criminal brain ' was so often mentioned , because the monster was really a good creature that was driven to commit bad deeds because he was so badly treated because of his appearance . The book had so much to say about the way people treat people who are different , and that entire message is lost when we're constantly reminded that it's a criminal brain . The monster was reduced in that way to little more than a mindless villain , and the movie itself was reduced to nothing more than a typical horror movie . ( spoilers ) The scene where the monster is playing with the little girl near the end of the film was one of the few where it is actually made clear that he is just a creature that is unfamiliar with the world around him , and that he does have a heart inside him , regardless of the fact that it may have been dead for a while . This little girl was throwing daisies into the water , and she gave some to the monster to throw in , too . He was thrilled to no end , and when he ran out of daisies , he threw the girl in . He didn't know that she couldn't swim or even that she would NEED to swim , he just got such a kick out of throwing things out of the water that he didn't see the difference between a flower and a little girl . The rage that followed his unintentional act was one of the closest moments in the film where the misunderstanding of the world towards him was captured . Of course , I tend to doubt that Shelley intended the searches for the monster in her novel to be conducted by gigantic mobs of angry people all carrying torches and screaming at the top of their voices . This is not something that would be entirely difficult to avoid . At any rate , the whole movie has already begun to wind down at this point , and a death for the monster at the hands of the angry mob is invented for the film at the expense of the story . It is tragic that the amazing ending of Shelley's novel was left entirely out of the film , but it is also easy to understand because of budget and production limitations . This is an ironic and unfortunate example of a film that would have really been considered a lot better than it is if it were not for the book upon which it is based . It is clear that the film is strong and that it is well made , but when compared to Shelley's novel , it's really a pretty sad mess . The film by itself is more than able to captivate and impress , but to someone who knows the original story , it is a weak attempt to bring the story of Frankenstein and his monster to the big screen .
Susan Sarandon and Natalie Portman saved this movie .	Anywhere But Here is not exactly anything new , but the excellent performances by both of the main actresses made it worth watching . Sarandon and Portman are a mother and daughter who move from rural Wisconsin to sunny Beverly Hills , California , in search of a better life . The main conflict comes from the fact that Natalie would much rather have stayed in Wisconsin with all of her friends and family , and she felt that she was forced to go to California with her overbearing mother . ( spoilers ) While it's true that the film as a whole is disappointingly predictable , Susan Sarandon and especially Natalie Portman give performances that are so good that they almost make the material seem new . Anywhere But Here doesn't cover any new ground , but it does have the rare quality of being able to take overused subject matter and make it fairly interesting again . Also seen in this movie is the most heartbreaking facial expression seen in years , seen on Natalie Portman's face when her mother drops her off on the side of the road and she watches the car fade into the distance . Particularly noteworthy is the ironic subplot about Natalie's mother pressing her to become an actress , as well as a very convincing performance from Shawn Hatosy as one of Natalie's very close cousins from back home . His death is a tragic cliché almost always seen in movies like this one , but the rest of the film makes up for numerous weaknesses like this . Not great , but Anywhere But Here is definitely worth a look .
Not much more than a continuation , but still a worthy sequel .	I think I liked Child's Play 2 more than most people , given the reviews that I've read and the movie's low voter rating on the IMDb . A cute kid's doll is once again the unlikely home of Charles Lee Ray , notorious serial killer , again feeding off of the surrealism created by seeing a kid's doll screw it's face into expressions of the purest rage and spouting all manner of profanities . By now , Ray is becoming more and more desperate to get out of the body of the doll , because as we were informed in the first film , if he spends too much time in that body he'll gradually become more and more human until one day he'll be stuck in it forever . Needless to say , Ray's a lot more interested in starting life over as a 6-year-old ( and who wouldn't ? ) rather than spending the rest of his life as a plastic doll . Although , given that he becomes more human the longer he is in that body , how human will he eventually become ? Will he ever reach full human-hood ? My guess is that he'll gradually approach being a real human being in a sort of half life , where he gets closer and closer and closer but never actually gets there , kind of like computer generated actors . There is currently much talk about how close computers can ever get to animating convincingly real people into the movies , and the leading theory seems to be something akin to my theory of Chucky turning human . He'll always get closer but he'll never get all the way there . At any rate , Andy's mother has landed in a mental institution and Andy has been taken in by a foster family with appropriate mental vacuity to be a horror movie surrogate family . When Andy becomes frightened and runs through the house , his foster father grabs him and says , ' Rule # 1 , no running in the house ! ' OK , ' dad , ' but not even when I open a closet and find myself confronted by the doll that landed my mom in the nuthouse and almost cost me my life and my very soul ? My God , man , what the hell is this guy doing with a Good Guys doll in the house in the first place ? It's difficult enough trying to figure out why it's even there WITHOUT having to watch this mental giant grab Andy by the arm and ask him what on earth is the matter . There are some funny moments in the film , such as when Chucky smashes the head of the innocent Good Guys doll , buries it , and takes its place in the house , and my favorite , when Chucky is later addressed by a doting adult , Chucky responds by saying in his cute doll voice , ' Hi ! I'm ? . Tommy ! ' The stockholders in the Play Pal corporation are distressed over the suffering that the company has endured due to the negative publicity of the events of the first movie provide the premise for the movie's rather impressive finale . In order to generate a more positive image for the company and the doll , they have decided to reintroduce it into the market . The original Chucky doll was collected by the company and examined by toy-makers , who decided that there really was nothing truly wrong with it , it was not really a demon-possessed toy , so they decided to melt it down and remake it . Why they didn't just throw it away I'm not really sure , but who cares . Waste not , want not , I guess . At any rate , Chucky comes back in a fresh plastic body ( too bad he can't be transferred to a human as easily as he can be transferred from one doll body to another ) , and once again resumes his quest for Andy's soul . I've heard complaints about why Chucky had to go after Andy and couldn't just find a bum on the street or something , but you'll remember in the first movie , the conditions of his plastic entrapment stated that he could only transfer into the body of the first person that he revealed his identity to once he was inside the Chucky doll . Jarrett Friend , writing for HorrorWatch , made the above suggestion having forgotten that little stipulation , but also smartly suggested that the plot should have involved a huge number of Chucky dolls , since the original doll was melted down and whose plastic conceivably should have infected much more dolls than just the one that we saw in this movie . This would have made the movie much more interesting and added another level of originality ; my guess is they just didn't have the budget for something that big . Nevertheless , even though the first sequel in the Child's play series comes dangerously close to falling into that sophomore sequel chasm of falling flat because of obviously feeding off the success of its predecessor without having much of anything to add to the story , Child's Play 2 escapes into the world of moderately acceptable horror sequels , kind of like Psycho II , which had no hope of matching its predecessor but at least was able to justify its own existence . I think it's easy to be put off by the conclusion of Child's Play 2 , but I was pretty impressed with the toy factory setting , if only because it created such a great atmosphere for Chucky to make his hunt and Andy and his foster sister Kyle to try vainly to escape . There was some pretty clever stuff in the final act of the film , not including , however , the scene where Kyle and Andy run around completely lost , making the factory seem like a maze by editing together a lot of clips of them clearly running around the same corner half a dozen times or so . A bit trite , but nothing compared to my biggest gripe of the film , which is the final scene , one of the goofier things that I've seen on an otherwise at least moderately competent horror movie . Odd for a movie to try so hard to live up to its expectations and then belittle itself with something like what I'll just call the air hose scene . I do , however , think that the movie was successful and good enough to deserve a better DVD than it got . I can't stand it when the only extra features on the DVD for a successful film are nothing but some foreign audio tracks and cast and crew history that is nothing more than a brief biography and a list of film credits . What do you think the IMDb is for ?
Slightly better than I expected .	Kiss of the Dragon is exactly what it appears to be , the latest martial arts movie starring Jet Li . It is barely a step up from the old Van Damme movies , except that Jet Li is such a better martial artist than Van Damme . In this movie , Li plays the part of Liu Jian , a cop from Hong Kong who is sent to investigate two murders in France and winds up framed for the crime . He ultimately is fighting to clear his name while pursued by both his enemies and his friends , who are trying to capture him as well to clear up the question about the murders , which they do not really believe that he committed . And , of course , Jian is pretty much a machine in the movie , which coincides with his stunning fighting capabilities . He has no wife , no kids , no family , no friends , nothing in his life other than his work . This is fitting beyond the movie , by the way , because wouldn't it be weird to see Jet Li in a love scene ? The humanistic as well as the romantic subplot involves a naïve prostitute named Jessica ( Bridget Fonda ) from North Dakota , who is stuck working as a prostitute for Richard ( French film veteran Tchéky Karyo ) until she can ' earn ' her daughter back from him . She is a heroin junkie who is trying to quit , except that he won't let her , he forces her to shoot up as a means of keeping her under control . This whole thing about Jessica is one of the more satisfying elements of the movie . Indeed , midway through the movie , we care much more about how Liu Jian is going to avenge Jessica's pimp for beating her than we do about whether or not Richard will be punished for the murders that he committed early in the film . ( spoilers ) On both subjects , of course , we are not disappointed . There is a great scene where Jessica offers to help Liu Jian sew up a wound on the back of his arm , and her pimp arrives and tries to force Jian to pay him for using up her time while she should have been out on the street turning tricks so she could make him money . Jian politely asks him not to hit her again , and subsequently kicks the hell out of him and his men . What a great scene that was ! Unfortunately , it becomes a little confusing when a gigantic black guy shows up , strips down , and fights with Jian , because we don't know where this guy came from or where he went ( he seemed to actually disappear after the fight was over ) . The fighting scenes in this movie are , as is to be expected from Jet Li , extremely well done and fun to watch , but the plot itself becomes convoluted and manipulative at some points . And besides that , the actual Kiss of the Dragon was a little confusing to me . Jian carried this bracelet around during the entire movie and he pulled acupuncture needles out of it periodically and seemed to stick them in good guys and bad guys alike . He stuck one in both of the murder victims early in the film , he sticks them in several people with whom he fights throughout the movie , he sticks one in Jessica's neck as she lies in her hospital bed , and he sticks one in Richard at the film's conclusion . Are they drugged or what ? Painkillers ? I could ever quite figure it out , because of his relationships with all of the people that he stuck them in . At any rate , I'm no doctor , but I'm pretty sure there is nowhere in the back of the neck where you can stick a needle that , when removed , would cause the person's head to fill up with blood until it came out their eyes and nose and ears until they died . But it made for a unique death scene , at least . There are several examples of botched editing which mess up the film's continuity , and the whole movie is wrapped up in a neat little package with a cutesy , happy ending , but as far as martial arts movies , this is definitely one of the better ones . Jet Li and Jackie Chan both seem to come out with a new movie every other day or so , and it's nice to see that they are not just cranking out total garbage . This is not going to win any awards for anyone involved , but it is well worth it's hour and forty minutes .
Not quite the same but a worthy follow-up .	There is an unusual relationship between Infernal Affairs and Infernal Affairs II , which is the first sequel but is also a prequel and may even be better viewed before the first film . One of my Chinese friends , who suggested the trilogy to me , gave me part II first and said I could watch that before the original film , but I waited until I could buy the entire trilogy and watch them all in order . As it turns out , I may as well have listened to her . The premise is pretty much the same , a police officer working undercover for a mafia godfather , while the godfather has a trusted lieutenant working as a successful police inspector . Like the first film , it is an interesting play in the space between breaking and protecting the law , as each side is simultaneously living life as a criminal and law enforcement agent , which is clearly a difficult task . There is an interesting backdrop of the film of the return of Hong Kong to China in 1997 , the 10 year anniversary of which I experienced here in central China last June . And let me tell you , these people are really happy to have Hong Kong . They don't mess around with fireworks . For the Chinese New Year , for example , fireworks are set off almost nonstop for WEEKS . Trust me . I'm literally hearing the last of it outside my window at this very moment . None of this 30 minutes just after midnight nonsense ! It's true that the sequel is slightly lesser than the brilliant first film , but it is an engaging crime drama , especially impressive because of the performances of Police Inspector Wong ( Anthony Wong ) and the gangster Sam ( Eric Tsang ) , who were in charge of placing the moles on the opposing team , you might say . They are good friends and seem to have an easy relationship , except that each pretty much knows what the other is doing , they just don't know everything . And like in the original , this is a recipe for a pretty absorbing crime film .
One of sci-fi's most overused themes . . .	I should explain that when I say " overused , " I don't quite mean that it has been done to death , because even though there have been countless examples of sci fi TV show and movies about machines coming to life , they are not necessarily all the same or rip-offs of each other . Besides , if any TV show ever had the right to do a show on the topic of machines coming to life , the Twilight Zone is it . The main characters in the show are Richard Haydn as Bartlett Finchley and Barney Phillips as a TV repairman who , I have to say , must certainly act in a certain way that no TV repairman has ever acted toward a customer . Of course , I wasn't exactly spending much time hiring repairmen back in the 1960s , nearly 20 years before I was born , but I would think that , even if he was called repeatedly to Finchley's house to fix the most mysterious and suspicious damages , it's probably generally not such a good idea to openly criticize and insult one of your best repeat customers ! At any rate , it sets up the situation that we need to know about . Finchley has to call repeatedly to have his various machines and appliances fixed because , for example , he is provided with reason to put his foot through his TV set . I've heard about that being done in several movies and TV shows , and it always strikes me as something that would be exceedingly difficult to do . Have you ever imagined how much force would be needed to drive a foot through a TV set ? This man's foot certainly had some momentum behind it ! And the question , of course , is what could possibly have led him to such a state as to cause him to make such a vicious kick ? Babara Stuart shows up briefly to angrily quit her job as his secretary , once again hinting toward the reality of his state of mind . Once she threatens to quit because of his ill treatment , he panics at the thought of being left alone in his house , and we begin to understand what is really going on . Well , we already knew what was going on because we know the title of the episode , but you get the idea . Sadly , the second half of the episode is where the show starts to falter . The main reason , I think , that the threat of the machines becomes a problem is because the threat is just never made realistic enough . At the time of this writing , there is only one other IMDb reviewer who has reviewed this episode , jcravens42 , and he ( or she ) notes the hilarity that may ensue at things like the attack of the killer electric shaver . And on this point Craven is exactly right . I didn't quite laugh out loud , but I did smirk a bit , and not just because it's so ludicrous that you have to laugh , but because such a thing could never be a real threat . What could it do ? Give Finchley razor burn ? Why not just grab it out of the air and toss it into the tub ? Or out the window ? But then again , imagining yourself in the situation of the characters in many Twilight Zone episodes is a great way to ruin the experience . But it's the same thing with the climax of the show , the car chasing him around outside . It's not just placing yourself in his situation that could ruin the suspense , but I have never been able to feel any sympathy for people in movies being chased by cars ( manned or otherwise ) when all they do is run right up the middle of the road or , in this case , back and forth . Avoiding a car at close range would be FAR too easy for it to ever be able to generate any suspense . But in the show's defense , it is also an illustration of Finchley's state of mind , which is not exactly allowing for rational thought . You could call this one of the Twilight Zone's weaker episodes and probably be right , but it's also an almost required theme for the show and is well made enough , I should think . . .
Why the relief ? ?	You know , I have a real problem with these kind of super hero stories . You may notice yourself imagining yourself with the super powers presented on screen whenever you see a super hero movie or TV show . I'm not the only one , am I ? Didn't you ever imagine swinging from buildings while watching Spiderman ? Or didn't you imagine yourself flying through the air and saving damsels in distress watching Superman ? Didn't you imagine an insatiable desire to smash stuff while watching The Incredible Hulk ? This has to be the reason that any super hero movie is inevitably bound to fail on some level , because no one can ever present a satisfactory usage for super powers on screen . There will always be people in the audience wishing to see something more . I've read reviews of a lot of Twilight Zone episodes where the IMDb users claimed that the stories felt " rushed , " and this is the only time that it ever felt that way to me . Dick York plays a man who suddenly finds himself with the ability to read minds after his quarter lands on its edge while he's buying a morning newspaper . Much of the episode consists of him leaning toward various people and listening to their thoughts , with a decidedly unamazed reaction to his new power . I would be shocked to the core ! At any rate , of course he goes about his normal day at work but soon finds himself presented with an opportunity to stop someone from committing a crime . I imagine this is the kind of thing that many of us would picture while watching a story like this - the ability to do something heroic . This is the best thing about the episode , along with the way the crime stopping turns out . We are left to wonder about the true intentions of the would-be criminal , who claims that he was just THINKING about the crime , and that he wasn't really going to do it . This is , of course , exactly the convenient excuse that ANYONE would say if someone accused them of having the exact criminal thoughts that they had just been having , but on the other hand , there is a perfect likelihood that it's probably true . As Jim Carrey said in what has to be one of his funniest stand-up moments ever , we all have bizarre , dangerous thoughts that flit through our heads all day every day , but luckily most of us have that other little voice in our heads that says , " Ah , ah , ah , turning the car into oncoming traffic , is counterproductive ! " And here we have another traditionally deeply buried twilight zone message , about the dangers of jumping to conclusions or judging someone based on shaky information . And incidentally , Dick York bears an astonishing resemblance to a young Jim Carrey in this episode . . . But at the end of the episode he goes back to the newspaper kid and accidentally knocks over the quarter , which has remained standing on its edge all this time , and suddenly he is no longer able to read minds again and , as is the case with many films and TV shows that I've seen , he is beside himself with the happiness of it . What the hell ? But this is where the sense of being rushed comes in . By the time he knocks that quarter back over , it's time to end the show , and they still have to wrap up that happy romantic ending along with solving the poor guy's supernatural plight , so best just have him be thrilled not to have the mind-reading power anymore . I just feel like I would get that depressing feeling I always get when I have a dream that I can fly and then I wake up and realize it was only a dream , so I try to go back to sleep as quick as I can so I can go flying again but I can never quite make it . It's always a little disheartening to lose a super power , at least for me , but maybe it's different , as Serling loves to tell us , on the outskirts of the twilight zone . . .
Cool little Stallone flick ?	Lock Up is a pretty good movie for Stallone fans , although it could easily have been much better had he not been basically a saint behind bars . Stallone plays Frank Leone , who faces multiple prison terms total , beginning with an 18-month sentence he was given for avenging the vicious beating of an old man who took him off the streets when he was a teenager . So back then he wasn't allowed to leave the prison to see his dying father ( when we meet him , he is on a weekend leave from a minimum security prison , a weekend that he spends playing ball with his kids while his charming wife looks on approvingly ) , so he breaks out to go to the funeral . So his minor prison sentence turns into a big one , although one that he spends at a comfortable minimum security joint with all kinds of perks , including weekends and conjugals and even friendships with the guards . His release is approaching when suddenly he is awakened in the middle of the night and taken to a brutal , maximum-security prison where he is to spend the rest of his sentence . It's called a " routine transfer , " although he has done nothing to deserve such an upgrade in security status and even his wife is not informed of what happened to him . Ultimately he learns that he is being transferred to the prison of Warden Drumgoole ( Donald Sutherland at his creepy best ) , who was in charge of the prison that Leone escaped from , which in turn made it into the papers and ruined Drumgoole's career . Now he has his chance for revenge , and he plans to arrange for Leone to spend the rest of his life in this prison . The movie carelessly glosses over the ease with which Drumgoole plucks Leone out of his own prison with no explanation to those in charge there , and the conflict immediately switches to Leone trying to survive in this violent prison and stay out of trouble so he doesn't screw up his chances of getting released on time so he can go back to his family . Drumgoole pulls out all the stops in violating the law that his institution is designed to uphold so that he can keep this one guy down , and Leone faces all manner of challenges ranging from shank-laden inmates to one of his inmate buddies who steals the Mustang they've all restored together and tears all over the prison yard doing doughnuts . The movie is definitely entertaining although there are times when the cheese factor is through the roof , such as the spray paint fight and the downright school-girlish friendship that Leone forms with a small group of other inmates . On the other hand , it also has a much wider target audience than your average prison movie , and it manages to generally avoid most of the gaping pitfalls that prison movies are in danger of falling into when they shoot for a wide audience . There's nothing realistic about it , but for good Stallone entertainment , this is not a bad way to follow up the massive success of the Rambo and Rocky films . Also keep your eye out for a young Tom Sizemore , but be advised that the movie features violence , unnecessary cheesiness and may leave you with an overwhelming desire to go out and get some doughnuts ?
Jason Statham ? Jet Ski Pilot . Jason Statham ? Jet Ski Pilot .	The first sequel in the Transporter franchise obeys all of the rules of sequels ? bigger budget , bigger death count , more gloss , and at least one more lingerie-clad hottie with two hand-held machine guns . It's otherwise exactly the same movie as the original , with a few negligible plot modifications . What isn't changed is the ready-made action movie premise , this time using such an old action cliché that the first thing I thought of was those little sponge-things I used to make my mom buy me when I was a kid . You put a drop of water on it and in a couple minutes it turns into a dinosaur or something . But beyond the just-add-water instant action movie beginning , it at least ultimately proves to be another example of the over-the-top action extravaganza that the series has come to be known for . The movie works because it knows not to take itself seriously , and while this prohibits it from anyone in the audience being in danger of taking anything seriously , it doesn't stop it from being fun . There is a scene in the movie where Frank notices a bomb strapped to the underside of his car , and when I saw the way he managed to dislodge it I laughed out loud , and not necessarily in a bad way . You will laugh too , but there is a distinct feeling that you're laughing with the movie and not at it , and that right there is exactly what makes it fun . Frank Martin has been doing some chauffeuring duties for the wealthy Billings family ? Jefferson , who works in drug control for the government , and his estranged wife Audrey - and ends up making an unlikely friendship with their 6-year-old son Jack . But don't worry , the unlikeliness of that friendship very soon looks very normal when compared to the rest of the plot developments . Jack is kidnapped by a stereotypical Colombian villain and his henchmen , which include his statuesque blonde girlfriend ( who spends the entire movie wearing nothing but skimpy lingerie and a ton of eyeshadow ) and a bunch of meathead henchmen . So get this , the villain , like me , is Colombian , so of course he's hell-bent on flooding the world with cocaine , but wait until you hear his plan ! His scheme is to infect Jack with a deadly airborne virus that will in turn infect anyone who comes into contact with him . They don't want a ransom , they hand the kid back with amazingly little resistance . But Jefferson is soon attending a conference with lots of high-level officials involved in the U . S . drug control infrastructure . You see where this is going ? I hope so , because while the plot is actually a little more complex than you would expect from a movie like this , it doesn't slow down for very long to give you time to think about anything , which I suppose is just as well . It moves frantically from one action set piece to the next , balancing out the preposterous action sequences with greater emotional involvement than the original movie in the relationship between Jack and Frank . But when it comes down to it , The Transporter 2 is exactly the same thing as the original movie . It has all the same ingredients but in slightly different quantities , so your opinion of the first movie is going to give you a much better idea of how you'll like the second one than any review is going to . Then again , something tells me that a good portion of the Transporter target audience aren't big readers , so maybe I'm wasting my time here anyway ? Nah , I'm just kidding . That'll be my bad joke for the day . But regardless of the reading habits of the Transporter fan club , I don't need to explain to you that this is not an intelligent action movie . It's a super-fast action thriller with stunts that would make James Bond nervous and a lot of people shooting each other up , but I would be lying if I said it wasn't entertaining ?
The Twilight Zone's take on war . . .	Kind Nine Will Not Return is one of the Twilight episodes of the genuinely paranormal variety , where something happens which seems that it can't possibly have a rational explanation . Bob Cummings plays Cpt . James Embry , a World War II pilot who awakens in the desert next to the crashed remains of his plane , and his entire crew mysteriously disappeared into the vast desert . Sadly , the show commits that distinctly " twilight-zone " sin of having the lone character constantly calling into emptiness , looking for his lost crew members , in this case . You may remember this from the show's pilot episode , " Where is Everybody ? " where a Mike Ferris walked around a town basically having a conversation at the top of his voice with no one . In this episode , Embry is also calling repeatedly into the emptiness of the desert for his lost crew , at one point even squeezed into the back of the plane , still calling their names as though they had somehow managed to squeeze themselves into the cracks in the instrument panels . Isn't the back compartment of an airplane small enough so that you can pretty much see right away whether or not anyone else is in there with you ? I don't know , maybe I'm wrong and those planes are bigger than I think . At any rate , this episode actually deals with much heavier material than many other twilight episodes , as it ultimately turns out to be a very real depiction of some of the effects that many soldiers and military personnel suffer after being involved in conflicts . As it turns out , Embry ( played by Cummings , who has very real military experience himself , as does Serling ) has a very real reasons for experiencing what he experiences in the show , and a very real and very revealing reason is given for what happens to him in the show . Much more moving than your typical twilight episode . . .
Entertaining enough , but doesn't stand out from the rest .	In His New Profession , Chaplin again reverts into drunken slapstick , what I think is his weakest effect , although I am sure it was very popular back in 1914 . A man in a park is clearly very annoyed at having to care for his uncle , who is confined to a wheelchair , so he asks the Tramp to " push him around for a bit , " while he goes off chasing some girl . He does , but soon passes a bar and wants to go inside and get a drink . When the uncle won't give him a dime on account , he steals money from a sleeping homeless man's tin cup , then places his cardboard sign on the uncle and heads for the bar , where Fatty Arbuckle is almost completely unnoticed as the bartender . There are several moderately effective gags , but it seems that the film is trying to present more story than it can carry . There is a lot going on in the story , but very little of it is clear , and as is so common in these early films , it soon resorts to a lot of pushing and kicking . You can't really expect a whole lot more than that from these early comedies , but as it is , there is not much to make this one stand out from the rest of Chaplin's early work . Even Chaplin himself begins and ends the film with a yawn ! ! !
The little tramp as a piano mover !	His Musical Career , or Musical Tramps , reminds me of my days as a furniture mover in Los Angeles . The company I worked for did work for interior designers , so most of our time was spent delivering astonishingly expensive designer furniture for the rich an famous . I remember one day we had to move a piano across a room in house in the Hollywood Hills so we could get a new table in , and the piano was so heavy that it took six of our guys to move it , and even then we could only move it a few feet at a time . Because of this , I have a feeling that some of the comedy might be lost on a lot of the audience , because most people don't really realize how heavy pianos really are . For now I'll just say that there are moving companies that do nothing but move pianos ( they're called " piano movers , " surprisingly enough ) , which is why it's so funny to see Chaplin carrying that piano around the room by himself . Musical Tramps was made in Charlie's first year making short comedies for Mack Sennett , so it's pretty simple , although there is the amusing premise that the diminutive tramp gets a new job as a mover and then messes up his first assignment , which is to deliver one piano and repossess another . He mixes up the order , of course , and goes to repossess the piano of a wealthy man who had just purchased it . ( spoilers ) But strangely enough , the film ends just when that premise is supposed to come into play . Charlie and his oafish co-worker get to the man's house and repossess it , and when the angry man finds out , he demands to know where they're going with his piano and then they proceed to roll down the sidewalk and into a pond . It seems to end before it's supposed to , but there are some good sight gags here , such as Charlie carrying the piano around on his back and the donkey getting lifted off the ground by the load he's trying to pull . Also watch for Charliedoing his baseball pitch gag , which was done much more effectively but almost exactly the same in The Immigrant a few years later . Notice , by the way , that when they are repossessing the rich man's piano out of his stately mansion in what looks like Beverly Hills , at one point they bump into the wall , shaking the whole house !
The high-flying , outlandish variety of vintage Bond style .	After re-watching Casino Royale yesterday , I'm really struck by the wildness of the action , the villains , and the overall plot of Die Another Day . In Pierce Brosnan's last outing as 007 , we get the kind of super-villains and super-villainous plot that can only possibly exist in a Bond movie . The movie starts in North Korea in the middle of a shady diamond exchange . The movie's opening action sequence is great , and it is unusual because it ends with Bond being captured and imprisoned for an extended period of time . Years , it looks like . Eventually , the British arrange for his release by agreeing to release a North Korean terrorist named Zao , who is also the only person who knows who betrayed Bond in North Korea in the first place . As Bond sets off on a personal quest to re-capture him and discover who betrayed him , he is led to the mysterious billionaire Gustav Graves , whose involvement in diamond trading is for the sake of the development of a massive satellite with a diamond-encrusted solar panel capable of harnessing and concentrating the energy of the sun , creating a laser beam powerful enough to destroy anything on earth in its path . There is also a bizarre sub-plot involving a high-tech procedure which can alter a person's DNA and completely change their appearance , basically transforming any person into any other person . Zao undergoes this procedure early in the film but is interrupted in the middle of it , which is why one of the villains is a Asian man with sky blue eyes , albino skin and scars all over his face . Interesting , but as we can see from Toby Stephens ' performance as the psychotic Graves , special effects and make-up are totally unnecessary to have a good villain . It's too bad that all of the supposedly North Korean characters are so inauthentic . I've always thought that , in situations like this , it's always best to just have them speak their native language and give us subtitles , but evidently the film's producers have no faith in the American audience's attention span , so all of them speak not only perfect English but perfect American English and all authenticity goes flying out the window . Nevertheless , the special effects are generally good and there are plenty of great action sequences . There's also a great location in Iceland of a building made of ice , and even a cool car chase through it . Of course , Iceland is actually green , while Greenland is full of ice , but there you have the producers ' dumbing down the movie for an ignorant audience again . There is some cool technology in the movie , too , particularly Bond's Aston Martin , which now has an invisibility function . Definitely the most expensive 007 film starring Pierce Brosnan , although not necessarily the best . By the way , I have to ask a question . At one point Bond is driving his car through the ice house and he flips over , sliding along on his roof . He opens the sunroof and hits the Ejection Seat button , and the cars pops back over onto its wheels . Wouldn't the Ejector Seat have just shot him head first into the ice ?
Interesting supplement . . .	Although this documentary strikes me as a being a bit too similar to those UFO sightings documentaries to a certain extent , it also makes it very clear that remote viewing is something that may very well have some merit , although not necessarily just because it was used by the military during the cold war . I like that very little time is spent tying the explanations in this documentary to Suspect Zero itself , and that it mostly concentrates on teaching the viewer something about the reality of remote viewing . There are some fascinating in depth interviews with some of the people who were actually trained by the military as remote viewers during the Cold War , as well as with some of the actors in the movie . You could almost put this same documentary on the DVD with Minority Report . There are slight differences in the kind of psychic magic that's done in Suspect Zero and Minority Report , but in many ways they are similar , and this documentary explains very well how it's own version works .
While Fast Times At Ridgemont High is not the side-splittingly hilarious classic comedy that it has come to be known as , it very accurately captures a picture of the eighties , and it is still quality enterta	Fast Times At Ridgemont High has dated pretty badly , but it still has it great moments . Sean Penn stole the show without question , and it is a shame that he did not have a larger part than he did . However , I think that this was intentional , because Amy Heckerling seems to make a conscious effort to ensure that no clearly identifiable star emerges from the film . Her main goal was to present a film that detailed high school life in the eighties as accurately as possible , without distracting the audience from that with a Hollywood star or a detailed plot . Nevertheless , it is clearly Sean Penn who is the most remembered from this film , and not just because he later enjoyed the most successful career out of all of the other actors in the film . I think that Penn's notability in Fast Times At Ridgemont High stems simply from the fact that he was by far the funniest character in the movie . He delivers a nearly flawless portrayal of the stereotypical surfer guy , with the Hawaiian t-shirt , the hot-boxed Volkswagen bus , the long hair , and the dumbed down manner of speech . Despite all of the hilarious elements of this movie , I think that it was almost too emotional at times for the type of film that it is . We're seeing guys get fired from their jobs , girls getting their hearts broken by idiot guys , and geeks who chicken out just before they are about to get together with beautiful women ( again , breaking our hearts ) . On the other hand , this is what life is like , and that's one thing that I really liked about this movie ? it didn't sugar coat the material , but instead presented it in a more realistic way . However , I still think that there should have been more stuff with Sean Penn , and just more comedy overall . I wish most of if not all of the film had been more like the scene in the beginning where Jeff Spicoli ( Sean Penn ) and a couple of his buddies walked into the diner and took their shirts off , THAT was funny .
Cute .	I think Ratatouille is going to be most enjoyed by the kids and adults who are into cooking . I'm into cooking myself , but I mean SERIOUSLY into cooking , like people who are more interested in the kitchen of a fancy restaurant than in the food . The premise is pretty silly , a rat living in the sewers under the streets of Paris unwittingly discovers a talent for cooking that some of the most highly trained human chefs can't seem to attain , so he befriends a young boy , the garbage boy at the restaurant ( who might remind you of young Wart from Sword in the Stone ) and basically uses him as a puppet so he can get access to the kitchen . You see , other people working in the kitchen at fancy restaurants don't want a disease-infested rodent as a colleague , so there have to be some secrets . Needless to say , a lot of bizarre situations follow , as is to be expected when you have a rat controlling the head chef at a famous restaurant by hiding under his hat and pulling his hair . It's cute and heartwarming and entertaining , and what more do you really need ?
Not as good as the story it's based on .	I say that Veronica Guerin is not as good as the story that it is based on because it is based on an extremely powerful story of bravery and meaning that the real Veronica Guerin deserved a better movie than this . The movie walks a fine line in portraying Guerin as a reporter determined to expose the dangerous drug trafficking going on in 1990s Dublin or a headline chaser determined not to back down while so many people are reading about her exploits . I tend to favor the former , if only because I don't like to think of someone who was killed during a quest to get drugs off the streets as an egomaniac who desperately wants to be famous . That being said , the biggest problem with the movie is that it is so contrived . Guerin walks into a dilapidated building to get information for her stories about the drugs on the streets , and the first thing she finds are a lot of young teenagers who are so spun that they don't even think to take the needles out of their arms , get this , when they are done " renting " them . I should be careful because this may or may not have actually happened like that in reality , but it strikes me as a little bit odd that the first thing she finds are a lot of teens with heroin flowing freely through their veins who are more than willing to talk to her , as long as they don't have to smile . I am willing to admit that something like this may have been necessary simply for reasons of brevity so the movie isn't four hours long , but the effect is the same . The movie starts off with the murder of Veronica and then plays out as a flashback leading up to her death , and in that way it is an interesting film , but it never loses the quality of seeming to be heavily written and re-written , as everything happens so neatly , exactly when it needs to in order to further the plot . There is a great scene where Veronica goes to the very front door of a major drug dealer and demands to know about his involvement . This actually happens twice , one time she gets a cold shoulder and the other time she gets a cold , ugly word repeated loudly and a harsh punishment for her insolence . One of these scenes illustrates her courage and certainty that she is protected by her status as a reporter , the other scene illustrates the extent of her vulnerability , which she gradually comes to recognize and fear . But it is not her vulnerability that she fears , it is the very real possibility that she may not be able to continue her work if something happens to her . Again , it is up for debate whether she was chasing fame or determined to stop the drug trade , but I don't think she wanted to tackle the story in the first place because of fame or recognition as much as simply because no one else seemed to care or to dare . The reality of the drug infested neighborhoods seemed a bit over the top to me , but I've never been to Ireland so what could I know . Guerin goes from writing everyday news stories to writing solely about the drug problem in Ireland , getting closer and closer to their sources and each time one of them threatens or even attacks her , it only makes her work even harder to bring them down . I heard someone say that the setting was a character itself in this movie , but I think Guerin's bravery is more of a character than the setting . Whatever the case , the ending of the movie , which I understand is heavily dramatized for effect , is the part that really makes you understand how important her work was , regardless of her true motives . But the problem is that all of the meaning is monopolized by the last few minutes of the movie , imposing an odd lightness onto the rest of the film up to that point . This is , of course , what I mean when I say that the real story deserved a better movie , because as soon as we see the real effects of Guerin's work , dramatized or not , it is so powerful that it makes the rest of the movie look like a run-of-the-mill thriller . Nevertheless , it is much better than what I have come to expect from Jerry Bruckheimer .
Objects in Mirrors are closer than they appear . . .	Alexadre Aja , the man behind the intensely creepy 2003 film High Tension and the intensely crappy 2006 remake of The Hills Have Eyes has now brought us something in between . Kiefer Sutherland adds credibility to the otherwise unoriginal horror film Mirrors , about an exiled New York City cop who soon finds himself battling a mysterious force hidden behind every reflective surface that is endangering his sanity , his life , and the lives of his family . The movie opens with a terrified night watchman running for his life . From what , we don't know , until he begs forgiveness from a mirror for trying to escape . The mirror cracks angrily in response . There is a strange force in Mirrors that is able to torment members of the living , or members of the three dimensional , or members of whatever land the mirror-forces are unable to occupy . It is at least an hour and a half into the movie before we learn much of anything about the deadly force that is tormenting Ben Carson ( Kiefer Sutherland ) , and that's more than a little too long . Ben Carson has recently been put on mandatory leave from the New York police department after a tragic shooting , and his life is increasingly spiraling out of control . Not the least of his worries is the strange fact that the only job he is able to get is as a night watchman , a caretaker , if you will , of a department store that burned down five years earlier . I'm a little confused about that whole setup , by the way . The building is standing but is nothing more than a skeleton of its former self , and is clearly beyond repair . What is a nightly caretaker meant to do ? Upkeep is obviously unimportant . Are they worried about teenagers or homeless people wandering in ? Isn't that a job that , say , a good fence can do ? It's definitely the worst job ever , but it's a great setup for a horror movie . A guy under tremendous pressure is forced to take a job where he has to wander through an enormous , burned building every hour or so in the middle of the night . Personally I would walk off the job and quit as soon as the mirrors showed me on fire , but not Ben Carson . He didn't start browsing the classifieds even when he learned that his predecessor suffered a mysterious death involving mirrors . This guy has balls of solid rock ! Complicating the matters of Ben's unraveling professional life is the fact that his wife doesn't want him coming over to see his kids without calling first , he's an alcoholic , and his sister , who is providing him with a sofa to sleep on , is a bartender . This guy needed professional help before the mirrors started talking to him ! The scenes inside the derelict department store are actually pretty effective , but it becomes clear very early on that far too much stock is put into the scares of his nightly walk-throughs and not nearly enough put into developing a real story . There's a story , of course , it's just that the movie feels like a lot of Funland Haunted House tours intermixed with an occasional break to explain a few things , and then back to the haunted house . A good horror movie will either make you fear something that previously seemed harmless ( like the dark or hallways or dolls or children or the like ) , or instill in you the fear or interest that there might be something more going on right under our very noses . Mirrors attempts to do both - to make us fear not only mirrors but all reflective surfaces , which are all dangerous in the movie , and also to suggest that there is a whole other world going on behind those mirrors , that those pesky handprints that won't wipe off are really someone on the other side with their hand on the glass . I doubt that the movie will succeed in making many people afraid of mirrors , although it did have a fair amount of good scares and a genuine feeling of tension when it was supposed to . Naysayers will balk at the idea of paying real money to watch Jack Bauer scream at his reflection for two hours , but even though this is basically a strange combination of several previous movies and there's not much original going on , you could definitely do worse . It's a major improvement on the horror movies that we've seen released in the last ten years or so . I had started to lose faith completely in the entire genre . Mirrors is not going to save the horror genre from being sacrificed to the box office gods , but I'm happy every time I see a scary movie these days that doesn't star a lot of sorority girls in halter tops and idiot pretty boys . But for all of it's weaknesses , as a creepy horror film it's hard to say that Mirrors isn't successful . It might even be a pretty good date movie , although there are dozens better that you could watch at home . But the ending , I don't mind telling you , is better than everything else in the movie , and it's almost worth going to see it just for the last five minutes . Horror fans , if nothing else , will enjoy picking out the homages ?
Ginger snaps , Brigitte broods .	Ginger Snaps is kind of strange because it is , by definition , a teen horror movie , a genre which I have come to find is made up of almost exclusively awful movies . These are generally the stupid teen horror / sex comedies cranked out by Hollywood , but Ginger Snaps is able to escape that , with no help from the special effects department , by the way . The werewolf featured in the movie is an intricate piece of horror machinery , but it is immensely unconvincing . I have to admit that I had a hard time getting interested in the movie and often found myself checking how much time was left before it ended , but that is probably mostly because when I was watching it I still wanted to watch Bride of Chucky and Willard before going to bed . The very beginning of the movie starts with a great montage of some impressive shots of a typical Canadian suburb , I suppose . A quiet , picturesque community in which we can expect some not so quiet or picturesque things will soon happen . It's not long before a mutilated dog is discovered , and its owner , an understandably frantic woman whose son found a piece of the dog in his sandbox , runs out front and screams that it got her dog . Evidently there is some wild beast running loose , and it's not long before Brigitte and Ginger , the movie's two disturbed and disturbing sisters , have a run-in with it . We are introduced to a pair of sisters who live comfortably as outcasts in their school and neighborhood . Comfortably , of course , only because they each despise the majority of their classmates and other people , not because they enjoy their social status as outcasts . Ginger , played by Katharine Isabelle , may be more famous in America for her role in Freddy vs . Jason , and as horror fans surely you remember Emily Perkins , who plays Brigitte , from her role as Beverly Marsh in ' It . ' Anyway , Perkins does a great job as the outcast disgusted with people in general , although her constant look of antipathy on a face always half covered with hair tends to get a little old . It's hard to accept as a protagonist someone who is constantly sneering at the world . What I really liked about the movie was the way it tied in Ginger's transformation with the raging hormones that tend to impact the lives of teenagers at right about that time of life . Well , typically about three years earlier , but that's just another reason the girls reject close friendships with other people . Three years late with their menstruation and dressed in heavy , dark clothing complete with over-sized and untied Dr . Martens , knee-high black socks , dark plaid skirts and heavy black coats tends to be a combination that wins you no points with the cheerleader crowd . Thus it is more understandable why the two sisters have developed such a bond , which is unusually close even for twins ( which they are not ) . There is one point in the movie , after having been attacked , scratched and bitten , I think , by the neighborhood werewolf , Ginger starts to grow hair out of the huge claw-wounds on her shoulder , and in one scene finds herself talking to the school nurse , who explains to her about changes in her body , such as hair where there was no hair before . This is even further tied in with the girls ' disgust with their own emerging sexuality , as Ginger's period equated with the disease she was given by the werewolf , referred to as ' the curse . ' Given their attitudes about sexuality , it would seem that menstruation is being referred to , but in the context of the rest of the movie I would think that a disease that turns you into a hideous , hairless wolf would qualify for that title more than something as natural as menstruation . Screenwriter Karen Walton clearly writes from the perspective of someone who has been through the turmoil of female development , since a man could never have written something as accurate as this movie . On the other hand , I have no idea what it's like for teenage girls during puberty , so I don't have much way of knowing how accurate the portrayal really is , but I knew a lot of girls in high school and these girls look and act a lot like the girls I knew did . Except for the whole fangs and blood thing . Oh and the pictures of fake suicides . I never knew anyone who was into that stuff all that much . I remember when I was in high school I did have a femur pen exactly like the ones that Ginger and Brigitte both use in this movie . I used to use it to show people where I had broken mine when I was a kid . Snapped that ball at the top right off and it was no fun at all . I remember that my pen wrote in this weird purplish color and didn't write very well , as you can see briefly in one scene in the movie , but it was still a cool pen . Clearly , since the movie spawned two sequels , which both came out in quick succession , there must be something good about it . I was not that impressed with the lycanthrope at the end of the movie , but I loved how much it was kept off screen for more than the first hour , just like Spielberg kept that shark out of Jaws completely for a good portion of the film . I like to think that , like Spielberg , director John Fawcett knew that he had something mediocre in the effects department , if only because a living , breathing , bleeding werewolf is not the easiest thing to come up with on what must have been a less than extensive budget . It really is surprising that Ginger Snaps is able to deal almost exclusively with teens and their budding sexuality and not come off as another exploitive teen horror movie , but it succeeds because the movie is well written , directed , and performed by everyone involved . Also featured is a wonderful performance from Mimi Rogers , who , as the girls ' mother , clearly remembers what it was like to go through what Ginger is going through , but just as clearly has no idea how to handle their outbursts ( consider her reaction in the scene when Ginger screams at her to get out of the bathroom ) . I can't speak for the sequels yet , but this movie is worth a look .
Interestingly , Julie Ng presents herself as a giddy first time filmmaker while at the same time giving a remarkable look behind the scenes of one of 2003's most underrated films .	As a making-of documentary , I loved how much time was spent showing the actors and director actually on set rehearsing scenes , even practicing certain lines and actions in various ways to see which one looks the best . I hate when behind the scenes documentaries are nothing but interviews with the cast and crew with random shots of filming edited over them . I like to be able to see and hear what went on during the making of the movie , and Julie Ng succeeds in showing that aspect while at the same time avoiding dull moments . Ng does , however , commit the cardinal sin of editing interviews . She cuts away while someone is talking . Dialogue , interestingly enough , is very easy to edit , interviews are not , especially when you have a large number of them and want to edit them together . Jumping from one interview to another with nothing in between gives kind of a jarring sensation , and it makes the film seem muddled and disorganized . Look , for example , at Looking Back at The Hills Have Eyes , another good making-of documentary that does the same thing . Even worse , at more than one time , Crispin Glover , for example , is cut off in mid-sentence . He'll say something like ' what happened that day was ? ' and then Ng cuts to someone else . There is a way to edit together footage of multiple people talking about the same thing , and cutting people off in mid-sentence is not it . She does , however , manage to get some interesting footage for film fans , including one scene where R . Lee Ermey talks briefly about when he was working with Stanley Kubrick on Full Metal Jacket . She just edited some of it badly . There is a curious procession of tone throughout the film , from the fascination with the idea and excitement about the possibilities at the beginning to the eager participation during production , which gradually becomes frustration about certain difficulties and , ultimately , disappointment that the film did not receive the good public response that everyone involved believed it deserved . I also liked that it talked about how they were able to generate the most public interest in the movie because it starred the ' Eccentric Crispin Glover , ' probably because he was about 90 % of the reason that I wanted to see the film , and because he was something like their fifth or sixth choice for the role . I would also certainly encourage you to watch the music video Ben , which Crispin Glover directed to promote the film , and which I believe he sings himself . The music in the film is one of its best features , and Crispin Glover's music video , which at first seems a little goofy , it actually very well made and is even a good song . His audio commentary is pretty interesting , although he is talking so fast that it is sometimes hard to follow him , and it's odd that he could turn in such a good performance for the movie but it's so obvious here that he's reading his commentary from a prepared script . No matter . Despite it's technical post-production flaws , The Year of the Rat is a great making-of documentary and an excellent addition to the Willard DVD which is probably more impressive than the movie itself , which I have to say was pretty impressive .
Charlie the ineffective husband .	In one of the most effective and thorough characterizations in any of Chaplin's films up until that time , in Mabel's Married Life Charlie plays Mabel's husband , an feeble drunk incapable of deflecting the oafish advances of a huge man in the park , who hits on Charlie's wife right in front of him . Starting these films in the park was one of Chaplin's favorite things to do back in the earliest days of his career , but here he starts his film there and then takes us into the mind of one of the characters , rather than just having some on screen slapstick goofiness . Soon after the park incident , Charlie goes to a bar and is teased by the other patrons as he slowly gets drunk . His wife , meanwhile , is at home fashioning a blow-up doll to resemble the man in the park , thus providing a scenario from which her drunken husband can emerge her hero . There have been some criticisms that the scene involving the dummy wasn't fleshed out and made into the effective scene that it could have been , but I have to disagree . It is very stereotypical Chaplin comedy that comes out of the scene , but I can't think of any reason to expect anything different . What we do get is a brief but effective look at the desperation of a woman who is married to someone who wants to but is unable to protect her from undesirables , and her efforts to improve her husband's confidence . It doesn't seem to work too well , but I have a feeling that the film's original audiences were more than pleased . This film , by the way , is notable as being the first that Chaplin was allowed to write and direct on his own , and as compared to the rest of his films from this time , it is clear that he immediately began to prove his talent . Oh , and one more thing - you may notice that the film has French intertitles . I'm not sure why this is , but those of you lucky ( and smart ) enough to own a Mac , you can just type them into the translator on your Dashboard and have it translated into your language of choice . . .
A very short comedy in which Charlie Chaplin plays an uncharacteristic but still very recognizable role .	Mabel's Busy Day is a quick story of a vendor at a sporting event and the troubles that she encounters throughout her day . Chaplin actually plays the part of a more well-to-do individual , but he is still very recognizable , with the traditional look that Chaplin always seems to have . Also , he still manages to get into plenty of the high-paced and very amusing scuffles that are almost as much of a trademark in his films as that outfit . What really makes this film unique is that Charlie actually plays the part of the antagonist . When the server girl - the vendor who the film is about - gets picked on by hordes of people , Charlie comes to the rescue , but he ends up hitting on her and then getting turned down . Not only did he not get the girl , but he also ends up stealing all of her products ( which happen to be sausages ) and handing them out to all of the people who are nearby . This is totally uncharacteristic , but it does not take away from the quality of the comedy delivered by this short film . The fight sequences , although dated very badly because of sheer physical deterioration , were particularly entertaining and amusing .
Michael Meyers going through the motions again ?	Halloween IV was marketed as the ten year anniversary of Meyers ' first killing spree at least as much as it is marketed as the return of Michael Meyers to the Halloween series , or the Halloween series ' return to itself , you might say . Halloween III was not so bad , but a lot of people were understandably put off because it had nothing to do with its predecessors . In this installment , almost everyone is back except for Jamie Lee Curtis , who is replaced as an intended victim surprisingly well by Meyers ' niece , Jamie Lloyd , played by ten-year-old Danielle Harris . The movie starts off years after where part II left off ( except that Meyers and Dr . Loomis have been brought back to life , having clearly died at the end of part II ) , and Meyers is finally being transferred out of the guarded hospital where he has been kept catatonic all these years . All of the employees at the hospital are relieved to see him go , because he gives the all the creeps . The situation gives the feeling that Meyers is being kept like some kind of alien that they can't figure out how to kill . Some explanation for why he was ever kept alive in the first place would have been in order , I should think . During the transfer , as is to be expected , Meyers comes alive and kills everyone in the ambulance transferring him . Accident investigators on the scene later , immediately assume everyone is dead despite not being able to find all of the bodies , and illustrate their investigative competence by more than once referring to the ambulance as a bus . What follows is a Halloween installment that is sufficiently dark and gloomy , but that is really not much more than a series of death scenes . The electrocution scene , for example , is so obviously contrived that it could just as easily have been installed just about anywhere in any of the other Halloween films . The film concerns Laurie Strode's niece , Jamie , and Strode's foster sister Rachel , who is , of course , having boy trouble . Her troubles may be a little difficult to understand , however , because not only is the object of her affection amazingly goofy looking , but he is also a complete idiot and a total jerk . In only one example of his lack of cognitive function , he doesn't know who Michael Meyers is . That's like someone in Waco , Texas having no idea why their town is famous . The difficulty I had in mourning or caring about his death was matched only by the ease with which the fate of his relationship with Rachel could be predicted . One of the only people involved in the original Halloween and the first sequel is Donald Pleasance , who always performs wonderfully but here is given nothing more than a lot of lines where he talks about pure evil and he's not human and you don't know how to stop him and he's right here in this town you have to believe me , etc . etc . etc . Given that such an important part of the series agreed to come back , after Jamie Lee Curtis and John Carpenter declined to join , it would seem that they would put a little more effort into his part . In one scene , the movie threatens to go in a bad direction , when Loomis gets out of a police car and prepares to shoot down Michael Meyers , only to discover that he is surrounded by Meyerses . The horror at the thought of Michael having multiplied is clear on his face , but as he and the shocked officer with him prepare to fire , the kids pull off their masks and run off into the night , hooting and hollering about how funny they are and how great that was . These kids are so monumentally stupid that I wish at least one of them had been shot . Later in the film , after most of the police force has been killed off in their own police station by Michael Meyers , the local rednecks decide to take matters in their own hands . Meyers has been here before , killed too many kids , and now the police station is in ruins because of a single lurching man who doesn't even use guns ( at one point in this movie he is even holding a shotgun pointed at a girl , and he stabs her with it rather than shoot her , a classic Meyers move ) . I'd get my shotgun , too . Not that I have one . But if I did , I'd be a little more discriminating as to when I'd take a shot . In a scene soon thereafter , the men see some movement in the bushes and they all unload on it , killing one of their friends . Nice . I love their strategy - everyone get their shotguns , and let's all pile into Earl's pickup truck and blow the hell out of anything that moves ! Or Steve's truck , or Bill's , or whoever's it was . The best part was that when they got within shooting distance of Meyers , they all gave up and decided to leave it to the authorities . However , it should be noted that the tripe with which Halloween IV is filled is followed by a VERY impressive ending , which is the best ending that this movie could possibly have had and is also a tremendous homage to the original Halloween . It is very difficult for horror movies , especially when they are already getting up there in sequel numbers themselves , to have an ending that leaves the story open for yet another sequel . Most of the time a high-numbered sequel with an open ending makes me think something like Oh god , they're gonna do another one . Halloween IV , for all its flaws , not only doesn't do that , but it has such a good ending that it almost makes up for the rest of the garbage in the film . Were the rest of the movie as good as the ending , this would have been another classic .
An entertaining comedy that deals very elusively with the uncomfortable material that forms the foundation of its plot .	( spoilers ) Life is a perfect example of the type of film that attempts to force a smile onto unhappy material , because the movie is so eager to amuse the audience that it completely forgets the racism and hatred that led to the introduction of its conflict . By the end of the film , its true that we are happy to see Ray and Claude finally free and enjoying a baseball game , but the film would have you forget that they are decrepit old men in their 90s who have basically spent their entire lives in prison because of racism . Their entire lives have been taken away , but the movie wants us to forget about that and get a good laugh from their relentless bickering and things like Claude getting one of his toes stuck in the bottle . Luckily , Eddie Murphy and Martin Lawrence work so well together on screen that the comedy that we get from their interaction does , in fact , achieve this strange goal that the movie strives for the whole time . They are both undeniably funny guys , so the comedy in the film is unmistakable , but it's interesting to consider the magnitude with which the painful prejudices that the movie deals with are ignored in favor of what is , at many parts , little more than slapstick comedy . In the movie's defense , however , it is a good comedy once the ignorance of the racial element is removed , and even when that portion of the film's components is considered , it still manages to walk the fine line between comedy and drama , although just barely . The film manages to avoid the all too common mistake of having the main character ( s ) fall into masses of trouble by sheer stupidity ( which is , admittedly , more a problem in romantic comedies than in films like this ) . Ray and Claude are both not the most upstanding of citizens when we first meet them , but it seems that they are each on the verge of turning their lives around , to some extent at least , when they get framed for a murder . Instead of picking pockets , Ray gets robbed at a poker game , and Claude gets stuck with Ray on a bootlegging trip to avoid the wrath of some powerful gangster . The man who cheated at the poker game and took all of Ray's money and his father's watch is found dead ( by Ray and Claude , as it were ) , so while Ray is going through the dead man's pockets trying to find his watch , they are approached by a bunch of rednecks ( whose inbred appearances are rivaled only by the subhumans in the Gator Bait films ) , who decide that they are doing a good deed by bringing the two black guys downtown . Thus begins Ray's and Claude's REAL troubles , and they spend the rest of their lives trying to prove their innocence and get their lives back . The majority of the film takes place in prison , spanning decades of wrongful imprisonment for Ray and Claude and introducing several interesting and amusing characters just long enough to affect us as several of them disappear from the film in a sequence of elliptical editing that does not seem to fit with the rest of the movie . There are several escape attempts , many of which are there entirely for comic relief ( Ray would not have even been able to get into and fly a plane , much less survive that fiery crash ) , in which the film desperately tries to be an even more comic version of the vastly superior Cool Hand Luke . Unfortunately , Ray Gibson and Claude Banks COMBINED do not even come close to Paul Newman's remarkably memorable Luke Jackson . They don't match the character , the ingeniousness of the escape attempts , or the comic appeal , of which there was virtually none at many points . On the other hand , it's obvious that this is not a film that is to be taken to seriously . Walk into any video store in the world and you will find Life in the comedy section , because that is the type of film that it sets out to be , and that is what it becomes . In that sense , the film succeeds on many levels . Martin Lawrence and Edie Murphy work very well on the screen , the comedy is unmistakable , and we even get a satisfactory ending to such minor subplots as the theft of Ray's father's watch ( and , incidentally , his and Claude's wrongful imprisonment ) , but it all comes down to the film asking us to ignore too much material ( such as , for example , the ultimate fate of the nice white man who shot another white man to protect a couple of black convicts , as well as things like why there is a nice old lady living in a cute little house literally within pie-sniffing distance of the prison camp , and with no fences in between ) . It cannot be denied that the movie does address at several points the racism involved , but it still makes every effort to remain a comedy , and it succeeds at that , but the conflict between drama and comedy is not resolved , leaving us amused but ped off . This delicate balance between drama and comedy can be done successfully , one has only to watch a film like Life Is Beautiful to see it done nearly flawlessly , but that is because that film USED the comedy in order to enhance the drama involved . The comedy made Guido an immensely likable character , which made us root for him much more and made us ultimately more affected by his misfortunes . In the case of Life , no one seems to want to put in that much effort . We get a good comedy that is riddled with the horrible affects of racism , with the unfortunate result that we get lots of good laughs throughout the film , but feel guilty afterward when we consider the events that led to it .
Goofy but fun !	When I was a kid I was a pretty die-hard Van Damme fan , but somewhere along the years I kind of drifted away from watching his movies and , more and more , as I saw the increasingly goofy looking cover boxes of his movies in the video stores , I felt that he had descended from a b-movie action / martial arts icon into trashy , routine action movies hardly discernible from each other . And while a lot of his more recent movies are distantly below the quality of his more gritty , early fighting movies , they still have a unique charm and entertainment value that never seems to be lost , no matter how cheesy the movie is . A quick look through the user reviews on the IMDb for any of his movies , for example , will always reveal that Van Damme has plenty of loyal fans . The Order starts off with the impression that it is going to shoot for some much more meaningful content than his movies generally have , as we get a back story of a valiant that is struck by the hypocrisy of people killing other people in the name of religion , and so decides to set off and start his own religion . Unfortunately , a lot of the Crusaders weren't so happy about that , so some of the ones that he originally commanded attacked and killed him and his followers , and an important chapter of his religious writing was lost . Jump ahead to modern day Odessa , Ukraine , an important location in film history , and soon we realize that the status of that last chapter is more important simply as a cultural relic than for what it is about . Van Damme plays a smart-talking artifact thief , who makes big money stealing important artifacts and then smuggling them to foreign buyers . Soon it is revealed that his father has found that lost chapter , but then disappears , and Van Damme finds himself in the classic situation where his father has been kidnapped , but not only will the police not help him , they suspect him of the recent murder of a prominent professor , who was played by Charlton Heston , who's talent is conspicuously wasted in the movie . He's given nothing to do but spout meaningless lines and then get killed . Bizarre . At any rate , I love the Israeli police , who detain Van Damme under suspicion of murder , and they check him into a hotel while they complete their investigation . This must be the most generous police force in the world , I always thought murder suspects were kept in jail , at least as they awaited trial . Needless to say , he is in the hotel room for less than a minute before rappelling out the window the the unguarded front of the hotel , where he jumps into a taxi and heads off into the night . Nice ! There's a strangely interesting scene where he is chased through the streets of Jerusalem dressed as a rabbi and with the unquestioning help of the local people , who must really hate the police . I was struck by how the rabbi's costume seemed a little bit tarnished by this kind of chase , but maybe the filmmakers realized that , too , so they wanted to make sure to recognize the Hebrew culture that they were questionably representing . After one man gets punched by the hottie police officer , he sits up , dazed , and mutters , " Oy vey ! " Or even better , when Van Damme is finally captured and is again refused help in finding his father , he says , " Something is not kosher here . " I agree ! The rest of the movie gave me an unmistakable impression that it was more than a little bit inspired by Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade , since the father and son relationship in this movie is remarkably similar to the relationship between Indy and his father . But no matter . The content of the movie is unmistakably cheesy , and it's obvious that there is nothing original in it , but it also knows this and doesn't shoot for the stars . It knows what kind of movie it is and , in scenes like the rabbi chase , it gives the feeling that it's just here to have fun , so hopefully you will too . I did ?
George Lucas ' first film foreshadows , in many ways , the work that he would later do in the tremendously successful Star War films .	THX-1138 is the name of the character played by Robert Duvall who , in the film , lives in a futuristic world in which people are deprived of virtually every possible element of individuality , especially their emotions . They are created by the masses , for the masses , which , to me , means that they are created and controlled for the good of the " society " as a whole . THX-1138 is the person in this society ( played by Robert Duvall ) who senses that something is wrong , and begins talk of trying to escape . He feels that his relationship with the girl to whom he has been assigned as a mate is not normal , which gets him into all kinds of trouble with the guards . These guards , by the way , are one of the several things that can be seen to foreshadow Lucas ' work in Star Wars . The guards in THX-1138 are like very early models of the droids that predominate in the Star Wars films , despite the fact that for the most part , they have fairly normal human voices . Donald Pleasance plays the part of another nameless character , and he spends a lot of time talking about ways to unite together in order to escape . In one scene , several men are so preoccupied with talking about ways to escape that they don't seem to notice as one man tries to rape a woman ( THX's mate , as a matter of fact ) nearby . The actual escape attempt is composed of a series of confusing events that eventually lead to the film's unique ending . There is one scene that takes place in some sort of seemingly endless whiteness . George Lucas has proven that he has a tremendous visual imagination , which is confusing when we see this part of the film filled with so much nothing . We can only be left to assume by now that they just didn't have enough money to do some of the many things Lucas probably had in mind , something which he clearly does not have to worry about anymore . This strange scene is flawed , actually , in a couple of ways . First of all , although this may just be an example of Lucas ' quirkiness , the 180-degree-rule of filming is violated several times in this desert scene , giving the feeling that they change directions in between cuts . In one shot , the characters are walking to the right , then there's a cut to the other side of them and they seem to be walking back the way they just came . On the other hand , this could have been done with the purpose of implying the endlessness of this place . Luckily , they are approached by a black man who professes to know the way out of the place . This , however , is a flaw , because at one point this man claims to be a hologram , yet a few minutes earlier he had eaten some of their food . I think that one of the best parts of the entire film is the chase near the end , with THX in the racecar and the guards on the futuristic-looking motorcycles that would still be impressive today , in my opinion . The sheer speed of this part of the chase is particularly effective , and can also be seen in numerous places in the Star Wars films , including the great pod-racing scene of Episode One . ( spoilers ) As the chase nears the end , there are seemingly endless vertical tunnels are another thing that really resemble some things seen in the Star Wars films , and THX's triumphant escape is made fairly dramatic by the stunning sunset . Even though it seems that he has escaped to a world of nothingness , he has also escaped FROM a world of nothingness , and he has succeeded in achieving his goal . I think that the ending may have been a little too ambiguous , or sudden at least , but it succeeds in that it shows a nameless character escaping a world of oppression and achieving freedom .
Never thought I'd see originality in a slasher movie again !	Behind the Mask takes place in the parallel world where scary movies live , and a team of young filmmakers set out to make a real life documentary about a serial killer at work . Such is their dedication to capturing realism that they are willing to follow the killer around and allow the murders to happen so that they can capture it all on tape . The movie is a fascinating and clever analysis of how the mind of a horror movie slasher works . More than anything else , the movie is a brilliant horror comedy in which Leslie Vernon , the main character , leads our film-making team through the whole process of how he pulls off the vintage horror-movie murders . It's basically an exploration of how those horror movie scenes are constructed . How the doors slam shut at just the right moment , how the perfect weapons are always available to the killer while the victim can't seem to find anything to protect himself or herself , and how the killer manages to let all the other promiscuous teenagers in the vicinity know that there is a killer on the loose and yet still manage to pick them off one by one . It also explores the history of the slasher genre , because Vernon is , of course , an avid horror movie buff , and idolizes all the great masked murderers . At one point in the movie , he claims that having Michael Myers and Freddy and Jason come back from the dead was a " radical change in philosophy . Changed the whole business . " Nathan Baesel gives the perfect performance as Leslie Vernon . He's obviously disturbed and is also the product of a rape of his mother , but the most startling aspect of his character is how incredibly NORMAL he is . He laughs and jokes and talks to the film-making team as though they were making a documentary about his collection of rare toy cars than about his habit of brutally murdering large numbers of people . He's far too casual and easy-going to really be able to accept him as a serial killer ( he even drives a Prius ! ) , but that is the heart of the movie's charm . In the second half of the movie , however , the team decide that they were not as dedicated to their film as they thought they would be , and they decide that they can't just stand by and allow the killings to happen . In one of the movie's best scenes , Vernon stands there in full masked slasher get-up , mask and weapon and all , and scolds them like a babysitter scolding a naughty kid . It's hilarious the way he is so clearly offended by their behavior as he tells them that they have " that ' we can't just stand here and let this happen ' look on their faces " and says that now they have to leave . Unfortunately , this is where the clever horror movie analysis ends and it turns into a more conventional slasher movie . The acting falls off a cliff and the killings stop making sense . But worst of all , having lost all of her footage , the remaining member of the documentary team at the end of the movie makes the bizarre and senseless decision to burn Vernon's body , I guess to destroy any remaining evidence of her crazy story , just in case she later had to explain any of this . But other than that , it's a unique and fresh look at the horror genre and a fun exploration of its history and methods .
The Dude finally cleans up !	Simon Pegg plays the part of Sidney Young , a young entertainment writer who has begun the beginnings of a career writing for a grassroots magazine that specializes in badmouthing the shallowness and superficiality of the rich and famous . He is making a career out of lampooning celebrities , although he has a desperate wish to be a celebrity himself . The movie is based on the very bizarre career of Toby Young , who also ran a small magazine in Britain called the Modern Review , which offered scathing criticism of pretty much everything imaginable , until he closed the magazine in a hail of verbal bullets with his co-editor , and then went on to a spectacularly failed career as a writer for Vanity Fair , which is pretty much the part of his life told in this movie . He is at first thrilled to go work for a major publication ( called Sharp's Magazine in the movie ) , and despite active nerves he is positively beaming on his first day . He meets the chief editor , Clayton Harding ( played by Jeff Bridges ) , who is hard as nails but who is also exactly the kind of editor he needs to be for a goof-off like Young to keep his job at the magazine . He offers little in the form of immediate acceptance of Young , but he also has what can only be described as a liberal tolerance of Young's off-the-wall antics and inappropriate behavior . Much of the comedy in the movie is derived from Young's misunderstanding of or indifference to the generally accepted code of public behavior and the peculiar etiquette involved in dealing with the rich and famous . But Sidney's reasons for acting in such a weird way and for giving outwardly offensive interviews is because he believes that he loathes the entire celebrity culture and , it would seem , he believes in that age-old saying ? ' If you can't beat ' em , join ' em ? and THEN beat ' em . " Complicating matters are two very different women . There is a charming , regular girl at the magazine named Alison Olsen ( Kirsten Dunst ) who at first is appalled by Sidney's obvious arrogance and womanizing ways , and a stunning model named Sophie ( Megan Fox ) , who represents the celebrity culture . Needless to say , Sidney's endless attack of superficiality and stardom is a superficial lust for Sophie , the one with the look of a star . Sophie is stunningly beautiful , it's true , but also comes across as having not a single thought rattling around in her head . Alison is a regular girl , not very interesting or attractive , but Dunst's performance makes her a real person . A relationship with her would have all the reality of a Britney Spears marriage , and yet the movie retains some level of believability because , despite how obvious this is , we also feel Sidney's pain in not pursuing her ( I felt it , anyway ) . How To Lose Friends and Alienate People has a pretty interesting premise and is full of honest , satisfactory performances , and although it turns into a bit of your standard romantic comedy by the third act , it has a variety of well-developed and interesting characters . Danny Huston , for example , gives us a great performance as Alison's other love interest , who pays homage to The Big Lebowski ( also starring Bridges ) with his ever-present White Russian , one of my personal favorite drinks . Buying Absolute and Kahlua here in China costs the equivalent of about $350 , but my kitchen is never without them . I am looking forward to the day when Simon Pegg will branch out a little bit , because I love his films but I am completely unsure about his range . He played a serious character in Hot Fuzz , but only serious in relation to the lunacy surrounding him , and ultimately went back to being himself again , which he has pretty much been in Shaun of the Dead , Run , Fat Boy , Run , and now How To Lose Friends . He's a rising star , it will be interesting to see what else he can do .
Evidently new cars are BAD !	This is a clever short film that strikes me as something of a deleted scene from Monsters , Inc , into which this short film would have fit quite nicely , especially clocking in at a whopping three and a half minutes ! It's an interesting illustration of the dangers of upgrading to these high tech new cars available today , especially if you are just a regular guy like Mike . He buys this fancy new car with six wheels and can't contain himself at how cool it is , and then he and Sulley get beaten up by it because they have no idea how to use it . It's probably something similar to what would happen to me if I managed to get my hands on a brand new car . When cars are driving themselves I'll still be excited to have power steering . It's pretty funny to see Mike and Sulley struggle to figure out the new car , especially when Sulley gets all fascinated by the power seats , quickly annoying Mike , who seconds earlier couldn't wait to show him all the new gadgets in his fancy new car . I have come to expect more than this from Pixar , though , especially in their short films , which generally contain enough charm and amusement in just a few minutes to fill a full-length movie . This is a cute film , but it is not up to the level of other great films from them , like Geri's Game or For the Birds . Still a pretty cute film , though , and it's not like you can really complain about a three and a half minute short anyway , right ?
Actual quote - " Rescue the damsel in distress , kill the bad guy , save the world . "	This version of The Mummy ( one of the several titles within film lore that seems to have been made and remade for decades ) is pretty much exactly what you would expect from a modern adaptation of an old horror classic , especially given the types of films that are released these days . The action and special effects of the 1932 classic have been massively increased , and the new film turns more to shocking special effects , often cheesy comic relief , and sparkling scenery , away from the slow , creeping tension of the original . As a result , we get a fast moving feature that places a lot of emphasis on its special effects and it's good-looking stars . Thankfully , the movie knows when to laugh at itself , but it trips because it doesn't know when to stop . The film starts roughly 3000 years in the past , with the Egyptian priest Imhotep being put to a rather vicious death for getting a little too friendly with the Pharaoh's mistress . Naturally , he is mummified alive , sealed in a coffin with a lot of flesh-eating beetles ( the sounds of which make up some of the creepiest stuff in the whole movie ) , only to be accidentally resurrected by a lot of bounty hunters a few millennia later . This is where the cast comes in , Rick ( Brendan Fraser ) , Evelyn ( Rachel Weisz ) , and her brother Jonathan ( John Hannah ) . Rick is the hero of the movie , the guy who has been there and done it all and just wants to get his money and get out . He's kind of like a cross between the single-mindedness of Han Solo , the bad one-liners of James Bond , and the adventure experience of Indiana Jones , except that he comes across more as a muddy conglomeration of characters like those rather than an original character of his own . He goes through his part upset by the fact that other people seem to be constantly be holding him back from some faraway goal , the importance of which they can probably never be expected to understand . Evelyn is there mainly with scientific interest ( until she meets the hottie hero and romance is added to her To Do list ) and her brother Jonathan is there for pure financial gain , as is the movie's director and crew and production team . There is also a tagalong character named Beni who I can only satisfactorily describe as a greedy rat , someone you would expect to meet on the wet streets of New York in the 1940s or something . He is a constant double-crosser who never has anyone's but his own best interest in mind , and so naturally ends up working for the resurrected Imhotep . His weird eye-makeup and pathetically whiny little voice make him a perfect candidate for the throwaway antagonist , who Rick tries vainly to save in a climactic scene near the end of the film . The interesting thing about the plot comes up when you consider when exactly Imhotep became the bad guy . Really , all he did was fall in love with the wrong girl , and then when he was brought back to life , obviously he wanted to bring her back , too . One of the first things that I learned in film studies is that the audience should know as soon as possible whether they are meant to like or dislike a character , because first impressions are difficult to overcome . With that in mind then , when exactly was it that he went from the poor love-struck protagonist from the first act of the film to the monstrous antagonist during the rest of the movie ? My best theory is that first and foremost , he's killing people to bring himself and his love back to life . Granted , more killing would not justify the death of himself or of his loved one , Anck Su Namun , but considering the fact that all he did was fall in love and also considering the way that he was put to death , his reaction upon achieving life once more becomes a little more understandable . Second , what exactly does a resurrected protagonist look like ? I must admit that there is something a little too daunting about trying to come up with a likable mummy , but Imhotep is certainly a man who has seen more than his share of suffering . The special effects are hugely impressive despite the fact that they are obviously special effects ( the art of invisibility was not achieved very well here ) . When Imhotep is slowly regenerating , there are scenes showing his body and face that are impressive in their spectacle , but not impressive in not looking animated . As a whole , The Mummy is exactly what you might expect it to be , except that it was released amidst so much excitement and hype that it really should have taken itself more seriously and been more of a thinking film . It would have , under those circumstances , been immensely more respectable and might have joined its predecessor as a movie classic . It is a successful update of the Mummy theme ( which has become almost a genre in itself ) , but there is a lot of fluff in the film that simply doesn't belong .
Only dead meat waits for the stewpot ?	For me , Tom Cruise has two distinctly separate but equally encompassing personas ? the unstoppable , eternally cool flyboy that he became the year after this film was released , and the kooky scientologist nutcase that he has become . That being said , I find it difficult to fit a third personality onto his overflowing iconography , that of a sprightly , forest-dwelling manifestation of innocence that he plays in this movie , although there are times in the movie where he really inhabits his role . I will admit that the first half of the film bored me almost to tears , but it is impossible to deny the set design , the fairy world that was created on sound stages for the film . The atmosphere is simply astonishing , and although many of the costumes and situations are a little too cartoonish ( Tom Cruise , for example , punches Satan in the movie ) , the characters are all clever , there are amazing performances , and Ridley Scott takes one or two opportunities that he still knows how to make you cringe with creepy , slimy , long-fingered creatures . Tim Curry , as the Lord of Darkness , is absolutely phenomenal . This has to be one of the best performances I've ever seen from him . Also in the movie's defense , it is brilliantly written . It is full of powerful statements whose meaning goes far beyond the film as a whole ( " What is light without darkness ? What are you without me ? " ) . My understanding is that the movie was a box office disappointment , and I would just like to say that , despite this movie's popular failure ( and I do think that it is better than it's popular reputation ) , I am certainly glad that they decided to go ahead with the production and release of Labyrinth the following year !
It's not exactly aimed toward the thinking public , but Detroit Rock City delivers more than its share of laughs .	To put it in Eddie Furlong's own words , there won't be any Academy Awards here . But who cares ? This isn't the kind of movie that makes a person expect a brilliant script or spectacular acting , so they can get away with a little cheesiness . The scene early in the film when ' Jam ' ( Sam Huntington ) gets tangled up and winds up getting hit in the face with the phone is one of the funniest parts in the movie , despite the fact that it was totally unrealistic . I would normally have no sympathy for someone who didn't just bend their foot a little bit to get the spring off and thereby remove any danger , but I refuse to believe anyone who says that they didn't laugh when that thing pulled him back across the floor . Huntington stole every scene he was in , particularly that side-splitting scene with the phone , as well as a hilarious scene in the classroom when one of his classmates ( Beth ) tries to tell him that she has a crush on him . Guiseppe Andrews was also very good as Lex , the long-haired rock n ' roll fanatic , and James DeBello as Trip fulfilled the early ' Cure ' type role . Furlong , on the other hand , doesn't seem to be doing so great . Remember how huge he was after Terminator 2 ? Sure , 90 % of all of that hoopla was because the movie was so good , but you have to admit that Eddie delivered a quality performance in that film . Now , in Detroit Rock City , we have him playing a geeky high school kid in 1978 trying desperately to make his way into a KISS concert . I think that he did a god job in this role , but it's the type of role that is a drop in quality for him , at least from the tremendous Terminator 2 days . In Detroit Rock City , there's a scene where Eddie does a strip tease at a male strip club , trying to win money with which to buy tickets , and he reveals to the world that he has grown into the soft physique of a thirteen year old kid . And this is the guy that was on the cover of every teen magazine you could find only a few years ago . Natasha Lyonne appears in the small and fairly unenviable role of a dreaded disco girl , but she fills the role very nicely with her quality acting . She plays the part of one of the girls with whom all four of these high school rock n ' roll geeks eventually find romance , which is probably the only part of the story that the movie could really have done without . On the other hand , the entire film plays like every high school kid's fantasy . These guys receive no respect whatsoever at school , yet on this trip to see KISS , they all end up being heroes in the most outrageous ways . Normally I don't like stuff like this , but you just have to let that go in order to enjoy the movie , because if you do that , it's really funny and really entertaining . Another character that is worth mentioning is the notorious hall monitor who , judging from his appearance , probably should have been named " Wolverine " instead of " Elvis . " Detroit Rock City wasn't made to go down in film history . It was made to make people laugh and to entertain , and I think that it did that on many levels . I'm also glad that the actual band didn't overshadow the film , because if they had played extensive roles , it could really have taken away from the film as a whole . This is a unique adventure story , however unlikely , about four kids who just want to go see their favorite band and encounter every setback imaginable . Never mind trying to figure out who the target audience is , just enjoy Detroit Rock City for the goofy comedy that it is .
Painfully funny !	Bean's hilariously complex alarm clock ( which he still manages to shut off in his sleep ) and his changing clothes in the car on the way to the dentist are classic Bean moments ( they remind me of the scene in the Bean movie where he makes a cup of coffee in his mouth ) , especially when he brushes his teeth and rinses his mouth with the windshield wiper fluid . Hilarious ! The scene in the comic book store illustrates one of Bean's most enduring charms , that he is basically a child stuck in a man's body . He plays with a teddy bear , loves comic books , and is genuinely excited by the most childish things . Unlike a child , however , he proves himself remarkably adept with a dentist's drill in this episode ( after inadvertently rendering the dentist unconscious , since he just couldn't help fiddling with all those shiny tools ) . The drill sound was a little too realistic for me ! And there is also a clever scene where he tries to fix a kid's remote control boat and ends up setting the frequency so that he controls the boat and also a nearby wheelchair carrying a little old lady . The picnic scene with the pesky fly or wasp of whatever overdid the sound effects a little but still had its fun moments . This is not classic Bean , but still fun , as always .
Who's the tree trunk ?	By this point in Arnold's career he had long since surpassed the low-budget , bad action movie phase , although there are certainly some elements of that phase that he never quite left behind . Eraser is a polished , fast-paced action film that reminds me of some of the highlights of Michael Bay's or Jerry Bruckheimer's careers . Maybe Eraser isn't THAT big , but it's definitely that GOOD . It's a smart return to what Arnold does best , run around with a massive gun in each hand and blow stuff up . It's little more than a high-octane action film , but it's a smart one and it doesn't pretend to be anything else . Arnold plays John Kruger , a U . S . Marshal who works for the witness protection program in the capacity of erasing peoples ' pasts in order to give them a safe future . Here he is charged with the assignment of Lee Cullens , played remarkably well by Vanessa Williams , a government agent who has come forward with information about shockingly high-tech hand-held weapons being readied for sale to the Russian mafia . If you apply logic or reason to the film , as is to be expected , it falls apart completely . Arnold sustains pretty serious injuries throughout the film which later have no effect on his ability to wrestle alligators or hold Vanessa Williams with one hand , keeping her from falling , and there's really no reason to go into the logistics of a hand-held weapon that can launch any kind of projectiles at " just below the speed of light . " There are a lot of movies where these kind of logistical liberties cause a real problem for the movie , but I think Eraser stands well enough on it's own as pure popcorn fun . One of the things that was not left behind with the bad action movies , however , was the cheesy one-liners . They never worked for James Bond and they rarely worked for Arnold either ( I can think of a few that were good though , like " I let him go " ) , so I could have certainly done without " You're luggage , " or , even worse , " They caught a train . " But hey , a few x-ray super-weapon shooting scenes will help you forget about all that . . . .
Every vote counts , as long as you're the last one ?	I'm going to go ahead and assume that it's not an easy task to make a crowd-pleasing movie centered on politics that goes to such strenuous efforts to be non-partisan and maybe chalk up my dissatisfaction with the movie to that . Then again , it might also have something to do with a critical decision that they made in how to end the movie , which is sure to make every single solitary person who watches it throw up their arms in disgust . But the movie is not about who wins the presidency , it's about the pure chaos of the American political system and its millions of weaknesses and faults . Sure , the premise of a presidential election coming down to a single vote is as preposterous as they come , but man if this movie doesn't get you thinking critically about the electoral process then it's safe to assume that probably nothing ever will . Kevin Costner plays Bud , an American nobody from New Mexico who has never done anything with his life except have a daughter with a delusional drug addict who thinks she has a big singing career in her near future . He works as an egg inspector at an egg packaging plant , and he and his co-workers mourn the loss of their friends ' ( and soon , their own ) jobs to " insourcing , " the process of bringing Mexicans in to take their jobs rather than ship the factory and all those egg-laying chickens to Mexico . Bud staggers through life in a drunken daze most of the time , routinely letting down his daughter Molly ( Madeline Carroll ) , who raises him like a child . She gets him out of bed in the morning , criticizes his laziness and irresponsibility , reminds him to vote because it's part of a school project that she has to do , and through sighs of exasperation attempts to keep him at least a little bit in line . And of course it's the only thing in life that she fails at . When Bud gets drunk rather than show up to vote , she manages to almost cast his vote herself due to the sleepy voting booth security of beautiful Texico , New Mexico , which Google Earth has just informed me is a real place . Population 1 , 065 . In a clever plot development , it turns out that Bud's vote didn't go completely through but it appeared that he was there , so he is given another opportunity to cast his vote . Not right away , mind you , even though he evidently already tried to vote and thus probably had his mind made up . No , he is given ten days before he has to vote , thus providing plenty of time for a movie to happen . Young Madeline Carroll steals most of the scenes that she's in as Bud's daughter , so it's interesting that her character is one of the biggest weak points in the movie , the other one being her dad . Bud is supposed to be a typical American , but I just saw a drifting drunk who never did anything with his life and never would have had he not been forced to . It's true that the vast majority of Americans live lives that are closer to Bud's than President Boone's ( Kelsey Grammar ) , but does he have to be a TOTAL loser ? How about just making him be a likable , regular guy ? Like the guy he played in Field of Dreams ? When I imagine the average American , I imagine something like Ray Kinsella . Although maybe with a slightly smaller house and less whispering from the sky . The other problem is that the screenwriters overshot the character of Molly by about 160 IQ points . So much for the average American , right ? This girl writes a school essay that doesn't merit a special award from the principal to show her dad , it grants her NATIONAL TELEVISED RECOGNITION . But to be honest , I had more of a problem with the fact that not only does she wake her deadbeat dad up in the morning so he could take her to school , she also treks to the bar and , finding him passed out in his truck when he should have been voting , she pushes him over and then drives him home herself . She's about 11 years old . But where the movie succeeds is as a scathing revelation about certain realities of the American electoral process , such as the electoral college , which simplifies the vote-counting process even while massively distorting the actual numbers of who voted for who . The whole movie is about how one man's vote really does matter , but it leaves you with the feeling that you are supposed to forget that once he votes , every single vote in his state for the other candidate WON'T matter anymore , because they'll be switched to the other candidate . Isn't it interesting how that works ? Can't we just count every single vote and award each candidate one huge number of individual votes ? Seems a little more accurate to me . Anyway , I do appreciate the way the movie highlights the fact that both sides , Republican and Democrat , are equally willing to stoop to any level and do absolutely whatever it takes to win , and that no one is above hitting below the belt and making hugely unethical decisions . There is a lot that needs to be changed in American politics , and even while clearly being based on the Election of 2000 , one of the most controversial in American history , it calls those things to attention without ever even hinting that either side is right or wrong . The movie insists that America is the greatest country in the world but that in some ways , we're doing it all wrong , but the fact that a movie like this has the freedom to get made proves that even though we haven't reached a level of pure cohesive harmony , underneath all of our imperfections is a clear desire to get there .
Never trust a woman . . .	I have been known to succumb to the temptation to get all uppity and self-righteous when I see a movie based on a book that I happen to have read . I can't promise I won't recommend the book , but I'll try to stay off the high horse . Agatha Christie's story is brilliant , although in the book as well as the film it suffers from a tendency to deliberately lead the audience in the wrong direction to throw us off the path , but what saves it from being pretentious in that way is the situation that all of the characters find themselves in . Many of them display oddities of behavior or mentality that is easily excused by what is happening . If I suddenly found myself stuck on an island and accused of a murder ( or murders , of which I just happened to be guilty ) and everyone around me started being killed off one by one , I would probably start thinking that seaweed might make a great dress pattern , too . The pacing is completely different from the book , because the film can't really show any of the interior monologues that each of the characters had in the book after each of the murders , but it's good because the film moves along at a pace that doesn't allow you to really think about who could be responsible for the murders , all of the characters are dropping like flies , and as you are poring over the possibilities of who might have done it , someone else is killed . There is some tragic overacting in the movie ( particularly by the first victim , killed by poison ) . This is a character who was described as very energetic and full of life in the novel ( hence the shock that he fell dead so unexpectedly ) , but the actor who portrays him fills him with life to the point of being cartoonish . On the whole , however , the film is a taut suspense thriller and is remarkably faithful to the novel , sometimes even line for line . I love the way the movie shows the growing tension in the movie , the characters becoming more and more suspicious of each other . They start spying on each other and reacting to each other's presence with undisguised fear and suspicion . They also begin to dispense with the formalities after the murders . After the first murder they were concerned about fingerprints on the glass that the first victim drank poison out of , and by the time Rogers was killed they were frantically waving the axe around , knowing that it didn't matter because no one was coming to help solve the mystery . The movie is able to show that they all realize they're on their own , without ever having to have any of them come out and say it . I wish they had put in something about the mysterious history of the island itself and the house on it , who built it and why it changed hands so many times and the rumors that began to surround it , but the film works even without it . Sadly , the ending of the movie has been butchered beyond recognition . I'm shocked that Agatha Christie allowed it to be released as it is , because the ending is changed so drastically that it completely changes and diminishes the meaning and the shocking effect of the story . The movie is far superior to the shoddy 1983 adaptation of Ray Bradbury's Something Wicked This Way Comes , but like that film , this one is desperate for a remake .
The computer geek's dream . . .	More than a decade has passed since Hackers was released and movies about computers do not stand the test of time very well ( at least as far as the technology in the films is concerned ) , but I think Hackers has stood the test of time relatively well , more than likely because it has such great characters and it's just so much fun . The movie was cast pretty much entirely with unknowns , and even with their tiny budget they were able to make this into a clever roller-coaster of a nerdy thriller , fulfilling the fantasy of every hacker of being chased by and outsmarting the government . The cheesy romance between Dade ( Johnny Lee Miller ) and Kate ( Angelina Jolie ) works surprisingly well , and the performances are impressive throughout . There is a sense of union and camaraderie that is generated between the characters , which is impressive because they don't just throw something into the dialogue about how long they've been friends . Consider the scene where Ramon taps the phone to get the operator and secretly dial his friend - " It's in that place where I put that thing that time ! " Everyone involved very easily passes as genuine computer geeks , although the movie also commits that early sin of having images from the computers projected onto the faces of the users , so you can watch text and pictures crawling up their faces and they stare at the screens , a goofy invention similar to the tendency - which persists to this day - of having any kind of computer or stopwatch usage being accompanied by lots of clicks and beeps , I suppose to remind the audience that something is happening or about to happen . But the computer stuff in the movie is really beside the point , which is good because it's so outlandish . Like WarGames , Hackers will have you believe that any kid with an internet connection can hack into government mainframes and cause a global crisis , financial or otherwise . The story is about the characters , which is good because they are well-developed , in most cases , while much of the rest of the movie is not . There is a clever villain who is not so much a villain as much as another hacker who happens to have different objectives . He has some smart lines ( " Never fear , I is here . " ) , and the rivalry between him and the main characters provides for some great scenes . Besides being a curiosity piece about some well known actors at early points in their careers , Hackers is a smart technological thriller that takes wild creative liberties with the capabilities of a still - emerging technology , but makes it into quite a fun ride .
Good action , as well as one of the better stories in the Bond series .	What you have in You Only Live Twice is Sean Connery back as James Bond , and he is basically trying to prevent the outbreak of World War III , which later becomes a very common theme in Bond films . It seems that there is some sort of mysterious space craft in the Earth's atmosphere that swallows up orbiting , manned spacecraft , instigating accusations on the planet below . At first , the USA got a ship swallowed , and accused the Russians , informing them that another ship would be put into orbit within a month and if anything happened , it would be considered an act of war . The situation is complicated when the Russians also send a ship into orbit that gets swallowed . Obviously , Britain disagrees from the beginning that the Russians were involved , given the object's landing point ( the Sea of Japan area ) , and they send one of their agents ( Bond , of course ) to the vicinity to investigate . In this installment , Bond actually gets an edge on the enemy because they think he's dead . In the beginning of the film , he is shot in bed in a scheme to fake his own death , hence the title of the movie . While You Only Live Twice has one of the more interesting stories of the Bond films , it also has some of the most outlandish situations . Some mad scientist seems to have built himself a secret lair in a volcano , from which he launches this mysterious object into space , with the objective of causing a war between the United States and Russia . It's the old ' take over the world ' theme , and it really doesn't work very well here . Obviously , Blofeld , the madman villain bent on world domination , was the subject of the majority of Dr . Evil's look from the Austin Powers films . The outfit , the scar down the side of the face , and of course , the ever-present cat , which Blofeld strokes constantly in true Dr . Claw form . Donald Pleasance , who is entirely unrecognizable as Michael Meyers ' psychologist in John Carpenter's horror classic Halloween , makes a very good villain in this installment , even if his motives are clichéd and questionably sought . Also notice the irony that Pleasance was a main character in that movie , in which he struggled to kill the murderous Michael Meyers , and then 30 years later , his look in You Only Live Twice is copied by a hilarious comedian named Mike Myers , in a film that begins in the same year this film was made ! While a great many of the situations of this film are highly unlikely ? particularly those that deal with Blofeld's lair as well as his seemingly infinite power ? You Only Live Twice is still one of the more interesting Bond films and , of course , it does star Sean Connery , who is by far the best Bond . On a trivial note , this is one of the few Bond films in which he never introduces himself in his infamous way ( ' Bond . James Bond . ' ) . We get virtually the exact same ending as we saw in the excellent Dr . No , which suggests a need for some innovative scriptwriting , but the film still entertains , despite it many excesses . Not nearly among the best , but this is still signature Bond material .
Not much for unexpectedness , but entertaining enough ?	I live in the middle of China so I don't get to see shows like this very often except when I'm back in the states visiting family , like now , but I've had a soft spot for these amazing videos shows ever since I first noticed how captivating live coverage of police chases in my native Los Angeles was , and then discovered COPS . I haven't seen more than maybe a dozen episodes of this show , but I've seen enough to know that the videos are often groan-inducing or genuinely frightening and are almost always ruined by the goofy narration . Like John Walsh's goofball , wildly over-dramatic narration of America's Most Wanted , the videos , even the really amazing ones , are almost always accompanied by laughable descriptions , which leave me with the feeling that if you took away phrases like bone crunching , or battered bodies , or narrowly escaped , or lucky to be alive , or watery grave , well , they just wouldn't have anything at all to say and wouldn't that just make for a completely different show . But either way , you can hardly do better for a lazy Sunday afternoon . If the show seems repetitive , you watch it too much . Otherwise , enjoy !
Even the great Tom Hanks can't make Cast Away live up to its expectations .	Yes , Cast Away is a good movie , but it is not nearly as good as it was expected to be , especially with such big names as Tom Hanks , Helen Hunt , and Robert Zemeckis , director of excellent films like Romancing the Stone , Forrest Gump , and the great Back to the Future trilogy . However , the problem doesn't have anything to do with the director or any of the actors . As far as I'm concerned , they all delivered great performances . The general bad aftertaste that the movie leaves comes more as a result of the pathetically weak story that is thinly disguised by the big budget and the big names associated with the film . Think about it , a hard working and fairly successful man goes on a business trip , leaves his beloved soon-to-be wife behind , the plane crashes , he gets stranded on a desert island . But who cares ? The only way that we are able to develop any feeling for the character is that he's Tom Hanks . Cast Away is little more than an updated ( and much improved , I'll have to admit ) re-telling of the old desert island story . You have the obvious comparison to Gilligan's Island , but there are countless other places where this general premise can be found . In 1987 , Christopher Walken starred in a film called The Dead Zone in which he plays a man who falls into a coma for several years after a car accident , and when he regains consciousness , he finds himself in exactly ( emphasis on exactly ) the same situation that Tom Hanks was in at the end of Cast Away . There's even a short story by Stephen King ( who also wrote The Dead Zone ) called ' Survivor Type , ' and you can guess what that's about . Except that in ' Survivor Type , ' the guy trapped on the island gets so desperate that he amputates his own foot ( he had fractured his ankle trying to catch a seagull for food ) and eats it , but needless to say , a Hollywood film would never get as graphic as that . ( possible spoilers ahead ) The timeline of Cast Away was also a little too blocky . The film up to the point where Chuck Noland became stranded was very smooth , and then we get a good look at his realization of what has happened to him and what he does to adapt to life on the island , but then the film jumps four years into the future ! I don't expect every one of Chuck's exploits to be shown onscreen , because then the movie would be four years long , but I think it was too early in the film to jump ahead that far . The rescue was probably the worst part of the film - they might have done better to just start the end credits when Chuck raises his hand to the passing ship , because to skip the entire rescue sequence and jump straight to Chuck ' re-entry into civilized life is disorienting and disappointing . There's really not much left to be done in the desert island area , but despite Cast Away's effort to resurrect the theme , there is a lot to be said in defense of the film . For example , there was clearly a lot of thought put into the content of the film , almost making up for the lacking story . Noland's relationship with ' Wilson ' was a crude but interesting and often amusing statement about the human need to interact , although their eventual separation was not very believable . Why didn't Chuck go get Wilson and then swim back to the raft ? Did he really need to bring the raft with him ? Maybe the audience was left to assume that an unseen ocean current rendered that obvious solution impossible , but I failed to see the conflict in that particular scene . Another thing that was very successful in the film was the portrayal of Noland's predicament . Sure , it's funny at some points , but that's because it's Tom Hanks and he's just a funny guy , but that also fits perfectly with the film . Here's this guy from the big city who , judging from his substantial gut , has little experience in the outside world . Suddenly he's stuck on an island in the middle of the endless ocean , and he has no idea what to do . Nevertheless , the instinct of self-preservation kicks in and Noland finds tools for survival left and right , which was one of the things that made the film so interesting . Maybe this will teach that foolish Chuck Noland never to say , ' I'll be right back . ' Didn't he ever see Scream ? Hanks ' total physical transformation was absolutely astounding , and it magnified the effectiveness of the film at the same time as it demonstrated his dedication to the cinematic medium ( you don't think he agreed to go to all that trouble because he needed money or publicity , do you ? ) . While it is far from Hanks ' best film ( or Helen Hunt's , or Robert Zemeckis ' ) , Cast Away was just about as good as it could have been , given it's tired premise and it's occasionally jerky presentation .
A much needed update that still needs updating . . .	It is strange that a made-for-TV-remake ( and yes , this is definitely a remake ) of the Best Picture winner from 1930 should be so easily as good , and probably better , than the original . This is a special situation because most of what needed improvement in the original was not things that required special effects or much movie magic ( the battle scenes , for example , are outstanding in both films ) , but the realism of it all , specifically things like life on the battlefield , realistic dialogue , and clumsy thematic delivery . FIrst of all , the movie starts right out on the battlefield and is pretty impressive right away . Donald Pleasance is wonderful as the German propaganda teacher buttering the young men up for enlistment , and very soon you'll notice that a lot of the scenes are taken directly out of the original except , as I mentioned , now the realism is updated , which is extremely important . All Quiet on the Western Front , love it or hate it , is one of the most famous anti-war films / books of all time , and because of that , most of the more memorable scenes in the film are meant to deliver this message , but some work and some don't work so well . There is a scene , for example , where the new recruits line up in front of the train and see the wounded being brought back before their very eyes . It's a moving scene , to be sure , but I imagine removing the badly wounded soldiers right in front of the new soldiers heading to the front lines would have been considered bad taste even during World War I . Especially in propaganda-heavy Germany . Speaking of which , the fact that the movie is told from the German perspective is a bit of a difficult area for the film , since it stars almost entirely American and British actors , and we only know they're German , other than from a background knowledge of the story , because it's mentioned a few times through dialogue . The point of the story is to illustrate the difference between gloriously fighting for your country and the reality of trench-warfare . As soon as the new recruits arrive at the front , Ernest Borgnine , in an exceptional performance as Kat , the most experienced private on the front lines , quickly lets them know that even after all of their training , they don't know a single thing about war ( " In training camp they fill you full of fancy information on how to be a soldier . We're going to work hard to forget all that . " ) . While most of the more clunky scenes are smoothed out in this remake , some of them are still pretty obvious . I was happy to see that the scene where Paul Baumer , one of the main characters , kills a Frenchman in hand-to-hand combat and then bitterly remorses the act afterwards is changed , but it's not changed much . He mortally injures the man and is then stuck in a hole with him until morning , when he finally dies . He does give a bit of a ham-handed speech , but at least it's more realistic than the original . More importantly , this time it takes the focus away from the pointlessness of war deaths and turns it to the politicians , who come across as warmongers ( " We could be brothers . But they never want us to know that . They never want us to know . . . " ) . Makes you shudder to think of them generating hatred among young men like puppet-masters so they can send them over to further their agendas . The end of the film faithfully re-creates the end of the original , with Baumer taking a trip home due to an injury , only to be confronted with the reality that his country is completely removed from what is really happening on the western front . It's strange though , that when he embarks on his 16 days of convalescent leave , he does so in full battle gear - helmet , grenades , rifle and everything . Seems like that might be a little unnerving to the public . Nevertheless , the movie certainly gets its point across , but it still leaves me with the feeling that it can still be so much more . It is a very effective piece of anti-war cinema , but even with all of the improvements since the 1930 version , it is still not authentic .
Classic comedy , but not for all tastes .	The Three Amigos is one of those movies that can be hugely entertaining and amusing but only if you keep in mind that it is not a serious film . Chevy Chase , Martin Short , and Steve Martin , some of the funniest men ever to work in comedy , all team up here as The Three Amigos , a group of out of work actors in early Hollywood cinema . The unfortunate thing is that this is not a movie that is greater than the sum of its parts , since I would expect more from actors with the caliber of Martin , Chase , and Short , even working individually , but even the fact that they are all not used to their full potential is not enough to bring down the rest of the comedy here . The story involves the three out of work silent film actors , who suddenly find themselves unemployed and broke when they receive a telegram from a small village in Mexico desperately asking their assistance . I liked how clever the ploy was where the woman who sent the message was so poor that she could not afford enough words to make her desires clear , so the Amigos read the message and think that they are about to be paid a fortune just to make an appearance in this village . Naturally they jump at the chance since they have nothing better to do . Most of the rest of the film deals with their adventures in this village , which they are supposed to be protecting from an evil villain but do not realize that this is real life until one of them gets shot . You would think that they would have caught on sooner , but on the other hand , they DID happen to stumble into the only tiny village in Mexico where no one speaks Spanish , so it's not hard to understand why they thought the whole thing was a set up . If I went to Mexico and was walking around a dusty village with nothing but endless desert on every side and every single person was speaking only English , I would also wonder what movie set I had just wandered onto . There is some interesting biblical content , which is made interesting really only because of the great satire . As the Amigos are walking through the valley in the shadow of death , they come upon not the talking bush or the burning bush , but the SINGING bush , and can't seem to get it to stop singing long enough to answer their question . ' Will you please stop singing and tell us if you are the singing bush ! ' There's a hilarious sequence right after this about the invisible horseman , and just before was one of my favorite moments in the entire film , when Chase attempts to get off his horse but only succeeds in getting onto the horse next to him facing backwards and seems to be unsure about what just happened . A lot of this movie is made up of funny skits which are strung along a thin and less than convincing clothesline of a plot , but even though the plot itself is not very believable the movie is still very entertaining . There are a lot of scenes that seem to go too far or just don't really seem to fit with the rest of the film ( such as the campfire scene where all the animals join in to the campfire singing ) , but for the most part the comedy is very good and there are a lot of memorable scenes ( the canteen scene in the desert for example , is one to remember ! ) . Not a film that was meant to win any Oscars , but there is definitely some great comic entertainment to be had with The Three Amigos .
One of America's most notorious serial killers used to be just the guy next door . Who knew of the horrors that were hidden within his crawl space ?	Hey , how about all those neighbors that were always wondering what that awful smell was that was coming from under his house ? Gacy as the unenviable distinction of being one of the few serial killers to rival the depravity of fellow psychopath Ed Gein , whose antisocial antics led to the inspiration of The Texas Chainsaw Massacre , The Silence of the Lambs , and Psycho . Gacy was less into wearing other people's skin as he was into strangling and sodomizing young men , providing plenty of material for a sick biography like this , which of course lots of sick people like me will go out and rent . Why we all get such a kick out watching things like this ( by " we all , " of course , I am referring to all of us sick people who get such a kick out of watching things like this ) I am not sure I rightly know , but I think Gacy is a well made film , given its subject matter and it's limited production capabilities . Sure , there are numerous holes , none of the acting is very impressive other than Mark Holton's ( who played Gacy himself ) , and the movie commits that cardinal sin of the movies , it throws logic out the window . The whole premise of the movie , as was the case in Gacy's life , is that John Wayne Gacy was a regular guy next door that no one would ever have suspected , but in the movie the quickness with which everyone dismisses the smell of rotting meat coming from under his house is a little trying . I don't know enough about the details of Gacy's life to know is people actually did smell decay from under his house and ignore , but I can't help but think that even if that did happen , it was dramatized for effect , as they say , in the movie . The thing that is most disturbing about a movie like this is that if someone had written a screenplay like this that was entirely fictional , they would probably have gotten a similar response that Wes Craven got when Last House on the Left was released . People didn't want him to be allowed to work in film again , and yet when it is based on true events people have this morbid fascination with it . Not that that's anything new , it just seems odd to me that people are more offended by fictional violence than true violence . I like that the movie has a lot of restraint when it comes to showing the things that Gacy actually did to his victims . We are not entirely spared a look at how he killed some of his victims ( this would have offended some of Gacy's fans , if you can believe that such a man has them ) , but the movie leaves most of the more heinous acts offscreen , concentrating more on things like thousands of crawling maggots and the inevitable smell emitted from the rotting corpses under his house . Most estimate that Gacy killed something like 30 young men , others say we may never know how many he killed . Holton does a great job with the script , which is not the best , and is especially good at making us believe that Gacy was able to be charming despite how frightening he could be when he was visiting the other half of his personality . It is indeed unsettling to think that a man who dressed up like a clown to entertain sick kids at a hospital could be killing large numbers of young men and doing things much more horrible than sodomy to them , but if you want to get a few insights into how and why he did it , this film is not a bad place to start . Note : I've read that , while this movie concentrates on the story from Gacy's point of view , there is also a television movie called To Catch A Killer that focuses more on the police investigation side of the story .
Chaplin experimenting .	Sunnyside reminds me of some of the early films in Alfred Hitchcock's career , like Rich & Strange or The Skin Game , which are curiosity pieces both because they come from such massive directors and are still so empty and disappointing . Like some of Hitch's early films , Sunnyside for Charlie Chaplin represents to me a point in his early career when he was testing the waters and still trying to find out what he is really best at doing . Some people were disappointed that Chaplin forced the Tramp into the unlikely role of a farmhand , forgetting that the very nature of the Tramp is that he is such an everyman that he can be placed in virtually every different kind of situation , from brick-layer to World War I soldier , and Chaplin can use his particular brand of comedy to deliver his clever political themes and brilliant slapstick . Some of the situations and sequences don't work so well or run as smoothly as many of Chaplin's more famous ones , and there is a bizarre sequence involving some dancing nymphs , but it is interesting to consider how this early , experimental film foreshadows the work that Chaplin did later in much more famous and highly superior films like City Lights and The Kid . Throughout the film are what may be taken as examples of the exasperation that Chaplin has admitted to having during the production of the film , but to call is a total loss is missing the mark completely . Certainly not the best of Chaplin's early short films , but I don't think Chaplin ever made a real failure .
Was this the video game or the movie ?	So Jason Statham is by now one of the biggest action stars in the world . He reminds me of a young Bruce Willis , although he's had his share of hits and misses . Death Race is what I would call a critical disaster , because it has nothing but action and carnage . This thing is thin on everything - plot , story , acting , characters , etc . But what else would you expect from a movie with a title like Death Race ? It's fast , loud , vulgar , and violent , and as far as I'm concerned that's all that it promises . Works for me . It seems that in the distant future , the American economy is in shambles , inflation is through the roof , and things have gotten so bad with prison over-crowding that , now that they're run for profit by private corporations , they have resorted to allowing inmates to kill each other off in webcasted death races . And by " distant future , " of course , I mean that the movie takes place in far-off 2012 . If nothing else , Death Race certainly has little faith in whoever will turn out to be our next president . My problem with the movie is that it leaves you with the feeling that a better movie is taking place outside the prison . The movie is essentially an advertisement for the inevitable video game , so I'm willing to accept the ludicrous premise about giving our most hardcore future - criminals heavily armed , high-powered vehicles , but I'm more interested in seeing what's going on in America where the United States military has decided that the best use for their mounted machine guns , laser-guided , armor-piercing RPGs , rocket launchers , and nothing less than napalm , would be to put them in the hands of prison inmates so they can kill each other off for the purpose of online entertainment . But therein you have your message to America about the American economy and our place in the world . Our economy has crashed , so clearly we're no longer the world's # 1 superpower . The races are sold to the public for a whopping $250 per race ( which , given our economic situation , must be a mostly foreign audience ) , and since they regularly pull in tens of millions of viewers , evidently America has been reduced in the world to a source of violent entertainment . Then again , I'm probably reading far too deeply into the material than was intended . They do , after all , bus in teams of stunningly hot female co-pilots for no decipherable reason . I'm not sure which is a more dangerous thing to bring in to a prison , rocket launchers and napalm or hot women . But of course what really matters is the cars and the carnage and there's plenty of both . Many of the modifications make no sense , like the 6-inch steel armor plate on the back of Statham's Mustang , which must weigh double what the car weighs , but for full-throttle violence and mayhem you can hardly do better than this . But if there is one thing that I'll have a hard time forgiving the movie for , it's the way the weapons are activated . Joan Allen made a surprising career decision in taking a major role in this movie , which leaves her little to do except be a cold , heartless wench and call for manhole-sized buttons on the track to be turned on and off . Sort of like the little prizes and things that you have to run over on the track in order to get enhanced weapons . The similarity to old Nintendo games is a little too much for comfort . Also , remember how if you hit one of those little oil patches your car would go spinning wildly into the wall ? That happens here , too . Ultimately the movie raises an interesting moral debate , whether or not it's worth it to give violent criminals a chance to win their freedom if they manage to bring some money into the ailing economy and kill off a few of their fellow hardened criminals in the process . The movie is basically The Fast and the Furious without all the shiny prettiness of it . The cars are not high-powered speed-racers , they are assault weapons with wheels and untold horsepower , and aesthetic appeal is unimportant compared to sheer power of destruction . I was a little disappointed to see that the movie didn't have the narrative drive of something like Crank or The Transporter , it's a watered down version of Statham's past movies . He's got a tremendous screen presence , showcased best in Snatch , I think , but all he's given to do here is look angry behind the wheel and periodically kick the crap out of some skinheads . You may rediscover that you enjoy seeing white supremacists get their asses kicked , and if you are interested in deadly car racing you may enjoy this one . But given that most half-baked action flicks of this variety tend to spawn endless sequels ( 4 Fast 4 Furious is on its way , for example ) , I just hope that Death Race 2 : Full Throttle takes place on the mainland .
Arnold and James's Lethal Weapon / Tango & Cash / Tough Guys / Rush Hour , etc .	Or one of those odd couple cop movies , anyway . I remember seeing Red Heat when I was a kid and I didn't really like it , but I think I was just too young to appreciate a movie where Arnold plays anything other than the Terminator or Douglas Quaid . In Red Heat , he stars alongside James Belushi , who is so small , iconographically , in a movie with Arnold that you almost forget he's in it at all . Arnold plays the part of Russian supercop Ivan Danko , a role that he fits perfectly because of his size , his looks , and his accent . Audiences in Russia may notice that his accent is not quite Russian , but it fits well enough for his purposes . Where Belushi is concerned , the movie is more comedy than action , since every single scene he appears in is tailored to allow for some pert one-liners . He's not quite the comedian his brother was , but I challenge anyone not to get a laugh out of the scene where he flirts with a woman passing by in the airport while he's waiting for Captain Danko to arrive from Russia ( ' Good thinkin ' ! ' ) . The plot is centered on Danko's assignment to travel to America and bring back Viktor Rosta , who is wanted in Russia for a whole string of offenses , and the catch is that he's supposed to do it without letting anyone know why the guy is wanted . He explains to Sgt . Ridzik ( Belushi ) later in the film , saying something about how Russia does not like to hang it's dirty laundry out in public . There are some interesting comparisons between Soviet and American governments , particularly communism there vs . capitalism here . My favorite was when Danko checks into a hotel and turns on the TV and when he sees that the first thing he gets is the porn channel , he shakes his head and says , ' Capitalism . ' Not all of the comparisons are this low-brow , however . I actually think that some of the best parts about the movie are where America and Russia and seriously compared . The odd cop couple was not a new concept when Red Heat was released , but it has a simple story that is fleshed out into a superior action film and features one of Arnold's better performances . I guess he can never get away from the stolidity with which he delivers his lines , but in this case it fits his character perfectly and provides a new blend of comic relief , although one that was almost re-created , and improved , a few years later in the Terminator movies . I hope that Danko and Ridzik are not meant to represent Russia and America , respectively , because if so , we look like a bunch of belligerent , foul-mouthed goofballs , hitting on every woman in sight . More likely , the two characters are probably made so different to set up so many situations in which their differences make people laugh . That's important in a movie like this , which is just as much a comedy as an action film , if not more . And given that there is a chicken-fight near the end of the film that is fought using tour buses , that's saying a lot .
The fourth installment in the now huge Lethal Weapon series has no shortage of action , but it just doesn't have the high quality of the last three .	By this point in the series , it seems that they just aren't trying as hard with these films , which is kind of a shame . The Lethal Weapon series is really a good group of action films , but part 4 doesn't really seem to take itself seriously . It clearly had the biggest budget and probably some of the most elaborate stunts and action scenes ( as well as some of the most exciting , such as that thrilling freeway chase scene ) , but many of the other elements of the film have deteriorated badly . I think that with the addition of Chris Rock , while he delivered a satisfactory performance as far as the role that he was playing , caused the film to detract into too much goofy comedy , which unnecessarily diverted attention away from the surprisingly interesting smuggling plot involving illegal Chinese immigrants and counterfeit money . Joe Pesci was just as funny as ever , which is probably the reason the Chris Rock actually took away from the film as a whole . Pesci is all the comic relief that a Lethal Weapon movie ever needed , and Rock is another substantial addition of comic relief that just isn't necessary . Danny Glover and Mel Gibson work great together for the fourth time ; I'm beginning to wonder if they couldn't go on with this great duo forever . And of course , Renee Russo is back , with her and Riggs picking up with their quirky relationship , right where they left off at the end of part 3 . But the person who really steals the whole show is Jet Li . Man , I thought Jackie Chan was fun to watch ! Even though it's not all exactly real , this guy pulls out some unbelievable martial arts moves that give Lethal Weapon 4 a much-needed boost of energy . I wonder how long it will be before Jet Li and Jackie Chan come out with a movie together . Probably never , because if they worked together , no one could touch them , and if they were enemies , neither of them would be able to end up as the loser or the bad guy . Oh well , we can still hope , right ? Even though the 4th installment in the Lethal Weapon series is not nearly as good as any of the previous three , it still remains a quality action film , despite its many weaknesses .
The Tramp rough-housing with style .	In The Rival Mashers , Chaplin is in full Tramp form and with plenty of kicking and punching and yanking people around with his cane , although I have to say that there are at least a few things that make this film stand out among the huge number that he was churning out for Keystone in 1914 . First of all , it contains what has to be Charlie's most stylish cigarette lighting ever , it's classic . He oozes hilarious confidence , he's almost like a mobster . Also , it is one of the few films where a woman passes by him and stops to check him out , rather than the other way around . I also found it interesting that Chester Conklin seems to be trying to copy Charlie's outfit . He appears in pants which are wildly too big for him and hang limply off his hips , an outrageously tiny shirt and tie and an ill-fitting jacket , a little too similar to Chaplin's classic outfit not to notice . It should be noted , however , that Conklin ultimately performed in nearly 300 films , almost four times as many as Chaplin , but there is clearly no question about who was the more talented filmmaker and / or actor . At any rate , The Rival Mashers , also known as Those Love Pangs ( this was still back when all of Chaplin's films had a whole list of different names , mostly due to callous re-editing and re-releasing ) , is one of his lesser man-woman-cop-in-the-park comedies , as very little happens other than a few mildly amusing gags and a few appearances of what would become Chaplin's unmistakable style . Expectations were much lower back then for these films ( as they should remain today when watching them ) , but Chaplin had done much better before .
Away from home alone . . .	This is not at all the kind of movie that I would normally watch . There are children's movies and then there are family movies , and the good family movies are the ones that can really be enjoyed by people of all ages . This movie does not at all strike me as a movie that could be enjoyed by people of all ages , mostly because of that picture on the movie box . Ever since King Kong Lives I have developed an almost frightening aversion to any movie that features grinning gorillas . Nevertheless I gave this one a chance and I'm glad I did . Amazingly enough , almost immediately I discovered that this movie is funnier than most " adult " comedies that I've seen lately , even the good ones . There are so many laugh-out - loud moments just in the first 30 minutes that I didn't know how they could keep that up . Sadly , they don't , but even the less impressive second half is a fun romp through the city at the expense of some witless crooks . The kids are gonna love this . The similarities to Home Alone are obvious and expected , being written by John Hughes , who has an astonishing list of writing , producing and directing credits stretching over the last 35 years , including genuine classics like Ferris Bueller's Day Off , The Breakfast Club , The Great Outdoors and Home Alone . And yes , Home Alone is a classic , I don't care what anyone says ! There is one scene of ridiculous bad taste , when Eddie ( Joe Mantegna ) is hiding the baby under his coat so the police don't find it , only to suddenly discover that he has to maintain his cool before the men in blue as the baby lights a Zippo lighter and lights his crotch on fire . For a movie that is so obviously meant for a very young audience , this one has a surprising amount of sex jokes . That is , however , the only major problem with the movie ( except at the end when they discover that " Baby " is only acting out his favorite storybook . RIGHT ) . Yes , the baby manages to walk around crowded city streets without anyone ever noticing except the bad guys , but he also manages to climb onto a steel beam being lifted hundreds of feet off of the ground AND cuddle with a monstrous gorilla , both without showing the least bit of fear . Man , that gorilla was scary , too . Obviously not real , but my question is how they got that kid to sit next to that thing without screaming and crying in fear . Nevertheless , there are so many funny moments and so many truly hilarious jokes ( " I seen him . He's in the big broad's purse ? . " ) that it's easy to overlook these things . Like so many other movies , if you apply real world logic to it , of course it falls apart immediately , but for an evening of good clean fun you could certainly do a lot worse !
An excellent sci-fi war film with an absolutely awful ending .	For the first hour , Starship Troopers is just amazing . The film is set up extremely well , the story is very well-told , and the military training scenes in particular are especially effective in communicating the situation of the human race as it is portrayed in the film . However , the film had what I like to call a " hit by a truck " ending . There didn't seem to be enough of a conclusion reached , the film just kind of stopped . This could mean that the film studio simply ran out of money , or that they are just leaving room for a sequel , but either way , it is just too abrupt . Besides that , it seems that the film as a whole ( and especially the first three quarters of it ) draws more from Orson Scott Card's classic science fiction war novel " Ender's Game " than it does from Robert Heinlein's novel on which the film is supposedly based . True , the characters aren't children , as they are in Ender's Game , but their activities are virtually identical . Starship Troopers is definitely worth watching ; the special effects are spectacular , the war scenes are amazing but also incredibly graphic , and even the relatively modest futuristic atmosphere is more convincing than the usual flying cars and alien-looking clothes ( as in Back To The Future II ) . The film could stand a few improvements in acting and scripting , but as a whole it is a relatively satisfying science fiction film that , despite its disappointments , I definitely recommend .
Thanks God for Tommy Lee Jones .	Double Jeopardy is an interesting enough thriller , but it just isn't as satisfying as you would expect a movie with this premise to be . Ashley Judd is just annoying for the first hour or so of the film , and it isn't until the fugitive style chase begins that the movie gets really interesting . And this , of course , is where Tommy Lee's excellent acting is the most entertaining and fun . He has unfortunately been somewhat typecast since his spectacular performance in The Fugitive , but at least he has been typecast in a role that is always fun to watch and that he can always pull off excellently . I think it's pointless to try to argue whether or not the whole double jeopardy law can truly be handled in the way that it was described in the film , but as a crime film Double Jeopardy was pretty good . Judd's husband in the film is one of those characters that's easy to hate , and not only because of what he did in the movie . You just look at this guy and you immediately don't like him . That's good casting , but it also completely voided any effectiveness that his ' auction ' might ever have had . And how about that coffin scene ! Who cares that no one gets buried in a coffin that has plenty of room for two ! That was one of the creepiest things I've seen in a movie in years . Clearly , there is nothing spectacular about Double Jeopardy . It's not going to win any awards and it probably won't be remembered for very long . But it has a certain charm that can unfortunately only be appreciated if you're in the right state of mind when you watch it . Don't expect it to be as good as The Fugitive just because Tommy Lee Jones is in it ( really , are any movies as good as The Fugitive ? ) . I mean , let's face it , Double Jeopardy isn't even as good as Under Siege , but as far as a moderately entertaining crime thriller to kill a couple hours , you could definitely do a lot worse .
" Your incompetence is becoming most taxing ? "	Kate Beckinsale in Underworld is a clear inspiration taken from recent vampire / goth / sci fi movies , particularly the Blade and Matrix series , and the audience will surely be making comparisons , even subconsciously . She embodies the sleek , ass-kicking skills of Trinity from The Matrix but her vampire element reminds me more of the surprisingly effective performance that Parker Posey gave in Blade 3 . You see , Beckinsale is Selene , a vampire who has devoted her existence to destroying " lycans , " the werewolves who have sleeked up their image for the 21st century by removing the ' thrope ' from the end of their title . It seems that the vampires and the lycans have been involved in a raging war with each other for well over 1 , 000 years , which prompted me to wonder what the average kill rate is for a vampire or lycan soldier . Either they breed really really fast or they're just not very good warriors . At any rate , Selene stumbles across a conspiracy involving the leader of the lycans , Lucian , and the leader of the vampires , Kraven , to combine the blood of the two species and create a new breed of nightwalker that would be more powerful than both . Vampires and werewolves are incompatible even at the cellular level ( even their blood fights when combined ) , but Selene still fears that Kraven's and Lucian's plot would endanger the vampires , so she awakens their dark lord from a mummified hibernation a full century ahead of schedule . The intricacies of the plot , however , are noticeably more complex than the material can sustain . There are three rulers of the vampires , and at any given time there is one awake and ruling and two in hibernation . Selene's waking of Viktor 100 years early is a sacred violation that hasn't been broken in 1 , 400 years . She needs to find get conclusive proof of this dark conspiracy or even Viktor would be powerless to save her from a most vicious punishment . I missed the part , by the way , where they explained why Viktor couldn't be put back to sleep after having woken up , but no matter . He's awake now and his gradual transformation from a mummy into a cadaverous vampire leader is one of the more interesting make-up effects in the movie . The special effects , by the way , are the thing that will make or break the movie . It's dark and dreary from beginning to end , which is not unexpected in a film about a war between werewolves and vampires , but the darkness gets a little repetitive long before the end of the movie . Upon wakening , Viktor finds himself in the middle of a situation in which this vampire woman has broken a 1 , 000 year old tradition to report to him a virtually impossible conspiracy , even while she is falling in love with a lycan-infected human named Michael , which is strictly forbidden ( it's forbidden because he's a lycan , by the way , not because his name is Michael ) . Scott Speedman is given remarkably little to do in the entire film , although the transformation of his character provides for what is by far the film's best battle scene . The soundtrack is loud and violent , like much of the rest of the movie , and while it manages to avoid adding much to the vampire or werewolf genres despite having combined them together so well , there are some interesting ways that the movie brings the story into the 21st century . Not only do these ancient creatures now have cell-phones , but high-powered handguns that fire liquid-silver and phosphorescent bullets . They have , it seems , " harnessed sunlight as a weapon . " With these kinds of things going on , you might expect a better movie , but it's fast and brutal and stylish and ends with the promise of a sequel in which everything that we have come to learn from this movie will be completely changed . And for something that could so easily have been written off as a Blade or Matrix rip-off at the time of its release , that's a pretty successful outcome .
Slow and plodding .	I would say that at least the full first half of this film is almost intolerably boring , but the second and third acts more than make up for the slow outset . One of Hitchcock's few legal thrillers , The Paradine Case mixes the suspected wrong man theme so typical of his work to rear it's head , along with the film noir feel that is immediately conveyed through the stunningly beautiful Mrs . Prradine , accused of murdering her blind husband and clearly the forbidden object of her attorney's affections , the talented , handsome , and married Anthony Keane , played with outstanding intensity by Gregory Peck . As far as being a Hitchcock film , there is almost nothing technically brilliant about it , other than the fact that nearly every individual shot in the film , whether inherently interesting or not , is beautifully framed and photographed , but as is not very often the case , the story far overshadows the direction or photography . They heavy hand of David O . Selznick is felt throughout the film , not the least reason for which is the prominent bookends that the Selznick studio includes in the film , but where the movie is especially strong is the complexity of the story . We know that there is some chemistry between Keane and Mrs . Paradine , but Keane's wife hopes that Mrs . Paradine is found guilty and goes free - for Mrs . Keane's own emotional well being . Keane's feelings of romantic involvement and jealousy color his views and performance in defending the case throughout the film , and often his efforts to defend her are directly at odds with her own behavior and statements . This is not a simple film at all , regardless of how little technical trickery Hitchcock employed in the shooting , and it does start off a little too slow for my taste , but the construction of the story provides for another , slightly difference creative outlet for Hitchcock's creative genius .
So accurate it's almost like a time capsule .	Now , when I speak of the accuracy of this movie I am , of course , speaking either prophetically , I guess , or hypocritically , because I am neither black nor old enough to have been alive when it was made . Nonetheless , having had bad experiences with blaxploitation films ( such as the astonishingly bad Sweet Sweetback's Badaassss Song ) , I recently saw an outstanding documentary called Badasss Cinema which really opened my eyes to this entire genre and taught me about the things that had previously caused me to sort of look down on some of the films . I have a tendency to pick movies apart when a lot of really little things bother me ( the James Bond movies are particularly susceptible to this ) , and that happened in a major way in watching movies like Sheba , Baby , Coffy , and Black Mama , White Mama . It was interesting to learn the history behind this genre , as well as the way it seemed to appear , become wildly popular , and then fizzle out with surprising speed . The genre's disappearance can largely , and not surprisingly , be blamed on Hollywood , for reasons which I'll leave to the above mentioned documentary to explain . Armed with a new outlook on blaxploitation , I rented Black Caesar and was pleasantly and not so pleasantly surprised at the same time , strangely enough . It is not surprising that a blaxploitation film almost named after one of the first gangster films ever made , Little Caesar would attempt to resemble the most famous gangster film of all time , which was released the year before . The infamous Fred Williamson plays the part of Tommy Gibbs , a hardened youth who grew up with an intense desire to firmly establish himself as a force to be reckoned with on the streets . He finds tremendous success , and the movie moves forward making intense sociological statements about the plight of black people in early 1970s America . Unfortunately , as the movie goes on it dissolves into more and more ham-handed lashes out at white people in general , especially that favorite blaxploitation scapegoat , the White Cop , or the White Guy in Suit . While the African American community certainly had , and still has , in many ways , a lot to lash out and to be resentful about , it was really sad to see such a smart and well made film resort to contriving situations between Gibbs and white people who were so outwardly racist and brutal toward him just for the sake of setting themselves up for his revenge . The shoe-polish scene near the end of the film , as well as the ear scene relatively early in the film are prime examples . ( possible spoiler ) On a more subtle note , it is also noteworthy that a great length of time is spent showing Gibbs staggering through the streets of New York at the end of the movie because of a gunshot wound . This takes place in broad daylight and not a single person tries to help him , offers to call the police , or even so much as puts a hand over their mouth in sorrow or sympathy . I really enjoyed Black Caesar and I think it's one of the better blaxploitation films that came out of the 1970s . But you can certainly scratch subtlety off of its list of successes .
I can't wait for The Version You Couldn't See In Theaters ! ! !	I saw Jackass : The Movie on its opening night . I don't know why . Maybe because I'm a college student and have lots of friends who are still into goofy high school movies like this . I think I saw Half Baked on opening night for the same reason , although that time I had the excuse of really being in high school . I can already see the masses of responses to the sickening childishness of this movie , the pointlessness , the fact that there's no plot , it's little more than a longer version of the TV show and with stunts so dangerous or disgusting or immoral that they couldn't be shown on television . These things are all true , of course , but the movie deserves at least a blunt form of respect . Johnny Knoxville was able , for example , to get a contract signed to actually make his disgusting , immoral , childish , plotless TV show into a movie . Just the fact that the movie was made at all shows that there has to be some kind of filmmaking talent involved in its creation , even if that talent is entirely in the business area . Besides that , there can be no doubt that the movie is entertaining and amusing , even if it is on the level of fourth grade humor . Some of the stunts were just sickening and unpleasant , such as the snow cone scene and anything involving anal excretions ( or insertions ) , and this does , of course , include the abysmally moronic scene where the old fat man takes a beating while sitting on the toilet . It's so obvious that they were running out of ideas here that that's almost funny in itself . However , some of the scenes really were creative and funny . My personal favorite , of course , is the one with the naked fat man carrying the gong . Here's this great big fat guy wearing nothing but a diaper , and he's holding onto a gong with both hands . He walks up behind some unsuspecting citizens , and Johnny smacks the gong and then runs away , leaving the fat guy to stand there and bow and the people to look at him in shock . I just about fell out of my chair laughing at this , because if I was one of those people and I turned around and saw this naked fat guy holding a gong with two hands , the only thing that I would be able to think is , ' What the hell did he just hit that gong with ? ! '
The third installment in the Lethal Weapon series is yet another surprisingly good action film . These are pure action films for the pure action fan , and this is one of the rare series ' that just never seem t	Roger Murtaugh and Martin Riggs are back again as the now inseparable team , out again to get bad guys . Yes , this is the same traditional Lethal Weapon foundation , but I think that what keeps these movies so good is the fact that they keep coming up with cool new bad guys and interesting stories to keep the audience's attention . Part III starts off straight away with an action packed bombing scene ( continuing the traditional action packed opening scene of all Lethal Weapon films so far ) . An important element that is found here is that almost all of the events in the Lethal Weapon films are not entirely unlikely ( with the exception of things like all this shoulder popping nonsense ) . The bomb scenes , the threats , the gunfights , the car chases , all are manipulated for the film , but they are not as ridiculously exaggerated as things often are in Jerry Bruckheimer films . Because of this , you are able to overlook the laughable suggestion that if Riggs is driving an armored car and there is a bad guy with a gun in the passenger seat , he can send the guy through the windshield by slamming on the brakes . That was a huge flaw in part III because it ended an edge of your seat car chase with a side splitting laugh . Anyway , what I really thought was good about this installment is the story . Roger's son is hanging out with gangsters , giving the audience a feeling of unease for his well-being , and then the police discover that there are armor piercing bullets ( ' cop killers ' ) out on the streets . Their objective is to find the bullets ( as well as a sizeable collection of stolen guns ) , get rid of them , and find out who has been distributing them ( and hence , find the stolen guns as well ) . There's tragedy , there's tons of action , there's comedy ( thanks to the endlessly amusing Leo Getz ) , and there's even eventually a unique romance . There is something to be said about the quality of an actor that Joe Pesci is . Only he could play a pathetic role ( as in Lethal Weapon 2 , 3 , and 4 , as well as the failure of a crook in Home Alone ) but also play other parts such as that of a ruthless gangster ( as he does numerous times in other films ) . Yes , Lethal Weapon III does have the obligatory romance , and while I am generally against this in action films ( take virtually every Jerry Bruckheimer film ever made ) , it is done very well here , because it fits the characters very cleanly . Gibson , as we know , is the registered lethal weapon on the force , and Russo is the Internal Affairs agent who is sent to investigate how 15 , 000 guns , which were scheduled to be destroyed , were stolen from the police and found their way into the hands of some gangsters . Gibson and Russo hate each other for much of the film , as they are almost competing against one another , but they amusingly get pretty close one night as they are having some sort of contest to see who has the biggest scars . Not real attractive , but this is what you would expect from the types of characters that they play . Despite the fact the Lethal Weapon III is a good action film and is a quality addition to the series , it is a bit of a step down from the spectacular original and the almost as good first sequel . For example , there was a small amount of things that were just thrown in . For example , there is one scene where Russo beats the hell out of several criminals at once single-handedly , but it should be kept in mind that she did that offensively . She threw the first punch and , while it was fun to watch , it's illegal to do that , and would have been much better had she been forced to defend herself . Another thing , the phrase ' son of a bitch ' is said in the film about 2 , 000 times , mostly by Roger , and it gets real tiring after a while . There's another good car chase at the end , but then we are expected to believe that these armor piercing bullets are capable of shooting through the shovel on a tractor ? That scene was nicely dramatic , but I feel no reason to believe that ANY handheld gun could shoot through a piece of construction equipment like that . This movie ends with Roger being congratulated in his bathtub by his family for his retirement ( much like his 50th birthday in the opening scene of the original ) , and it is here that he announces to them ( as well as to a largely thankful audience ) that he plans to postpone his retirement . Good way to end a quality action film , with the promise of a sequel . However , although Part III was a good action film , as I have mentioned before , it is a bit of a step down from the previous two , and one can only hope that this trend turns around and the inevitable third sequel comes closer to being as good as , or even better ( ! ) , than the original .
Wow , I gotta start working out . . .	I remember I almost fell out of my chair when I first saw the preview for 300 , although it's taken me over a year since I bought the DVD to get around to watching it . Maybe because the bad reviews started trickling in . It's an adaptation of a graphic novel that I haven't read , but I'm told that that novel portrays a sort of heightened reality like what Leonidas describes as he is faced with seemingly insurmountable danger . The movie retains that level of hyper - reality and achieves a truly unique look and experience , but it may put off viewers interested in seeing something about the real story that the film is based on . Of course , the true story of a hugely inferior band of Spartans holding out against the Persian army is so clouded in myth and legend that by now it's impossible to say for sure what really happened , but we can probably assume that a good majority of what happens in this movie didn't happen . My knowledge of ancient Greek history is pretty limited , to say the least , but I was sort of expecting that the movie would tell something about what happened at the Battle of Thermopylae , where the courageous Spartans took their stand . Instead , it's sort of a bloated comic-book movie the sometimes doesn't seem to know whether it wants to emulate Troy , Lord of the Rings , or Harry Potter . There's a hunchback , there's magic , there are fully grown mountain dwarfs , a healthy dose of Hollywood / comic book machismo , and lots of spraying blood that reminded me of Tarantino's spectacularly disappointing Sin City . At least here it's not green . In the movie's defense , it is definitely an astonishing visual achievement . It's true that the entire film is digital and you are never able to forget that , but it is definitely beautiful . The problem with digital backgrounds is that , apparently , they still haven't been able to make them look really realistic , especially battle scenes . I'm pretty sure they're making video games these days that look this good . Half of the reason I wanted to see the movie was because of the tough talk in defiance of so - called authority , I always love that . Have you seen those " Caution : This is Sparta " signs ? HILARIOUS . Anyway , there are a lot of classic moments and memorable lines in the movie ( " There's no reason we can't be civil , is there ? " ) , but after a while I found the over-the-top bravado a little cloying and just a little too , ah , over-the-top . There is no sense of realism , but then again the movie never tries for it . It is , basically , a romanticized and dramatized telling of a historical battle , just like what Braveheart is . But this movie is romanticized and dramatized in completely different ways . Ultimately , I think the result is better off intended for a slightly younger audience . The performances in the film are wonderful , sometimes even astonishing . Gerard Butler as Leonidas is one of the most intense performances I've seen in a movie in some years , reminding me for some reason of the unbelievable level of intensity that Tom Cruise brought to Mission Impossible III . I noticed some IMDb user make the bizarre claim that Xerxes , played by Rodrigo Santoro , looked gay . Yes , Xerxes is quite a spectacle to behold , but effeminate ? PLEASE . The only thing remotely effeminate about him were his eyebrows , but other than that he had the otherworldly presence that a living god should have . And besides , I have to say that I wonder about anyone who could hear his voice and think androgyny ! 300 was a slight disappointment to me , but it definitely succeeds in what it sets out to do . It's a wild ride from start to finish and it never lets up , but I can't deny that there are some definite cheese moments , even for a film like this . It promises basically 100 minutes of exactly what you see in that almost weirdly impressive theatrical trailer , and if you can handle that for a couple hours , you're in for a treat . Terrible date movie , though . . .
More of the same ?	Rush Hour 2 is pretty much a continuation of the first Rush Hour , which is not entirely a bad thing . Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan are back in Chan's latest east meets west action comedy , which is another goofball comedy interspersed with what is meant to be a relatively serious crime story . Structurally , Rush Hour 2 is almost identical to the first Rush Hour , which is bad in its redundancy , but good in that it is almost as entertaining and amusing as the first one was . As is almost always the case with comedy sequels like this ( take the Austin Powers films as another perfect example ) , there is a lot of comedy from the original that is turned around or repeated in the sequel , either complementing on or feeding on the success of the original . One of Chris Tucker's lines from Part 1 ( ' Do you understand the words that are coming out of my mouth ? ! ' ) , for example , is now spoken by Jackie Chan , in an amusing scene that clearly makes good fun of Chan's English speaking skills . The astonishingly beautiful Zhang Ziyi , of Crouching Tiger , Hidden Dragon fame , plays the role of one of the villains in the Chinese gang , and although she is a welcome addition to the film , Rush Hour 2 is clearly below her level of acting skill and presence . There are some excellent fighting scenes with her , which is good because even Jackie Chan's fast paced and often hilarious fight scenes seem to have met their match with the usually faster and often better moves seen in Jet Li's films . One can only wonder how long it will be before the two are in a film together . Now THAT I'd like to see . With action comedies like this , there is an almost universal lack of anything new . They are almost always formulaic , and it was a relief to see that there was some innovation here . I've seen a lot of movies like this , but I have to admit that I've never seen one that involves a Ying Tao grenade taped inside someone's mouth . That was a pretty good scene . There are some more smart-ass lines from Tucker about black people and Chinese people ( ' Don't ever get in front of a black man while he's standing at a buffet line ! ' ) that could have and probably should have been left out , but as a whole , it's a fun movie . And as s the case with most slapstick comedies and Jackie Chan films , the outtakes at the end were some of the funniest parts of the movie .
In the oily sea , the killing ground ?	When I left the theater after having seen the first Pirates sequel , I overheard two guys behind me talking about the movie , one of whom importantly summed up the movie with the words , " It was like , all action no story . " I didn't look , but I'm sure he puffed out his chest as he said it , too . While I'm sure that I am guilty of something like it from time to time , there is nothing that irritates me more than people who walk into a movie like this , sum it up with some cliché , and then fold their arms triumphantly , sure that they are superior to everyone involved in making the movie . What a tool . On the other hand , my reaction may have something to do with the fact that the story in this movie is so huge that I think I would have to watch it at least three or four times before I really caught everything that was going on . The plot is hardly Shakespearean in its intricacy , but for a summer popcorn blockbuster it's pretty intense . The movie has its strengths and weaknesses , but for sheer entertainment it resides comfortably near the top of the list of the current releases . Granted , it's too long by about 45 minutes , Keira Knightly has not done much to shake that pompous Britishness that made her role in the first movie ( and this one ) goofy almost to the point of being intolerable , the great Johnny Depp comes dangerously close to overacting once or twice , Orlando Bloom rarely stops overacting from beginning to end , and the action sequences are so long and so CGI and cut together so dizzyingly fast that there will be times when you will want to close your eyes , not to mention that some of the action setups are just ridiculous . Captain Jack's rotisserie situation , for example , shocked me because I didn't think I would see something this soon which would outdo the stampede sequence in King Kong for absurdity . However , the CGI effects are certainly impressive , Davy Jones is a phenomenal villain ( the effects that created him and that make up his facial expressions remind me of how impressed I was with Gollum in Lord of the Rings ) , and like I said , I was highly impressed with the depth of the story . I think the movie definitely suffered from an obviously exploded budget , there are times when it seems that they didn't know when to stop spending money on the movie , but for the most part I think they were able to keep it in check ( the swordfight on top of the rolling water-wheel , however , is not an example of keeping limitless spending in check ) . I didn't love the movie as much as I had heard I would , I liked Captain Jack Sparrow a lot better in the original film , and by the time this one was finally over I was numb from the waist down ( and around the eye-sockets , somewhat ) , but there is a hell of a lot of movie here , and the closing scene will have you jumping out of your seat for part 3 ?
Wasn't the werewolf theme used up by the early 80's at the latest ? Apparently not .	I didn't expect much from this film . Actually , the only reason that I watched it was because I am a huge Jack Nicholson fan , and I was surprised at how well-done the movie was . Jack Nicholson plays an editor named William Randall who kind of lets people walk all over him , and when he gets bitten by a wolf on a lonely road one night , he becomes an entirely different person . You might even say that the " Jack Nicholson " in Will Randall was brought out by the wolf . Michelle Pfeiffer was also very impressive as Laura , Will's reluctant lover and , eventually , fiancee . The werewolf makeup was particularly impressive , and even the stunts and special effects were worked out very well . However , I think that this was probably one of the last films in which colored contact lenses could have been used to draw anything other than a bored response . Ironically enough , however , they are also the reason that this film seems to be very dated when watching it only 6 years after it was made . Colored contacts are so old and cliched by now , mainly because any fool can get them , that they are just not effective in the movies anymore . Despite that , I have to say that I recommend Wolf , it was a very well-made and entertaining movie , and the story is excellent . It is one of those rare films that really has no slow points . It is not necessarily non-stop action , but your attention is held firmly throughout the movie .
" Gee that's tough , all I got is one scent . . . get it ? "	Porky's Preview , like another short oddity called Lions For Sale , is inexplicably included as an extra feature on the Sergeant York DVD , and while neither short film has any discernible reason for being found here , they are both clever little bits of short film-making worth checking out . In this one , a series of sight gags as various characters make their way into a theater ( ushered in through the dark aisles by a helpful firefly ) , at which Porky Pig introduces a shows a curious stick figure animation show of his own making . It had been probably 10 or 15 years since I've seen a Looney Tunes cartoon , which I watched constantly when I was a kid , so it was fun to hear the familiar intro and outtro again after not having seen it for so long , and completists will be thrilled to see a hard-to-find Looney Tunes short . Well worth the time , although strangely hidden .
We're getting there . . .	After watching the 1916 adaptation and then the 1954 adaptation of Verne's brilliant novel , I am coming to feel that this is a movie that is ripe for a real , high-budget , modern remake . I should note that I would hate to see it cheapened and turned into some goofy nautical clunker like Poseidon , but with the right people this could really be made into a spectacular film . Unfortunately , it could also be a spectacular screw-up , and probably would be . Sadly , with the way movies are these days , I think that the one thing that the movie really needs , special effects , is probably the one thing that would sink it . 21st century Hollywood would wildly overdo the CGI , and we would have a cheesy cartoonish adaptation featuring a cast of teen heartthrobs and veteran movie stars . At any rate , a vast improvement has been made since the 1916 version , obviously , most notably in the portrayal of the Nautilus , which the original film-making team did not have the means to represent . It glows this time , for example , looking like a sea monster when partially submerged ( it never looked even remotely organic in the original film ) , and the interiors are amazing . The simply brilliant description of the power supply of the Nautilus is unfortunately reduced here to the phrase " Captain Nemo had discovered the power of the universe , " but this is again one of the things that just can't be brought to the screen the way it's described in the novel . One thing that was funny right at the beginning of the movie was when Professor Arrnonax is invited ( by the U . S . government , incidentally ) to board the Abraham Lincoln for a free ride to America is he'll help search for the sea monster that's causing so much public uproar . The suggestion is made to " cut the Pacific into squares and then search each square for the monster . " This reminds me of a story from when I was a kid . I went to Disneyland with my brother and my mom , and my mom said , " What do we do it we get separated ? " And I said , " That's easy , mom . If we get separated , just divide Disneyland into squares and search each square until you find us ! " Needless to say , my mom scolded me for being so stupid . ( Note : none of that ever really happened , but it makes sense ) . Isn't the Pacific Ocean a little big to search through piece by piece ? I happen to know that it won't sit still and submit to a thorough search , not even for the United States government ! At any rate , I worried at a couple of points that this was going to be a Disney musical , and the kid-pleasing Disney influence is definitely pretty heavy handed here , such as in the happy-go-lucky sailors singing and dancing together on deck ( that old phrase " curse like a sailor " must be total nonsense ! ) , and Kirk Douglas's famous song ( " I got a whale of a tale and it's all true , I sweat by my tattoo ! " ) . I was also happy to see that the tremendously important character of Conseil ( wasn't it spelled Consul in the novel ? ) , who was left completely out of the 1916 version , was included here , played cleverly by Peter Lorre , although I found myself thinking more of Dr . Frankenstein's sidekick Igor than Professor Arronax's astonishingly loyal servant . Incidentally , another thing that was left almost entirely out of the original film is the giant squid , which has come to be the image that the story is most famous for . Odd that it swims backwards , but at least it's there ! And Captain Nemo , thankfully , is portrayed skillfully by James Mason , who's filmography doesn't seem to have any end , and who years later would go on to play Professor Humbert in Stanley Kubrick's Lolita . The Nemo in 1916 was so unbelievably bad that it seemed like it was deliberate ( you really have to try to get him THAT wrong ) , so I'm glad some effort was made to be more faithful to the original character . Granted , this is a Disney film , so Verne's broody , vengeful character can't be exactly re-created , but this is a faithful adaptation that doesn't take too many disappointing liberties with Verne's novel . Let's hope there's another one and they don't screw it up !
Very stylish , but I still think the Japanese are better at horror than action .	The description of Beyond Hypothermia really sounded a lot more interesting on the back of the movie box than the movie turned out to be . It is a very stylish thriller about a deadly assassin who constantly dreams of having a normal life with a husband and children , but it really doesn't do anything new in the genre . My favorite thing about the movie was the way it is cut together , especially many of the death scenes . The first assassination in the movie , for example , shows what you normally see in such a scene , the close up of the scope with the killer's eye behind it , the victim going about his business oblivious that he's in someone's crosshairs , the slow motion , etc . But the actual death avoids showing the man getting shot . Instead , we see the two guys behind him pouring wine out of a wine bottle that suddenly explodes ( a curious occurrence that they mysteriously respond to with laughter ) . As I was watching the movie , I was reminded of the stylish originality of movies like The Way of the Gun , as well as a few other foreign films that I've seen recently in which massive numbers of people get shot , such as the disturbing but hugely impressive Battle Royale , and the equally disturbing and probably even more impressive Portuguese film City of God . One thing that I really liked about this movie , as well as the ones I just mentioned , is that even though an enormous number of people are shot dead , it is not done in such a relentless way that you completely stop caring . No , you're not going to jump out of your seat every time some extra gets shot , but watch a movie like John Woo's Killer and you'll see how large numbers of gunshot killings can be numbing to the point of boredom . Not exactly what you would expect from John Woo , who otherwise is a very skilled action director ( except for that Windtalkers mess ) . Here's one thing I didn't understand , though . At one point in the movie there's a lot of bad guys chasing the god girl through oncoming traffic , and the bad guys keep getting hit by cars . Now , it is to be expected that people are going to be hit by cars when they're sprinting into oncoming traffic , but these guys are chasing after the woman that is supposed to be Japan's deadliest assassin , and they don't even have the sense not to run right in the middle of lanes of traffic when they're chasing her down the street ! No wonder they can't catch her ! It's true that the movie doesn't cover much new ground , but it is short enough to remain worth watching , if only for its style . Sadly , I made the mistake of renting the dubbed version , and I am fairly confident that the original film with subtitles is even more enjoyable . I don't know what it is about dubbed movies , they just seem so fake with someone so obviously voicing over the lines . Look for the original language version , because it's worth checking out .
Note to self : Stay out of prison ?	In Hell starts off pretty well and then goes almost immediately wrong , but is somehow still a fun ride . Van Damme plays an all-American guy named Kyle with a loving wife at home growing increasingly impatient with all of the international traveling involved in his job as a steel worker ( don't ask ) . At the moment , he's working at a steel mill in the perfectly named Russian town of Magnitogorsk , and is promising his wife that after he finishes that job , they can go " back home to Luoisiana . " I always wonder why Van Damme always forces himself into the role of a typical American . He's obviously not American , and it just seems to me that when he does that , we get a character that doesn't seem to have a past . He just is . At any rate , on the way home from work , Kyle's wife is viciously attacked while on the phone with him , so he hears everything and after tearing home through traffic in blatant disregard for the law , he finds her raped and murdered , which must be every man's worst nightmare . After the laughable trial , the man who raped and murdered her is set free because he bribed the judge , and Kyle is so angry and distraught that he kills the guy himself , and he does it right in front of the courthouse . It seems that such a foolish act could be defended by a temporary insanity plea ( why else would he do something so crazy as killing the guy right in front of the courthouse ? ) , which would at least have gotten him into some mental institution instead of life without parole in the Russian gulag . Then again , being stuck in a Communist prison with no means of ever getting out becomes a good premise for a nice action b-movie . Immediately , however , the fearful idea of being trapped in a foreign prison is totally diluted by the fact that everyone speaks English . There are a few Russian sentences thrown in here and there just as brief reminders , but other than that , it's just another dirty American prison with different uniforms . Oh , and it's okay if the warden brings all his friends and some women and children to the prison every once in a while so they can make some money gambling on forcing the prisoners to fight each other . The interesting part of the story is that it's not your standard revenge story , where the tough guy is out to get revenge on whoever killed his wife or son or brother or whatever . This premise is a favorite of people like Van Damme and Steven Seagal . Here , he gets revenge right at the beginning of the movie , so once he is thrown in jail there is even a little guessing as to what exactly his new goal is , since release is apparently out of the question , and escaping from a Communist prison doesn't seem like a very likely prospect . Needless to say , Kyle immediately has trouble getting along with others , and soon finds himself making enemies with the guards and prisoners alike , and is soon thrown in " the hole , " which is an acceptably dismal dungeon of a cell with what looks like fresh sewage flowing across the middle of the floor . There is a clever incident with a moth that brings back a warm memory into the desolate desert of his mind and , after multiple half-baked suicide attempts , it gives him the strength to go on living , and he starts eating again . Soon he finds a release for his anger , by fighting the other prisoners . He trains himself into a hardened fighter in his cell ( another favorite theme in Van Damme movies ) , and then sets out to get his revenge on the world . There is one scene where he does something truly vicious and violent to one of the other inmates at the end of a fight ( the fight could hardly go on after that ) , and then lays on the ground screaming at the sky . He has become an animal . The fights are pretty goofy . They are hard hitting , but also have the undeniable feel of a fake WWF fight . Lots of over exaggeration and grandiose moves , throwing each other around and writhing on the ground after a nice body slam , etc . It gets a little old watching Van Damme get smacked around like this , because we know he's only doing it because he's playing a good guy and we can tell he's holding back . I think this is probably why his bad guy roles are often more satisfying . There is also the issue of his cellmate , a massive black man who doesn't speak much , but reads a lot and killed his last two cell mates . The tension at home is pretty palpable . But Kyle spends most of the time waiting for the guy to just flip out and kill him , and so do we . But first he's a scary killer , and then before you know , he opens up to Kyle and frets that he doesn't even know who he is anymore . What ? Where'd this worried mother come from ? First I suspected truly weak writing , but then it turns out that this man's back story is probably the best part of the whole movie . In a closing monologue , this man delivers the film's meaning , " Unity of people can bring down any system . " It's interesting that the " unity " here brought down the prison , which apparently was completely undone because none of the prisoners wanted to fight anymore . There is a fight with a massive mountain of a man that may bring back memories of Sloth from The Goonies , and a friendship between him and Kyle that is goofy but strangely heartwarming . The ending's a little abrupt , but not a copout , and I appreciate that . This is one of Van Damme's better recent movies ?
Yeah , Ozzy ! !	Why do I say Yeah , Ozzy ? Because Ozzy Osbourne made this film . I don't care who wrote it , I don't care who starred in it , and I don't care who directed it , if Ozzy hadn't been in Little Nicky , there would be absolutely no reason to watch it . Even the great Harvey Keitel , who obviously makes an excellent Satan , was ill-used if for no other reason than that idiotic deterioration that left him as nothing but a pair of arms and a mouth . Come on , people ! Whose dumbass idea was that ? ! Anyway , Ozzy's was only one ( by far the best one , mind you ) of a whole series of cool cameos . We see a whole succession of great cameos in Little Nicky . Ozzy causes every rock and roll fan in the audience to jump up and cheer by biting the head off of the devil when he turns into a bat . Chubbs , Happy Gilmore's late , one-handed golf instructor shows up in a scene in heaven , along with Reese Witherspoon , who effectively plays the part of Little Nicky's angel mother who happens to also be an absolute bimbo . Rodney Dangerfield is his traditional self as the father of Satan ( ' Even in Hell I get no respect . ' ) . John Lovitz has a scene early in the film where he sits in a tree spying on some woman while she changes , and he's listening to ' Lady's Night , ' the song that he performed in The Wedding Singer , which was obviously a much better film than this one . Even Dan Marino who , in my opinion , was made famous more by Ace Ventura than anything else , had a great part where he tries to sell his soul to the devil just to win a football game . And , of course , someone was amazingly able to get The Great Quentin Tarantino to play the part of a hideously creepy religious nut , in the second best cameo in the film ( even Quentin can't compete with Ozzy ) . I could go on and on about the cool cameos in this movie . How about Little Nicky's room in Hell ? What a great room for the son of the devil ! Can I say something , by the way ? The religious right attacks Marilyn Manson for every little thing he does , but I hereby officially bet any amount of money that no religious group on the planet will ever defend him by pointing out that there was not a single picture or poster of him in Nicky's room in Hell . You have to notice this when you see posters of Metallica , Ozzy ( of course ) , Ministry , Motorhead , Korn , AC / DC , Slipknot , Black Sabbath , etc . No one ever accused Korn of driving kids to worship the devil , yet the devil's son seems to be one of their biggest fans . There was a little too much cheesy comedy in this movie . And yes , I realize that it is a ' Happy Madison ' picture , and that these movies are characterized by their cheesy comedy . But the gigantic pineapple up Hitler was a step in the wrong direction . And how about that damn dog ? Remember the scene where he shoots an arrow at Adrian , Nicky's evil brother ? Of my GOD , that was ridiculous . And then there were John and Pete , a couple of idiot rock and roll fanatics that appear throughout the film in a series of dumbass scenes that make all rock and roll fans look bad . Although it was cool when one of them asks Nicky what was recorded backwards on Ozzy's record , and Nicky says that ' the Blizzard ' always delivered his message straight . Too bad they didn't use a Marilyn Manson song to do that , but as much as I respect him and love his music , he doesn't even come close to Ozzy . Little Nicky has a lot of cool stuff in it , such as an excellent soundtrack ( notice the surprisingly good re-mix of Stupefy , by Disturbed , during the end credits ) , but most everything else is just pretty bad . And besides that , the soundtrack during the film was used as little more than to pack songs into the movie so that they could sell the soundtrack later , although some of the songs worked really well where they were put into the movie ( Particularly Powerman 5000's ' When Worlds Collide ' ) . Little Nicky is sent to earth to capture his rebelling older brothers , because they escaped from hell , freezing the entrance and causing their father's deterioration . And then the Son of Satan meets some girl and falls in love with her ! Everything about that little subplot was just awful , except for the way that he barely rescued her from the subway train late in the film , but it was actually a good decision to cast Patricia Arquette in this role . Except , remember when Nicky was explaining possession to her ? ' What do you mean , ? possessed ? ' Come on , Patricia , POSSESSION . Didn't you learn anything from starring in Stigmata ? The plot of Little Nicky is of no value or interest whatsoever , it's the cameos that make it worth watching . Clearly , there can be no satisfaction derived from watching Adam Sandler's breathy performance as the son of Satan as he ' releases the evil ' and then ' releases the good . ' The plot and story are inconsequential , but the movie is still pretty funny at some points , so it's not a complete waste of time . It pays great homage to rock and roll stars as well as previous successful comedies , but if you're not a rock and roll fan or if you haven't seen a lot of these goofy comedies , you are almost sure to be disappointed by Little Nicky .
Surprisingly good , even with that classic b-movie title !	The title of this movie at once reminds me of those instantly forgettable direct-to-video movies that seem to come out by the hundreds , but soon you realize that it is the perfect title for this story . The story takes place in a country called Moldavia , where there is much internal strife over an alleged order that the president gave , which led to a huge amount of innocent deaths . An insurgency rises , demanding that the president be tried in their custody , which presumably would consist of not much more than a brief mention of his crimes followed by torture and execution . That's just an assumption , of course . Van Damme plays Commander Sam Keenan , a Navy Seal sent in to handle the situation , which grows increasingly desperate and dire . One of the best things about the film is how realistically it presents the mass protests , which are so good that I imagine they must have used stock footage of real protests . Either way , they are seamlessly integrated into the film . Unfortunately , the one street on which the majority of the exterior scenes are filmed looks strikingly like a soundstage , but no matter . The gunfights , another easily botched element , are quite well done here . There is an authority battle as the clearly competent Keenan struggles to convince the commanders around him of a course of action that might save everyone but may also be more dangerous , while others in the top echelon immediately decide upon the tactic that will certainly save some lives but also certainly doom others . Keenan plays a pretty generic hero in this way , going the more dangerous route to save more lives , but it is undeniable that this is Van Damme at his highest class . He's not given a lot of meaningful stuff to do ( he gets to say cool lines like " Get the people to the TLU and the president to the ACR . Go ! " ) , but this is one of his best performances . His primary assignment is to hold off the impending insurgent force while both the American military and the Croatian army close in , conveniently with exactly the same ETA . You know something big is going to happen soon . Sadly , the CGI air support is pretty dismal , but it serves its purpose . The leader of the insurgency is also a little too much of a movie villain , although I like the final confrontation between him and Keenan ( which would be a spoiler , but did you really think that wouldn't happen ? ) , in which Keenan does something that reveals a deep flaw in his character . It's something that some people in the military might like to do to the bad guys in real life , but not the kind of thing you expect from a benevolent movie hero . And by the way , I love how , even with the sheer magnitude of firepower in the movie , it all comes down to a hand-to-hand knife fight . The movie ends with a sufficiently cheesy scene , although it stands out as a pretty glaring omission that the true guilt or innocence of the president , who allegedly caused so many deaths , was never proved one way or the other . I have been learning a lot about Mao Tse - tung lately , which has led to a gigantic mistrust of certain governments and powerful individuals . I guess we have to assume that he didn't commit the crime of which he was accused . Maybe they were banking on the " Insurgents " vs . the " President , " so people would automatically assume who were the bad guys and who was the good guy . Too bad it's not that clear cut in real life ?
Not as cheesy as it looks .	Sure , Deuce Bigalow is not exactly a landmark cinematic accomplishment . It's full of dirty jokes and childish humor , but underneath all of the goofball comedy , it actually comes through with a very healthy message , which is virtually non-existent in these dumb comedies . Deuce Bigalow is a lowly fish tank cleaner , and when one of his important clients has to leave town on business , he hires Deuce to look after his place and especially one of his precious fish , which would not survive on it's own the entire time that Anton ( the client ) is out of town . Needless to say , Deuce starts screwing around in the lavish apartment and breaks Anton's ridiculously expensive fish tank and then has to come up with $6 , 000 to replace it and do other repairs around the house . This is when Deuce has the brilliant idea to assume Anton's job as a gigolo , because he knows he'll never make the money on time cleaning fish tanks . Unfortunately , he gets all of the freaky clients , like the gigantic black woman ( ' Did you say steak ? ' ) and the eight foot tall girl ( ' That's a huge bitch ! ' ) , the girl with narcolepsy that falls asleep at the weirdest times , and of course , they could never leave out a date with Tourette's syndrome , definitely the least amusing of all of them . So Deuce goes through all of these awful dates , and then he meets a girl on another date that is perfect except she has a prosthetic leg . This is where the healthy message comes in , because Deuce learns that he really loves this girl , and it really doesn't matter to him that she only has one leg . He falls in love with her pretty quick , but the romance of it all , as cheesy as it was , is actually pretty well done . Deuce is trying to get enough money to replace the stuff in Anton's apartment , so he goes on one last date with one of Anton's stunningly beautiful clients , and he even rejects her aggressive sexual advances because he's in love . Sure , he does a pretty graphic strip-tease for her , but you get the point of his intentions . However , despite the fact that the movie is full of goofy jokes , some of the comedy was pretty good . Deuce's toilet-cleaning father was pretty amusing at some points , and most of all , the detective that was after Deuce and especially Anton ( his wife was one of Anton's clients ) was hilarious in every scene he was in . ' I got a thin dick ! ' Why is that so funny ? It's totally dumb , but it just cracked me up . Maybe it's because he compared it to spaghetti . It was just great how he was at first really threatening to Deuce , and then he would suddenly ask his advice about whether Deuce thought he could make some money in the gigolo business or what he thought that red spot on his penis was ( ' It wasn't there this morning , I checked ! ' ) . As a whole , this is another one of those brainless comedies aimed at immature or uneducated ( or both ) audiences , but it doesn't fail on just about all levels like most of these types of movies always seem to do . It's a strong and healthy message delivered in questionable packaging .
Nicholas Cage is back in one of his goofy romantic roles , but luckily there was plenty of room for him to operate at his smart-ass best .	Yeah , Nicolas Cage is back in another romantic comedy , and the result is about the same , actually . He plays a guy who left his girlfriend from college and went off to school in Europe , a choice which led him to a high-level job , a Ferrari , and an apartment in a high-rise building in New York . Along comes , I don't know , The Ghost of Relationships Past , who gives him a glimpse of what his life would have been like had he not ended his relationship with his girlfriend ( the stunningly beautiful Tea Leoni , in an excellent performance ) at the airport that day . Sound familiar ? Well , I don't think there was much effort put into hiding the similarities to the old Christmas Story , which is one of the things that really brought the movie down , despite the fact that it took place during Christmas-time . Who was this guy ? He turned out to be some sort of angel or something who went around testing the quality of people's characters and ? rewarding ' them if they turned out to be of good character , or some such nonsense . Jack Campbell ( Cage ) bribes a would-be robber ( Cheadle , the angel , who is curiously named ' Cash ' ) out of forcing a cashier to cash a suspicious lottery ticket , and bingo , he gets a prize that turns out to be a ' glimpse ' at What Would Have Been . A liquor store cashier ( Cheadle again ) mistakenly rings up $10 when a young girl really only paid with $1 , she doesn't say anything and walks out of the store wide-eyed , and bingo , he disgustedly pays back the difference out of his pocket , and no prize for her . This part of the story is never explained very well , and this guy pops up in some strange places without any explanation . The rest of the movie was actually pretty good . When Campbell gets a look at what he could have had , his initial fear and dislike is eventually eroded away as he begins to like what life is like when he has someone who he loves and who loves him . The most entertaining part of the movie comes from watching him , first of all , doing what he does as the arrogant rich business executive , and most of all , watching him try to get used to the fact that his entire life has been changed , albeit temporarily , literally overnight . Nicholas Cage's charm really comes through in some great scenes as he adapts to the middle class life , as opposed to the upper upper class life , such as when he's going through his poor self's closet to find a jacket ( ' Oh , this is just sub-par . ' ) . That's some funny stuff . As far as the romance goes , yeah it's pretty prevalent , especially in the second half of the film , but for the most part it's not too exaggerated , and when you see what goes on between Campbell and his wife , Kate ( Leoni ) it's not too hard to see why he began to have conflictions about going back to his old life , full of money and empty sex . Don't be put off just because Nicholas Cage is in The Family Man and he always gets a little awkward in romantic roles , because this is definitely one of his better ones .
Not too bad .	I expected little from Blades of Glory , as I usually do when I see a comedy on DVD that I've never heard of . On the other hand , I live in central eastern China now and everything here is pirated , so it's no surprise that I know little about what is going on in American theaters . At first glance it seemed like an expected pairing of a hugely famous comedian , Will Farrell , with a new and inexplicably famous comedian ( I'm sorry , Napoleon Dynamite just didn't do anything for me ) , riding on the wave of attention generated by his debut film . The movie is better than I expected , but is still nothing more than your standard Saturday Night Live comedy , and even those are generally much better than this . Farrell and Heder play Chazz Michael Michaels and Jimmy MacElroy , two bitter figure skating rivals who can't stop acting like children , even when standing on the podium . The result is that they get into a fistfight after obtaining an unlikely tie in an important competition . They set the mascot on fire and everything . As is to be expected , they are booted out of professional competition forever . MacElroy gets a lowly job fitting skates on bratty kids at a skating rink , never letting go of his tireless skating perfectionism , even when it gets him kicked off of the cushy skate-fitting job and back to the store-room or something . Michaels , on the other hand , continues to skate , although in the capacity of some goofy character in an ice-skating performance for children . His incredible amount of boozing and womanizing does two things , it makes me wish he didn't have my name twice in his name , and it ultimately gets him fired for puking in his costume during a performance . After a few years , some nutjob stalker of MacElroy's ( played by that guy who seems to like nutjob stalker roles ) discovers a loophole in the rules . Michaels and MacElroy are banned from competition , but only SINGLES competition . They can still compete as a pair , which leads to all sorts of low-brow hilarity . Both main characters are goofy caricatures , even goofier than you might expect , which sometimes works and sometimes doesn't . But in general it's entertaining enough , the production values are impressive . I've seen better but this is not a bad way to spend an hour and a half . . .
A worthy installment .	The script is pretty weak and at least as many bad things as good things were brought over from the original for this remake , but the 1990 version of George Romero's classic horror film has its heart in the right place , I guess you could say . The movie wastes no time , starting out in a cemetery where a bickering brother and sister have driven no small amount of distance to visit the grave of their mother . So the Don't Go Into A Cemetery rule of horror movies is immediately broken and swiftly punished . I really liked the way the zombies were introduced , it reminded me of the zombies in Shaun of the Dead , where Shaun walked among them , not paying attention to his surroundings , before noticing that he was surrounded by the walking dead . Patricia Tallman turns in a satisfactory performance as Barbara , the sister involved in the opening scene and the heroine of the movie . I thought it was strange that she turns out to be such a strong character when at the beginning of the movie she was immediately reduced to a blubbering basket-case when she arrived at the farmhouse in which most of the movie takes place . Granted , she had just witnessed her brother being killed by a zombie , but no matter how much I sympathize with their plight , I can't stand hysterical people in horror movies , male or female . When someone starts whining and moaning and screaming and crying and sobbing and blubbering and won't even respond to someone shaking them and hollering into their face , I just want them to hurry up and get killed so they'll shut the hell up . Harry Cooper is still the same ridiculous jerkoff he was in the first movie , displaying an entirely unacceptable and unjustifiable state of constant rage , even when finally finding himself in the company of other living , breathing people rather than mindless zombies . Just like the security guard in Dawn of the Dead , this guy wants his own way , even if it means separating himself from other living people , who are fast becoming an endangered species . One thing I'm not sure I understand is the way his insults have been updated to fit the modern times of 1990 . At one point , after locking himself , his wife and his zombie-bitten daughter alone together in the basement , he flings a few more vicious insults at the people in the rest of the house , curiously calling them ' lame-brains , ' and ' yo-yo's . ' If this movie was meant to be shown on the Disney channel , I could understand including such words in the script . But it wasn't . I don't even think the Disney channel was around in 1990 . The zombies are updated , needless to say , but they're not over-the-top and they maintain the general appearance of the original zombies . There's nothing worse than using special effects just because they're there , and this remake doesn't do it . Then there are newer horror movies made that try to improve upon the make-up in the original films , such as the first color installment in the Night of the Living Dead series , the original Dawn of the Dead , tried to do it in color and wound up with a lot of bad extras wearing blue make-up all over their faces . Awful . ( spoilers ) There are lots of radio broadcasts throughout about an epidemic of mass murder being committed by a virtual army of unidentified assassins and do not attempt to reach loved ones and blah blah blah . A brother and sister finally get Ben's truck running enough to get it to the gas pump ( the fact that it was out of gas should have been mentioned earlier than it was , because it looked a little ridiculous to see him drive up to the house and then frantically shake Barbara , asking her repeatedly if she has a car ) , only to be killed by fatal stupidity . I have to admit that I thought the ending was fairly clever . The horribly ironic ending of the original has been changed , but it's still horribly ironic . The whole gang of characters gets saved by a bunch of drunken rednecks , who gleefully and repeatedly shoot zombies between pounding cans of beer , stringing them up in the trees and whatnot , while one character has a bit of insight about the zombies , ' They're us and we're them . ' Nice , but I could have done without the philosophy lesson . I think this remake really tried hard to justify itself , to be more than just a static colorization of a classic , and I think that to a large extent it succeeds . Where it falls short is that it doesn't know what is good and what can be changed about the original . Lots of good is brought through , but there are a few things that I could simply have done without . I'm not a big fan of people remaking classic movies and changing them , but Harry Cooper needs a total character overhaul . Nevertheless , this one's worth a look .
A comedy about an aging , out of work screenwriter , written by an aging , out of work screenwriter .	Okay , ACTOR . At any rate , Steve Martin hasn't exactly been cranking out the movies Jackie-Chan-style lately . In Bowfinger , Martin plays the part of Bowfinger , a film producer / director with ridiculous taste in movies and who is hard up for material . And it's no wonder why he can't get his films financed , anyone who sees brilliance in a crapfest like ' Chubby Rain ' is not likely to be known for his keen eye for quality film . At any rate , some guy writes this crappy science fiction script and Bowfinger wants to film it , and he wants to have Kit Ramsey , the biggest action star of the time , star in it . When Bowfinger presents the script to Ramsey , he tries to lie to him to become friends , and when he is found out , Ramsey kicks him out of the limo and throws the script out as well . And thus , being the brilliant filmmaker that Bowfinger is ( hey , he found this genius script , right ? ) , he decides that he wants to make the movie anyway without Ramsey even knowing that he's in it , and even without his own actors knowing that Ramsey doesn't know he's in it . Kit Ramsey - , whose first name is creatively taken from a repeating phrase in his holistic therapy session , ' Keep it together ' - is played , in a hilarious over the top performance , by Eddie Murphy , who fits the role very well except for the fact that he's not quite the action star that he used to be . His later films have been mostly comedies , and good comedies , at that . Heather Graham plays the part of the country girl from Ohio who wants to become a movie star , and she sleeps with everyone that she has to in order to get good scenes in the movie , and also to eventually get close to Ramsey . One of the funnier parts of this movie is the way that Bowfinger goes about the production of the movie , while trying to keep everyone from finding out that Ramsey really doesn't know that he's in it , as well as trying not to go over his shoestring budget . It seems that the only money that he has is a stash of dollar bills , because he has been putting away one dollar a week since he was seven years old , which is pretty impressive that he stuck with that , but it's also pretty sad that it's the only money that he has to his name in order to make this movie . At any rate , his star doesn't know that he's starring so he doesn't have to pay him , he hired a bunch of fugitive Mexican migrants for his crew , he sneaks onto his locations without a permit and works his way around the police , he even borrows nice cars ( one of his crew is a valet ) to use in the film so he won't have to pay for rentals . If nothing else , this movie gives some good ideas about how someone could make a movie with little to no money ( Bowfinger has a little over $2 , 000 , while the average Hollywood film has a budget of tens of millions ) , even though many of his ideas are not likely to work in real life . The irony of this film is that even though Chubby Rain is clearly a B-movie ( you can tell by the purposely ridiculous acting and the idiotic story ) , it gets a standing ovation at the first screening at the end of the film . Ramsey's psychological and pathological problems and urges play a surprisingly significant role in the film , besides just making it funnier when he is approached by the actors , who deliver their lines about invading aliens to him , which terrifies him . Bowfinger is not the high caliber comedy that you might expect , especially given its cast , but it is an entertaining look at independent filmmaking with some occasional bits of great comedy , and of course , Eddie Murphy again showing his diversity as an actor by also playing the part of Kit Ramsey's geeky brother , who doubles for him in many scenes in the movie . This is below the standard of the people involved with the movie , but it is definitely worth a look .
Nothing great ?	I remember when Finding Forrester was released there was all this buzz about how great it was , just like there was about Almost Famous , another movie , like Finding Forrester , generally about getting the respect that you deserve , although neither movie deserves the respect that they get . The plot is an exercise in exploring massive clichés from movies about finding talent in unexpected places , and not about doing anything new within any genre . The basic theme is of the rugged genius who is held down by a jealous and / or suspicious and accusatory ? one might say racist , in this case ? superior , but who breaks through all of the barriers erected in front of him . Luckily , here we have the addition of the character of a great but lost writer , who wrote a single classic but subsequently disappeared from the public eye , only to have his heart captured by this inner city kid with the gift of a great writing ability . Sean Connery has a difficult time fitting this role , or maybe I just have a hard time seeing him as a great writer , the real talent in this movie is Rob Brown in his film debut playing the part of Jamal Wallace . There is a great scene where his jerk teacher starts reciting quotes from great writers in an effort to show Jamal and the rest of the class how much smarter he is than any of them , and Jamal repeatedly identifies each author after only a few words . It's a great lesson about teaching methods , although I like to think that there are few teachers who deliberately try to make their students feel inferior to themselves , but I know they're out there . I've had a few myself , although I don't think I've had any as bad as this guy . His problem might be that he's teaching at an inner city school , since he is so obviously racist . Sean Connery and Rob Brown work well together , despite their relationship being so contrived . William Forrester is the author of a single classic who apparently has spent the last 40 years or so rarely leaving his apartment and writing masterpieces that he refuses to publish because of a paralyzing fear of being critically misinterpreted , a risk that every artist of any kind in the history of mankind has run by publicizing their work . The ones that never publicized their work are quickly forgotten . Jamal plays basketball with friends near Forrester's apartment , from which he watches them with binoculars , which is creepy indeed . On a dare , Jamal sneaks into his apartment and is scared away by him in such a rush that he leaves his backpack behind with a notebook with some of his writing in it . It's not long before his backpack comes sailing out of Forrester's window with lots of corrections and suggestions in it . This setup for the relationship between Jamal and Forrester is clever , until you realize that this guy has been holed up in that apartment for decades because he doesn't want anyone to read his work . All those years and all he needed was someone to leave some experimental writing in his apartment to get him going again . There are lots of movies that get a lot done along the way . Finding Forrester , on the other hand , exists entirely as a setup for its conclusion , which is indeed satisfying . It's like every schoolboy's dream . One of them , anyway . I suppose schoolboys have a lot of dreams . One of my stranger ones was the wish that I could freeze time and go up and erase everything on the board anytime the teacher wrote something up there . The ensuing mayhem would have been too gleeful for me to contain . The movie is essentially about Jamal's transition from getting through school on athletic scholarships and getting through school because of his intellectual prowess , and in that way it succeeds very well . It is a satisfying movie that will make you feel good , but it is undeniably a formula film .
Ten million dollars in diamonds are forever .	Okay , that didn't really have much to do with this movie , but hey , neither did the first 15 minutes of it . Along Came A Spider is a very entertaining thriller , but as soon as it ends , you realize that it is little more than a rehash of things that have been seen in countless thrillers of the same kind before . There are several effective twists during the movie , but when you think about it , they are exactly the same twists that you see in just about every thriller . The largely recycled plot is somewhat saved by the always excellent performance from Morgan Freeman ( I think he's more than redeemed himself by now for Hard Rain ) , as well as the wonderfully hate-able kidnapper ( Gary Soneji ) provided by Michael Wincott , who may not have been given a role as fitting as this since Robin Hood : Prince of Thieves ( keeping in mind his excellent performance in The Crow ) . Monica Potter plays the role of the Secret Service agent in charge of supervising little Megan , the daughter of a Senator and the subject of the story's kidnapping . It doesn't become abundantly clear until near the end of the film , but Potter sounds EXACTLY like Julia Roberts in this role , despite bearing no physical resemblance whatsoever . Her vocal similarity to Roberts is downright spooky . One of the things that really brought this movie down was the way that Megan was portrayed as some sort of super girl . I don't expect for her to be just a poor helpless little girl , but just because she is a senator's daughter doesn't mean that she should automatically be able to concoct a brilliant scheme involving exploding batteries in order to escape from her captor , or perform some of the feats that she did while she was held captive in the wooden room during the end of the film . That sort of thing should be reserved for action B-movies like Commando ( yes , I know that Commando rocked , but so did Bloodsport and Kickboxer , but that doesn't mean they're not B-movies ) . You remember that Alyssa Milano , in Commando , was confined to a wooden room in that film , and she escaped by prying a board loose near the floor ? EXACTLY the same way that Megan was attempting to escape in Along Came A Spider . Given all of the things that are wrong with this film , it becomes clear that it's value does not lie with the story , but instead with the superior performances throughout . Of particular note , obviously , are Morgan Freeman and Michael Wincott . Freeman is always good in his movies , however bad the plot , and it's just so good to occasionally see an actor like Wincott get a role that fits his iconography so well . Along Came A Spider is not a great movie by any standards , but there can be no denying that it does have its moments . The delivery of the diamond ransom , for example , may not have been too original , but at least it was well done . While it's true that this movie seems to have been assembled from parts taken directly from dozens of other movies , it still manages to barely save itself , although it is still almost sure to be very quickly forgotten .
A necessary prequel to a not so great miniseries .	I saw Rose Red not too long ago , and not too long after having read the book . I went to Spain in the Summer of 2003 for a few weeks . I was traveling on my own , making a documentary for the University of California , and literally on my last day in Spain , I noticed a book called My Life at Rose Red , by Stephen King , at a liquor store in a town called Benidorm on the southeastern coast . I picked it up , since I had about 30 hours of travel ahead of me back to California and because I hadn't seen a book in English in quite some time . Having been a Stephen King fan for most of my life ( I opened the floodgates of horror novels when I read ' It ' in 6th grade ) , I was amazed at how much of a character study the book was , but the movie dealt with the mystery of the haunted Rose Red , not with it's construction , which is what the book is all about . The Diary of Ellen Rimbauer , I think , makes an honest attempt to go back and tell that part of the Rose Red story . What is truly odd , however , is that the movie that actually tells the story of Ellen and John Rimbauer , the story of the construction of Rose Red , about which Stephen Kings ' book is written , is actually based on a journal of Ellen's that was written by a different author . I hope I have my facts straight here . King's book is actually in the form of Ellen's diary , although he delves suspiciously close to novel writing at many times . Who writes a diary like that ? Anyway , this film telling the story that led up to the subject of the lengthy miniseries aired on ABC a couple years ago comes much closer to telling the story in the book from which that miniseries took its name . Its interesting that the miniseries needs a prequel to tell the story of the book upon which it is based . Okay , I'm getting a little repetitive . Much more digestible at less than half the length of Rose Red , the movie unfortunately never really comes out of the shadow of the movie that its content precedes , always coming across as a prequel that leads up to something else . Maybe it's because it didn't have enough life of its own or because I always got the feeling that it was purposely covering the holes left by Rose Red , providing an excuse for that movie having so little to do with the book upon which it was supposedly based . Either way , taken together the two movies provide a pretty interesting ghost story , one about a haunted mansion that actually has such a turbulent past leading to why it is haunted ( hence the need for this prequel ) . It's just too bad that it takes a total of more than six hours for them to tell that story ?
Early Tom Hanks charmer .	Joe Versus the Volcano is a bizarre little romantic comedy that is about as unexpected as you can imagine . By now , early 2008 , we have come to expect great things from him , and even here , in this outlandish little black sheep of a film , he shows us that early Hanks charm for which he is so known and loved . The scene when he is dancing by himself on top of the makeshift raft is a classic , for sure ! Meg Ryan , on the other hand , another hugely talented actor , mostly shows here why she doesn't do accents . She also , of course , has charm and presence , but she is very much overshadowed by Tom's . The important thing here is that they both exist in a terrible world ruled by the 40 Hour Work Week , presided over by the Terrible Boss and the cripplingly depressing atmosphere . Joe ( Hanks ) , for example , believes that the fluorescent lights in his depressing office are slowly driving him crazy . He goes to see a doctor , who tells him that he has something called a " brain cloud , " which will kill him in six months but won't affect him physically until then . Of course , this diagnosis is the perfect reason to quit his job and tell off his boss , so Hanks gets a " telling-off " scene that is so good that you may wonder why Julia Roberts was ever allowed to do it in just about ever movie she ever made after Pretty Woman . Why didn't it become a staple in Hanks ' films ? At any rate , Joe decides to leave his stifling job and live his life to the fullest , which of course leads in the most bizarre direction possible , to him being " hired " to become sacrifice himself to the volcano gods . The movie is , of course , at its most zanily creative with this idea , and yet the natives inhabiting the island are one of the only gags that just don't work . Lloyd Bridges is classic as the natives ' chief , but a group of religious native islanders that worship orange soda ? Come on Mr . Shanley , you can't use even the horrendous January Man as an excuse for THAT one . . . Nevertheless , the movie is a curious romp into the imagination , and still has the presence of mind to make suggestions about life , reminding us once again of that all important rule of never giving in to the intolerable seriousness of it all . . .
Chaplin on his way out of the short comedy .	I have heard that Chaplin rushed to produce A Day's Pleasure because the studio was demanding product while he was working on The Kid , but I have to disagree that it is a below-average comedy . It is a little different from the fare that we have come to expect from him in his short comedies , but I think this is as much a reflection of his desire to do something different as it is of the fact that he rushed through the production to satisfy the studio while he made another film , which he was more than likely more interested in . It should be kept in mind that Chaplin had been involved in the production of nearly 100 short silent comedies by the time A Day's Pleasure came around , so I can forgive him a little distraction in it's production . If nothing else , I find the film to be particularly interesting , especially at the beginning , because the building that Chaplin and the family leave from at the opening of the film is Chaplin's office in Los Angeles , where I live . It's hard to mistake those mountains in the background ! One thing that I found to be interesting is that at one point in the opening sequence , a man walks into the frame in the background , and the trivia on the IMDb claims that he was most likely a studio employee , which seems like a preposterous notion , since the man not only walks right into the frame during shooting , but also pauses to see what's going on after he turns back . If he was a studio employee , it must have been his first day ! Also of some note is a rather disturbing portrayal of the black characters . Granted , 1919 was a very different time than now , but like Hitchcock's The Ring , which featured a sadly slave-like black man grinning gleefully as dirty , backwards-looking white people dunked him in a tub of water , A Day's Pleasure features a band of black musicians which doesn't say anything good about Chaplin's idea of black people ( what is the meaning of " Three minds with but a single thought ? " ) . While I agree that some of the material is a little different from many of Chaplin's other short films , the sequences here are certainly not without merit , particularly a hilarious bit with an uncooperative deck chair midway through the film . Some of the behavior of Chaplin and his other actors in the film is a little odd ( at one point the family is on a crowded passenger ship on which everyone seems to be falling asleep on their feet in the middle of the day ) , but I should think that Chaplin made a graceful exit from the short silent comedy , if not an eventful one .
Jason Voorhees Still Mad About His Mom - ' Friday the 13th ' Review . . .	There comes a time in every overly long horror movie franchise when it's no longer necessary to add numbers at the end of the titles of the horizonless stream of sequels . This happened in the Friday the 13th series for the first time in part 4 , The Final Chapter , which incidentally is also the first time they put a bald-faced lie right into the title . Then the numbering system disappeared until part VI ( one of the only sequels worth watching ) , VII , and VIII , after which the whole titling process changed completely . In fact , no Friday the 13th movie has had " Friday the 13th " anywhere in the title since the stupendously bad Jason Takes Manhattan , which was released a full two decades ago . Now , the newest entry in the series is released with exactly the same title as the original ! I don't really want to contemplate what this means as far as the end of the series , if it will ever come . I tend to doubt it . Thankfully , the movie was a lot better than I expected . It would be something of an understatement to say that I had low expectations to begin with , but in the cinematic world of horror sequels , the new Friday the 13th is one of the better ones . The movie opens with a scene that shows little promise for a good horror movie . Anyone who has ever seen pretty much any Friday the 13th sequel will be immediately dismayed to see that they have elected to start this one off with the same thing - a bunch of idiot college kids wandering into the forest to get high and get laid , laughing and joking over a campfire about the legend of Jason Voorhees . " It all happened right here in these woods ! Right here where we are ! Jason could be right behind those trees ! Huh huh huh huh ! ! ! " Morons . This is , however , all part of a set-up that sets the stage for the rest of the movie , which thankfully takes a slightly different tact from the myriad of sequels that came before it . There's an opening sequence that's more than 20 minutes long that takes place before the opening title card , and then during the rest of the movie there's a college-age kid surveying all the people in the surrounding area of Camp Crystal Lake to find out if anyone has seen his missing sister , who was one of the kids in the beginning of the movie . Okay , maybe I lied . That's the only thing that's different . There is an unmistakable feeling that the only thing that ever changes in Friday the 13th movies is the kind of cars the kids drive and their accommodations . This time they're cruising along in an Escalade and staying in the vacation home of one of their parents . Evidently someone thought to buy a beautiful lakeside cabin at Crystal Lake , which until now never really struck me as a big vacation destination . The performances are uniformly bad throughout . They are exactly the same sophomoric idiots that star in every horror movie ever made that has high school or college kids in it . They show up making the same stupid jokes , wearing the same stupid halter tops and each representing the same stupid caricatures . The geek , the black kid , the jock ( s ) , the nervous good girl , the hot chick ( s ) , etc . But at least the paper thin characters make the admittedly clever and gruesome kills that much more satisfying . Kind of makes me wonder what a slasher film would be like if there was a single character in it that we cared about , you know ? Friday the 13th follows exactly the same formula that the series has followed who knows how many times before - a group of kids go into the woods together and manage to get separated from each other within usually less than ten minutes - but as Jason gets on in age ( by my calculations he should be somewhere in his early 60s by now ) he has gotten bigger and faster and stronger . This doesn't speak well for the logistical consistency of the series , but when has logic ever applied ? The Friday the 13th movies have always been the kind of movies that you watch at home on a late rainy night , usually best enjoyed with a bunch of friends and a 12-pack . I can't remember a time when a Friday the 13th movie has ever been scary , but I would be lying if I said I don't occasionally get a huge kick out of having a couple beers with my buddies and watching an old , bad horror movie , so what's so wrong with having a couple beers with my buddies and watching a new , bad horror movie ? Note : At one point in the movie , one of the characters says this line of dialogue - " Let's all be one big , happy cliché ! " I don't think I even need to comment on that .
This is definitely the slapstick comedy that it was made out to be , but Jim Carrey , the master of modern slapstick comedy , makes it work .	I had high hopes for Me , Myself , and Irene , but mostly because I am a huge Jim Carrey fan . Clearly , the story of the film did not strike me as something truly ingenious , but it provided huge possibilities for Carrey to work his hilarious magic . While not nearly as good as some of his comedy classics , such as Dumb & Dumber , Me , Myself and Irene was very successful on many levels . ( spoilers ) One of the things that is seen here ( as is seen in many of Carrey's films ) is the criminal subplot that actually drives much of the comedy . In some cases , this provides for some irony that is actually pretty funny , but also makes you wonder about the message that is being delivered to this film's target audience ( ' ? somewhere along the line they get the idea that the cops are the bad guys - ' BAM ! ) . Well , in this case , the cops really ARE the bad guys . While the majority of the film was very successful as a comedy , I think that some things may have been a little bit blown out of proportion , or a little too childish . The cow , for example , which was ' lucky to be alive ' after Carrey shot it in the head six times and then tried to wrestle to death , was just too much . On the other hand , this kind of excess is not too unexpected , given the film's directors . Also , Carrey's three vulgar but hugely intelligent sons may have gone a little too far , but in this case , it was still really funny . They also ended the film in a charming way ? ' Thanks for watching our motherfkin ' movie ! ' I can't say that I loved Me , Myself , and Irene , but it was still a good comedy . Renee Zellweger gave a good performance as the object of the affection of both of Carrey's personalities in the film . And she also delivered a good kick to his jaw in one particularly amusing scene . The reason to watch this film is for the hilarious performance by Carrey as the two strikingly different colliding personalities , Hank and Charlie . The breathy sound of Hank's voice gets a little tiring pretty quick , but this doesn't take away from the laughs that are skillfully delivered .
Axel Foley gets the Tony Scott / Jerry Bruckheimer / Don Simpson treatment ?	At the time of its release Beverly Hills Cop was the highest grossing comedy of all time , so it works out perfectly that its first sequel would be directed and produced by the juggernaut Hollywood crowd-pleasers Don Simpson and Jerry Bruckheimer ( and directed by none less than Tony Scott ) . The formula is exactly the same ( and man I really mean exactly ) , although it follows all of the usual rules of an action sequel , which state that it must have a much bigger budget ( Axel still does his police work by his own rules , only this time he uses precinct money to drive around in a Ferrari ) , more deaths , faster and funnier jokes ( it clearly shoots for this one , anyway ? ) , and at least one more 6-foot platinum blonde . Let's take a little trip , shall we ? Beverly Hills Cop 2 was released in May of 1987 , and so came just after things like Top Gun , Police Academy 3 , The Color of Money , To Live and Die in L . A . ( which was sort of an anti-buddy cop movie with a mean streak that is clearly reflected in Cop 2 ) , Eddie Murphy's own The Golden Child , and the original Lethal Weapon , which was released just a few months earlier and may have been sharing theaters with it . Needless to say , there was no shortage of police movies and whatnot , and no time is wasted in attempting to stand out from the crowd . The movie starts with a violent robbery pulled off in broad daylight by a highly organized group of criminals headed by the statuesque Bridgette Nielsen , who plays the curiously named Karla Fry . She's involved with a ruthless organized crime syndicate that is running firearms to Central America , and when police chief Bogomil is gunned down , Foley decides he's going to head on back to southern California to solve the case himself again . Everyone is friends now after the events of the first movie . Taggart and Rosewood are no longer spying on Axel but have all become good friends , as they have with Bogomil , who sided with them against the Commissioner or Chief or Mayor or whatever at the end of the last movie . Unfortunately , the new police chief is a total jerkoff and has been firing everyone in sight and replacing them with all of his own people , so once again Taggart and Rosewood and Foley are forced to go against direct orders in order to do what needs to be done . The movie has been almost unanimously slammed by critics , and I would certainly hesitate to say that it's as bad as all that . In more recent years I have not always been the biggest fans of people like Jerry Bruckeimer ( the mega-producer who we have to thank for such highly polished cheesefests as Armageddon and Gone in 60 Seconds and Pearl Harbor , not that he hasn't had his better movies ) , but if you are just looking for a fun popcorn action flick , you could certainly do worse than this one . If nothing else , it was great fun picking out the hilarious 80s pop culture references , some of which were light-hearted jabs at the competition , such as the posters for First Blood Part II and Rambo in Rosewood's " stress-free " apartment , and maybe my favorite , Bridgette Nielsen's ( Stallone's wife at the time ) earrings , which were these bizarre little metallic arrows that made her look like a Klingon . It's true that some of the jokes and situations are a little too unoriginal , even only in the first sequel , such as Foley's remarkable ability to come up with crazy stories on the spot ( although the best one is where he pretends to be a gay prostitute to get into a ritzy club and harass the bad guy ) and his loud-mouthed streams profanity . But again , not necessarily something that I would criticize the movie for just for being there . It gets a little cheesy at times though , like when he gets into the bad guys ' office by pretending to be a delivery boy delivering highly unstable plutonium capsules in - get this - a brown paper bag , but overall it stays in the same vein as the original and may even be better in a lot of ways .
Super Soldiers of the future ? set in far off 1993 ! !	Universal Soldier starts out in 1968 with Van Damme playing the good guy , standing up for some innocent Vietnamese people in a village during the war . Dolph Lundgren plays an embittered American soldier , consumed with anger about his fellow soldiers who have been killed in the war , and intent on taking it out on any Vietnamese people he can find . Luc ( Van Damme ) insists that the village has been cleared and those people have done nothing wrong , and the ensuing conflict leads to both of them killing each other before the opening credits are even over . The dead soldiers are declared M . I . A . , not because their having killed each other would be a little difficult to explain , but because they are needed for a new kind of military technology . Now here's where I get a little lost . We cut to the " Present Day Nevada Desert , " 25 years later . You'll notice that 25 years after 1968 you'll find 1993 , the year after this movie was released . I supposed the original audiences were left in complete terror about what was going to take place around the following Spring . The rest of us may wonder why the movie markets itself as being a story about futuristic military technology , when it takes place about 5-6 months after the release date . At any rate , we are immediately taken to a tense hostage situation that is taking place , if I'm not mistaken , on the Hoover Dam , so that the new cyborg-soldiers could be put to the test ( a full quarter of a century after they were made ) . Truly they are impressive pieces of machinery ( or whatever they are ) , and the situation is soon under control . The local news outlets gleefully report that the situation has been taken care of , and with " no casualties or injuries . " Maybe they forgot about the dozen or so innocent people that had been machine gunned right there in the middle of the road in broad daylight . Or maybe they just don't count . The movie plays around a lot with what Luc and Andrew Scott ( Lundgren ) have become . There's a scene where , after Luc begins having flashbacks of Vietnam and escapes with an attractive reporter ( who was fired for being late to the scene ) , he walks outside naked as the day he was born , explaining that he's hot . You see , one of the symptoms of the new soldiers is that their body temperature runs hot , so they have to sleep in refrigerated compartments to avoid overheating . Soon after that , they are discovered , so Luc ( now named GR-44 ) asks Veronica , the reporter , to examine his naked , chiseled body and look for where they have hidden the tracking device . " Look for something unusual , " he tells her . " Something hard . " Clearly , the ideas lifted by the boatload from the Terminator movies need not be named . I have only room for 1 , 000 words here , and to list the borrowed ideas would take more than that . But even though there are literally scenes lifted directly from the Terminators ( like the café scene where GR-44 casually beats the crap out of everyone in sight ) , the movie never feels like a rip-off . Maybe that's because , for all the bad rap he gets , Van Damme has a definite , undeniable on screen charm . At one point , not long after they've met , Veronica asks him where he's from . " I figured you gotta be French or something , " she says , " because of your accent . " " What accent ? " he asks . He seems genuinely confused . The movie sort of descends into routine action clichés by the time GR's 13 ( Lundgren ) and 44 start having flashbacks , and start to remember that they killed each other and hence have unfinished business . It seems that they revert to the emotion that they had at the time they died , so GR-13 wants vengeance of anyone within shooting distance , while GR-44 just wants to go home . Thus we get the government-made super-soldiers trying to kill each other . This leads to a half amusing and half disturbing scene where GR-13 terrorizes some astonished civilians in a supermarket ( while another GR mindlessly gnaws on a raw steak ) , and then ultimately to the obligatory final showdown . I found the " explanation " for the transformation particularly interesting . I feel like , in science fiction movies , how the ' fiction ' is explained is where most of the creativity lies . Sadly , there's not much here . A scientist explains to Veronica how it all worked . " By hyper-accelerating the bodies , we discovered that we could turn dead flesh into living tissue . " Hyper-accelerating ? Is that how they got the soldiers to age super-slow ? Or not at all , and for 25 years ? Sadly , we may never know . When Veronica replies , " What are you saying , doctor ? " there is a knock at the door , so he doesn't really have time to explain . Too bad . There's not much to be said about the ending . It's the worst part of the movie , by far . An enormous copout the likes of which is rarely seen even in bad b-movies . But I should also mention that the movie is not as bad as the ending , or even as bad as many people say . It's not a science fiction classic , but it's a fun action popcorn movie , like many of Van Damme's films . If nothing else , the movie teaches us a valuable lesson - don't throw a beer can at a man wearing a necklace made out of human ears . Note : At the Cannes Film Festival when Universal Soldier was released , Van Damme and Lundgren got into an argument and then a shoving match right there on the red carpet in front of the world's cameras ( you can check it out on YouTube ) . Many lament that we may never know if it was real or just a publicity stunt . It definitely looked real to me , but if it wasn't , then all the mystery around it must mean that they really CAN act !
" Men are changed by events , not events by men . "	The last installment in the Infernal Affairs trilogy is surprisingly slow moving , but still has the high production values and intricate story of the first two , although as a whole it is slightly less engaging than the preceding films . There have been a lot of comparisons between this trilogy and The Godfather films , and the similarities in story-telling structure and the overall arc of the sequels are definitely there , although I have to admit that I think the Godfathers exist on an entirely different level as these films . The Infernal Affairs films are good , but they're not THAT good . There is a lot of work in bringing together the stories of the first two films and it definitely adds to them , but I found this one to be too slow moving , although the pace picked up by the third act and the final scene is definitely impressive . On the other hand , the trilogy ends on a serious downer - " Ksitigarbha Sutra - ' People of the like shall be cast into the Avinci Hell and will continue to suffer from Kalpas to Kalpas with no means of escape . ' I may as well just admit that I don't know the meaning or source of this quote , but it sure seems like a depressing note to end the trilogy on . Nevertheless , despite being just a little bit of a let-down ( like countless trilogy finales ) , Internal Affairs 3 is a necessary closure , and Asian cinema fans are sure to eat it up .
A worthwhile comedy thanks to Orlando Jones .	We all know Orlando Jones as the endlessly amusing 7-Up guy , but in Evolution he is given a full-length role and the opportunity to show the world how funny he can be . Here is an enormously underrated actor who steals the show even when he's not onscreen , so we can only hope to see a lot more of him in the future . David Duchovny is perfectly cast as the geology professor at the local city college who is on the scene to investigate a mysterious asteroid that has landed on earth and seems to have brought with it some astonishingly quickly growing and evolving organisms from an unknown origin . His history from the X-Files gives him the perfect mixture of seriousness since he just has that voice that makes anything he's talking about sound mysterious and other-worldly , and at the same time it gives him a great opportunity to make some nice inside jokes about his iconography ( ' I don't trust the government , I know those people . ' ) . Julianne Moore is the place where the movie really trips up . She is a tremendously talented actor , and is given a role that is immensely below her . She is there literally for no other reason than to have a love interest for Dr . Kane ( Duchovny ) and so that she can , for some reason , trip and fall flat on her face for some completely unknown reason every once in a while in the movie . Seann William Scott , the single reason to watch crapfests like the American Pies and Road Trip , is given a role that reduces him to goofball comic relief spouting bad jokes ( ' That's like a big loogie ! ' ) that are funny almost not a single time in the film . This guy was side-splittingly hilarious in some of his previous films , even the bad ones ( which was most of them ) , and he is a hugely talented comedy actor , but he just had nothing to work with here . Maybe they should have let him write his own part . The aliens themselves are remarkably interesting , given the way they grow and evolve at such an alarming rate and the things that they grow into . There is a lot of creativity there , even though a lot of it goes way over the top and there are occasional special effects that are just not convincing enough . The idea of having the aliens being unable to tolerate oxygen was a good one , because when aliens are introduced from another world , you can't just have them running around killing people , there have to be some rules that the humans can work with in fighting them so that they're not just freaky looking bad guys . An intolerance of our atmosphere gives them character and gives the humans an edge . The way that they conducted experiments ( purposely or otherwise ) to see what killed the aliens was some of the more interesting parts of the movie , although their weapon against the biggest baddest aliens at the end of the film was a little too goofy , even for a movie like this . Evolution is a very rare kind of film , placing itself among very few colleagues in a genre almost entirely its own , the science fiction comedy . It has the cast to create this kind of film successfully , but some of them , mainly Julianne Moore and Seann William Scott , are simply misused and do not fulfill their entire potential . If a little more work had been put into their roles , the movie could have been immeasurably better .
Hitch's first film ?	( possible spoilers ) In what Alfred Hitchcock considers to be his first true film , he presents the story of a man who is suspected of being Jack the Ripper . It is almost a polar opposite of what was to become one of his favorite themes , the wrong man theme , in the sense that it is the populace ( and the audience ) rather than the police that are on the wrong track . The film is very expressionistic and highly stylish , and often lingers on motionless shots to let individual performances illustrate the dramatic tension . A young Hitchcock ( he was my age when he made the film , about 27 or 28 ) allowed himself to be swayed by popular and studio pressure much more than he would later in his career , since he allowed the entire ending of this film to be altered based on the popularity of it's handsome star , stage actor Ivor Novello . Hitch's humor comes through in scenes like a showgirl dramatically giving up peroxide , since the Avenger seems to prefer blondes . The Lodger is also credited with being the first film where Hitchcock started making his trademark cameos , one of him at a news desk early in the film and once again in the crowd near the end . I am going to remain neutral on this , because neither appearance is surely Hitchcock . The man at the desk is shown from behind and could be anyone , and try as I might , I couldn't find him anywhere in the crowd at the end . Hitchcock also has nothing nice to say in the film about media sensationalism , which is the cause of much of the widespread panic caused by the murders . Very good early Hitchcock , it's easy to see why he was gaining so much attention at this point in his career .
Mission : Implausible . . .	A quick glance back at my Oscars archives will reveal that Snake Eyes wasn't even nominated for a Best Editing Academy Award in 1998 , which is a sad , ridiculous omission . This might be because the ending is famously bad , but for all of the film's many faults , the mystery portion of the movie is crafted together with such directing and editing skill that it's a travesty that it should have been so overlooked . Of particular note is the movie's uninterrupted first shot . I don't know how long it is exactly , but it goes on for several minutes , which is an enormously difficult thing to pull off . It requires massive amounts of planning and preparation , and they pulled it off brilliantly here , reminding me of similar shots in GoodFellas , Boogie Nights , and The Player . But the real problem with the movie is that it gives us 90 minutes of an exciting thriller and then caves in to a cheap , contrived ending that only calls more attention to itself by coming on the heels of such an otherwise good movie . Brian de Palma's previous film was the brilliant remake of Mission : Impossible , and while the action and pace of that movie were both well-suited to the director's biggest talents , in Snake Eyes he has pulled out all the stops and given us a movie where every frame is packed to the edges with excesses in color , motion , gestures , and noise . Not that this is a bad thing , of course . In fact , for the most part all of the visual chaos only makes the movie fascinating to look at even as we struggle to figure out what's going on . But man , it's just too bad about that ending . Nicholas Cage plays Rick Santoro , a detective and boxing fan who happens to be in the front row of a heavyweight champion fight where prize-fighter Lincoln Tyler ( Stan Shaw ) is defending his title . Hurricane Jezebel is pounding on the outside of the arena as Tyler is getting pounded in the ring by an over-confident , wise-cracking challenger . A heavy hit sends Tyler down to the canvas and then gunshots ring out . The Secretary of Defense , sitting a few seats away from Santoro , is shot in the throat and the whole stadium erupts into a panic . What follows is a multiple point of view presentation of the event , which shows us 20 minutes or so leading up to the gunshots and some time after , and then cuts back and shows the same time period but at different locations within the stadium . Santoro's best friend is Kevin Dunne ( Gary Sinise ) , who is in charge of the Secretary's security for the event . Not a good job to have when the guy gets assassinated . Sinise gives a subdued and collected performance , especially when compared to the exaggerated excess of much of Cage's performance , but the problem is that he and Cage have not a scrap of chemistry on stage . We're told that they have been best friends since childhood , but none of that comes through in their limited shared screen time , which pulls the rug out from a scene late in the movie that is supposed to be powerful and moving . Sadly , it's not . De Palma succeeds best in the way he presents the events leading up to the assassination from several different points of view , not the least reason for which is because we don't know which of them , if any , we can trust entirely , which makes the mystery element of the movie even more interesting . Stan Shaw deserves some credit for his performance as while he never for a second looks like a boxing champion , there is a scene in the ring where his eyes show a depth of sadness and remorse for what he has to do that might be the single best piece of acting in the entire movie . An extra layer of realism is also added as the movie takes us behind the scenes of a major prize-fight , showing us what the boxers do just before and after a major fight and a little bit about how casino security is handled . There is another plot below the assassination involving doctored missile test results and a subsequent conspiracy , but it really serves no other purpose than to give a reason for the assassination , which itself drives the rest of the movie . But unfortunately Snake Eyes is one of those movies that is really good and then hugely disappointing , leaving you with a feeling somewhere between regret that the movie wasn't better and just feeling cheated .
Sex still more offensive than violence ?	If Kevin Smith can't do anything new with the romantic comedy genre I think it's pretty safe to assume that it's never going to happen . The first 45 minutes or so of Zack and Miri Make A Porno have some of the funniest stuff I've seen in a movie since Pineapple Express ( which was written by fellow funnyman Judd Apatow ) . The scene where Zack is talking to the two gay guys at the high school reunion cost me a perfectly good cup of delicious iced coffee , most of which ended up in my lap and sprayed all over my coffee table . I think I rewound that scene and watched it over again about 15 times before I finally heard everything over my laughing . But there definitely comes a point in the movie where the predictability factor shoots through the roof and , despite Kevin Smith's undeniably outstanding writing skills , the movie takes a serious downturn . I am not as huge of a fan of Kevin Smith as some of my friends . One of my best friends grew up in New Jersey right next to where Clerks was filmed and has thus developed kind of a special relationship with Smith's films , but while I enjoyed Clerks and loved Mallrats and was mildly impressed with Chasing Amy ( except for all the screaming ) , I haven't been very interested in anything Smith has done since then . I was outwardly bored with Dogma , Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back seemed like such a cash-in to me , I still haven't gotten around to seeing Clerks II and I'll probably never watch Jersey Girl . Ben Affleck and Jennifer Lopez are in that thing , for God's sake . But for a good portion of Zack and Miri I thought that I had been missing something all along , or at least that I had forgotten the undeniable charm of Smith's work . It's true that he is a brilliant writer . He can create conversations that have a hugely profane but still realistic flow , and with actors like Seth Rogen and Elizabeth Banks ( and a whole list of others ) nailing all of their lines , it makes for something special in the comedy department . Sadly , the movie is so predictable that I almost feel like I should give you a spoiler warning just to tell you that . Zack and Miri are life-long friends who have a relationship of convenience . They enjoy each other's company and have a real friendship , but they are roommates primarily for financial reasons . They both have dead-end jobs and rely on each other to share the rent and bills , but a variety of factors ( mostly Zack's inability to put their utility bills above a " Fleshlight " on his list of priorities ) they eventually find themselves months behind on their bills and unable to pay their rent . One day Miri accidentally allows herself to be filmed by a couple of teenagers while she's changing clothes in plain sight at the coffee shop where Zack works and the video shows up on the internet with hundreds of thousands of people watching it daily . Not a bad turnout for what is really a pretty thoroughly uninteresting video , but no matter . This gives Zack the idea that they should make a porno . Even if only the 800 or so people from their high school graduating class bought a copy for $20 a pop or so , it would instantly solve all of their financial problems . It's interesting to notice that Zack and Miri suffer through more moral and emotional torment trying to accept the idea of having sex with each other than they do about selling their naked images to strangers . I would have thought that crossing the line into making porn movies would be a pretty big step , but not these two . You see , it seems that Miri's parents are dead and Zack grandparents are dead ( ? ) , so they have no one to be disappointed in them . It is , however , one of the film's clever accusations of the public at large that the only reason that everyone doesn't get involved in making porn is because they're worried about what their parents would think . They amass a makeshift crew made up of Lester the Molester ( Jason Mewes ) , a stripper named Stacey ( real life porn star Katie Morgan ) , an aging stripper named Bubbles ( Traci Lords ) who earns her name with a rather disturbing trick that she does at bachelor parties , and Barry , a black man with a brutal marriage to a black caricature of a wife and more than his share of financial problems himself . The first half of the movie is some of the best work that Smith has done in years . The dialogue is hilarious , none of the film's admittedly extensive profanity seems overdone , and even the characters are believable as they make this completely unbelievable plan . I spent most of the first half of the movie trying to figure out what was going to go wrong and prevent the porno from ever being filmed , but I spent the second half watching the movie slog through a sadly lengthy list of romantic comedy clichés as it labored toward the obligatory Hollywood ending . I understand that the word " porno " has generated some controversy , prompting some newspapers to refuse to print ads for the movie and some theaters to refuse to show it . I'm wondering if Kevin Smith predicted this and if it was part of his decision to use this title , since getting his film banned from select theaters and newspapers is probably the quickest and most efficient way to ensure it's success . At any rate , it is another sad , sad sign of the times when the word " porno " will generate frantic animosity , but no one has a problem with blood-soaked , degenerate films like Hostel and the never-ending Saw films from being shipped to theaters . Go figure .
Entertaining short comedy by Charlie Chaplin that foreshadows a major theme of his later films .	Unfortunately , Caught In A Cabaret , being one of Chaplin's earliest films , has deteriorated pretty badly over the last nine decades or so , and this deterioration seems to have affected the film's continuity , making it look like the editing is botched . As is the case with most of Chaplin's films , the action in Caught In A Cabaret runs slightly faster than real life , which enhances much of the slapstick comedy but also makes several short clips in the film go by so fast that they are virtually incomprehensible . ( spoilers ) The main theme of Caught In A Cabaret deals with rich vs . poor , a theme that Chaplin later became famous for and which he made use of so often because of his own poverty stricken childhood . This film concerns a working man who pretends to be someone else in order to get accepted into a group of wealthy people . It is not expected that at the end he does not get the girl and winds up walking down a dirt road alone , but his activities throughout the film make his point clear . As he is at a party with the rich people , he gets drunk and makes something of a fool of himself , but when he is working as a waiter , he is fairly heroic , ridding the place of unwanted ruffians and whatnot . Caught In A Cabaret has not survived too well physically , but it is an excellent example of the type of early work Chaplin did as he became famous as one of the most loveable characters in cinematic history .
All's Fair In Love And War Movies - ' Australia ' Review . . .	Australia has the old-fashioned feel of a classic war film ( I've even heard it compared to Gone With The Wind ) combined with a strange , polished futuristic feel of Sky Captain and the World of Tomorrow . It takes place during World War II . Hitler has invaded Poland and the Australians fear that the Japanese forces may overflow into their northern territories at any time . The allied armies of the world will need to eat and it is the aim of a cattle-raising juggernaut in northern Australia named King Carney to be the sole provider of Australian beef to the war effort . Nicole Kidman plays Lady Sarah Ashley , the wife of a British rancher living in Australia receives disturbing reports that her husband has been philandering recklessly while he's supposed to be handling the business of their massive norther Australian cattle ranch , Faraway Downs . She travels to Australia to find out what's going on only to find that the rivalry in the Australian beef industry has taken a deadly turn . She finds her husband murdered and herself in the middle of a complex but confusing plot by the Carney people to trick her into selling her land , not knowing that that was her intention in the first place . When she discovers the truth about what they're doing , she changes her mind and decide to fight them for the war contracts . Lady Sarah attempts to enlist the help of Drover ( Hugh Jackman ) , who is hesitant because he refuses to accept any other job other than an independent contractor out of a deep dislike of the hiring / firing processes . Meanwhile , a young half-caste boy named Nullah has been living on the ranch with his mother and grandmother , hiding out in the water tower because , at that time , any aboriginal children who had been fathered or mothered by blacks were taken away and shipped to an island out on the ocean where the black will be " bred out of them . " The boy gives an astonishing performance , too . He provides the narrative centerpiece of the story , all other events ultimately revolve around him , including his grandfather , who is something of a witch doctor who the Carneys are trying to frame for the murder of Lady Sarah's husband . Australia is listed in part as a western , because it takes place in the dusty expanses of the Australian desert , across the most dangerous sections of which Lady Sarah and Drover must attempt to drive 1 , 500 head of cattle and load them onto the boats at the docks in northern Australia , all the while pursued by Carney's henchmen . The movie gives us a brilliantly presented picture of mid-WWII life in Australia , but it is also much too highly polished . The colors and textures are so bright that it almost looks like we're looking at the future , which left me with the feel that it would have been a much better movie had it had a much smaller budget . But worst of all is that , amidst all of the high-budget trickery and technological polish , the movie is literally peppered with obvious soundstages , cheap CGI and bad blue screens . How did that happen ? Maybe they spent all their post-production budget too soon by hiring Hugh Jackmand and Nicole Kidman ? The performances are almost universally outstanding , however , if a little over-exaggerated in some cases . Australian pubs , for example , are not exactly lady-friendly even 70 years after the movie takes place , but the comedic dramatization is pretty hard to miss . Nicole Kidman is outstanding as the highly proper British aristocrat suddenly thrown into company amidst hardened Australian cattle herders , although I imagine it would be nearly impossible to get a bad performance out of her in a role like that . Hugh Jackman , similarly , inhabits his role remarkably well . But unfortunately , despite being what might normally be called a sweeping historical epic , the movie is so over-processed that it has a permeating feeling of fakeness that never seems to go away , and not just because of the bad sound-stage scenes . For the most part it's beautiful photographed , is full of wonderful performances and as an engaging story , but there is always a sense that it's trying to be something even bigger but isn't exactly sure how to do it .
Another classic from Leslie Nielsen !	I read another reviewer's comments about Wrongfully Accused , and I am continually amazed at how many people judge movies like this as though they are meant to be serious cinematic endeavors . Leslie Nielsen's films , literally , are jokes , and if you can't take them that way then maybe it would be better if you didn't watch them . I only say this here rather than just to that reviewer because I think it's worth pointing out that , in case you couldn't already tell , this movie is a parody and is meant to be laughed at . I am perfectly willing to admit that it is peppered with scenes that fall completely flat ( the sex scene with the sports commentary in the background is a prime example ) and much of Nielsen's acting is absolutely awful ( also note that much of this is also a parody of similar bad acting in the movies that are being spoofed in this movie , such as The Fugitive and obviously some of the James Bond films ) , but again , you really need to keep in mind what kind of movie this is . Besides , there are also plenty of truly hilarious scenes . I can't help cracking up at the train peeking around the rock at Nielsen as he tries to escape , or the scene where he bends down to get his foot out of the railroad tracks and is hit in the forehead by the crossing gate . This scene was also screwed up , because that crossing gate was down across the track rather than a road going over the tracks , and it stopped rising just above Nielsen's head . But who cares ? Comedy is a surprise , if you just saw what was expected it wouldn't be funny ! I can't say that Wrongfully Accused promises a cerebral workout or any moving social commentary , but if you look at the cover of this movie and expect something like that , maybe you should stick to the kid's section at the video store , because you are probably a little out of your league . The rest of you should be able to find some things to laugh at in this movie . Just enjoy it for what it is , because there are really only two things that frost my butt , a snow cone about that high , and IMDb reviewers that can't take a good joke !
As far as action and special effects , X-Men was spectacular , but there were a few holes that were really difficult to overlook .	X-Men definitely delivered in the action and special effects departments . The acting , make-up , and cinematography were all excellent as well . In that sense , it was a great movie . However , the thing that I really had a problem with was the fact that there were a few holes left in the plot that could very easily have been prevented . For example , from what financial base did Dr . Xavier start this spectacular school for mutants ? Clearly it would require a huge amount of money just to build the " big round room " alone . And even more than that , is it just me or does it seem very unlikely that every mutant with these amazing powers somehow winds up in this school and not in some secret government institution somewhere ? Is it a coincidence that the only people who ever witness these peoples ' powers are the people who just want to turn them over to this school and not to the scientific community to see how they work ? Not likely . And what about those powers themselves ? The narration at the beginning of the film talks about how these ' mutants ' have skipped a step in evolution , so that their genetic structure is in various ways superior to that of the rest of the human race . That's great , but does the ability to shoot lasers out of your eyes or , even more , the ability to walk through walls have anything to do with your DNA ? I don't think so . It doesn't seem that there was a lot of thought put into these aspects of the film , and it really bothers me when the filmmakers do things like that . Overall , X-Men was a very good film , and it is definitely worth seeing , but only as a special effects and action extravaganza . It seems to be aimed mostly at younger male audiences , because of the absence of a solid amorous subplot , and also because of Mystique's outfit ( ! ) . Besides all that , at least a basic knowledge of the X-Men comics ( which I personally don't have , I'm into movies , not comic books ) would probably be beneficial in understanding the story a little bit better . If you haven't seen X-Men , go out and check it out . But if you aren't impressed by films that are pulled along almost entirely by their computer generated images and explosions , you might want to skip this one .
This is one of those films that makes up for its total lack of originality with some fairly respectable acting and a few good cleavage shots .	What was up with the low cut shirts , anyway ? Was there some specific reason why Erin Brockovich ( Julia Roberts ) had her push-up bra showing above the top of her low cut shirt in every single scene she was in ? In my opinion , if they are going to do something like that in a film , they better have a real good reason for it , and in this particular film , they didn't . Julia Roberts plays Erin Brockovich in the true story about a woman who took interest in a particular case she came across at the law office where she worked and ended up as the initiating force behind a tremendous lawsuit . She delivered a fairly good performance , but her personality was badly manipulated for the film . Do you really think that she was able to memorize some 650 different phone numbers , names , afflictions , relatives , etc ? I don't think so . Fred freakin ' Tate wouldn't even be able to do that . Besides that , her excessively loud streams of profanity grew tiring very quickly . This is an entertaining film to watch about the corruptions of a huge corporation being thrown back in its face , but the story doesn't have much strength . Despite its good intentions , it gives the illusion that financial gain is the answer if you and your entire family have become gravely ill . In the movie , the settlement to the lawsuit is seen as victory , and no more attention is paid to the sicknesses of the families . Besides that , I find it hard to believe that so many people in the same small town could have gotten that sick for so many years and no one would have even noticed . You'd think there would be some sort of pattern showing up at the local hospitals at least . Overall , Erin Brockovich is an entertaining enough movie . It doesn't break any new ground or tell anything original , but this is a type of film that is always entertaining to watch . If you're into legal thrillers , watch The Rainmaker . If you like The Rainmaker , watch The Firm . If you like The Firm , watch A Civil Action . And if you like A Civil Action and you just need more more more , watch Erin Brockovich , and watch for the real Erin Brockovich as a waitress early in the film .
Interesting Korean horror film with a nice touch of irony .	Having seen so many Asian horror films in recent months , I expected Whispering Corridors to be a lot scarier than it was , but I was still impressed with the consistently creepy mood that permeated the film . When it comes to movies , there are a few things that tend to be pretty effective in scaring me , like kids , clowns , and hallways . Hallways , especially . The Shining had a profound effect on me . Then there are things that are never scary , like screeching cats , and things that are never scary but generally still a lot of fun , like the walking dead . The movie borrows a lot from the horror films that have been pouring out of Japan and doesn't necessarily cover much new ground but is still a pretty entertaining thriller . Interestingly , I found that the best thing about the movie were the performances , some of which were outstanding . Acting prowess is generally not something you look for in horror films . ( spoilers ) There are some things that seem to be hinted at in the movie , although I'm not sure if they're all intentional . At the end when we learn that the ghost's job was to fill the empty seats , it seemed to me that the movie was making a crack about Asian people looking so similar . On the other hand , Asian people only tend to look the same to people who are not Asian . One of my roommates is Japanese and she says it's Americans that all look the same . There is also a hilarious bit of irony near the end when one character has a shard of glass pressed into her throat as she threatens to kill herself . She's pressing hard enough to draw blood and she says something like , " The bloodshed must stop ! " Overall there are not a lot of memorably scary moments , but it is an interesting film that gives some insight into some of the surprising teaching methods practiced in Korea as well as a fairly interesting story . There's nothing new about haunted schools , but the mixture of that foundational premise and the Korean schoolyard environment make for a pretty interesting combination .
This should have been done years ago ! !	In a time when we are almost constantly barraged with goofy spoof films , it's amazing that no one had come out with a spoof of the James Bond films until 1997 . Those movies have been coming out and just BEGGING to be spoofed since the early 60s , and Mike Meyers is the one who finally steps forward to do what simply has to be done , and he does a wonderful job at it . Fans of the James Bond films will have a blast looking for all of the allusions to the old Bond films and trying to determine which Bond film is being spoofed at any given time , but it's important to keep in mind that the film pokes fun at the Bond series in good taste . Austin Powers : International Man of Mystery is never disrespectful to the films that it makes fun of , which is probably the single most important thing about a spoof film that makes it good . This is why the Scary Movies , as just a couple of examples , were such dismal , hideous failures . They try to be funny by viciously making fun of all kinds of movies , and end up looking stupid because they have such a nonexistent right to do that . You can't make a stupid , stupid movie and make fun of a lot of great movies ( and some not so great , admittedly ) and try to pretend to be respectable at the end of it all . That's the recipe for a crapfest . While it's true that a lot of the comedy in the first Austin Powers film is slapstick and obviously contrived , I think it should be a testament to the quality of the film that it is still so funny ! We see all of the traditional Bond clichés in this movie , such as the usual one-liners ( which are made fun of extensively and with spectacular effect here ) , the fancy cars , the goofy cockiness , the teeth-grinding theme song , and the occasionally inexplicable popularity with the women ( this allusion makes most sense when compared to those Bond films that starred Roger Moore ) . The plot involves a rivalry between Dr . Evil , an evil mastermind bent on world domination , and Austin Powers , a mockish caricature of James Bond , bent on stopping Dr . Evil's world domination schemes . Meyers portrays both characters with hilarious skill , making Austin an awkward womanizer with some serious dental problems , and Dr . Evil an evil schemer with a hilarious cutesy side . Neither character really seems like they belong in the role that they serve ( as a spy and a doctor of evil ) , which is where a lot of the comedy comes in . There is also , of course the fact that they both spend most of the movie 30 years in their future , completely out of touch with the new world that they live in . This is not a movie to be taken seriously , and quite frankly , I can't understand all of these reviews that I've read on the IMDb that are constantly complaining that Austin Powers is so cheesy or so childish . I've heard this same complaint about lots of other movies that are also not meant to be taken seriously , but this one is especially confusing . I trust that all you people complaining about how childish Austin Powers is realize that it is a spoof based on a whole series of movies that are also not meant to be taken seriously , right ? I mean , that would be a hell of an oversight to miss that little detail . Austin Powers is one of the most refreshing comedies to come along in years , and it's sad that there are so many people who completely missed the boat on this one just because they pretend that the movie is something that it's not and was never meant to be . It's true that the movie is immensely immature and that it has unfortunately little re-watch value ( one of the biggest problems with the film ) , but the quality of the comedy is unmistakable .
Radio is a world that has to be believed to be seen . . .	Static reminds me of a science fiction version of one of Charlie Chaplin's early short films , like Behind the Screen or Film Johnnie , where he pokes fun at his own craft of film-making . Similarly , in this episode , Rod Serling rails against the descent of civilized society , who used to be able to integrate radio entertainment into a social family environment , and into a race of mindless zombies staring thoughtlessly into the hypnotic box in the living room . The story concerns an aging couple ( who , for various reasons , never married but have lived together basically as husband and wife for decades ) whose lives are thrown into turmoil as a direct result of the garbage on television . Imagine if that happened today , the whole world would collapse ! Dean Jagger plays Ed Lindsay , who one day throws up his hands in disgust at how television has taken over everyone's lives , and so decides to dust off the old radio and see what's on . This episode approaches the exact reason that the subject of time travel is so endlessly entertaining , because everyone imagines visiting another time , particularly as we get older and reminisce about our lost youth . Ed seems to have a past full of regrets , and laments what his life has become , and he looks to the radio as a way to transport himself back to the happier days when he was a young man . This is the stuff our great grandparents must have reminisced about . . . The episode makes an interesting comment on the role of entertainment in American life , as Ed soon becomes just as engrossed and obsessed with the radio as the rest of the family is with the television , and he soon finds himself more concerned about catching his favorite programs than with spending time with his family . Before long they begin to wonder about him , especially after they attempt to phone the radio station due to some bad reception and discover that the station he has been listening to doesn't seem to exist . This is where the supernatural seems to come in , although it's debatable whether there is really something supernatural going on or just Ed's mind beginning to slip in his old age . Personally I think it's a little of both , although this is certainly one of the more realistic and immediately relevant episodes of the twilight zone , especially concerning the amount of time Americans spend being entertained by some form of media and the effect it has on our lives . In Ed's case , his sanity seemed to be cut loose by the very medium of entertainment that he used to bring himself back to the happiest times of his life .
The twilight zone at Christmas time . . .	Night of the Meek is certainly a unique twilight zone episode , coming off more like a family Christmas classic than the typical stuff we have come to expect from Rod Serling , things about other worlds and aliens and mysterious happenings . There is , of course , a lot of that in this episode , but it's couched in a story that resembles A Christmas Carol than anything else . A drunk stumbles late back to his seasonal job as Santa Claus at a local mall , and on the way a cat screeches and knocks over a bag of garbage , which suddenly turns into a bag overflowing with toys and gifts . The drunken Santa suddenly becomes a real Santa , eagerly snatching up the bag and distributing to anyone he can find their heart's desire . This is a great way to show what people's true heart's desire may be , and I love the way it makes us think about our own heart's desire . It seems to me that the purpose here is to call attention to how trivial a lot of our desires may be . When offered the opportunity to have anything they want , the people in the show ask for meaningless things like sweaters and pipes . There is a moving scene in the episode where Henry , the drunk Santa , says that if he could have anything he wanted , he would want to do this same thing every year . It's a wonderful illustration of what I think is our inherent desire to do good things for other people . Alcoholism is a terrible affliction , but it is immediately forgotten about when Henry suddenly finds himself in the position to bring so much happiness to so many people . It gets a little cheesy at the end , like so many of them , but is still a great example of the twilight zone presenting a story that captures the spirit of the season .
Great episode except for the theatrics . . .	Like more than one other episode this season , this was a great show except for the whole theatrical element . Evidently there has been a mysterious gang of thugs brutally beating people all over the city for no apparent reason . Things get immediately interesting when Greg stumbles across the gang in the middle of one of their beatings and tries to break it up . As I would have done , he backs up his Denali and drives toward them honking his horn with his police lights flashing . All of the thugs run except for one , who is made to look like a horror movie psycho who is completely fearless of the police , and instead of running away , he charges toward Greg's truck with a rock in his hand . The episode starts off really good with the sudden sense of danger falling over the city because the attacks are so brutal and so random . It very effectively takes away that real life sense of safety that we have in our everyday lives , but then it falters because we get these psychotic teenagers beating people to death . I know we live in a violent world and I know that Vegas is the Sin City , but kids just don't do that . One of them is caught and questioned , and after arrogantly snapping at every question the police ask her and generally acting like a high school girl lashing out at her parents , she admits that she and her " friends " regularly get together and beat random tourists within an inch of their lives just because they get tired of seeing them everywhere . It's not uncommon for CSI to give us murder cases that happen under wildly outlandish situations ( remember the guy who killed himself with the gun tied to a piece of elastic that pulled it up the chimney after he shot himself ? ) , but this is an example of one of the stories that was just a little too unrealistic as far as basic human behavior . Oh and yeah , Kevin Federline was in it . Who cares .
Obvious but meaningful .	The Obsolete Man makes quite an obvious comment on the role of government and certain ways in which powers can be abused or societies can go astray . The totalitarian state portrayed in the film gleefully broadcasts the executions of undesirables ( 1300 in 6 hours one time , if I remember correctly ) such as , in the case we get to see , a man who has committed the mortal sin of being a librarian . The theme of publicly executing undesirables , by the way , bears amazing resemblance to the brutal regime of Mao Tse-tung , which was at it's heyday when this episode first aired . At any rate , we already know that burning books is bad and I don't know that we need an entire twilight zone episode to show us that the next step of killing librarians is also bad , but it's an entertaining enough episode . A lot of other IMDb users have complained that this episode is preachy , and I agree to a certain extent , but I also think that any film or story or TV show that shows the dangers of government can't be all bad , particularly given the astonishing political banditry that we have witnessed in America for the last 8 years . It's sad but unsurprising to me that the American economy is in shambles right now . My favorite thing that the episode does is that it presents this quiet , unassuming man who lives a quiet life as a librarian , and even after his death sentence , he manages to completely undo the man who condemned him , and in front of a widespread audience as well . He uses the machine's rules against it and makes an incredibly powerful statement about political responsibility and the rights and wrongs of governmental power . Pretty deep and intense material , and not the most fun I've had watching the twilight zone , but it's relevance can most certainly be felt today . . .
Tons of campy fun .	Ah , finally a horror camp classic that deserves to be called a horror camp classic . Re-Animator is one of those fun horror movies that is so over the top that it is just a lot of fun to watch , kind of like the spectacular Evil Dead films , although not quite to that same level of skillful horror / comedy mix . Ironically enough , I think it should be a testament to the quality of the rest of the movie that it is able to work so well despite prominently featuring a soundtrack that is a naked rip-off of the Psycho soundtrack . It's amazing to me that Richard Bond , the music composer , didn't think anyone would notice him plagiarizing one of the most famous movie soundtracks in cinematic history , but luckily everyone else in the production was right on the mark . Jeffrey Combs delivers a wonderfully crazy performance as Herbert West , the scientist in the movie who is determined that he has discovered a scientific method to beat death , and is desperate to try it out on a human being rather than small animals , on whom he has had remarkable success . He is playing a completely one-dimensional character , a genius scientist whose mental capacity is also tinged with madness , but which is counterbalanced by the fact that he may very well be desperate to try something potentially immoral but which could also potentially revolutionize medicine . Maybe his intentions are good after all , but for the purposes of the film , he just wants to get his hands on some fresh corpses , which is a great premise for a horror film . The movie operates in its own world , like the Evil Dead films did . It takes place in the horror genre but wants to combine some elements of drama as well , as we have a real scientist who is truly brilliant . He is still in medical school , I believe , but is often smarter than his often-published professors , criticizing their work for being incorrect or even plagiarized . He's very quick to make enemies , I would think his line of work might be easier the less people he had watching him , so it's unfortunate that he was so good at making people not like him . Mere days after he rents out a room from a couple of other students , they find their cat dead in his refrigerator . I hate it when new roommates do that . There is plenty of gratuitous nudity in the film , and while I appreciate nudity as much as the next guy , I don't like it when it drives a weak film , and that is certainly not the case here . There is a graphic and highly disturbing nude scene three quarters or so through the film that made me literally cringe and turn my head , not because of gore but by the sheer disturbing idea of it , it was awful . But the thing that I loved is that that scene fits in with the rest of this movie so well . It is all about too much gore and too much blood and too much nudity , but also lots of laughs . This is a perfect example of how much fun scary movies can be .
" Was it everything you hoped for ? "	Alien Resurrection was released about six months after I graduated from high school , and at the time I wasn't very familiar with the series . I took my first film class about six months later , at which point I learned to really appreciate the great films and filmmakers , and one of the first things I learned was that the first three Alien films are spectacular achievements of science fiction cinema and the third sequel is a sad , ridiculous mess . This happens all too often with sequels and yes , part four is not yet another amazingly impressive Alien film , but come on , it's not THAT bad . I watched it last night for the first time in almost ten years , and was surprised at how much I enjoyed it . It's strange that I liked it so much , because it shows all the signs of a botched , modernized sequel of a series that should have been left alone long ago . The characters , most of all , are almost all goofy caricatures with preposterous dialogue and routine motivations , and some just don't belong at all . Personally I am a pretty big fan of Winona Ryder , but only in roles that suit her , and she has had a lengthy list of roles that suit her , but Annallee Call in Alien Resurrection is just not one of them . Too often she comes off as a tough talking teenager in this movie and it just gets hard to take her character seriously . She's like Ja Rule in Half Past Dead , but less ridiculous . Then again , this could just have been a result of her starring alongside Sigourney Weaver , and that woman is just awesome . Dan Hedaya is suitably over-the-top in his role as the gleefully neurotic General Perez , and I have to admit that I was curious to see the performance of Gary Dourdan as Christie . Lately I've been watching countless hours of CSI on DVD , and it's amazing to see how different his role is in this movie from the most serious role he would play later in that show . I prefer the later performance , myself . The resurrection implied in the title refers to Ripley being borough back to life 200 years after her death for the purpose of creating one of the alien queens , and then breeding the animals for twisted scientific purposes . They decide to keep Ripley alive for observation after surgically removing the alien from her chest , only to discover that she and the aliens are clearly more than they are prepared to handle . There is a negligible subplot involving a group of shady characters headed by the wonderfully sinister Michael Wincott as a Frank Elgyn , who promises his men won't start trouble or get into any fights if they are allowed to stay on board for a few days and nights . I also have to mention Ron Perlman , who just has a face for this kind of movie . Probably most recognizable lately as Hellboy , this has to be one of the least appreciated actors of the last few decades . In just over 20 years he has acted in more than 150 films and TV shows , and at the time of this writing he has 18 projects in the works . Unbelievable ! He also has one of the best lines in the movie ( " Why the waste of ammo ? ! Must be a chick thing ? " ) . The aliens are probably the thing that will make or break this movie , and in my opinion they were impressive enough . The occasional CGI effects are never convincing , but then again they never are , so luckily they didn't overdo them . Even the aliens swimming underwater was not too much for me to accept , perhaps given the automatic tension that is immediately generated in almost any movie where someone has to hold their breath for a long time . This went on far too long to be anything remotely realistic in this movie , but it was a good scene nonetheless . I would also argue that this is the goriest of all of the four alien movies , particularly at the end , but also contains some of the best comic relief . This combination makes the movie highly entertaining , even following in the long shadows of its spectacular predecessors . There is a high energy scene in the third act of the film where Perlman's character performs a daredevil stunt to shoot one of the pursuing aliens dead which is followed by what has to be the funniest spider killing in film history . I haven't laughed out loud like that at a movie in a long , long time . In browsing through the posts on the message board for Resurrection I have been inspired to raise my rating for the movie from a 7 to an 8 , if only because it is so obvious that everyone is jumping on the bandwagon about bashing this movie . I see nothing but whiny , pouting little brats whimpering and griping about little nitpicky details in the movie , condemning the third sequel in the Alien quadrilogy as a travesty and an embarrassment and a pathetic way to end the series . Stupid people in large numbers , man . It's sad to see such a clear mob mentality slamming a movie that is about 100 times better than most people say . No , it's not up to the same level as the first two films and it definitely has its drawbacks , but it is definitely a good installment in the series , and you could certainly do a lot worse for some fun popcorn sci-fi on a Friday night . I'll admit that my judgment might be a little skewed because I watched the staggeringly awful Eaten Alive just before seeing this , but it is clear to me that Alien : Resurrection has yet to receive the respect it deserves .
An interesting look at one of my least favorite producers .	I've been watching a lot of DVD extra features lately and one of the things that I have found that almost all of them have in common is that nearly all of them have distantly lower ratings on the IMDb than they deserve . Consider , for example , the three documentaries included on the Vista Series of The Sixth Sense , which are all outstanding documentaries but which all received collective ratings of something like , which is absolutely ridiculous . This documentary is all of 8 minutes long , I find it hard to believe that people were upset that they just wasted 8 minutes of their life watching it , especially when it does , in fact , give some pretty interesting insights into the motivations of one of the most successful producers of all time ( although certainly not the best ) . I recently watched an old Three Stooges short comedy called The Brideless Groom , the IMDb comments about which were unanimously glowing , despite the fact that the film was tepid and boring . Just like automatic praise for mediocre films damages the authenticity of the truly great films , this seemingly arbitrary lack of respect for interesting introspectives like Conversations with Jerry Bruckheimer simply dilute the stock in which movie-goers can put into the opinions of IMDb users . I have a healthy dislike of the vast majority of Bruckheimer's work . His films are crowd-pleasers but not the way that Spielberg's movies are . He goes for universal appeal but at the expense of the quality of the story that he is telling and the film that he is making , using such methods as heavily structured and contrived plots and , most damaging , by forcing cloying romantic subplots into films which have no room or need for them . Armageddon is an example of a film that had no room , and Pearl Harbor is a film that had no need . Coyote Ugly was one of the few that had no reason for being made in the first place , and while I'm at it , I should admit that to me , The Rock ( while also exploitative and contrived ) is simply pure entertainment . In this short documentary , Bruckheimer talks about some of his experiences in film-making and some of the people that he has worked with , talking about his motivations and goals , as well as the things that he finds rewarding about the entire process , like seeing an audience laugh and cry and simply be entertained . This is the kind of thing that makes me take pause about some of the harsh things that I have said and written about his films , although only long enough really to make me remember that I was right . Bruckheimer is a respectable man , but respectability does not equal great films , nor does having brought in a gross total of $11 billion over your career . As Sidney Lumet notes , commercial success does not denote great film . Clearly , even though I do not have the highest respect for many of Bruckheimer's films , I am certainly able to look past my low opinion of them and enjoy a look at the motivations of one of the most powerful men involved in their creation . It is indeed interesting to see what motivated someone who came up with something that I so wholeheartedly disagree with , which I think is something to keep in mind when rating something like this on the IMDb . I can certainly understand people being unimpressed with something like Gone in 60 Seconds or Coyote Ugly , but this conversational documentary is not a 1 out or 10 by any stretch of the imagination . It is , unfortunately , easier to watch and more enjoyable than many of Bruckheimer's films .
Hasn't dated well , but still a good example of what good science fiction used to look like .	A scientist named Zac Hobson wakes up to discover what is probably either most people's worst nightmare or biggest fantasy , that he is that last man alive on earth . The emptiness of the post-apocalyptic world is the result of a top-secret energy project gone horribly wrong ( don't stories where everyone in the world has died or disappeared usually result from some top-secret project or another gone wrong ? ) . For a while Zac basks in the denial that there's no one else in the world , and indulges in his materialistic fantasies until reality , as it were , sets in , and he begins to search in earnest for other survivors . Ultimately he discovers two others , a man and a woman , and the resulting love triangle is strangely interesting although awkwardly portrayed . The three characters , however awkward , propel the rest of the story in the direction of the bizarre but truly memorable ending . The performances in the film are much better than you might expect from mid 1980s science fiction , and the atmosphere of emptiness and desolation is startlingly convincing . The film hasn't dated well , but it's still good fun . For some reason I have grouped this movie in my mind with Soylent Green , another old science fiction film memorable for its uniqueness and unexpectedness . Both are good for an evening of unusual entertainment . Science fiction fans are sure to eat it up .
When was that set built , anyway ?	It's been a couple years since I first found the first season of the Twiilight Zone at my local library in Santa Monica . At the time I thought I would check it out because it's probably one of the most famous of the classic TV shows that I had never seen a single episode of , and as soon as I started watching " Where is Everybody " I almost fell out of my chair when I noticed that it was filmed on what , to me , will always be known as the " Back to the Future set " at Universal Studios . Of course , there are many sets used in the Back to the Future movies , but the courthouse set at Universal Studios is the most recognizable one to me . The story of Rod Serling's pilot episode sets the perfect tone of bizarre occurrences that would permeate the rest of the series and win its way to the heart of millions of fans , although it also has a perfect example of what I think has always been one of the show's biggest shortcomings . The acting style between the late 50s and 60s was so different today that it's easy to label it bad acting , but to me one of the biggest problems with the series has been that , anytime anyone finds themselves mysteriously alone , they continually call out into empty space , spending most of the episode making long winded explanations and calling question after question into nothingness . This also brought down the first episode in Season 2 , " King Nine Will Not Return . " " Where is Everybody , " however , is not only a fascinating look at the Universal Studios backlot of 50 years ago , but also an interesting and fun introduction to what became one of the most successful science fiction TV shows of all time .
Will the real martian please stand up . . . ? We're gonna have a problem here . . .	I love the twilight zone episodes that deal with extraterrestrial life and things like time travel and monsters and whatnot , although despite being highly entertaining , this is one of the weaker ones . It's a fun story and it flows smoothly , but is nevertheless rife with problems . A bus breaks down on a wintry February night , and all of the passengers find themselves stranded in a nearby diner while they wait for the weather to clear up . It seems that the bus driver only picked up six passengers but there are seven people in the diner , which means that one of them was not on the bus . Yeah , it takes place at night and they all give flimsy reasons for why they weren't paying attention to who was on the bus with them , but are people really that non-observant ? A lot of the characters are caricatures , such as the crazy guy , the cute young couple , and the impatient businessman , but not ONE of them can look around and see someone that wasn't on the bus ? Not even the driver ? Come on . . . In his opening monologue , Serling says that finding a Martian in a diner is more difficult than finding a needle in a haystack , but after having seen this episode , I have to say that I doubt that that is actually true , since it gives that all too common feeling that the characters didn't consider the most obvious possibility , at least given the reports of a spaceship landing nearby and the subsequent efforts to figure out who the alien was . There's a clever twist at the end that reminds me of the exact same twist on a preceding episode , Mr . Dingle , The Strong . Like that episode , this one imagines alien visitors to be humanoids with negligible differences from human beings ( more in this episode than that one , I suppose ) , with no real difference except having three hands or three eyes . Clever episode but not exactly mind-blowing material . Serling has done a lot better , but this is still a high-entertainment episode .
Dark and disturbing , yes , but it should also be clearly noted that 8MM avoids , for the most part , the almost always destructive influence of Hollywood .	8MM is a dark , disturbing movie . It's literally dark due to the low lighting , it has a mesmerizing but undeniably creepy score , the performances from everyone involved are subdued and sinister , and the subject matter , above all , is not exactly uplifting . It is not surprising , then , that many people are going to leave this movie with a disgusted feeling , thinking that they have been tricked into watching a movie that left them feeling badly . On the one hand , it should be noted that 8MM was never exactly advertised as light entertainment , but even more importantly , all of the dark elements above go together very smoothly , even if not very happily . 8MM , it cannot be denied , is simply a dark movie , and the way I see it , there is no reason that that alone should count against it . Nicholas Cage takes on the role of Tom Welles , who is a loving husband and father with a comfortable family life , and is very similar to several other roles that Cage has played ( see The Rock and half of The Family Man , for example ) , except that his ultimate fate in this movie is something that has yet to be encountered by any of the other characters in his iconography . Having taken the rather unexpected turn after law school of pursuing a career in surveillance ( he was sure that it was going to be the big thing in the future ) , he spends much of his time as a sort of private detective , mostly for people who suspect that their spouses are unfaithful . His latest job , the one with which the films concerns itself , is the one that will Change His Life Forever , as has become the saying about this movie . The widow of a wealthy man has hired Welles to investigate what appears to be a snuff film which was found in her late husband's private chamber , wanting only to learn that the film is a fake and let the matter rest . Whether or not snuff films are real or are simply urban legends is a subject which the film wisely chooses to avoid , for the most part . Welles explains to the woman that snuff films are made just like Hollywood movies , with special effects and make-up and the like , and that they don't really exist in real life , but the rest of the film leaves the matter up to individual interpretation . The mystery surrounding snuff films is not something that 8MM seeks to resolve , but is instead a starting point that the film uses to create an interesting story . From there , we are taken on a wild ride through the depths of the Los Angeles underground porn world , which is by itself probably the most destructive element of the entire film , if only because it's so obviously over-exaggerated . You have the mindlessly twisted director , Dino Velvet ( Peter Stormare ) , who makes some serious porn videos with the sick and twisted content of your choosing ( and many of which star the charmingly named " Machine " ) . Then you have the unfortunate Max California , who went to Los Angeles with lofty goals and wound up as a smut peddler in the underground , and ultimately talks Welles into allowing him to give Welles a tour of the underworld of the sex trades , a job that would also change HIS life forever , and not necessarily for the better . And by the way , does anyone know why Joaquin Phoenix keeps getting these less than enviable roles ? That poor guy gets the shaft in every movie he's in ! The tour that California gives Welles of the underworld of the sex trades is by itself the most hilariously unrealistic part of the entire film ( and , by the way , the fact that this character is named ' Max California ' - and I'm thinking ' Maximum California ' ? coupled with the fact that he is involved in this particular profession is clearly making a statement about The Golden State , and there's really not a whole lot of room for individual interpretation as to what that message is ) . I'm not exactly an expert on anything that goes on in the illegal underground of any major city , but I find it highly unlikely that there are basements under buildings down dark alleys that have stacks of porn which are labeled in large print as to what they contain ( one particular stack , loudly labeled ' KIDS , ' comes immediately to mind ) . And even if places like this did exist , it's even less likely that they would have one big guard standing at the door , indifferently surveying the entering clientele about whether or not they are police officers . What does this guy expect ? ' You a cop ? ' ' Oh , yes , as a matter of fact , I am . Thanks for asking , I'll leave you alone now . ' I would like to have seen THAT guy suffer Max's fate . There are obviously a lot of moral questions presented by the film , and they are presented in some pretty interesting ways , not the least of which is the scene near the end where Welles telephones the mother of the girl in the alleged snuff film and asks her to talk him into killing who the man who made the film ( James Gandolfini , who is wonderfully villainous in his role as the guy who is literally sick and twisted for no good reason ) . Welles knows that he is not a murderer himself , even if this murder would be beneficial to the greater good of mankind , and this is exactly the kind of help that he needs to commit such a murder . This is a very unique scene in that it's very rare for the protagonist to be so reluctant to kill the man who he has been searching for throughout the entire film , especially because the vast majority of the audience will be rooting for this guy's death ? I know I was . It is interesting to consider the motives of writer Andrew Kevin Walker - who is not a stranger to dark films that culminate in a hero forced to murder a despicable villain ? in adding this scene in the film , because it is the exact opposite of what we would expect from the typical Hollywood film . 8MM is a film that has a lot to say , and not all of these things deal directly with the subject matter that it deals with . The existence of snuff films and the violent exploitation of various groups , such as women and ( particularly ) children , is the disturbing topic on which the film bases a number of questions about the uprightness of modern American society . We start off concerned with whether or not the snuff film is real , then we're further astonished to learn that it IS real , and finally we're left questioning ourselves because we were so eager to witness another violent death . It seems , then , that the film's main concern deals with the hypocrisy of American society , in that we are shocked and disgusted by violence and death at the beginning of the film , but then only a couple hours later we want nothing more than to see more of it served .
Not necessarily better than the movie , but the movie sucks without it .	At the time of this writing , there are two other people who have reviewed The Saw is Family on the IMDb , and both claim that it's better than the movie itself . Initially I agreed with them because I was stupendously unimpressed with the movie . But since this documentary is focused mainly on allowing the cast and crew of Texas Chainsaw III to explain their reasons for why the movie turned out to be such a mess , I think that as a supplement it makes the film itself a lot better . I like that the documentary starts by going into rich detail about Ed Gein , the 1950s serial killer on whom the character of Leatherface was originally based . This guy cut the skins off of people and wore them on his body , providing the inspiration for Leatherface and Jame Gumb from Silence of the Lambs , and he was also obsessed with his dead mother , presumably inspiring the grandparents in the Texas Chainsaw films , as well as Norman Bates from Psycho . Very little attention is paid to the origin of these stories , not that someone as sick and twisted as Ed Gein deserves to be famous , but I liked that this documentary went into his story and told about where the story of The Texas Chainsaw Massacre originated . On a technical level , I was impressed with the editing , which is very fast paced but doesn't go too fast to follow . Also , it cuts together the interviews in a curious way , by splicing in a quick clip from the film when it switches from one interviewee to another , thereby avoiding the jarring feel that you get when editing multiple interview clips together , as was seen in the documentary Looking Back at The Hills Have Eyes , and which I've done myself . I always find it interesting to learn about the things that go on in the making of movies , and it seems that there are especially strange or interesting things that happen during the production of horror movies . In this case , we get an interesting behind the scenes look at the making of Texas Chainsaw III from the cast and crew themselves , and we also get an explanation for why a lot of the disappointing things that were in the movie ended up there , which I think allows you to look past a lot of that and see that it's really not as bad as you thought it was when you watched it . The Hills Have Eyes was an immensely well-made movie that did not get a very good reception because it is so unpleasant and the depth of the depravity displayed in it is often difficult to overlook . In the case of Texas Chainsaw III , however , you get a horror movie made with average directorial talent ( but , I have to say , above average acting , especially for a horror movie like this one ) , but that took on a feel of ineptitude because of things that went wrong during the post-production phase . But it seems that both movies benefit from a short documentary in which the cast and crew explain themselves .
Can you hear me now ? Gooood .	In what could easily be called either a spin-off , if not a sequel , of the outstanding Phone Booth , Cellular comes along from the same writer , again making satisfying thriller about evil people on the other end of the line . The movie wastes no time as Jessica ( Kim Basinger ) is kidnapped suddenly and without warning or explanation from her home in broad daylight . It is only a few minutes into the movie when Jessica is already locked in the attic with nothing but a smashed phone to try to save herself and her family . I think that a lot of why this movie works so well is because for the majority of it , Jessica has no idea why she is being imprisoned ( indeed , she is convinced that the kidnappers have the wrong family ) , and neither do we . It's like the briefcases is Pulp Fiction and Ronin , although it serves a very different purpose . Throughout the most intense action sequences , we are just as mystified as Jessica is , which makes her situation seem even more dire because she doesn't know how to save himself . I was interested in the locations , if only because the movie takes place and was filmed so close to where I live . The three guys that are found murdered , according to the news report , are found in Culver City , which is the part of LA that I live in , and the school that Jessica's son goes to as well as the Santa Monica pier both lie on routes that I regularly pass by on bicycle rides . There's also a great mountain biking trail a couple blocks away from their home address on Bonhill Street just off of Sunset Blvd . That's one of the interesting things about living in LA , that sometimes you see places in the movies that are very familiar . In Collateral , for example , the movie theater that I saw the movie in was actually IN the movie . THAT was a surreal experience . There are a few slip-ups early in the film , soon after Ryan gets the phone call from Jessica . Ryan , in an attempt to help , takes his phone to a police station so that Jessica can explain what happened to an officer ( William H . Macy ) who gets distracted by a gang war that breaks out in the police station lobby ( I guess not a single guy who was fighting cared whether he was thrown immediately in jail ) . As he goes to break up the fight , he tells Ryan to go up to Robbery / Homicide on the 4th floor . Right . But hey , Officer Mooney ( Macy ) had talked to Jessica and seemed to have concluded that her situation was genuine , so I'm willing to accept that he allowed some guy who walked in with a cell phone access to the upper floors of the station . The problem is that Ryan gets trapped in the stairwell because he's in danger of losing the signal , and he only has 15 minutes to get Jessica's son ( charmingly named Ricky Martin ) from school before the kidnappers do . He turns and runs out of the police station , proceeding to take matters into his own hands for the rest of the movie . Why he didn't try to get help from a police officer on his way out of the building I am guessing can only be explained by it's necessity to the plot . Then late in the movie , the bad guys are trying to spot Ryan on the Santa Monica Pier where he has demanded the release of Jessica and her family in exchange for the incriminating item around which the entire movie is based . They are unable to spot him because of all the people . Personally , I would have looked out for the one guy wearing a full raincoat and hood on a hot summer day , but that's just me . I should probably stop picking things like this out , because it makes it sound like I didn't like the movie , and I really did . It's a fast paced action thriller that is never manipulative even when it throws in standard Hollywood action movie clichés , like the car chases and shootouts , and despite some ham-handed product placement , this is a very well made thriller .
" Reality has taken a page from my book and set itself to outdo me . " - H . G . Wells	Widely hailed as one of the greatest time travel movies ever made , George Pal's 1960 classic takes astonishing liberties with its source material , not only shortening the story but all but deleting the extensive social commentary in H . G . Wells ' novel . The arc of the story is exactly the same as it is in the book , but the necessary simplification that takes place in converting a novel to a film doesn't necessarily remove the meaning , but it definitely dilutes its impact . I read one review in which someone wrote that the pessimism of Wells ' novel is lost in the film , which is not entirely true . What is lost is the specification that the Morlocks are the distant descendents of the working class , and the Eloi are the distant descendents of the rich upper class . You still get human descendents killing off other human descendents who have been killing them for food for who knows how long , you just miss the metaphor of the gap between the rich and the poor eventually grows so huge that they kill each other off because of their irreversible inability to coexist . As is also the case in the 2002 remake , the first half of the film is absolutely fascinating , from when the concept of time travel is introduced at the dinner party to the actual traveling through time , which features some surprising special effects showing time pass . What is not quite effective is when the time traveler stops during World War II and we are treated to a display of by far the weakest special effects in the movie , which I only criticize because they are so distantly worse than the other ones in the film . Consider , for example , the amazing effect created as one of the Morlocks decays in a matter of seconds . George has the bad luck only to stop during war , although has one great scene during World War I with the son of his friend Filby who , needless to say , he mistakes for Filby . Next stop is World War II , and then , sick of the times , an astonishing 800 , 000 years into the future . Good thing he didn't stop around the turn of the millennium to see if people were finally getting along , because he may have found the inspiration to travel far enough ahead in time to witness the sun burning out ( as he did in Wells ' novel ) . My biggest complaint about the film is that they got the Eloi so horribly wrong . The Morlocks , too , but at least they got the idea of the Morlocks right . They didn't look anything like they were described in Wells ' novel , but they did live underground and were completely intolerant of light , despite their dwelling constantly being brightly lit . The Eloi , on the other hand , not only were not the diminutive people from the novel , who spoke an entirely new language , but they spoke perfect English and even knew what such things as books and laws were , which have been extinct or useless for centuries . And where did those talking rings come from ? Technically , the movie is very impressive . Rod Taylor effectively captures the curiosity and the dedication of the Time Traveler , but does go a little overboard with his disgust at learning how much interest in knowledge has decayed in the future civilization that he finds . When he is presented with a whole library of books that have been ignored for so many centuries that they crumble to dust in his hands , he glares at the boy that brought him there and growls , " What have you done ! " like it's the poor kid's fault . Yvette Mimieux delivers a performance as Weena that couldn't possibly be less like the Weena in Wells ' novel , who saw the Time Traveler as an almost god-like savior , one that she constantly tried to pay tribute to by doing things like picking flowers and placing them in his pockets . She did not see him as her boyfriend and CERTAINLY never asked him if there was a " girl like her " back in his own time . However , there are a lot of deviations from the original novel that have to be allowed given the production limitations . Having the Eloi speak perfect English just seems a little too easy , I guess . In the novel , the Time Traveler gradually learned to communicate in their language . Here , communication is never an issue except when they're under the spell that the Morlocks put them under when they want to lure a lot of them underground for food . George's goal is to get the Eloi to realize what's happening and to fight for themselves . They've become complacent , and we all know that , in the process of evolution , complacency leads to becoming dinner . Having spent most of the film learning about the Eloi and trying to find where his blasted time machine disappeared to , when he finally recovers it he lectures the newly awakened Eloi and travels back to his own time , walking through the door to his own house and into the beginning of the movie . The film ends with another invention for the movie , the idea that George traveled back into the year 802 , 701 in order to further help the Eloi escape their dismal fate . Rather than showing George travel into the future until the earth grows dark as the sun dims and goes out , we are to assume that he went back to be with Weena . The novel ended with the possibility of sequels , the movie gives itself a clean , happy ending . But hey , it's not like it doesn't work . This is certainly a science fiction classic and wildly entertaining more than 4 decades after its release , the literary version is just a bigger science fiction classic .
Adds more to the story than you expect .	In the movie , when Dianne runs out of the Winchester she is calling her boyfriend's name . Because we just saw him torn to pieces by the zombies ( and because Dianne is beating zombies with his severed leg ) it's reasonable to assume that she can't save him and is instead making an insane rush against his killers , soon to meet her own similarly gruesome fate . Instead of simply illustrating Dianne's grisly fate , this one completely changes what we would otherwise expect , going in a totally different direction that amazingly makes perfect sense ( or as much sense as can be made in your typical zombie movie ) , while at the same time maintaining the same tongue-in-cheek tone of the rest of the movie . It's narrated by Dianne , of course , and has a characteristically classic joke at the end .
I don't think I want to hear any more whining about Van Damme . The man is the king .	It seems to be the popular thing to do to jump on the bandwagon and badmouth Van Damme for being a bad actor or for making one bad movie after another . I have always claimed to be a fan , but mostly just because when I was a kid I watched movies like Kickboxer and Bloodsport and Death Warrant over and over . To be honest , I hadn't really seen many more of his movies for years , except for Hard Target , which I found less impressive than his early martial arts films . But recently I bought 16 Van Damme movies on two DVDs ( for 20 yuan ? about $2 . 75 - thanks to mainland China's total indifference to copyright laws ) , and as I watch them I have noticed something important . It seems that most of the reason that Van Damme is criticized is because of things like goofy camaraderie or cheesy heroic lines , things like that . But it seems noteworthy that in just about every movie he is in , he is fighting for justice or to be a good father or good husband or to protect his fellow man from criminals or to avenge a loved one's violent death . Van Damme represents good human values in a way that most other action stars don't . I feel like he deserves a lot more credit for that than he ever gets . Besides that , the guy can speak five languages . Did you know ? WOW . In Legionnaire he plays a boxer who's paid to take a dive in the second round , but when he , ah , accidentally beats the tar out of his opponent , he suddenly finds himself being pursued by mobsters and police , which quickly dashes his and his girlfriend's plans of getting out of France and going to America . Soon he finds himself an unwilling member of the French Foreign Legion , which employs the psychotic idea of training soldiers to exist solely for the honor of dying in battle , and is run like a prison with racks of guns . They are sent to Africa to crush an insurgency , resulting in more of a war film than a martial arts film . But I have no problem with that . There is a notable appearance of Adewale Akinnuoye-Agbaje , a clearly talented actor who recently wasted his undeniable on screen charm on such backwards TV shows as Lost and Oz , and here is again asked to do something terrible ? he takes on an American accent , complete with ridiculous lines like " The only thing that keeps a man livin ' , you gots ta have a dream ? " But there is a friendship that forms between Alain Lefevre ( Van Damme ) and Adawale's character , Luther , that is pretty good , and allows for the most tense and moving scene in the film . Given that so much of the movie plays like a prison film , since the Legionnaires are generally forced members , some of the scenes are a little strange , such as the one where they argue about the best way to hand wash laundry . Then again , it seems like some of the lines between soldiers were put in for comic relief ( " What's the matter , don't like girls ? " " Of course not , I'm British ! " ) . Speaking of which , for how moving the friendship between Alain and Luther is , Alain has an undeniably cheesy friendship with the British guy , although it is also a very unstable but powerful relationship in many ways , and also allows for some good dramatic tension near the end of the film . Alain is also the good guy that sticks up for the underdogs who can't defend themselves against the more brutish soldiers very well , which doesn't seem to make him many friends . Also , soon after their first battle , he walks around shirtless showing off his chiseled body and making enemies effortlessly . The battle scenes , by the way , are also pretty good , much better than I would have expected from Van Damme , if only because war scenes are not what he usually does . But here they're impressive , although the end of the movie is a pretty significant disappointment . It builds up this remarkably in-depth story and then just stops , like they ran out of money . The leader of the enemy insurgency lets Alain live so he can tell his leader that this is what they can expect if they keep invading their country , and then Van Damme heads back into the sunset . It seems like what happens next should have been considered important , and it leaves me with the feeling that the movie ends just as the real climax was set up . But nonetheless , I remember I was working in a video store in Fresno when the movie was released ten years ago , and for some reason I never watched it , but I'm glad that I have . It has plenty of shortcomings , but it is definitely worth watching .
Excellent follow up to The Sixth Sense .	I remember being unimpressed with Unbreakable when it was first released , I think mostly because they had the bizarre idea of casting Samuel L . Jackson , the Badass Motherf # % ker himself , as a man whose bones break so easily that he can hardly leave the house . The Sixth Sense is a hell of a debut film to follow up , but in retrospect I would argue that M . Night Shyamalan did a great job of it with Unbreakable . The movie has received mixed responses from critics and the public alike , but it is inarguably an interesting experience as an example of a young writer and director carving a spot for himself in the film-making world while running with the big dogs . Comic book aficionados are likely to find a lot of fascinating material to chew on in Unbreakable , although I also enjoyed the film immensely despite a total lack of interest in comic books . Shyamalan takes a certain aspect of the potential historical meaning and significance of comic book mythology and crafts it into a superhero thriller that is entirely his own , which is no small achievement . Samuel L . Jackson and Bruce Willis play Elijah Price and David Dunn , respectively . We meet David soon after a spectacular train crash that leaves every single passenger dead and himself without a scratch , and we meet Elijah minutes after his birth , the trauma of which broke both of his delicate arms and legs . Elijah grows up to be high-class salesman of rare and priceless comic book art , the results of a childhood limited to the safety of his room and his comic collection , while David grows up to be a security guard at a sports stadium . Elijah discovers David as a result of his surviving the train crash , and he becomes convinced that David's strength is the exact antithesis of his own weakness , and that this " power " connects them . The movie explores Elijah's efforts to convince David of his theory and David's gradual understanding of what exactly that theory means . Given the supernatural nature of it , he becomes less and less impressed with Elijah's persistence . The movie is a fascinating ride and tells a compelling story despite being peppered with the same kind of plot holes that plagued The Sixth Sense , although here I seemed less willing to accept them . David never noticed , for example , the fact that he has never been sick or even mildly injured in all of his life until Elijah pointed it out to him . For someone with a career in high school football that ended as a result of an injury that he was forced to fake , this seems like more than a little bit of a stretch . Shyamalan comes through on the public expectation of a good twist at the end of his movies , and while the twist in this one isn't as brilliant as that in The Sixth Sense , it's still unexpected and leaps and bounds beyond the laughable twist at the end of The Village . The moody tone and photography is characteristic of Shyamalan's work , as is Willis ' subdued performance . There are times when the film's score picks up with nothing really carrying it , but the movie has a solid story and sure-handed direction that ensures that even the most judicious of us can let go and enjoy the ride . It's not his best work ( that's probably still The Sixth Sense ) , but clearly Shyamalan's first three films were his best work so far , and after three increasingly disappointing films in a row , I hope he goes back to the kinds of stories that he tells best before he ends up going straight to DVD . After Lady in the Water and The Happening , he's not far off ?
" I'm trapped here ? " " Oh yes , we all are ! "	There is a pretty good documentary included with the DVD collection in which it is revealed that producer Paul Maslansky got the idea for the whole premise of Police Academy when he was working on Hot Stuff in the late 1970s . Evidently there was a police force in charge of crowd control during the making of that movie that was , ah , interestingly diverse to the point that it caught Maslansky's attention and inspired him to approach a sergeant and ask him why there were so many gym class drop-outs on the force . The sergeant replied that they had a fair employment policy in place that compelled them to accept any applicant who took an interest in becoming an officer , but then with a wink he explained that they could flunk out whoever they wanted after three weeks . Instantly , a light bulb popped on above Maslansky's head . Do you see what this means ? Police Academy is based on a true story ! ! In response to public discontent as a result of a crime wave that has been sweeping the city , the Mayor puts in place a new rule forcing the Police Department to accept any new applicant regardless of age , height , weight , sex , background , attitude , religion , nationality , IQ , criminal history , or SAT score , which causes the police academy to be bombarded with societal aberrations the likes of which would surely cause the public more concern than the criminals causing the crime wave in the first place . No nonsense Police Chief Henry Hurst is immediately and thoroughly appalled at the new ruling as he watches the dregs of society flood his beloved police academy , while Commandant Lassard sits in his chair and cheerfully allows the curious developments of life to happen around him as they will . Most of the recruits that become central to the story are honest people who really want to be police officers , except for Casey Mahoney ( Steve Guttenburg , in a career - making - and - then - breaking role ) , who is forced into the academy as an alternative to jail . How could anyone at any time ever be offered the choice of becoming a police officer or going to jail ? Watch the movie and you'll find out , but it doesn't really matter . It has to do with Mahoney having a powerful father , but the point is that Mahoney is a smart-ass who has not a scrap of respect for authority and who is determined to get himself booted out of the academy before lunch on the first day . The academy is equally happy to be rid of him , but for circumstances beyond either of their controls , this is not an option . It's a preposterous situation , but you have to admire it's simplicity and effectiveness in paving the way for a whole movie full of slapstick hilarity . The rest of the relevant cast provide the springboard from which six sequels sprouted in subsequent years . Indeed , the plots of the movies run a distant second to who is back for each subsequent movie . Moses Hightower is a towering black man who became tired of being a florist , of all things , and decided to become a cop . His counterpart is Cadet Hooks , a mousy black woman with the voice of a stretched balloon who , among other things , must learn to speak with authority . Larvell Jones comes from a background similar to Mahoney's in a lot of ways but is better known for his ability to imitate the sound of almost anything ( this was also a career-making-and-breaking role for Michael Winslow ) . Then there are Tackleberry , the trigger-happy but hilarious gun fanatic , Karen Thompson , the attractive cadet played by Kim Cattrall who provides a welcome distraction for Mahoney , the overweight and perfectly named Leslie Barbara ( a man ) , and Doug Fackler , a priceless geek who is prone to cause accidents that don't affect himself . And overseeing them all is the delightfully creepy Lieutenant Harris , who is determined that they shall all fail miserably . This should seem like an exceedingly easy task , but as they say , never underestimate the power of stupid people in large numbers ! The first movie in the Police Academy saga follows little more than the adventures of the recruits described above as they work their way through the police academy . There is a delightful competition between Lieutenant Harris , who treats his job with deadly seriousness as needed to ensure his own advancement , and the rest of the recruits , with Commandant Lassard popping up occasionally to fulfill the duties of a man clearly more interested in goldfish than law enforcement , but it's impossible not to love the guy . Speaking of which , Lassard is the , umm , " victim " of one of the movie's more childish and unamusing jokes . I am not sure how successful the joke was when the movie was first released ( I was 5 years old at the time and can't remember my initial reaction ) , but it is an unfortunate representative of much of the rest of the movie . Police Academy is a milestone in the evolution of the cheesy comedy , there are no two ways about that , but the comedy in the movie has , ah , not dated well . Modern audiences will find not a single genuinely funny moment in the entire movie , but it would be madness to say that this means the movie isn't any fun . I remember when I was a kid I used to drive my brother nuts because I always wanted to watch Police Academy movies over and over again , but at some point I lost interest , and didn't gain interest again until about a week ago when I stumbled across the Police Academy DVD collection . But for an amusing trip to the comedy of the past , you can hardly do better . Grab a couple beers , bring your buddies over , and relish the comedy of your childhood . There were never any Academy Awards in mind , but I'm willing to bet that you can't watch this movie without having a little fun ?
" Another day in paradise ? "	Before I say anything about Die Hard 4 , I just want to remind everyone that anything that has anything to do with computers in the movie serves no purpose other than to drive the plot and to provide for some surprisingly effective comic relief . There is tons and tons of nonsense about hacking into this and hacking into that and how only 9 guys in the world could do such and such with a laptop and blah blah blah blah . Don't take the time to try to figure out exactly what they're talking about , even if you're a computer expert ( actually , ESPECIALLY if you're a computer expert ) , because it's just going to distract you from the rest of the movie , which is a pretty powerful argument that there is still a place for an old-school NYPD officer in the 21st century . Let's review , shall we ? Die Hard is still among the dwindling list of movie franchises where the original movie is still the best one . Part 2 was a cartoonish mess , and part 3 , despite essentially plagiarizing the first Dirty Harry movie , was not the same thriller as the original but was still a great action movie . There have been many complains about casting Justin Long alongside Bruce Willis as his sidekick in this movie , because he's so well-known as the guy from the Apple Computer commercials . Maybe I watch too many movies and not enough TV , but to me he will always be known as the phenomenally idiotic Darry Jenner from Jeepers Creepers . Good God I hated that movie . McClane has moved up in the world from reckless , irresponsible New York Cop to reckless , irresponsible absentee father who has little to do with his teenage daughter's life until some jerk drives her home and gets a little too pushy with her . John saves her from getting groped by some meathead , but she's still pretty unappreciative . Their relationship hasn't been so great over the years . Soon John is called to duty to pick up some kid named Matt Ferrell , who is on a short list of computer super-nerds wanted by the U . S . government due to a recent glitch in the national security computer systems . John thinks nothing of the assignment until a high-tech assassination attempt is made on the kid , and he discovers that he's not the only person trying to track him down . It seems that everyone else on that short list has been executed by some shady organization , and John has to keep his cool trying to figure out who and why while they're trying to kill him and while , in the meantime , they manage to kidnap his daughter . There is tons of great action in the movie , although detractors can easily call attention to the fact that the plot-line is clearly designed to set the stage for the next action pieces . Personally , I thought the action pieces were awesome , so I could really care less if there isn't exactly an Oscar-worthy script underneath it all . There is also the issue of the epic over - the-topness of some of the action pieces , such as the pilot of the fighter jet who can't seem to hit a lumbering SEMI truck , but can pilot his machine around under freeway overpasses , dodging bridges and whatnot . But again , I feel like the over-the-topness , while not a huge part of the original movie , was introduced in part 2 , explored a bit in part 3 , and now has developed to a point where it is one of the most appealing parts of the movie . Put it this way ? there is a scene in the movie where McClane takes down a helicopter , and if you are unimpressed with how he does it ( and his reaction , which I would argue is one of the funniest parts of the whole movie ) , then you're either in the wrong frame of mind or this is just not your kind of movie . Justin Long didn't have much to do in the film except crack jokes and pop out his handy roll - up keyboard and hack into anything that needed hacking within a few seconds , although he didn't detract from the movie as much as you would expect , given his iconography . Kevin Smith is purely hilarious as Long's super-geek buddy , and later the two teamed up again with Zack and Miri Make A Porno , in which Long was the star of one of the movie's funniest scenes . Timothy Olyphant is perfect as the movie's main villain , Thomas Gabriel . He's a little too clean-cut and flawlessly dressed and groomed , but he looks like a cross between Christian Slater and a young Jack Nicholson , and that's not a bad place to be if you're a Die Hard villain . It's just too bad that he's saddled with ancient action clichés like " You have no idea who I am and what I'm capable of ? " But the biggest problem with the casting is Maggie Q as Mai , Gabriel's crazy hot assistant . She's not only a super-genius computer hacker who can bring down national communication mainframes with a few strokes of the keyboard , but she's also a martial arts expert who , if Jason Statham and Jet Li were in this movie alongside Bruce Willis , she could hold them all off for a while , too . Hell , she might even have the pure , unadulterated ass-kicking know-how to make Steven Seagal bleed his own blood . Can you imagine ? The villain's main plot also falls apart pretty thoroughly ( his plan to download the country's financial data from a " backup " location is feared to throw the nation into irreversible chaos ? what does " backup " mean again , exactly ? ) , but this is a nearly perfect summer action blockbuster .
Very entertaining space movie with a quirky twist that is surprisingly well presented .	I think that probably the biggest problem that the writers had with Space Cowboys was trying to come up with a good reason to justify sending a bunch of retirement age men into space , and in my opinion , they did that very well . The lifelong rivalry between Frank Corvin ( Clint Eastwood ) and Bob Gerson ( James Cromwell ) provided an excellent opportunity for an old man to wheel and deal his and his old friends ' way into space after waiting for forty years . They both provided a perfect portrayal of a couple of elderly men jaded by nearly a lifetime of bitterness held for one another . Donald Sutherland , in my opinion , should be especially noted for his impressive acting ability . To point out only a couple of examples from his extensive list of films which he acted in , think about the insanity that he portrayed in Backdraft , and the almost evil military officer he played in Outbreak , and then look at his fun-loving character here in Space Cowboys . Sutherland plays Jerry O'Neill , a fun loving and extremely sexually confident old man with a sharp sense of humor . He was probably the most amusing part of this entire film . One particularly good scene that comes to mind is when they are all going through their physicals . As they stand naked , a female nurse walks in , and they all scramble to cover themselves . But not Jerry ! He stands there proudly with his hands behind his back , ear-to-ear grin on his face . Funniest thing I've seen in a long time . How about Clint Eastwood ? Is there anything he can't do ? Think about this guy's career . He's made thousands and thousands of movies , and he's been doing it for hundreds of years ! That's what it seems like , anyway . He started out making western films ( and he is also best known for his efforts in that genre ) , and has moved on to modern crime films ( two in particular that come to mind are Absolute Power and the spectacular True Crime ) and now even science fiction space films , and he's directed at least half of the films that he has starred in . This guy is well into his seventies , and he is still just as intimidating as he was when he was in his twenties . He has that rare quality where he is a badass whether he tries to be or not . In Space Cowboys , he and three other noted actors , Tommy Lee Jones , James Garner , and the aforementioned Donald Sutherland , portray old men who are finally given the chance to travel into space , something they have all dreamed about for all of their lives . Besides the excellent acting from all of those involved , the quality story , and great directing , the special effects were particularly well done . In The Perfect Storm , virtually every outdoor shot in the film was horribly fake-looking . You'd think they could at least have had a FEW shots that were taken in a man-made water tank of some sort , but there were none . In Space Cowboys , we are looking at SPACE , and it was made to look more realistic than any of the ocean shots in The Perfect Storm . Sure , there were some space scenes that were obviously computer generated ( come on , they were ALL computer generated ) , but at least half of them were startlingly convincing . However , despite how much I enjoyed this film , there was a little bit of weakness in the story towards the end of the film . ( spoiler ) Virtually every element of the film was very well thought out or at least complemented the story in some unique way , but I am growing tired of space movies that end with one character making a noble sacrifice of their own life to save the rest of the crew , leaving an emotionally overloaded female loved one back on earth ( Armageddon and Mission To Mars , to name a couple of recent examples ) . Even though the ending was less than spectacular , the rest of the film more than made up for it . The directing , the acting , the casting , and even some hilarious bits of dialogue in the script ( " My only hope is that whatever doesn't burn up in the atmosphere lands on Bob Gerson's house ! " ) , all came together to make up a satisfying and very entertaining space film .
Serling's social commentary . . .	Like a great many twilight zone episodes , one of my favorite parts of this one was the overt social commentary that Serling is making with the story . As was the case with a recent episode " The Howling Man , " I was reminded of my long standing suspicion that , for example , if Jesus were to come to earth to bring his followers to Heaven , he would be immediately judged insane and probably thrown into an asylum . Our main character in this episode meets a similar problem when trying to convince the 1860s Americans that he is from the future and the President Lincoln is about to be assassinated . The episode wrongly asserts that this means that some parts of the past can be changed while others can't , but it's a fun time travelling romp nonetheless . Granted , we don't know for a fact whether history could be changed by time travel , because time travel has never been accomplished and , sadly , never will be . But it seems logical to me that , if you could physically place yourself in a time of the past , you could physically prevent something from happening , as long as you didn't flail around like a lunatic yelling about assassinations . One of the consistently interesting things about time travel films and TV shows , in my opinion , is the method by which the time travel takes place . There is really no method at all here , our main character is having a conversation about time travel at a posh gentlemen's club and then walks outside and into a dissolve from the early 1960s to the mid 1860s , but no matter . The twilight zone has thus far not struck me for its complex sets or high production values . Russell Johnson plays the part of Peter Corrigan , the time traveller , and upon discovering that he has been somehow transported back to the exact day of Lincoln's assassination , he manages to get himself thrown in prison , but luckily for him John Wilkes Booth , for some reason , just happened to be hanging out at the police station and overheard the frantic Corrigan desperately trying to describe the very assassination that Booth was planning for that night . Booth requests custody of Corrigan for some psychiatric experimentation , and the police officer sees nothing wrong with relinquishing custody to this guy . He had a business card , after all , how bad could he be ? The show seems to suggest that you can change people's lives by slightly altering events in the past through time travel , and while I'm not willing to accept that time travel would include such limitations , it's still a fun episode that really makes you think , which is one of my favorite qualities of the good twilight zone shows . . .
Adam Sandler has never been a real favorite of the critics , but Happy Gilmore is undeniably one of his most successfully hilarious comedies .	In Happy Gilmore , Sandler plays the part of a determined hockey player who doesn't make the team but soon inadvertently discovers that his hockey skills translate very nicely onto the golf green . Until the point in the film where Happy begins playing golf , most of the laughs come from his misfortune ( ' Happy Gilmore ? I called your name , didn't I ? ' [ eagerly ] ' No , you didn't . ' ' Oh , well , better luck next year ! ! ' ) , but it is the conflictive interaction between himself as a self-proclaimed hockey player and the much more formal and ( for lack of a better word ) high class game of golf that makes up the majority of the entertainment for the rest of the film . There is clearly a take on the classic odd-couple comedy structure here , as Sandler's vulgar hockey habits collide with the neatness and formality of the golf green , and for the most part , this comedy scheme works pretty well here . Sandler seems to adopt the character of Happy Gilmore with great relish as he displays violent acts of hilariously misplaced aggression , clearly foreshadowing his similar actions as Bobby Boucher in The Waterboy . Indeed , some of the funniest parts of the film come from his lengthy streams of profanity at the misbehaved ball when it doesn't go where he wants it to go ( ' PIECE ! ! OF ! ! MONKEY beep ! ! ' ) . So you have an undeniably entertaining and amusing character who does undeniably funny things , but it is at the logical level that this film falls on its face . Luckily for the movie and for its fans , this is not the most important element of a movie like this . It's not very likely that a slob like Happy , who doesn't make the hockey team , is going to suddenly find himself bringing in thousands and thousands of dollars left and right , and stick to his plan to buy his grandmother's house back . You would think that , having seen that he can make that much money , he would at least have kept going for a while instead of quitting as soon as he had accumulated enough to buy back the house . A noble cause , obviously , but no red blooded American male on the planet is going to just quit the game because he prefers hockey or he hates his lead opponent . But who cares ? Sandler delivers the steady stream of laughs as Gilmore with such skill that the comedy of the film far overshadows any such imperfections . Gilmore himself seems to be a bit overly violent in scenes where it doesn't seem entirely necessary , and there is clearly some overdone product placement , but it doesn't take away from the rest of the film . Mike Meyers made brilliant use of product placement in Wayne's World in such ways that added hugely to the comedy of the film ( although he tripped over this technique in Austin Powers 2 , when he made it massively over-emphasized and stonily unamusing ) , and the excessive violence of the Gilmore character is justified ( although just barely ) by the fact that his imperfect characteristics make his efforts ( or lack thereof ) to fit in with professional golfers even more amusing . As the pros stand around sipping expensive wine and discussing their respective accomplishments , Happy walks in asking where the pinball machine and the keg are . They want fame and recognition , he wants money and beer ( and Virginia , the sexy reporter who fills the role of the obligatory love interest in the typical Sandler film ) . There are a lot of scenes in Happy Gilmore that , as much as I personally enjoy the movie , simply fall flat ( many of which involve the homeless guy who Happy employs as his caddie , or the nutcase that Shooter McGavin employs to destroy Gilmore's chances of winning the tournament , or anything involving Chubbs ' prosthetic hand ) but the film succeeds where it is supposed to . Sandler presents Gilmore as a strangely likeable character , despite all of his destructive habits , and the film is peppered with other notable performances , not the least of which are by Carl Weathers as Chubbs , the former golf pro who takes upon himself the immense task of taming the wild Gilmore , and Christopher MacDonald , in yet another brilliantly hate-able role as the immutable Shooter McGavin . Happy Gilmore is a comedy from Adam Sandler , which means that you already know what kind of movie that you are going to get here , so don't complain if it turns out to be what you expected . Sandler does not make award-winning films , and chances are he never will , but the comedic value of Happy Gilmore is unquestionable . It is , to sum it up just as briefly as movies like this can be summed up , a perfect example of what I like to call Fast Food Cinema . It's a lot of fun , but there's no nutritional value .
Entertaining and successful film rendition of an old punch-line .	This is just a wonderful , charming little film , despite also being dark and at times pretty creepy . I loved the performance of the little girl , not the least reason for which was because I have two sisters around her same age and their cuteness just floors me . It's odd that such a cute little girl would play such an adorable role in a film that includes full frontal ( although very , very brief ) nudity , as well as the deaths of two people ( one of whom is the little girl's mother ) . Seems like it might have been a little disturbing , but I'm sure they made it a wonderful experience for her . A man is stuck in traffic on his way home from work , clearly very stressed out from work and , even more , from the horrendous traffic that he is struggling to get through ( which I can certainly relate to , living in LA ) , so he calls home on his car phone and his daughter picks up . He asks if he can talk to mommy , but the little girl says that she is " upstairs with Uncle Wim . " He tells her to go tell mommy that he is right outside and will be in in a minute , and of course all sorts of mayhem ensues . Anyway , you know the plot . What I found most interesting about the movie was the structure of victims vs . people who are to blame , whatever they're called . Anti-victims ? The guilty parties , that's what I'll call them . The only victims in this movie are the little girl and the man stuck in traffic ( I have sympathy for anyone stuck in traffic , unless I'm in the same traffic jam and they're in front of me . Then I hate them ) . Sure , the man in traffic really caused the whole fiasco that occurs in the movie , but he really made an honest mistake and , rendering him a victim , has to live with it for the rest of his life . A simple wrong number cost two people their lives and a little girl her mother and , apparently , her uncle , with whom her mother was having an affair . Still not sure what to make of that little situation . Unfortunately , the movie is really just a film version of that old joke who called home , talked to the little kid , asked for mommy , was told that she was upstairs with the plumber or the cable guy or Uncle Wim or whatever , and told the kid to go in and blah blah blah and they freak out and jump off the roof or fall down the stairs or whatever and die and oops it was a wrong number . It's one of those jokes that starts circulating around freshman or sophomore year in high school . Where I grew up , anyway . But even though the subject matter is not very original , it still works very well as a quick little thriller , and the performances are outstanding throughout , even from the mother and Uncle Wim , who appear only very briefly . In a perfect world , there would also be a way to recognize the actors in short films , because I think that the man in traffic and the little girl both deserved recognition for their outstanding work , although for a seven minute film , an Academy Award is certainly a high honor . Definitely worth seeing , but I have to agree that This Charming Man deserved the Oscar over this one .
Lethal Weapon II rekindles the excitement and action packed success generated by the original film two years earlier . Roger Murtaugh and Martin Riggs team up again for another great action film .	No time is wasted in the second installment in this now classic action series . Lethal Weapon II starts out immediately with a car chase , starting off what is to be a very entertaining film . Murtaugh and Riggs have the same personalities that they had before , and as is to be expected , they worked excellently on screen . Roger is the family man again , having major crises over the fact that his coming-of-age daughter has landed a spot in a condoms commercial ( which he is teased about for the remainder of the movie ) , and Riggs is still the hyperactive cop with a few screws loose . Riggs now reveals that he has a talent for popping his shoulder in and out of its socket , one of the elements of the film that worked well as far as helping the story along , but that is just ridiculous in reference to real life situations . If you were wondering if a person could pop a dislocated shoulder back into place , painfully or otherwise , by smacking it on a wall or on the side of a car , I can pretty much assure you that it just doesn't work that way . It was funny to watch though , wasn't it ? This is the installment where we are introduced to Leo Getz ( played hilariously by Joe Pesci ) , who is the anxious but mostly unwelcome addition to Riggs ' and Murtaugh's partnership . I think that they overloaded his mistreatment just a little too much for the film , Leo seemed to take entirely too much from Riggs and Murtaugh to keep cooperating with them . Nevertheless , this was still a great action film . In a memorable scene in Roger's bathroom involving a toilet bomb , he and Riggs are even able to successfully display an emotionally charged scene , even for this type of fast paced action film ( in which almost any type of emotional involvement is usually clumsily thrown in to attract a larger audience ( females ) in true Jerry Bruckheimer form ) . And they even manage to jerk a few tears near the end in regards to Riggs ' stunningly beautiful new girlfriend . As has become tradition in the Lethal Weapon series , there has to be at least one scene where just as the ? normal ' police arrive , Riggs is staggering away from the destruction of a flaming crime scene breathlessly saying that everything is under control . This is done and overdone in the entire series , and it never seems to get tiring . The gunfights are great , the chases are better , and the action overall is excellently done by Richard Donner for the second time , but there were some things that just should have been left out or changed completely . For example , the helicopter shootout scene at Riggs ' ' house ' was a little too excessive . It was too hard to believe that he and his girlfriend could have dodged THAT many bullets . It was cool to watch , but there's no way they could have avoided getting hit at least once . Also , I refuse to believe that ANY pick-up truck could have pulled the stilts out from under a house like it was done in the film . That was just too much . Even if some super-powerful pickup was ever able to do that , there's no way it could have gotten out of the way of the falling structure fast enough to avoid getting crushed by it . However , despite such disturbing weaknesses as these , Lethal Weapon II was a great movie . The things I mentioned above were badly unrealistic , and probably couldn't even be pulled off by a professional stunt team , but they worked really well with the story . The shootout scene with the helicopters created some good tension , regardless of how unrealistic it was . Also , with the kind of people who were in that house , you WANT to see the foundation pulled out from under them , and having Riggs do it not only fits perfectly with his personality , and it also almost makes you want to get up and cheer for him . This is a very good action film . It is virtually non-stop action from the opening scene , and it has a good ending , which is in my opinion one of the most important parts of any kind of movie . A bad ending can cancel out an otherwise good movie , and Lethal Weapon II is good from beginning to end . Excellent show .
Even black magic can't save the Nazis !	Strangely enough , Hellboy makes me think of Ron Perlman's performance in the slightly less impressive but underrated Alien Resurrection ( oh shut up , it wasn't that bad ) . In both movies he plays a character that approaches his work with a casual confidence that comes from long years of general badassedness . In both movies he does hard work but has never really been challenged . He also does that cool thing where he lives unseen right here with us in modern American society , protecting oblivious humans from frightening dangers we don't even know are there . Oh , and he's massive and bright red but files down his enormous horns because he doesn't like to feel like an outcast . Can't be walking around looking like Satan , after all . The movie opens in Scotland in 1944 . The Nazis are falling from power and Hitler has employed a team to try to make use of supernatural forces to maintain his regime . I won't try to explain the intricacies of the process , but basically the efforts ultimately fail , but not before a portal is left open and a baby demon slips through . After the fall of the Nazis , the American military takes a liking to the little demon , taking him under their protection and , for some reason , nicknaming him Hellboy . He falls under the care of an American scientist named Professor Bruttenholm , who also cares for an aquatic mutant curiously named Abe Sapien , and the sporadic involvement of Liz Sherman , played by Selma Blair . Liz is a firestarter but is more human than Hellboy and Abe and has a tendency to be turned off by the work they have to do . And what do they do ? As Professor Bruttenholm explains , " there are things that go bump in the night . We Are the ones who bump back . " Basically they protect the United States from otherworldly dangers . The latest danger comes in the form of none other than Rasputin , a Russian spiritualist back from the dead with plans to arrange a partnership with some evil gods which will endow him with great powers if he will open their path to earth . If this all sounds confusing , don't worry , the story is not the most important thing about the movie . It's a comic book thrill ride and it works because the main characters are all performed well , particularly Ron Perlman as Hellboy and Doug Jones as Abe Sapien . The movie cleverly explains how Hellboy and his colleagues have remained secret for all of these years ( something to do with an inability to get clear pictures of him , like the Loch Ness monster or Bigfoot ) , and even makes his existence into a legend , a bedtime story that entertains but is rarely believed to be true . The characterization is not exactly the best thing about the movie . Selma Blair's character is almost completely uninteresting , Hellboy's sidekick is almost completely unnecessary , and , Hellboy himself is riddled with stereotypes , both human and as a movie character . He's definitely fun to watch , but other than his outstanding make-up , there's really nothing original or unique about him . He is an outcast with a deep love that seems hopeless to him , which is not to stop him from spying in one of the movie's most charming scenes when he thinks his affections are being challenged . Hellboy was released around the same time as the disappointing Punisher , which represents a much lower quality film in the same genre . It is smart enough to laugh at itself , but not because we need comic relief . The movie is made with a much lighter tone than other similar films because they understand that you can't take a movie like this too seriously without making it unintentionally funny . When we watch comic book movies , we want a hero that we like but we still want to laugh and be entertained . The CGI and some of the special effects could definitely use some work , but this is a comic book movie that even my mom could enjoy . And trust me , that's a good thing .
Tigger is back , and the only difference is that he is now OFFICIALLY stealing the show .	Okay , it's been 23 years since there has been a full length Winnie the Pooh film released , and the original fans have all grown up by now . But if you have ever been a fan of the Pooh gang , check out this movie . Take me , for example , I'm a 21 year old horror movie fanatic , and I loved The Tigger Movie . The whole gang is back in the 100 Acre Woods , and this time Tigger is making an effort to find his family , to no longer be the " onliest one . " The songs are original and amusing , the characters are still their same old lovable selves , and Tigger's play on words is just as hilarious as always ( " Sorry Piglet , but you're on the smallish side of tiny and a little bit lacking in verticality ! " ) . In the end , the message that the film delivers is much more important and heartwarming than it seems it will be at the beginning . It stresses the importance of a different kind of " family " than the traditional kind , and it ends up providing a message that can be appreciated by a much larger group of people . The Tigger Movie is a movie for people of all ages , it is very enjoyable and lots of fun .
This is an excellent installment in the James Bond series , despite Timothy Dalton ?	Yeah , Dalton screwed up again , but luckily he didn't screw up the Bond character bad enough to take too much away from this excellent action film . The opening scene , in which the helicopter captures the airplane in mid-flight is very cool , except for the fact that there is at least one shot where Bond's hair is perfectly still , it seems that one of the editors forgot he's supposed to be hanging from a helicopter and pacing a plane in mid-air . When comparing the theme song of License To Kill to those of some of the previous Bond films , this one is actually relatively good ( although it is still an awful song ) . And then , as if another Bond song wasn't torture enough , the end credits roll to the tune of that song that everyone who has ever been in a K-Mart store knows ? ' If ? you ? ask me to , I just might change my mind , and hold you in my arms for-e-ever ? ' Etc . etc . etc . Dammit , now it's stuck in my head . Thanks a lot ! The story of License To Kill deals with a major drug lord named Sanchez , an d this film is a rare occasion where Bond actually goes behind enemy lines and works for the villain temporarily . It was a particularly interesting idea the way that the drugs were sold through the religious channel . While there can be no denying the quality of the action scenes in this film , there was so much money carelessly tossed to sharks or compression chambers or some other such nonsense that I thought I was going to be sick . But one of the things that really makes this one of the better stories of a Bond film is that there is actually a point in the film in which the plot thickens . James , at one point , discovers that his girl might be involved with Sanchez , and this is followed by a series of fairly effective plot twists , which are largely absent from most 007 movies . Despite Timothy Dalton , the casting is very good . It's pretty ironic that the same bonehead that cast Dalton as Bond again also had the smarts to cast Benecio Del Toro in this film . That may not seem like a real stroke of genius NOW , but when License To Kill was filmed , he had only had a tiny part in a Pee-Wee Herman movie . It's not like they were hunting down Best Actor winners . It makes you wonder if they would have given him such a badly written role and such a grisly death if they knew how huge he would be a decade or so later . By the way , there is something seriously wrong with people's eyes in this 007 installment . First of all , the guy who springs Sanchez out of jail has the most distracting and disturbing twitch in his right eye that I have ever seen . The sickening way that his right eye opens and closes lazily in coordination with his speech makes me wish they had just badly scarred his face , like they did with Donald Pleasance ( who is a much better looking man ) in You Only Live Twice . And as if that wasn't bad enough , the freakin ' Bond girl was wall-eyed ! ! Whose idea was that ? ! Sure , she was an attractive enough woman , but I just could not get over the way her right eye pointed off into the distance to the right anytime she was shown from the front . She was a pretty tough girl though . You remember the bar scene where people are fighting with knives and shotguns and chairs and cue sticks and a friggin ' swordfish ( yet the strippers on stage continue to dance around as though nothing is happening ) , and after she blows a ridiculously huge hole in the wall , she tells James to go out and get the boat started and that she'll stay and hold off the entire bar full of ped off drunk guys . This establishes the personality of a refreshingly new independent Bond girl but it also emphasizes the pansy-ass Bond that Dalton delivers . Sean Connery would never have left his girl in there to defend herself alone against the entire bar . This is the last Bond film that Dalton was in . And can there be any question about why that is ? Let's see , in License To Kill , Timothy Dalton leaves the Bond girl to save the day at the bar , he pathetically begs for his life on the conveyor belt near the end of the film ( in an admittedly horrific situation , but he was a little more desperate than is traditional for James Bond ) , and in at least one scene , he emphasizes James Bond's traditional love of tiny , tiny guns . But despite all this , License To Kill is not all bad . There is some genuine tension in several places , there are some very creative death scenes , and the action , while overly excessive at some points , is generally convincing enough . Except for the semi truck scenes at the end . The closing scene started off SO GOOD , and then Bond jumps up on two wheels ( or should I say nine wheels ? ) to avoid a missile , which was just way too much . However , I'm willing to overlook that just because it is a signature Bond scene , but then he does a wheelie in that same truck to get through a fireball . A WHEELIE ! Oh my GOD ! ! ! I thought I had seen something stupid in a Bond film before , but that beats them all ! That's even dumber than any of the crap that is so prevalent in Pierce Brosnan's and even Roger Moore's Bond films . The ending was unique in that Bond had to choose between two girls , and it tried to have the traditional ending at sea by ending with Bond and the girl in a swimming pool , at which point that god-awful song kicks in . It's such a shame that these great action movies are always filled with so much garbage .
Considered by many to be Bunuel's greatest work , Belle de Jour is a prime example of Bunuel's affection for the juxtaposition of realism and surrealism , this time to present a picture of the unusual sexualit	Catherine Deneuve plays Séverine Serizy , an obviously unsatisfied wife of a man who does not mistreat her as much as he simply doesn't seem to interest her enough sexually . She is in a financially comfortable but otherwise largely uninteresting relationship with him . There are a lot of strange aberrant fantasies that are placed periodically throughout the film , the meaning of which pertains to what is going on in the characters ' lives at the times that they are presented . The movie starts off by showing a lengthy and rather disturbing example of one of these fantasies , in which Séverine is pulled from her carriage by the two drivers after her lukewarm response to her fiancée's marriage proposal , and then tied to a tree and beaten and raped . A scene this strange and disturbing this early in the movie immediately presents her as an unsatisfied woman searching for fulfillment outside of her marriage . The fantasy at the beginning of the film quickly reveals itself to be Séverine's , who otherwise appears to be fairly normal and well-adjusted . Séverine is involved in a relationship with Pierre , for whom she has feelings but none of them have anything to do with pleasure , and she constantly seeks other fulfillment , at first in fantasies and then by working part time at a brothel . There is a colorful variety of characters that frequent the brothel and whom Séverine does not always enjoy working with ( or for ) , but the exact activities that go on while she is at work are beside the larger point , which is that she is escaping the dreariness of a typical marriage and displaying some sort of sexual independence , which was a bad thing to do in Spain under the dictatorship of Franco ( and , as was the case in El Bruto , also serves as the reason that this movie could not possibly have been made in Spain in 1967 , given Franco's enormously oppressive censorship system ) . There are themes of dissatisfaction that run throughout the movie , even in small things like the fact that the champagne in the movie never seems to be cold enough , characters complaining that champagne is never that great if it's not cold enough , and things like this tie in with the dissatisfaction that is obviously prevalent in the marriage between Séverine and Pierre . One of the things that ties in closest with some of Bunuel's earlier films is the theme of the dishonesty from the woman , which is complicated in Belle de Jour by the irony that is involved in her dishonesty . She leads of double life , maintaining her respectable composure in her relationship with Pierre but also working as a prostitute named Belle de Jour a few times a week , fulfilling an erotic need that is never explained or displayed any more than absolutely necessary . Pierre is completely oblivious to what is going on in her life until late in the film when one of her shabby clients , who has fallen in love with her , shoots him , confining him to a wheelchair and blinding him . It's strange that Pierre is struck blind only when the truth begins to come out . His vision has been destroyed by the very thing that was causing his blindness throughout his entire relationship with Séverine . Pierre develops the feeling that he is a burden to Séverine , his ' pure ' wife , and wants to have his life ended since he's paralyzed . He does not want to burden her anymore , until Mr . Husson , the man who discovered what Séverine had been doing , let him know what was going on ( giving in to an understandable humane decision that it is simply not right to allow a man to torture himself over a woman who has herself led such a dishonest life in her relationship with him ) . ( spoilers ) At the end of the film , there is a fantasy which has been said to be possibly Séverine's and possibly Pierre's , but we are never told for sure which one , in which Pierre stands up out of his wheelchair , his sight restored , and they display a happy and healthy marriage . It seems to me that this is clearly a fantasy of Séverine's , which significantly suggests that , although it IS a fantasy and Pierre is still confined to a wheelchair , she no longer fantasizes about being beaten and raped and abused , and that she is ready to have a happy marriage and that Pierre is enough for her , despite being bound to a wheelchair . It seems to me that she has accepted herself as who she is and Pierre for who he is and , most importantly , his injury as a result of her own sexual digressions . A lifetime of loyalty is the LEAST she could give him .
Chaplin is fully in character by now .	By this point in his career , Chaplin had almost fully developed the character of the little tramp , although he had not come close to perfecting the performances or truly refining his personality . But the character that the world soon came to know and love is clearly there by this point . This is one of the more complex stories for Chaplin's earliest work , with several story lines taking place simultaneously and coming together at the end . The thing about slapstick is that so often it's only funny once , and sometimes even only mildly amusing that one time . The problem is that when you know what's going to happen , you can see the actor setting up for whatever sight gag is coming , even if it's only a slight indication of movement or preparation , but Chaplin was so good at it that in a film like this there are numerous sight gags and stunts that you can rewind and watch two or three times and they're still good . Chaplin had a natural style about him that looks like what we're watching isn't even a performance . This film , simply titled Work , has plenty of amusing and memorable gags , particularly the wallpapering and the exploding stove . The end of the film is very high energy and even action packed , but it still strikes me as a bit of a descent into chaos . It's the kind of punching and kicking and throwing and falling and swinging and breaking stuff that we see a lot of in the Keystone films but that I feel tend to get boring after a while . Then again , it's not until about 22 minutes into this 24 minute film that Chaplin first kicks a man over backwards by shoving his foot into the man's chest , so clearly other elements of storytelling are becoming more important to him . . . .
Outside Providence does not seem like much from the preview , but it turns out to be a surprisingly good comedy .	Outside Providence seems like just another low budget , goofy high school comedy from the preview , but it is really a good movie . Timothy Dunphy is the lovable high school screw-up whose father sends him off to boarding school after he is involved in an accident with a parked police cruiser while smoking pot with his loser buddies . He develops an unlikely romantic relationship with the stunningly beautiful Jane Weston ( Amy Smart ) at the repressive school while fighting off the disciplinary excesses of the school faculty . This seems like the premise of the kind of ridiculous high school comedies that characterized the 80s ( Screwballs , Ski School , etc . ) , but Outside Providence works well because it has heart . Timothy Dunphy is sent off unwillingly to this hellish school , and it turns out to be a really eye-opening experience for him . He develops a lot of insight about himself , his friends , his romantic endeavors , and his family . The story is not exactly something that is entirely original , but the presentation of the film and the acting are extremely good , and the end result is a great comedy . Alec Baldwin delivers a hilarious performance as the emotionally closed-off father , regularly referring to his own son as " dildo . " He steals every scene he is in , and he should be particularly noted for his ability to give such a convincing portrayal of an emotionless , macho father and still be convincing in the emotionally tense scene between him and Timothy where he describes Tim's late mother . That scene in particular is unexpectedly intense . Outside Providence is a good comedy . It does not resort to tasteless sexual fourth-grade humor to pull it along ( which is one of the biggest problems with teen comedies lately - American Pie , Scary Movie ( there was no hope for that one from the beginning ) , There's Something About Mary , and Road Trip , which should have been a great movie ) . Instead , Outside Providence focuses on character development and a good story , and tops it all off with a healthy amount of comedy in the form of the cast , the characters , the script , dialogue , and pretty much everything else . Probably one of the best elements of this movie is that it is not a relentless comedy . It doesn't grab desperately for a laugh every second of the way , but instead it rounds out the content with drama , romance , skillful comedy , as well as good writing , directing , and acting . Outside Providence is badly underrated and should not be missed .
What happens in Europe stays in Europe . . .	One thing I've noticed about nearly all of Woody Allen's movies is that , regardless of how good the rest of the movie is , the dialogue is generally written and performed with a nearly flawless realism that pushes the surprisingly intricate stories along at a pretty fast pace , often leaving me with the feeling that the story is bigger than the movie and has to be squeezed to make it fit . In order to do this , Allen has recruited the talents of Christopher Evan Welch to provide a narrative voice-over and tell the portions of the story that can't be passed on simply through images and dialogue . Unfortunately , I developed an inability to see Woody Allen as anyone other than Woody Allen no matter what movie he's appearing in . This is a condition that has endured unchecked within me for the last ten years , since the release of Antz , which starred an animated , insect version of Woody , but who was nevertheless still Woody . He did write the movie , but the narrator speaks in such a distinct Woody Allen style that it becomes a little confusing why he didn't just narrate the thing himself . Or not have a narrator , that might have been a good idea , too . The narration thickens the story and gives it more detail , but it also makes it feel rushed . Here's a little example ? " Vicky was already thinking of herself as a kind of expatriate , not smothered by what she believed to be America's puritanical and materialistic culture , which she had little patience for . She saw herself more as a European soul , in tune with the thinkers and artists she felt expressed her tragic , romantic , free-thinking view of life . " The movie is about characters that Allen can clearly relate to , but that most people in the audience will fail to relate to . We envy their lives , but for the most part we have nothing in common with any of them and thus it becomes difficult to care about them . Luckily , the primary characters , Juan Antonio ( Javier Bardem ) , Cristina ( Scarlett Johansson ) , and Maria Elena ( Penelope Cruz ) are played by three tremendous actors , and their performances are glowing . Vicky and Cristina are best friends who decide to spend a couple of summer months in Barcelona with Vicky's family , who live in the area . Vicky is studying Catalan studies , so it seems like the perfect destination . She's into romantic stability and is happily engaged to a man named Doug , who is completely dedicated to her but is , unfortunately , also a massive tool . Cristina , on the other hand , is more impulsive and unpredictable , not afraid to take risks and invite a little turmoil into her life . She recently worked for months on a 12-minute film about love that she then hated , and is now getting shakily into photography . She wanders around Spanish towns taking clichéd photographs of empty alleyways and people , either just sightseeing or for some reason thinking she's doing something original . While the two of them are eating in a charming café , a good-looking Spanish man approaches them and invites them on a trip , leaving in an hour , to a small town called Oviedo , where the three of them will eat good food , drink good wine , and make love . The different reaction of the two girls sets up the premise that supports the rest of the movie . Vicky is horrified and offended , Cristina is immediately intrigued and ultimately accepts , with " no guarantees . " What follows is a remarkably well-told but dense story about highly developed characters who lead fascinating but chaotic lives but who live in such a way that it's nearly impossible to relate to them in any way . It reminds me of the characters in William Faulkner's intolerable novel " The Sun Also Rises , " who also live in Spain and have nothing but money and leisure time . Such a lifestyle is difficult for me to understand or care about . Juan Antonio is an abstract artist of some acclaim , and has famously been through a violent divorce which was well-covered by the news media . Evidently he and his wife tried to kill each other , but of course their stories differ wildly . A complex series of events leads to Cristina living together with Juan Antonio in his home in Spain and Vicky back in New York and suffering through a series of new emotional hurdles , until one day Maria Elena , Juan Antonio's ex-wife , tries to commit suicide and ends up living with Juan Antonio and Cristina because she has nowhere else to go . Where the movie goes from there is where it really gets interesting and strange , but I won't give anything else away . By the way , I don't know if you realize this , but European vacations have an astonishing ability to wreck American relationships if only one half of the couple is making the trip . This happened to me with a girl that I dated in college who once traveled in Europe for a summer , and I didn't even find out about it until more than a year later , and by that time I had already gone to Europe myself and committed the same crime ! What is it with that place ? ? Oh and just so you know , one of my best friend's here in China was born and raised in San Sebastian , in the Basque country in northern Spain , and he was deeply unimpressed with the movie . He says it felt like nothing more than a " Lonely Planet Guide to Barcelona ! " Personally , I thoroughly enjoyed the story-telling and the performances , particularly the lack of predictability and the many narrative twists and turns . I recommend it .
A comedy that is very well thought out and very intelligent . This is often difficult to watch , but it works because it has heart .	Funny Bones is not a traditional comedy . It starts off being deliberately unamusing , yet it later becomes evident that this was done not only to establish reason for the events that occur during the rest of the movie , but also to create good character development . Oliver Platt proves that he is not only a great comedic actor , but he can be just as good when he is trying NOT to be funny . His on-stage scenes early in the film were not only well-lit but also wonderfully acted and photographed . Jerry Lewis also performs a surprisingly convincing role in a startling turn from sheer comedic hilarity to a seriously dramatic role as Platt's legendary comedian father . Platt plays Tommy Fawkes , a struggling stand-up comedian trying to live up to the legacy that his famous father George Fawkes ( Jerry Lewis ) has created . George is now retired , and Tommy is struggling to get his career started . After yet another painful failure onstage , Tommy decides to travel back to Blackpool , England , where his family's comedy originated . The people that Tommy meets there are strangely fascinating , and Lee Evans delivers a particularly interesting performance as Jack Parker , the high energy comedian who is on the run from the law and is also George Fawkes ' bastard son . His one full length comedy act is absolutely amazing to watch . As Tommy is holding auditions trying to find something funny to include in his own act back in the States , he learns more and more about the people living in Blackpool and about their history as well as some dishonorable actions of his own father , and he learns an important lesson from it all . He ultimately finds his place in the world of live acting , and the transformation from who he was at the beginning of the film to who he is at the end is incredible . Funny Bones is an excellent but very different comedy that is ultimately very rewarding and satisfying . The cinematic trickery and the skillful use of lighting add to the experience , and the acting is excellent all around . The circus scene at the end of the film was great , it was tense and amazingly well done . Although slow at times , this is a great film about overcoming obstacles and developing your own view of the world , as well as the importance of finding your rightful place in it .
Hell yes .	The remake of Ocean's 11 is a tremendously entertaining movie . I personally find Brad Pitt and George Clooney to be among the most watchable actors working today , so I found the movie to be hugely appealing despite numerous plot holes , an almost nonstop barrage of clichés , a ridiculous ending , and Don Cheadle . Before I go on , I should mention that I think Cheadle is an immensely talented actor with some great performance's under his belt , such as his work in Boogie Nights , Traffic , and A Lesson Before Dying ( sure , he can't pronounce Vladivostok , but it was still a great performance ) . The problem with his character here , probably the most controversial role of the entire movie , is that he was forced to take on this ridiculous accent , making him the Jar Jar Binks of Ocean's 11 . Pretty sad , but I hope it serves as a lesson for how dumb it is to have well known actors take on thick accents . It does nothing but call attention to itself and invite criticism for the actor's ability to pull it off . And given the content of the discussion boards on the IMDb , Cheadle didn't pull it off so well . That being said , the rest of the movie is enormously entertaining , even though Andy Garcia , who I have had an unjustifiable aversion to ever since Desperate Measures , turns his character of the ridiculously rich Terry Benedict , owner of three casinos in Las Vegas , into an almost cartoonish villain . George Clooney plays the title character Danny Ocean , recently released from prison where he had plenty of time to develop intricate plots for robbing three casinos simultaneously . The parole board asks him if he thinks he would ever return to a life of crime were he released , he smiles , gets released , and promptly returns to a life of crime . This is the kind of character that Clooney was born to play . Brad Pitt plays Ocean's Second , the second man in charge and much of the pull behind getting this whole thing together . We get the usual montage of hilarious antics being committed by those that are to be sought to be among Ocean's 11 ( edited together on the same template used to introduce us to the colorful characters in Armageddon ) , each one fulfilling the need for another stereotype . In this way , the movie is pretty weak , but it is so entertaining to watch the robberies pulled off that it makes up for a lot of these shortcomings . Brad Pitt lends his massive presence to the film as Rusty , an old friend of Danny's . Rusty is an interesting character , sort of a freelancer in Vegas , living his life in the casinos , obviously raking in comfortable amounts of cash from his less than legal endeavors , and willing only to dress in the highest of fashion . Strange , however , for a man to constantly wear such high priced clothing when he is ALWAYS eating . Matt Damon plays the part of the pickpocket , whose skills come into good use in the plot in ways which I will not reveal , Don Cheadle plays the demolitions expert , Bernie Mac gets a great role as a card dealer with a not so clean past , and Elliott Gould makes a huge turn from his character in American History X to play the part of a washed up con man , eager for revenge against Terry Benedict , who put him out of business . The idea is to rob the central safe that stores the cash for the three casinos in question . Supposedly this is the most ingenious and impenetrable vault ever created by mankind ( as this is generally how it is described throughout the movie ) , which begs the question of why the blueprints for the vault are kept under the watchful eye of a cheaply rented night security guard . That's like leaving the keys to Fort Knox in plain view outside the vault and protected by a thin pane of glass . ( spoilers ) Complicating matters , conveniently for the script , is the little factoid that Benedict is now dating Ocean's ex-wife , who left him because he was involved in a life of crime . It's interesting to see the movie take place in what is to me the familiar setting of Las Vegas , but it is not enough to distract attention from the disastrous romantic content of the movie . Not only does Tess ( Roberts ) come off as a stiff and exceedingly unpleasant woman , but she left Danny in the first place for being a criminal and landing himself in prison . Then he pulls off this astronomical heist , stealing millions and millions of dollars from her current love interest ( as well as managing to get him to admit on camera that he cares more about money than he does about Tess ) , and THEN she wants him back . What , she didn't want to be with him before because his criminal life landed him in prison , but now she wants him back because he's GOOD at being a criminal ? Please . Nevertheless , while the ending almost completely ruined the movie because it leaves such a bad aftertaste , the rest of the film is hugely entertaining , bad fake accents notwithstanding . There are lots of twists and turns , lots of people get what is coming to them , and as is to be expected from a movie starring Brad Pitt , George Clooney , Matt Damon and Julia Roberts , the star power is substantial . It ends badly , but it's great up to that point . It's just too bad that the bad part is so near the end and therefore in the front of your mind at the end of the movie .
The true meaning of Christmas is in your heart ?	I read a review by another IMDb user who compared the look of the film to illustrations in old children's books , the ones that , for certain generations , bring back warm and much - cherished memories , and while The Polar Express didn't exactly knock my socks off like I expected it would , this is exactly what it looks like , and that kind of aesthetic appeal can go a long way . The story involves an urgent Christmas time emergency . A young boy lies quietly in his bed on Christmas Eve , as the story begins , and pores over doubts in his mind about the existence of Santa Claus . Enter The Polar Express , a magical train designed for just such an emergency . The conductor , in the film's defining moment , calmly urges the astonished boy , " I think you should get on the train . " There are definite roller coaster moments which , for all of the movie's thematic cleverness , remind us periodically that this is meant to be a good ride , thrilling us with the stomach - turning train travel as much as with the brilliant animation and entirely new form of acting . This new kind of acting and animation is done through something that I believe is called performance capture , where the actors really act out the scenes that they are in , and using a gigantic number of sensors placed over the actor's face and body , the performance is then entered into the computer , and Tom Hanks can be turned into a whole host of characters in the same movie . I believe he plays five parts in this movie . What I love about the movie is that it doesn't give us a sugary confection when we get to the North Pole . Santa is not jolly old St . Nick here , he's a businessman with a lot of employees . Tiny employees , but also not cute little elves either . Even the reindeer look like real animals , that grunt and snort and , gasp , may even have bodily functions ! There were some points where I felt that the character of the conductor was a little too abrasive , even mean . I appreciate that the movie doesn't shoot for your traditional Christmas movie , opting instead to add some excitement and even be a little scary , but at some times the effort to do this became a little transparent and we get something where the conductor just comes off as a jerk . Then again , I should mention that it is ironically because of things like this that the movie is so watchable , and re-watchable . I've heard some people worry about what this new method of capturing performances will mean in the future ( I know that some people are , for some reason , worried that actors will some day literally be able to " phone-in " their performances ) , although that doesn't exactly strike me as a valid concern . It seems like an addition to the art , rather than a corruption . Either way , it's a pretty exciting ride !
A cross section of Chaplin's first year in film-making .	It is no secret that Charlie Chaplin spent most of his first year in film-making churning out simple short comedies for Keystone Studios , in which he spent most of his time either kicking , punching , and throwing bricks at people or planting kisses on uncomfortable women . Laffing Gas is kind of a cross section of Chaplin's first year in film because it has all of those elements , as well as about the same ending as most of the other Keystone films , but it also shows a lot of Chaplin's most brilliant talents , the tricks that he does with his body and his cane and his hat . Also , I am not sure if it was just the copy that I watched , but part of the film plays in regular motion , rather than the slightly fast motion of most of the other short films , so you can see pretty clearly what it actually looked like when they were filming the fight scenes . Early in the film , Charlie walks into the dentist's office where he works and immediately has a fistfight with another guy , the receptionist , I guess , in the office . And this guy is tiny , by the way . Chaplin was a little guy himself , but this other guy makes Chaplin look like a giant . Anyway , they have a fight scene that is in normal speed , so it almost looks like slow-motion . The film is also one of the more violent of the Keystone films ; at one point a guy gets hit in the face with a brick and then seems to spit out some teeth , soon landing himself in the dentist's office and being worked on by Charlie , who threw the brick in the first place , with a pair of what looks like bolt-cutters . There is a brief use of laughing gas in the film , but most of it is another ten minute slapstick fight scene interspersed with some genuinely brilliant moments . Also note that one scene in the film is filmed on the sidewalk in front of a place called the Sunset Pharmacy , which I imagine was a real place somewhere on Sunset Blvd . in Los Angeles . If anyone knows anything about that , please let me know !
The Bourne Identity is a taut psychological thriller that explores the genre from a variety of new standpoints , but doesn't quite manage to be as great as it could have and should have been .	In one of the more anticipated thrillers released this year , Matt Damon takes on the role of a CIA assassin who has failed an assassination mission only to wake up and find himself on a strange fishing boat with no memory of who or where he is or how he even got there . It starts off under this immediately interesting premise , with Damon's character progressively educating himself about his identity through the gradual realization of his own ignorance to the true reality of who he is . The more he learns , the more he realizes that he doesn't know , as the saying goes . And we are more than willing to tag along and make all of these thrilling discoveries with him . The movie has a remarkable amount of strong points , but almost as many weak points . It grows a little frustrating after a while as we learn how much Marie is willing to put up with in order to stay with this guy . It's kind of important that she's there because , as he said in the most amusing line in the film , she's the only person he knows . On the other hand , it's hard to imagine that someone as good-looking as Franka Potente has been having such a hard time finding a boyfriend that she is willing to go through the car chases and gunfights and explosions that are involved with her new friend , who hasn't told her his name because he didn't even know it himself . And why did he pay her $20 , 000 for the ride to Paris ? Did that serve any purpose in the film other than illustrating the massive amount of money that he has at his disposal ? On the one hand , it's easy to see how weak the scriptwriting is when we consider the real logistics of Marie deciding to stay by Jason's side ( if that IS his real name ? ) through all of this mess , but on the other hand , we are willing to forgive things like that because the rest of the movie is so good . Some of the action scenes are a little extensive , but even most of those are forgivable . There is a scene , for example , where Bourne pushes a man's body off of a flight of stairs and over a drop of four or five stories , is able to concentrate enough to shoot a guy a couple of flights down , and then uses the body as a sort of cushion to break his fall . This is something that I've always wondered about ( I can't remember why , but I've wondered why I haven't seen someone do this in an action movie before . Maybe now I know why ) . Now , if Bourne is capable of doing half the things that we've seen him do in this movie , I'm more than willing to believe that he could pull something like this off , although the landing didn't look real at all . Now all I need is to see more people simply shooting the guy who's holding a gun to a hostage's head , demanding escape . I'm sick and tired of seeing cops put their guns down and let the bad guy go instead of just shooting him in the head when they had him in their crosshairs . I saw Charlie Sheen do it in Navy Seals , I just wish more action films would catch on and quit with the weak scripts . Remember that scene in Snatch when Mickey O'Neil threw that first punch and knocked that huge guy out ? Something similar happened in The Bourne identity when Bourne is sleeping on a bench in a snow-covered park and two police officers come to tell him to move along , and he ends up beating them both to the ground before he even really realizes what he's doing . This is what makes the movie fun . Sure , it's not the most intellectually involved screenplay , and it's even been done before in almost exactly the same form , but it's fun to go along with this character as he discovers all of these skills that he has , especially since he doesn't even know why he has them . ( spoilers ) There are times during the film when there are so many possible identities that may each be the real one ( if there IS a real one ) that it gets confusing as to which identity he is investigating or which one is thought dead by his enemies . However , whenever this does happen , it only serves to concentrate more attention on the action and the physical aspect of the film , which is clearly its strongest asset . We eventually learn that Jason Bourne is a $30 million government weapon , and if I remember correctly , there was nothing in the film to suggest for certain that Jason was not some sort of cyborg , including that first kiss scene . When Marie put that first peck on his lips , he stood there staring at her for a few moments too long , like he was consulting his memory banks trying to figure out how to react in this sort of situation . Besides , if he were a cyborg , it would explain his bulletproof shoulder blades ! Here's a guy that has survived floating for an unknown period of time unconscious in the ocean ( okay , THAT hints that he's not a cyborg ) , two bullet wounds to the back that would have punctured both lungs and probably his heart if it weren't for the above-mentioned bulletproof shoulder blades , and who can pull all sorts of fight moves that make Neo and Morpheus look like kids , and we are taken along with him as he desperately tries to figure out who he is . It's not exactly clear who the bad guy ( s ) is or are in this film , which only serves to add to the suspense and fun created within it . It's an interesting and refreshing change to see the kind of character development that we see in this film , where we grow to like and to root for this guy with amnesia only to later learn that he was pretty much the mastermind of the botched assassination attempt . Given that , he can't really be seen as the good guy , but I guess that since he only wants to forget all that and start a new life with Marie we're meant to see him that way . And speaking of which , this is the first element of the film where it starts to falter . This guy is a trained government assassin , yet he is completely derailed by a couple of kids at the crucial point in his mission . Sure , it would not be a pleasant thing to see an African leader murdered in a film in front of his kids , but you have to wonder where that $30 million went if he is so easily weakened . But if you can look past the questionable female presence in the film ( questionable only because no woman on earth would go through all this for a good looking guy ) and the obligatory ending ( I remember watching the conclusion of all of Bourne's troubles , and just waiting for the impending reunion scene ) , you will get a quality action film . There are some scenes where the movie knows it's messing up ( such as when Bourne amazingly knows EXACLTY where the shotgun is in a house that he has only spent one night in ) , but it is always sure to correct itself sometime during the film ( in this case , in the scene where he explains to Marie that he knows that the best place to find a gun right now is in the cab of the gray pick-up truck out front ) . Of course , we can't understand how he could know this , but that's beside the point because we aren't meant to discover a full understanding of who he was before the assassination attempt . The Bourne Identity is not about who Jason Bourne was before he lost his memory , its about who he is as a human being underneath all of the training that he was given by the government and the purpose of which he no longer understands or believes in . He doesn't want to be an assassin , he wants a normal life with Marie . We're just here to see the conflict involved in getting rid of one life and starting the other . These are very different themes for one movie to deal with , which is why it falters at some points , but the action and the acting and sheer fast-paced excitement over-shadow the lesser elements , making The Bourne Identity a very worthy action thriller .
Eventually , Airport presents a very interesting and intricate story .	I had never heard of this movie when I watched it recently , and I actually thought that it was a spoof of Airplane , and not the other way around , until I noticed that it was made a decade earlier . Although Airport starts off with nearly 45 minutes of mind-numbing boredom , it builds up a number of separate stories that all eventually come together in a very clever and thrilling way . The movie is probably too long by about an hour , but because of this we were able to really get to know the characters , maybe even more than we might want to . It seems to take forever , but once the movie really gets going , it is a very exciting and entertaining drama . When you watch Airport , it is very clearly a 70's film . It has dated fairly badly , but it is still entertaining if you can sit through it long enough for it to really get started . The runway scenes , those involving the airplane that was stuck in the snow , were particularly well made , and the acting was good , but the movie was a little too talky . It seemed that it told too much of the story through dialogue , which is one of the things that made the first half so boring . Now , I'm not against extensive dialogue , but it has to be right for the movie , and Airport was almost too much of a thriller to be moving that slow for that long . However , despite all of this , don't be put off by the movie's extensive running time or the superficial clunkiness that the movie seems to have , or even the fact that one of the main characters ( Burt Lancaster ) is one of the ugliest men ever to be shown on the silver screen . Once the film gets around to the bomb on the plane , you start to see how all of these seemingly obscure stories that you have been watching tie together . Airport is a very well thought out and scripted movie , and it is ultimately very satisfying .
Keaton steals the show .	I may be biased toward Buster Keaton since I have seen so many more of his films than of Fatty Arbuckle's , but I think that he was a far better physical comedian than Fatty was . Arbuckle performs some astonishing tricks as the cook , flipping pancakes behind his back and tossing utensils and such , and he should be recognized for this as well as his tremendous contributions to silent comedies . Both actors have much stronger works , but this is a clean short comedy , surprisingly well restored for having been sitting lost in some attic for more than 70 years . It makes me wish I was around back then , when the magic in Hollywood was still alive .
Smarter than A Bug's Life but not quite as fun .	I always love a good animated film or TV show that can entertain both children and adults , like Toy Story or Shrek or The Simpsons , and while Antz is definitely aimed at pleasing both its older and younger audience members , there is something about it that is not quite as fun as its animated counterpart . There were numerous movies that were released seemingly in pairs around the same time as Antz and A Bug's Life were released , with one of them being better or more successful than the other , and it's clear to me that A Bug's Life is the superior film in this case . Antz , however , is certainly brilliantly written ( like a lot of Woody Allen's best work ) , but unfortunately the film is not as versatile as I imagine was hoped . Part of the problem may just be that Woody Allen is so recognizable . From the second Z starts talking Allen's neurotic , spectacled face jumps off the screen at you as if he were really there , waving his arms frantically . But his character is given great lines and there is certainly a lot of charming characters . I am reminded of some other " animated " films in which the characters look and act like the actors doing their voices , like The Polar Express or the recent and highly disappointing A Scanner Darkly . Sylvester Stallone , Christopher Walken , and Danny Glover all star as their animated selves , and this is one of the movie's charms . The story , however , and especially the message , is amazing in its importance and clever delivery . We are introduced to a colony of ants that all mindlessly go about their age-old jobs supporting the hive , when suddenly one of them breaches that line that separates humans from animals , he starts thinking for himself . He begins to lament that his own personal needs are overlooked completely as he does everything to support the colony . There is a charming scene where all of the ants are dancing at a cleverly designed insect bar , and while they all dance in an insect-like unison , Z decides he's had enough of the conformity and cuts loose on the dance floor . He immediately charms the beautiful ( as beautiful as an insect can get , I guess ) and engaged Princess Bala , who is immediately drawn to his sense of freedom and individuality . There are a couple of militaristic ants , perfectly named General Mandible and Colonel Cutter and played by Gene Hackman and Christopher Walken , who are obsessed with the defense of the colony and want to divert all resources to the build up of the military . They even give the queen false reports of an impending invasion of the far superior termites in order to convince the queen that they must act before its too late . Lately I have been learning a lot about Chinese history , and this is astonishing in the similarity to the way Mao Tse-tung deliberately inflated the possibility of an impending American invasion of China so that he could convince Stalin to give him the resources and expertise needed to build a nuclear bomb . Or the way he would commonly instigate action from Chiang Kai-shek's Kuomintang so that he could make a massacre look like self - defense . Thankfully , when it happens in Antz it is much less scary ! The movie is filled with stunning visual sequences , many of them brilliantly inspired by the real lives of ants , with others that are clearly wild , but fun , flights of fancy . The animation is incredible and the script is intelligent , although there is just a tiny bit of Allen's unique style of comedy that doesn't fit very smoothly into an animated film , particularly one aimed mostly at adults . In a lot of ways , however , it does work . When praised for laughing in the face of death , Z comments in true Woody Allen form , " Actually I stand behind Death and make belittling comments at its back . " There is a noted absence of cute showtoons and cloying romance in the movie , which even features a surprising amount of battle violence , a lot of which may very well put off some of the movie's youngest audience members . But it's also revealing about some of the unique physical characteristics of ants , like the one about how dismemberment may not quite kill them , but not the one about how it's almost literally impossible to drown ants . They can live for weeks underwater , but are given a human-like need for oxygen for the benefit of the plot . The end of the movie is a fun romp into the world outside the colony , and our heroes are clearly unprepared . There are some clever and brilliant things that happen to Z and Princess Bala , like getting stuck in a piece of gum of the bottom of a shoe on their search for " Insectopia , " a picnic . But the most important thing about the movie is the message . It's not about being yourself , but about not being the same as everyone else . After Z's brief military experience , he potently remembers a life-changing piece of advice given to him there . " Don't follow orders for the rest of your life . "
A surprisingly delightful romantic comedy about the horrors of marriage !	SPOILERS I was remarkably uninterested in this movie when I first heard about it . I just can't say that a romantic comedy starring Chris O'Donnell held any appeal for me , and to be perfectly honest , I can't even remember why I decided to watch it . Whatever led me to watch this film , I'm glad , because it was surprisingly amusing . There are certain reasons for watching a romantic comedy , and not all of them have to do with going out on your second date with your high school boyfriend or girlfriend . A good romantic comedy will have a quality romance element that will keep the female audience adequately interested , as well as enough good comedy to keep the attention of those guys who just can't get into the romance even a little bit ( oh , shut up , you know you had tears in your eyes ) . The Wedding Singer is a perfect example of a romantic comedy that fills these requirements in just the right proportions . In the case of The Bachelor , you don't have to be scared away just because Chris O'Donnell belongs in a romantic comedy only slightly more than someone like Jet Li or Steven Seagal does . There is an amusing plot that involves massive amounts of money that will be awarded to Jimmy Shannon ( O'Donnell ) if he married by his 30th birthday , which is inconveniently the next day . Now , as there are good things that a romantic comedy should strive for , such as all those described above , there are also horribly frustrating things that are unfortunately common in these films . To describe a couple of them stereotypically , there is the aggravatingly stubborn girlfriend , and the boyfriend who turns into a complete moron at just the right ( or wrong ) times . Jimmy's girlfriend , Anne ( Renee Zellweger ) , knows that Jimmy doesn't want to get married , and therefore makes a big fuss when he wants to get married because of this money . For crying out loud , it's a HUNDRED MILLION DOLLARS ! ! CONVINCE HIM LATER ! ! ! You'd think that she would at least keep the prenuptial agreement in mind before turning him down for being shallow . If anything , she should smack him if he's still hesitant to marry after being promised all this money ( in , by the way , an absolutely hilarious video will ) . But of course , we can't blame everything on the girl , right ? Of course not . Jimmy has the unenviable skill of invariably sticking his foot so far in his mouth at just the wrong moment that he'll have to have it surgically removed . He screws up proposal after proposal in the most idiotic ways , challenging the audience to keep from screaming out how stupid it is to daydream about horses on the helipad as he's proposing to Anne ( as they say , if you love your freedom , your marriage will fail ) , or to tell Zoe how far down on the list she is . Thankfully , however , frustrating nonsense like this , although sadly prevalent in the film , is satisfactorily countered by side-splitting comedy , a lot of which is embodied in the grumpy old grandfather with the loudspeaker ( ' PROCREATE ! ! ' ) . Other than the bonehead proposals that Jimmy gives to his ex-girlfriends , that part of the film was actually pretty well structured . The only one of them who actually agrees to marry him is pretty good looking but is also a greedy bich . And , as if that weren't bad enough , her name's BUCKley . I don't care how good looking you are , Buckley is the name of a redneck boy . On the other hand , at least she was honest that she was only interested in the marriage as a business arrangement . ( spoilers ) So as we near the end of the film , it becomes time for the happy ending to develop , so marriage is suddenly made to be a good thing . I think that this is true myself ( both of my parents are divorced , but are also each happily re-married ) , but the institution of marriage is clearly manipulated in this movie in order to further the plot in just the right way . Manipulative , yes , but also not necessarily excessive or even bad . We eventually encounter a happily married priest who calls marriage the best thing that ever happened to him , and this is basically what changes Jimmy's mind about the whole thing , which only leaves the task of finding Anne and getting her to believe that he really wants to marry her and to get the ceremony done in time to get the money promised in his grandfather's hilarious video will . Her train arrives at 5 : 50 , and he has to be married by 6 : 05 . Trains are ALWAYS late , but we'll ignore that for now . This is , of course , the time when he wakes up in church and gets mobbed by eager brides , who all begin spouting criteria at him for some mysterious reason , and then get mad at him for his preferences . He says that he likes blondes , and is ACCUSED by brunettes left and right for it . He should have said , ' No biches . ' There are some serious logical discrepancies in the final scene , such as the Where's Waldo-like scene of the brides mobbing the police car but parting calmly for Anne to pass through , as well as the fact that they all quiet down immediately when Anne's sister tells them to . There is a cheesy cutesy scene when Anne asks if this can please be her day , the crowd of angry brides mysteriously applauds when they are pronounced man and wife , and then the fat guy announces ' Cake for everybody ! ' which leaves us to wonder how they are to provide cake for everyone in that crowd when the cakes cost $800 each . Obviously not perfect , but as a whole , the film is entertaining and amusing , despite a lot of cheesy garbage , and it can be enjoyed for that . It didn't start out with a lot of promise , but I think that the movie came through .
Not bad . . .	I've seen better Buster Keaton short films , but this one still manages to portray the rather dreary fate of a man who finds himself in prison because an escaped convict switched clothes with him after he knocked himself unconscious with a golf ball . His is ultimately to be hung , and I think the film deserves respect for keeping you laughing even while a man gets a noose wrapped around his neck . The story involves Keaton's efforts to escape from the prison , oppressed at first by the prison guards holding him prisoner and then by a massive behemoth of a convict , who takes control of the small prison by knocking out all of the guards with a sledge hammer ( in a rather entertaining sequence where he smacks them all one by one and they pile up like the police cars in Blues Brothers 2000 ) at right about the same time that Keaton manages to switch clothes with one of them in order to help himself escape . Lots of clever slapstick gags , some of which may have influenced Chaplin's work in Pay Day , made a couple years later , make this an entertaining short from one of the giants of silent film comedy .
The Cane Mutiny ! !	The unnatural history of the introduction of cane toads into Australia is a hilarious documentary about what is certainly one of the most foolish of history's human attempts at changing their environment for their own advantage . It is almost sickening to consider the sheer numbers of these hideous creatures that were crawling all over north eastern Australia , as well as the absolute , unfiltered stupidity that led to their being brought into Australia in the first place . There does not appear to have been much more thought put into their introduction onto the continent other than they share part of the name of the pests that they were brought to eradicate . I doubt very much , for example , that anyone looked much deeper into the nature ( most importantly the feeding and mating habits ) of the cane toads before they were brought over . Mating habits is something that most certainly should have been investigated , as the cane toad's sex drive is proven to be so strong that they are willing and able to attempt to mate with everything from a shoe to a human hand to a squashed and VERY dead cane toad . It's almost as though the people who brought these things into Australia said ' CANE toads , CANE grubs . Of COURSE ! ! ' From the frightening shot of the little girl early in the documentary lovingly playing with one of the ridiculously unattractive toads to the other little girl playing with one of the ridiculously unattractive creatures near the end of the documentary , Cane Toads is a testament to the sheer extent of the human capacity for stupidity . It's amazing to me how friendly some people became with the creatures , which seem to be some of the most resilient creatures on earth , due to their ability to eat just about anything smaller than themselves and their almost total lack of any predators ( except , of course , for the speeding tires of fed up Australians ) . Resilience , however , does not equal aesthetic appeal , as the cane toads are some of the most repulsive creatures I've ever seen . Cane Toads takes a natural approach to looking at an environment plagued by a pest that was destroying a certain crop , and then takes a strange turn when it introduces the fact that humans introduced another pest in hopes of reducing the problem but succeeded only in greatly increasing them . It's an extremely unusual documentary , and it shows the perspectives on what I can't escape calling some of the more backwards specimens of the human species . Definitely an entertaining documentary , just remember that one of the natural rules of life requires that you do not look at a cane toad while you're eating . I only tell you this because I wish someone had told ME that before I watched the movie !
Note to self : Don't write anything down . Wait , maybe I better not write this ?	The Butterfly Effect , unfortunately marketed as most notable because of a turn from idiot comedy to strong dramatic performance by Ashton Kutcher , begins with a title explaining one of the tenets of Chaos Theory , specifically that a butterfly flapping its wings starts a chain reaction of events that can result in a hurricane on the other side of the planet . Interestingly , a theory which has almost nothing to do with this movie . This movie is not about a butterfly flapping its wings and causing a hurricane tens of thousands of miles away , it's about a butterfly that flaps its wings , deciding to fly intself toward a deadly spiderweb or toward a safe open field of sweet flowers , and the effects that that single decision has on that same butterfly's future life , not on the weather occurrences on the other side of the planet . Kutcher plays Evan Treborn , a kid who inherited a thinly described mental disorder from his father , who has lived most of Evan's life in a hospital for the criminally insane . The specifics of his disorder are not important , as the effects are explained by the movie . We meet Evan as a young boy , creating concerns among the school staff by drawing a picture of a knife-wielding person standing over a lot of bloody corpses when asked to draw a picture of what he wanted to be when he grew up . Grisly , yes , but the artistic ability in the drawing is stunning . It should have been more childishly drawn were it's artistic competence to garner not a single mention from the teachers so worried about it . In order to work toward a solution to the problem , the school psychologist suggests having Evan begin to keep a journal , sort of as a way to map out his thoughts and see if they might be able to find out what happens in the periods when Evan ' loses the time , ' as Aaron Stampler from Primal Fear described his similar experiences . These journals later in Evan's life provide him the opportunity to sort of mentally travel through time and change occurrences that happened in order to change the disastrous future . When I think about the change brought about by the small things that Evan goes back and changes , I'm reminded of a film released last year called Thirteen ( which , at the time of this writing , I haven't seen ) . Parents may find themselves disturbed at how Thirteen presents how easily a perfect daughter can be turned horribly wrong by hanging out with the wrong people . Incidentally , this is where a thin version of the above-mentioned Chaos Theory comes into play in The Butterfly Effect . The difference between a butterfly causing a hurricane by flapping its wings and the chains of events in this movie is that the butterfly flapping its wings falls victim to a fallacy of logical thinking called ' post hoc , ergo prompter hoc ' ( ' After this , therefore because of this ' ) . Certainly an interesting theory , but one that can never be proven because no hurricane could ever be traced back to a single event that , had it never taken place , might have resulted in the absence of the hurricane . The Butterfly Effect's version is much simpler . The path of life has many forks , and different choices in life lead to different futures . A Simpson's episode that dealt with this exact idea comes to mind . In an amusing alteration of a famous science fiction story , Homer manages to build a time machine out of something that only he could build a time machine from ? a toaster . Back in the time of the dinosaurs , he accidentally squishes a bug , then travels back to the present to find the world totally transformed . Ned Flanders as the all-powerful diddly-dictator , his family extremely classy but without the existence of donuts ( too much for Homer to bear , so he tragically travels back again to fix it before realizing that donuts fall from the sky like rain ) , they're back to normal but eat with their tongues like lizards , etc . Each time he travels back in time , he changes something and returns to the present to find things completely different . The difference in The Butterfly Effect is that the things that Evan changes affect only him and his friends , and apparently no one else . Evan has grown up to be a productive college student , studying psychology in hopes of learning something about his troubled past . I won't go into how odd it is that he reveals deeply disturbing things about himself as well as having been forced to perform in a child pornography video and yet nothing ever came of it ( maybe no one ever read his journals , just like they never noticed his obvious artistic brilliance because they were too concerned over his extensive use of the red crayon ? ) , because the important thing is that he is later able to read through these old journal entries as a sort of portal to travel back to the time at which they were written so that he can change events that had tragic affects on the lives of him and his friends . There are scenes in The Butterfly Effect that are genuinely scary , and the film itself has a thoroughly creepy feel throughout ( not the least reason for which is a gigantic amount of hugely disturbing scenes involving the characters as children - many of which went beyond the extent necessary in order to get their point across ) . These are , incidentally , the reason that the film at many points becomes campy and callous , surely inspiring a good portion of the many negative reviews of the film . Little kids acting in ways that little kids are not supposed to act can be pretty funny , that's why South Park was such a huge hit , but I could certainly have done with significantly less profanity and violence from them ( maybe a few less vicious death threats and one or two fewer 2X4's to the face would have been beneficial ) . The logic behind the traveling back in time and the mechanisms of the switches from one reality to the next is never very clearly explained , although given the scope of the swinging from present to past and back and forth again , had it been shown it would really have been a rather trivial issue . The jumps back in time are interesting in that Evan is literally able to jump into his younger self , speaking and acting as an adult though still a young boy , quickly and efficiently changing specific events and thus instantly altering the future ( although not eradicating from his own memory the alternate future that he just fixed , even though he fixed things so that they never even happened ? thus enters the paradoxes always involved with time travel ) . There are also things that don't make sense on a logical level in the movie . Here's a question , for example - if Evan knew about what was going to happen when the lady walks over to her mailbox with her baby , why did he run up and stand right in front of it when he went back to prevent their deaths ? You would think that he would have anticipated the blast , since he knew exactly when it was going to happen . I liked The Butterfly Effect a lot more than I thought I would , I had heard a lot of bad things about it . It's strange in that it starts off with a very interesting premise , then starts to get a little rough and border at times on being campy , but ultimately comes around full circle and I found myself more impressed than I anticipated when I saw the story come around and explain why it started the way it did and what the beginning scene meant . It's one of those films that starts right in the middle ( maybe because even the film doesn't understand Evan's mind ) , and then ultimately comes back to that point , gradually revealing the meaning of the film as a whole . Leave the kids and most of your desire to apply logic to the movies at home and it's thoroughly enjoyable .
Excellent story , but a little slow and boring at some points .	Kiss of the Spider Woman takes the classic man undercover story and throws just about every twist into it that you can think of . William Hurt plays Luis Molina , a homosexual who is being held in a South American prison peppered with political prisoners , and is sharing a cell with Valentin Arregui , who happens to be one of those political prisoners . The Great Depression in the early 1930s was ironically one of the most successful periods in history for the cinema , because the main reason for going to the movies ( which filmmakers were very aware of ) was escapism . Films were made that were meant to help people forget temporarily about their dreary and poverty-stricken everyday lives . Although Kiss of the Spider Woman does not take place in the 30s , the film starts off with Molina dictating ( no pun intended ) to Valentin the events that take place in his favorite romance film , which Valentin quickly identifies as a Nazi propaganda film . Valentin disapproves of Molina's romantic love for such a film , but ultimately comes to admire the way that he uses it so successfully as a form of escapism from the miserable prison . ( spoilers ) We eventually find out that Molina is being used to try to get information out of Valentin , information that failed to be achieved through torture , and the main conflict of the film comes from Molina's struggle about whether he wants to betray Valentin in order to reduce his own sentence , or if he wants to honor their newly formed but very strong friendship . Some of the best moments of the film come from Molina's demands from the police , saying that they are normal and if they are not met , Valentin will become suspicious and will not divulge the desired information . He manages to get the increasingly suspicious police to provide several deliveries of exotic foods to the two men , who are both hardly able to stand the prison food , which Valentin refers to one time as ' glue . ' The other plot that takes place in the story is the development of Molina's and Valentin's friendship . These are two extremely different men , and the friendship that develops between them is extremely unlikely but the film manages to make it believable , which is one of the movie's more noteworthy strong points . I could have done without the sex scene , but you have to admit that it signified an extremely powerful bond between the two men , particularly because we know that Valentin is not homosexual , and this bond comes into play later when Molina decides not to turn on him . The end of the film does not really fit the artful style of the rest of the movie , and it gets very slow at many points , but the quality is unmistakably there .
Morgan Spurlock continues the 30 days theme , with spotty success .	Given the sheer brilliance and immediate importance of Super Size Me , I was eager to see Morgan Spurlock's next project , the unscripted documentary series " 30 Days . " Within a few minutes into the first episode , it becomes clear that he is going to use the same structure as he used in his feature documentary , but it also becomes clear that there are a great many subjects and issues in the country and in the world that could use the old Spurlock treatment , if not to solve them , to at least call people's attention to them . In that way , I would say that the series is already a success . Sadly , I doubt his documentary ( or even the far superior book - and upcoming , almost surely inferior movie - Fast Food Nation ) has had the impact that he had hoped for and America ( and our health ) really need , but it is certainly a step in the right direction . The basis of this series is that each week someone is taken out of their daily lives and placed into the lives of someone else , someone either polarly different from them , or who leads a lifestyle that is morally , politically , religiously , or some way abhorrent or unacceptable for whatever reason . The Binge Drinking Mom , for example , was abhorred by her daughter's kamikaze-style partying , as was the straight guy by all of the gays that he was surrounded by for a month , and the Christian found himself unwilling and unable to follow many of the customs of the Muslims with whom he lived in his episode . Many of the episodes are astonishing in their ability to illuminate the plight of some of the people in this country , such as the first episode , about our nation's ridiculous minimum wage , as well as to really change and heal uninformed and prejudicial feelings and beliefs , such as the episode where the straight man lives with a gay man for a month . There are true differences and real friendships made , not some contrived piece of claptrap staged for the passing cameras . Then again , some episodes reveal something of a lack of ideas , or at least a failed experiment . The Binge Drinking Mom episode , for example , is stunning in its pointlessness and absurdity , almost as if it belonged in a different series . There is absolutely no sense of realism or positive change anywhere in the episode . If anything , it is the mother whose weakness should be focused on , given the pathetically wan behavior she exhibits when confronted with her daughter's belligerent behavior . She hangs her head in submission as her daughter puts her hand in her face to shut her up about her partying as she answers her ringing cell phone and complains to one of her friends about her pain-in-the-ass mom . Had mom calmly reached over ( as mine surely would have done ) , taken the phone out of her daughter's hand , snapped it in half and laid the pieces onto the table , and then laid down the law , she would have gotten her daughter's attention , at least for the remainder of the time that they spent at the table . Instead , the mother's ensuing drinking experiment comes off as a tired plea of desperation which neither the daughter nor the audience can ever take seriously . Nevertheless , the series as a whole has a lot of good points to make about everything from drinking to religion to sexual orientation , and it is lucky in that it has a pretty open-ended premise . As long as there are problems in America , theoretically it could go on forever . Although given the problem of the diminishing American attention span , much of America , myself included ( although not for lack of interest ) , may soon be on the lookout for what Morgan's got up his other sleeve .
You can't hold the cheesiness against it .	Orgazmo is the kind of movie that is cheesy to the point that it's obviously meant to be that way . You can't watch a movie like this and think even for a second that it is meant to be taken seriously , or even that it takes itself seriously . And all of this is clear just from looking at the cover box , so you know from the minute that you pick the movie up that you are about to watch an extremely goofball comedy . With that in mind , you can really appreciate Orgazmo for what it is . Trey Parker and Matt Stone , the famous creators of South Park and the hilarious BASEketball , have returned with another comedy , this one with much less taste but at least as many laughs . Orgazmo is the story of a Mormon missionary who inadvertently winds up starring in an adult film in Los Angeles , but who never seems to lose his faith . Trey Parker plays Elder Young , the above-mentioned missionary , and also writes and directs this unusually amusing b-movie . Orgazmo is a straightforward film that has a very obvious intent . It is aimed at the same audience as other infinitely inferior movies like Scary Movie and Scary Movie 2 , but it actually succeeds because its creators have some filmmaking talent that goes beyond a simple purge of every disgusting joke that they learned in fourth grade . Parker and Stone are just naturally funny guys , as has become obvious by now , which is why they have managed to take the potential-free combination of the porn industry and a tiny budget and make it into a hilarious comedy . Trey Parker plays Elder Young , a missionary assigned to do his mission work in Hollywood , and in a hilarious run-in with porn director Max Orbison , he ends up defending himself against a gang of thugs and thereby earning a high paying position as the leading man in Orbison's newest porno . Seduced by the offer of a huge amount of money , which he plans to spend on a house for himself and his ridiculous girlfriend ( ' Jesus and I love you ! ' ) , Young agrees to take on the role , provided he doesn't have to do any actual intercourse . Sound like the makings for a great comedy ? No ? Exactly ! That's what makes it so good ! This material is total crap , but that's where the comedy comes from ! This is a spoof of lots of different types of films , not the least of which are martial arts films , for reasons which you'll just have to watch the movie to see , and it succeeds on many different levels . The characters are hilarious ( there is a truly classic moment when Choda Boy explains to Young that , believe it or not , he doesn't get a lot of action from women . The fact that he's strapping a dildo to the top of his head might have something to do with that . ) , and there are just some great scenes . The movie is aware of its place , and it doesn't try to pretend that it is something that it's not . Get a bunch of your buddies together and have a couple beers while you watch this movie , you'll love it .
Welcome to the jungle , baby ?	Consider that so many of the roles that Arnold Schwarzenegger takes on are so similar , including Predator , and yet this film is so much better than most of the others . I enjoy watching his movies just because he's such a watch-able guy , even in his bad movies ( which are many ) , but I think the thing that really makes Predator stand out is its simplicity . The movie starts , the guys get dropped in the jungle , lots of blood and carnage flies across the screen , and the movie simply ends . No romance , no complex back story , no soldier struggling with problems in his past or even trauma caused by the horrible things he experiences during the movie . This is one of the things that made First Blood so good . It may turn out to be a movie about a lot of muscle-bound meatheads in the woods , but it doesn't insult the audience or try to apply complexity to a story that can't support it . Interestingly , the movie features two eventual governors . Jesse Ventura even wrote a book which was released while he was the governor of Minnesota and he used his favorite line in this movie as the title . And the book's actually pretty interesting ; there are some funny stories in it about things that went on while they were filming this movie . Arnold , on the other hand , is actually ( and thankfully ) given a relatively small amount of stupid one-liners , which are an idiotic byproduct of hard action movies that I've never really understood the necessity for . They don't reveal anything about the characters who say them , they don't add to the story or further the plot , and with rare exceptions , they're not funny . But I guess comic relief has to come from somewhere , and since complexity is not a requisite for movies like this , I can't really expect a lot of thought being put into the comedic content either . I watched Predator having never seen it from beginning to end and having just re-watched the original Alien . I am currently in the process of re-watching both series ' , for obvious reasons . One thing that I notice about both of them is the way they take their time in introducing the enemies which , in both films , are aliens . Predator doesn't waste much time dwelling on the origin of the alien , we pretty much assume it came from a space ship that flashed across the screen at the opening of the movie . Alien , on the other hand , went into remarkable detail about where its alien came from . What Predator does do , very effectively , I think , is that it has the guys fighting some very human enemies , which allows the movie to later take its sweet time in having them realize that the new enemy is not human at all . This is also , incidentally , weakly rehashed in the sequel , using the secrecy of this mission and team as an excuse to have more guys who don't know what's going on . The death scenes are actually pretty tasteful , given the genre . They are just gory enough to illustrate the violence of the enemy without being gratuitous . Just enough is shown to show how vicious the alien is , and there are some strange things done to and with the bodies that make you wonder about the alien's intentions or needs . The first deaths suggest vengeance if not some sort of ritual , but later ones suggest that the alien may be feeding off of his ( or her ) victims . Oddly enough , it is not until the awful Predator 2 that we learn that it kills for sport . Yes , the movie occasionally gets embarrassingly macho , but the skill with which it is put together far overshadows any tough-guy goofiness . Consider , for example , the ease with which the movie switches from showing the guys hunting the alien to their realization that they are the ones being hunted . In some cases , this transition takes place during a single shot and with virtually no movement in the shot at all except a change in someone's expression . It is truly a fight between a group of predators , which we understand because they are human like us , and a single predator whose powers and weaknesses are unknown . It's not Oscar material , needless to say , but it's a great action movie in part because it already knows that .
Faster , pussycat . . .	This is a surprisingly effective horror film , since I got it on a collection of 10 old horror movies for $15 . I have three or four other ten horror movie collections and have only seen one or two films from them . I wonder how many more are actually worth watching ? I have a love of really old and even really bad horror movies , For some reason terrible old horror movies can be a ton of fun to watch , while terrible new horror movies just come off as exploitative and stupid ( Cabin Fever , Wrong Turn , House of the Dead , etc . ) . In Mario Bava's 1966 horror classic , Kill , Baby , Kill , there have been some mysterious deaths in a small village , the isolation and pure strangeness of which reminds me of the town from The Wicker Man . Evidently a seven year old girl burned to death 20 years earlier and continues to haunt the town . Anybody that she reveals herself to almost immediately dies a terrible death which will look like suicide to any subsequent investigation . As was also the case in The Wicker Man , the outside detective assigned to the case gradually questions his certainty that it's all just some kind of superstitious hysteria . He initially explains the phenomena as poverty and ignorance , combined with superstition . A dangerous combination , to be sure . Bava takes this premise and does all kinds of cinematic trickery with it , much more than is common in horror . He makes psychological use of lighting and color , expertly frames his shots within outstanding sets ( seriously , even the bad ones are good ) , and delivers the surprisingly complex story with a level of skill rarely seen in the genre . He makes good use of the quick zoom lens and such ever-effective horror film tools as children and hallways ( Kubrick was surely influenced by this film when he made The Shining , we have the ghost of a little girl , the creepy hallways , even the ghostly bouncing ball ) and does some great things with a spiral staircase . I expected the movie to be terrible , at least because of the collection in which it is contained , although I guess I should be careful about assuming that a 10-movie horror collection that comes out to $1 . 50 per movie will be full of bad ones . One of my other collections has the original House on Haunted Hill and Night of the Living Dead , for example , but I didn't expect many more that would be any good . Kill , Baby , Kill , though , is certainly an overlooked gem .
That nativity scene is too much for me !	In a lot of ways I am surprised at the sheer simplicity of these old Bean TV shows , but that nativity scene was one of the funniest things I have ever seen in one of his shows . It reminds me of Chaplin's dance of the dinner rolls . It is so simple , but clearly a stroke of true genius . Recently I watched all of Chaplin's earliest comedies , and now as I watch these Bean episodes , it's clear to me that Bean is the closest thing that we have to the great silent comedy . He is essentially a silent slapstick artist like the old greats like Chaplin and Keaton and Fatty Arbuckler , but with his own personality . Bean definitely lives in his own little world ! I have to say that I was less than impressed with the turkey preparation scene , it's just a little too , ah , meaty for me . I love eating meat , but something about a gigantic raw turkey getting stuck on someone's head is a little off-putting to me . But the nativity scene , the Christmas stockings , and other things like the tainted clams scenes are definite classics !
Classic action ?	Paul Verhoeven's ambitious action masterpiece was a huge success at the time of its release in 1987 , but I tend to think that it would not be nearly a successful if a film like it had been released today . Action and science fiction movies have come a long way since the 80's , and it's also no secret that the success of Robocop owes a huge amount to it's far superior predecessor , The Terminator , but Robocop is also very much able to stand on its own . The first Teminator film , released in 1984 , is undeniably the film that really launched interest in the whole man vs . machine / cyborg theme , Robocop came along a few years later and renewed that interest , then we had a pathetic installment called Cyborg from Van Damme in 1989 , a couple of mediocre Robocop sequels , and of course , the stunningly successful and well-made Terminator 2 : Judgement Day . Robocop is separated from The Terminator most significantly in that the entire movie takes place in the future and there is not time travel ( other than that ) involved . The conflict here is not necessarily between man and machine , but between man and man where machine is used as a weapon between the two . It is definitely a more basic version of the almost universal good vs . evil story structure , with man on either end of the story in this case and each with their own superhuman robot to fight the other with . The story is thankfully complicated by the involvement of a gang of tremendously hardcore criminals who work for the bad guys at OCP but are not necessarily controlled by them , which leaves open a lot of possibilities in the plot and prevents it from being entirely predictable . Robocop is definitely among the most violent non-Scorsese films out there , almost to the point of being nauseating . This is definitely not something to show to the kids ( although my parents allowed me to watch it over and over when I was a kid myself ? I don't know how I could stand it ) , but it's good for something to watch when you're in the mood for what seems to be a really bad action movie that somehow managed to succeed . The movie is well written and well-acted ( although some of the criminals in the film were exaggerated to the point of amusement ) , and has some startlingly realistic special effects , especially the shootings ( although I've never actually seen anyone get shot before , so I can only assume that that's what it looks like ) . Robocop is almost like a cult classic , because someone who watches it now for the first time is not likely to enjoy it very much although original fans are likely to defend the film to no end , but it is definitely among the best of director Paul Verhoeven's U . S . films , which include mediocre productions like Showgirls and Hollow Man . This movie is undoubtedly more violent than most people are likely to enjoy , but if there is a place in modern cinema for gratuitous violence ( and I tend to think that there is ) then it is in movies like Robocop . It is a movie that was never meant to win any Academy Awards , and it earns respect by not pretending that it is .
No wonder Hayden Christensen got that role in Episode II ?	Life As A House tells the story of an aging man diagnosed with terminal cancer who makes one of those deathbed conversions from a hopeless slob and absentee father into someone who wants to reunite himself with his son and rebuild the shack that he has been living in for most of his life , much of which was spent with a wife that he had been promising a new house to throughout nearly their entire marriage . Hayden Christensen plays exactly the same role that he played in Episode II , a whiny little brat , with the exception that in this movie , he ultimately grows to love his father , who he has no relationship with and no desire to start one now . I saw Attack of the Clones before I saw Life As A House , and I think that part of Christensen's skill as an actor is that he can be so aggravatingly whiny , although I'm not sure I would consider that a skill . His teenage angst came through fairly well in Life As A House , but he overacts so much that he is almost completely unconvincing . ( spoilers ) As a whole , the film is about overcoming old grudges and getting people back together , even if this reunion is the result only of an impending death . The obligatory happy ending is certainly noticeable , but it's not entirely unsatisfying . At the risk of sounding morbid , I'm glad that they didn't go so far as to find some sort of miracle sure for George ( Kevin Kline ) , but instead let him pass on and have the rest of his characters accept his death and for his son to complete the mission that he set out to do . The painful growing of the relationship between George and his son was effectively portrayed , but weighted down only by the nerve-grating performance from Christensen . The film ends on a strong note in that it is not so weak as to have Sam , the son , give in completely and live happily ever after in his father's dream house , and even the sappy portion , giving the house as a gift to a woman who was the victim of a car accident in which George was involved years and years earlier , is not so sappy that it makes you roll your eyes and say here we go again as the movie switches to auto-pilot . There are so many people in our society that have been victims of any kind of unfortunate circumstance that it is good to see someone do something for them , even if only in the movies . Helping out those who are less fortunate is a powerful message for a Hollywood movie to deliver , and Life As A House does that , with only the most minor and excusable drawbacks .
Amusing short Pink Panther cartoon .	The Pink Blueprint involves the Pink Panther's efforts to replace a construction workers boring blueprints with one of his own , which would result in the construction of a crazy looking futuristic house . He and the worker get into a funny competition of sorts , each trying to use the same construction site to build totally different buildings . It's set up in a series of short scenes that each involve a run-in between the two as they work on their projects , and the Pink Panther is generally the winner of these confrontations , which usually end in some hilarious mishaps for the poor construction guy . The film is pretty dated , but it's still pretty entertaining , and it features an unexpected ending in which the Pink Panther does not exactly get the last laugh . I saw this short film on a videotape with the fourth James Bond film , Thunderball . Both were good shows .
Mr . Bean stumbles belligerently through a series of routine daily events , each one going horribly wrong and treating the audience to another dose of unintentional hilarity as only Bean can .	This is the first time I have seen any of the old Bean TV shows that aired in the UK before the movie was released here in the states in 1997 . I was reminded of some of Roberto Benigni's older films , such as Johnny Stecchino , which I watched because I was endlessly impressed with Life Is Beautiful . As in Benigni's case , the comedy in Bean's older TV show is virtually identical to that in his movie . Some of the scenes go on for a little too long , such as the diving board scene , but there are some scenes that just about knocked me off the couch I was laughing so hard , such as the television scene . When Bean is inching along the chair on his belly , crawling steadily closer to the TV so he can see it , he finally gets to a point where he can see the screen , and the second he turns his head toward it the reception goes out again . Believe me , this is a lot funnier in the show than it is in my review . It was totally predictable but completely side-splitting , I loved it . The swimming pool scene is followed by two only slightly less amusing skits , one involving a remarkably complex lunch in the park that just goes all wrong in the end and the other involving a date to a horror movie which , as with the diving board scene , goes on for a little too long . The next episode contains three more scenes that are entertaining in their own little Beany way , but none of which come close to the TV scene in the first episode . There is also a bonus skit at the end during which Bean makes extensive and hilarious efforts to get to the front of the line at the bus stop , even going so far as to cut in front of a mother with a baby carriage and to trick a blind man into thinking that the bus is there and then stepping into the street . I think we all know how this ends , and it's strange that Bean's comedy can be so predictable and still be so entertaining . Excellent source of light comedy and even insightfulness , at least in that it is interesting ( although obvious ) to consider why the bus stop skit was not previously shown on television . Not exactly the most intellectual entertainment , but the quality is there .
One of the better plots . . .	For about the first two thirds of The Landlady's Pet ( that's the real title , by the way - The Star Boarder was the former title , but ultimately it was changed ) it seems that it is going to come across as three distinctly separate parts - the first third , where Charlie is the " star boarder , " the landlady's favorite lodger to the chagrin of her jealous husband , the drunken scene , and the obnoxious son's disruptive magic lantern show . But as soon as the lantern show begins it becomes clear that it is going to tie the rest of the film together , which is something that Chaplin wasn't doing much during that first year making Keystone short comedies for Mack Sennett . The drunken scene is sort of a straggler , it doesn't seem to have any reason for being there other than that Chaplin can do it so well ( so well , in fact , that Robert Downey Jr . included it as part of his performance in the phenomenal 1992 film about Chaplin's life ) , the conclusion of the film and the tying up of loose ends is a welcome surprise . Watch for Gordon Griffith , a mainstay in Chaplin's earliest films , stealing the show as the landlady and her husband's obnoxious son . It's easy to see why Chaplin kept casting him in his films !
007 entering the computerized age ?	The Spy Who Loved Me starts off slow with a less than impressive opening scene but ultimately is one of the better films in the series . It's about a supervillain named Karl Stromberg who has isolated himself from society in a massive underwater lair that reminds me of the Nautilus from Jules Verne's " 20 , 000 Leagues Under the Sea . " Like Captain Nemo , Stromberg prefers an ocean life because of the peace and tranquility of the underwater world . When he meets Bond , he asks him , " Why do we seek to conquer space when seven tenths of our universe remains to be explored ? " But even his lofty his goal of creating an underground city is not his master plan . He has also built a super-tanker large enough to open up the jaws of its bow and swallow entire nuclear submarines and use them for his own ends . When the British and the Russians each find that they're missing a nuclear submarine , a massive hunt is started to find out what happened to them . The concern , needless to say , is understandable . I am curious as to why the subs didn't have ANY kind of tracking system installed in them . I mean , I realize this was before the time of LoJack , but these are not old Hondas , they're nuclear freaking submarines ! Maybe the most amazing thing in the movie is that both the British and Soviets somehow overcame the embarrassment of having lost one of the most powerful and expensive pieces of military technology in their mutual arsenals long enough to realize that the other had the same problem ! I'm just imagining the conversation ? " Yeah , London ? This is Moscow . We seem to have misplaced a nuclear sub , so if you run into one , could you give us a holler ? . . . . What ? You're missing one , TOO ? ! Oh , thank God ! We thought we were the only ones ! " Bond is obliged to team up with Russian agent XXX , a beautiful woman who's fiancé he killed in the movie's opening sequence . It's a tense relationship , as she tells him that as soon as their mission is accomplished , she will kill him too . Also notable about this movie is that it is a bit more violent than most of the Bond films , especially the more recent ones . Bond kills a surprising number of people , some of them almost in cold blood . The Spy Who Loved Me is the movie that introduced the unstoppable henchman Jaws , a steel-toothed giant played by Richard Kiel . Jaws was so popular that he was brought back for the next Bond film , Moonraker , although he never once utters a word . I'm guess it's because it would be so hard for Kiel to get anything out around those alloy dentures . I loved the wild villanousness of the bad guy in The Spy Who Loved Me . No simple murder mystery or enormous embezzlement scheme , this Stromberg wanted to start a war between Britain and the Soviet Union , knowing that global destruction would follow , paving the way for him to , as Homer Simpson once put it , " start a new life under the sea . " Of all the outlandishly nutty schemes ! This is the kind of thing that could only ever exist in a James Bond movie , and it makes for one of the more entertaining entries in the series .
Second best animated feature of the year ! !	The evolution of the martial arts genre has been of particular interest to me lately , as I recently bought a Bruce Lee collection and have been watching a few of his old classics and comparing them to the newer species of movies like Crouching Tiger , Hidden Dragon and Shaolin Soccer . I wasn't all that excited about the switch to zero gravity that we saw in Crouching Tiger , but the impact and the sheer style of Shaolin Soccer was completely unexpected and pretty damned amazing . Also , the Shaolin Temple , where Chinese kung-fu originated , is about a 45-minute drive from where I live in central China . I've been there a couple times and the kung-fu shows that they put on are pretty spectacular . With that in mind , I was curious to see how kung-fu would be portrayed in a kid's movie , although I should say that I expected something truly goofy with a title like Kung Fu Panda , but I was surprised and relieved that the movie avoided being a childish kickboxing cartoon . True , it's about a Panda that is so fat that he has trouble getting out of bed in the morning , but in the film as a whole , the childish moments , the sort of over-the-top laughs and cartoonish fat jokes were mainly designed to get laughs and , more importantly , create a charming and likable main character . And it would be foolish to say that the movie doesn't have it's laughs . Jack Black provides the voice of Po , a young Panda entering the last stages of his childhood , where he is beginning to wonder if taking over the tiny noodle shop run by his father Mr . Ping , a stork , is really that future intended for him . They live in the Chinese Valley of Peace under the stately shadow of a temple that towers overhead . The temple is of vast importance , too , not only historically but as the location where the ceremony to choose the Dragon Warrior will be held . Po has fantasies about becoming the Dragon Warrior , fantasies that seem at once ridiculous and inevitable , given the fact that Kung Fu Panda , for all its strengths , is essentially an underdog story . Unfortunately , Po's job is to keep his head out of the clouds and drag a noodle cart up the endless steps to the mountaintop temple and sell them to the people going to watch the ceremony . He is understandably disheartened and disillusioned . Po's central challenge is not just to find a way to enter the ceremony and win the Dragon Warrior title , but first to find a way to tell his father that he is not interested in carrying on the family business , that he has bigger dreams . This is the serious issue that the movie approaches , and it handles it much more seriously and effectively than I would have anticipated . The ceremony itself , on the other hand , is where the movie has fun with itself . You see , there's a battle between five contenders , the winner of whom will be crowned the Dragon Warrior and will then go on to kung-fu fight the much-feared Tai Lung , who has escaped from prison and is on a mad quest to secure dominance over the valley . " Tai lung , " by the way , in Mandarin is written like this - ? ? , and it means " too cold . " Now , the head monk at the temple , a giant turtle named Oogway , is in charge of selecting one of five candidates who is the most qualified to take on Tai Lung and stop him . I missed the part where they explained why they don't just send all of them , but no matter . The whole thing is for fun , you remember . The five candidates are a spider-thin praying mantis about as threatening as a spider-tin praying mantis , a monkey voiced by Jackie Chan , a Tigress ( Angelina Jolie ) , a Viper ( Lucy Liu ) , and Crane ( David Cross ) , although after a series of fortunate events Oogway ends up choosing Po . The kung fu takes place without the constraints of live action , so it's obviously quite different from the traditional kung fu film , even the modern ones that make wide use of special effects , but there is plenty of fighting action and it's pretty impressive . The only drawback is something common to almost all animated movies and cartoons - the characters seem generally impervious to damage , even after suffering falls and hits that should kill them . The little birdies fly around their heads for a minute and the show goes on . Sure , it's for the kids , but it definitely makes the kung-fu a lot less effective . Much of the comedy , however , is derived not from the slapstick fighting but from the that Po is a die-hard kung-fu fan and is suddenly thrown into close proximity with the Furious Five , who are nothing less than idols to him . Jack Black is provided with endless comedic opportunities in voicing a character who is resolutely chasing his dream of becoming the Dragon Warrior , while at the same-time becoming hopelessly tongue-tied and star-struck just by being in the presence of his competitors . The animation isn't anything new , and we've either hit a wall as far as the possibilities of creating realism or there just wasn't any need for this movie to push the computer animation technology any further . I suspect the latter . As we may remember from the disappointing 2000 film Dinosaur , there are times when too much realism can make an animated movie a lot less fun than it should be . Kung Fu Panda deserves the Oscar nomination that it has gotten for Best Animated Feature Film , but it won't win and it shouldn't . It's a charming and fun romp that is short enough that adults will be able to sit through it , but it doesn't carry the depth of meaning that movies like Toy Story or Shrek or this year's WALL-E do . The kids , however , are going to flip for it .
So cutesy but so good ! !	I haven't seen Short Circuit for some time now , but it is such a huge milestone in my childhood that I have to say something about it . Maturer audiences will have a hard time overlooking some of the childish nuances of the movie , but it is such a fun and entertaining family film that all of those things can be easily forgiven . It reminds me of other wonderful family films like Flight of the Navigator and The Goonies , that I used to watch over and over when I was a kid . I feel like I've lost something when I can't think of a single movie now that I love so much that I will watch it a few times a week . Maybe I just am more aware of the time involved in watching the same movie over and over today than I used to be . Johnny 5 is a robot designed for military use until one day it's struck by lightning and , apparently , comes to life . This is a pretty tired formula , something man-made suddenly displaying life-like qualities and wanting to be recognized as a real boy , but it's accompanied by some clever messages about the advancement of technology , particularly technology designed to replace humans , which has always been seen as a bit of a dangerous idea , criticized brilliantly by everyone from Charlie Chaplin to James Cameron . Johnny 5's adventures involve his efforts to avoid capture by the people who made him ( " NOVA ! No ! ! " ) , while at the same time trying to prove to the world that he's a living entity now . They could not make a movie like this today . Sadly , CGI has forever replaced the need to create a physical robot like the one that plays Johnny 5 in this movie , so any Short Circuit that was made today would just be some soul-less digital effect cavorting across the screen , instantly forgettable . But here , he's really there , and he's heavy and clumsy and metallic , but so memorable as a movie character that I've recently read that the actual robot prop was sold for something like $500 , 000 . Now THAT is a fan ! Steve Guttenberg and Ally Sheedy have a cute chemistry on screen that is satisfactorily simple . They are both cookie-cutter caricatures , Sheedy the lonely Stephanie , who drives an ice-cream truck for a living , and Guttenberg plays a scientist named Newton , who works for the evil NOVA but who only needs a cute ice-cream lady and a charming robot to change his evil ways . Sound like fun ? No ? Well , it is , trust me . The film has definitely dated , but I'll take special effects that look dated 20 years later over expensive CGI that never looked real in the first place any day . A lot of films claim to be fun for all ages , but Short Circuit is one of the few that really is . It's too bad that movies like this seem to be gone forever now ? .
Stallone's take on the Great Escape .	So I'm no expert on World War II , but the idea of some German prison officers being even remotely interested in a game of soccer between themselves and their prisoners seems pretty ludicrous to me . Nonetheless , this movie does a good job of justifying that idea , presenting it as a huge propaganda event , something that would not have been too much of a stretch coming from Nazi Germany . The similarities to Steve McQueen's Great Escape are extensive , of course , but mostly in theme . i . e . the prisoners are duty-bound to constantly attempt to escape , and there are not a lot of different plot options that can come out of that duty other than a lot of officers planning tunnels and a lot of Germans trying to figure out what escape plans are being hatched under their noses . In the movie's defense , even though the pairing of soccer with WWII prison camps is an uncomfortable match , the movie certainly does create tension and the ending is very , very good , I must say . When Stallone is first asked to return to the prison camp after having escaped , it was almost a mirror image of what Steve McQueen did for his fellow inmates in the 1963 version , but what unfolds in the rest of the movie is fairly original . The half time " escape " scene was very good as well . Having already returned once , Robert Hatch ( Stallone ) is faced with a choice that is much , much deeper than is commonly found in movies as low grade as many people are sure to judge this one . The closing scene is by far my favorite . You may have seen it coming a mile away , but I have to admit that it didn't even occur to me and , while I was kicking myself for not having seen it coming sooner , it's one of those things where it seems perfectly natural that the events were leading there all along . And having an ending that seems perfectly natural and yet is not completely predictable is one of the more difficult balancing acts that need to be pulled off in screen-writing . For my part , I was impressed , it's just a matter of getting over that hump of accepting the basic premise . I was sure able to .
An entertaining look behind the scenes of the movie star romances .	Normally , who is married to / engaged to / dating who in the movie world is something that I couldn't possibly care less about , and I still don't care , but America's Sweethearts manages to make that very subject amusing and entertaining . John Cusack and Catherine Zeta-Jones play Eddie Thomas and Gwen Harrison , two movie stars who have been tremendously successful working together and who have worked their way into the heart of the American public . The conflict comes from their highly publicized breakup , which has resulted in two consecutive box office failures for Gwen and some serious psychological problems for Eddie . Stanley Tucci takes on a small but very effective role as Dave Kingman , the short tempered studio executive , furious with Christopher Walken's much more entertaining Hal Weidmann , the introverted filmmaker who sent Kingman the first print of his film ( after charging $86 million of the studio's money ) , which consisted of nothing but titles and the hilarious message , ' We could also do these in blue . ' Kingman throws a predictable but very funny tantrum . We spend the rest of the film wondering why Weidmann is so cocky toward Kingman and so close-mouthed about the film , but we are rewarded in the final act . Julia Roberts comes back in an ironic role when compared to her recent ( and far superior ) role in Notting Hill , in which she was America's Sweetheart who had fallen in love with a regular guy . Here , she is the constantly unnoticed sister of Gwen Harrison , her big movie star sister . Both women are perfectly cast as the famous movie star and the famous movie star's sister , but this is more a testament to their abilities as actors than it is to the ingenuity of the casting director . The acting was just excellent . Hank Azaria plays the part of Hector ( ' This is bull-chit ! ' ) , the over-the-top Spanish guy with the hilarious lisp that Gwen has been seeing ever since her rough break up with Eddie . Hector is an amusing character , but it is obvious from the first scene where we see him ( in which he insists that he and Gwen will ' go to the ? hunket ' together . ' ) that he is an expendable character . He's funny , but he still badly mangled the Spanish accent as well as the lisp , coming off as amusing but impossible to take seriously . The entire romantic subplot of the film was predictable from the very beginning , if only because it was given away in its entirety in the theatrical trailer . If you have ever heard of this movie before watching it , then you've already seen the emotional scene where Kiki ( Roberts ) tells Eddie that that woman that he saw standing by the spa that he had to spend the rest of his life with was her , and not her sister Gwen . From that perspective , America's Sweethearts is one of those movies where if you've seen the preview , you've seen the movie ( take Pleasantville as another example ) . Christopher Walken provides an excellent source of comic relief as well as one of the only really interesting characters in the film . He is the nutty filmmaker ( indeed , the best films almost unwaveringly come from the people who are a little ? off ' ) who edits his films in the Unabomber's cabin , which he had moved onto his property , and who indeed created a truly memorable film , of which we unfortunately are only able to see a small portion . ' The Blair Bitch Project , ' as the press later calls it , is a kind of film that would be really interesting . The tabloids would have a field day . There are a lot of sight gags and low brow humor in America's Sweethearts , and it is reported to bear a striking resemblance to Singin ' In The Rain ( although remains far inferior to that classic musical comedy ) , but it manages to keep the audience entertained if not hanging on every word . True film fanatics are sure to pick it apart for nearly feeding off of classic films and for following such a clear-cut formula , but there is definitely something to be enjoyed here .
Great chronology !	( spoilers ) I had spotted a spectacular editing failure when I noticed that Wayne Hayes ( Robert Redford ) and his captor Arnold ( Willem Dafoe ) remained in the same day while his wife and family and team of investigators passed through several days . The story switches back and forth between Wayne and Arnold and the rest of Wayne's family , desperately hoping for his safe return , but the passage of time is not the same . We see Wayne's and Arnold's experiences in much greater detail , while his wife Eileen , in a wonderful performance from Helen Mirren , and the rest of Wayne's family pass through days of the same desperate situation . The true story upon which this movie is based demands exactly this kind of presentation , which is one of the things that I really loved about the movie . The other thing is the way it really keeps you guessing . The whole set-up of the movie is designed to provide a vast array of different things that could be happening . I found myself trying to guess if Eileen was involved , if the head investigator was involved , even if Wayne himself was involved . Indeed , the long look that he gives his wife before he leaves for work at the beginning of the movie suggests that he anticipated not seeing her for a while . Willem Dafoe , a consistently tremendous presence in his movies , delivers yet another wonderful role as the kidnapper . I am amazed to see how effective he can be in a movie like The Boondock Saints , and then be equally effective here , in a role that is such a polar opposite . Already a hugely watchable actor , Dafoe perfectly fits the character of Arnold , so naïve that he thinks he could pull something like this off , then leave the country with his wife and have no one ever find out what happened , including his wife . The details behind his ultimate decision not to leave the country and to instead remain at home , stupidly spending the ransom money at the same local store is left up for debate . I've read that the guy who actually pulled off the kidnapping and murder in The Netherlands served something like 12 or 13 years in prison for his crime , and then was released and went back to his wife , who took him back . Weird . I think that part of the reason that the movie works so well is that it remains mysterious for so long . It is not until near the end of the film that the full scope of what is going on is revealed , leaving lots of time for people to formulate incorrect theories about who is really behind it all . This is a very difficult movie to predict , which I liked , unless of course you know the story upon which it is based . Even so , however , it is still enjoyable as a tight thriller . It moves at its own pace , not compromising the story for the sake of a thrill , and is brilliantly edited , especially in light of the true story that it is portraying . Robert Redford is perfectly cast in his character , partly because his real life is probably not that different from that of Wayne Hayes , so all he had to do was imagine what it would be like were he really kidnapped . The kidnapping initially appears to involve a substantial number of people , but the shortcomings of Arnold's plan gradually reveal themselves as things start to go less and less according to plan . It's easy to understand that people could have been put off by the ending , which certainly comes off as a little sappy , even something of a copout , but I was glad to see that it remained faithful to the true story . Wayne doesn't miraculously survive that gunshot wound , but he does live on in his wife's memories . I'd like to believe that that note he asked Arnold to mail to her really did reach her in the true story , but regardless , we live on in the memories of our loved ones , and the fact that this movie showed this in a rather deliberate way should not necessarily be counted against it .
Deceptively cute . . .	I'm reminded of the shallow complaints that I heard about Runaway Bride , since it starred Richard Gere and Julia Roberts , who had already starred in the astronomically successful Pretty Woman together . Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan are teamed up again in a nice little romantic comedy and the producers no doubt hope that people can forget Sleepless in Seattle , also written and directed by Nora Ephron , and accept an entirely new story . And like Runaway Bride , it worked . The premise of the story is ludicrous in the extreme , not just that two highly attractive people fall in love through online chatting , but more because they get to know each other in real life at exactly the same time as they are starting to get to know each other online . It's a pretty wild aberration from reality , but on the other hand it allows for a compelling analysis of the different personalities that people assume online and in real life . There is also something to be said about the characterization . Tom Hanks plays on his status as a Hollywood megastar to portray the CEO of a mega bookstore chain , and who better to play the owner of a cute little corner bookstore than Meg Ryan , who is so cute that she could very well represent a 10 on a 1-10 cuteness scale . 10 being the cutest and one being , I don't know , Burt Lancaster or something . I find it a little amusing that the title of the film is from that asinine voice that used to welcome you when you would sign on to the internet back in the mid to late 90s , back when people still used AOL . There is a healthy level of irony included in the movie , as Joe Fox ( Hanks ) opens one of his massive bookstores around the corner from Kathleen's ( Ryan ) little shop , and she turns to her online friend , Joe , for help and advice . I appreciate how well they hide their identities , although they have such polarly opposite opinions about commercialism and professional ethics that it seems almost impossible that they should get along so well , especially when Kathleen , at least , is looking for comforting words to help her get through an experience that people like Joe make their living doing to people . I really like that the movie makes such a strong comment about megastores without making them seem evil , or demonizing the people that open and run them . Quite the opposite , in fact . Joe Fox , who is destroying the future of a charming little bookstore that Kathleen inherited from her mother , seems like a perfect fit for the greedy , commercial movie villain , but the whole charm of the movie is that we meet a wealthy businessman with dollar signs in his eyes , and before we know it we're rooting for his happiness . It takes a massive charm , like Hanks ' , to pull something like that off . While it's sad to see so many small businesses perish under the influence of the homogenized , impersonal super stores , it's also a sad reality of any growing society . Consider , for example , the emotional pain and insignificance that milkmen must have felt when the first supermarkets came along with their refrigerators and their plastic jugs back in the 50s and 60s . The neighborhood lost something of its personality and charm , interpersonal relationships were totally transformed , but now it's hard to imagine an American city without a Safeway or an Albertson's , or even a Piggly Wiggly . I think the really evil stores are ones like Wal Mart , which might be surpassing McDonald's as the worst American company . But the biggest problem with Wal Mart is the greed of the family that owns it . They bleed their employees dry while pocketing astronomical profits , and opening a store in every city imaginable . I live in a small town in central eastern China called Luoyang , and yes , a Wal Mart opened here a few months ago . Unbelievable . But the comment that this movie makes is that , love them or hate them , they are definitely convenient and affordable , and it's even fun to poke around in them . The biggest problem with them is that they are impersonal , you lose that quality of knowing people on a first name basis , and even of having employees who know about what they're selling . There's a scene in this movie where Kathleen wanders into Joe's store and has an experience where we learn that the movie understands this loss of a personal , friendly atmosphere . For all the lack of realism about how Joe and Kathleen meet and the fact that they fall in love , the movie is charming and fun and it's hard to remain indifferent to the happiness of the main characters . They each start the movie with other significant others , but end their respective relationships , leaving them newly single polar opposites looking to each other online for comfort and support . This might be the most obvious set-up I've seen in a movie in some years , so it's a testament to the quality of the movie that it's still a fun ride to the inevitable conclusion ?
Based on the BOOK !	Maybe that declaration in the opening credits just struck me as funny because a documentary like this seems to ham-handed and primal to me that it's hard to imagine the movie having been based on a book version of it , as though they translated the plotline of a book about body-building to a movie . At any rate , now that I've made fun of the movie , I'd like to say that I am hugely impressed with it as a documentary about bodybuilding . It is one of those in-depth documentaries that follows its subjects around at all hours - in the weight room , at home , before , during , and after competitions , etc . We meet all kinds of gigantic bodybuilders , a couple of whom we recognize from movies and TV shows that they did later in their lives - probably most notably Lou Ferrigno who later starred as The Incredible Hulk , and this other guy named Arnold Schwarzenegger , who you may have heard of if you've been living on earth for the last three decades or so . ( spoilers ) It is amazing to me the intensity of the training for these competitions , but I suppose that they all know that the harder they work , the better the chances are that they will get ahead of the competition , who are also working themselves to death . Schwarzenegger and his colleagues are absolutely massive in this documentary , it's a curiosity piece even just to be reminded of what a human mass he used to be compared to today , although he's still a pretty huge guy . We see all the work and effort that goes into these competitions from behind the scenes , watching the body-builders at home with their families as they prepare for upcoming competitions , we see the sportsmanship as well as the less sportsman-like things . There are scenes of them trying to sabotage each other in order to get ahead ( even Arnold , who really towered above his competition in sheer size and symmetry ) , which amazes me because it just seems like it would diminish the elation of a victory , but I guess the competitions are to be won at all costs . Mike Katz really struck me as a particularly good sport when he didn't win , sitting sort of in a daze and saying how great it was for the winner and that he must really be thrilled and he just had to go shake his hand . I felt really bad for the guy because you could feel his disappointment , although I always had this feeling that he was holding his frustration back because there was a camera pointed at him . Still a great sport , I have to say . I also loved an earlier quote from Katz , who was a great sport but not necessarily the most well-spoken one , ' I'm the type of person who's the type of dog who's gonna fight back . ' The movie has a very heavy documentary feel , this is not a very produced documentary . The camera is shaky , handheld , out of focus at times , there are rough transitions and zooms , etc , and all of this serves to add to the realism of the entire thing . It's kind of disappointing that one of the final competitors was a well-deserving African American competitor , and there is not a scrap of coverage of him in the entire film , he is not given a single individual shot or line of dialogue . That's a hell of an oversight , if you ask me , regardless of how good the rest of the documentary was . I was amazed at the part where Arnold is talking about how he wouldn't even return to Austria to go to his father's funeral because he was in the middle of the competition and didn't even want to think about it . It's incredible how much these guys shut off their entire lives in order to compete in these bodybuilding events . Actually , the reason I sought out this movie was because I heard on the radio that it is extremely difficult to find right now , because the whole state of California seems to be trying to get their hands on it because Arnold is currently running for Governor and evidently he smokes pot in this movie . It's true , although personally , if I was Arnold , I would be more concerned about the scene where he talks about how the competitors admire him so much so it's really easy to give them bad advice so they'll fall behind , or even worse , the interview where he talks about the deep pleasure he gets from body-building , where he says things like , ' I am cumming day and night ! I'm in heaven ! '
The most powerful three-letter word in the English language !	OK , I have to tell you a true story , you're not gonna believe this . I tried this " yes " thing a couple years ago , in late 2006 . The first thing I did was accept an offer to teach English in China ( I'm still here ) , then I was invited into dozens of Chinese homes , I agreed to an idea to ride a bicycle from my city to Beijing ( about 600 miles ) , I was thereafter featured in the local newspaper , and through no real talent of my own I made an appearance on national Chinese television giving an interview and singing a song in Chinese . It hasn't all been fun and games though . I also accepted a casual invitation from someone I had known for about two hours to visit a nearby city which turned out to be forbidden to foreigners , so I was arrested as a spy and questioned in a Communist prison for 7 hours . Try it ! Anyway , I was moved to tell you that story , because you would be surprised at how real the possibility is that the word ' yes ' can actually change your life . It's so easy to get stuck in a comfortable rut and just stay there . Not that there is anything wrong with that , a comfortable rut is certainly better than a lifetime of hardship , but I'm going to go ahead and suggest that saying yes for a while is probably going to make the ride a little more interesting . Jim Carrey stars as Carl Allen , a regular guy with a regular job who really just wants to be left alone . He turns down invitations from his friends to go out on the town , he refuses offers and opportunities and invitations left and right , preferring the comfort of his own sofa and a rented video or two . And I can't say I blame him . There are few things as appealing to me as an evening in my apartment by myself watching whatever movie I might want to watch . Even two years after the word ' yes ' has landed me in central eastern China , you would be amazed at how often I enjoy that particular situation . Complicating matters is the fact that Carl's wife left him , badly injuring not only his pride but his self0image and possibly even his mental stability . Not only does he reject chances to interact with friends and family , but he's also a loan agent at a major bank , so he says no for a living ! He attends a YES seminar , where he learns that saying yes to everything can have brilliant affects on his life , whereas saying no could cause the sky to fall on his head . There is a crucial ( and tasteless ) scene where he is put into a position where he is forced to say no , and all hell breaks predictably loose . Yes Man is definitely a light-hearted and goofy comedy , but there is a thread of reality that permeates it and really makes you think that it's saying something real , which is something that is generally only true of the best Jim Carrey movies , like The Truman Show or Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind . It's not at the same level as those movies , but there is something here that really might make your life a little more interesting , and when was the last time you ever saw a movie with the potential to do that ? " The world is a playground . You know that when you're a kid , but somewhere along the way everyone forgets it . "
" The American people want revenge . They liked Afghanistan and they want more . " ? Karl Rove .	The first decade of the 21st Century is undeniably characterized first and foremost in America , possibly even more than the lengthy wars that we have become involved in , by the atmosphere of sheer political tension . George W . Bush has been called many names , from " visionary " to " the worst President in American history , but the one that applies to a review of this allegedly biographical film is probably " the Great Divider . " Like it or not , regardless of your own political standpoint , Bush cleaved the nation in two along political lines in a cleaner and more thorough cut than probably anyone else in American history . It follows , then , that a biographical film about his life , made and released during his actual presidency , should raise some controversy . It may be reasonable to assume that your political convictions will color your impression of the film , but as a fair account of Bush's life as relevant to his presidency , the movie appears to make a conscious effort to portray scenes and sections of Bush's life as we know them from a huge variety of published materials from his former aides , reporters , etc . On the other hand , it's also not hard to tell that director Oliver Stone doesn't have many nice things to say , which tends to take away from the film's believability a little . But Bush haters will eat it up . The movie starts out as Bush was suffering through a fraternity hazing ceremony at Yale and then moves through a series of disjointed events throughout his life in an effort , I suppose , to give us a better idea of who he is and what life experiences caused him to make the decisions that he made and to stick by certain things in the face of what seemed to be overwhelming evidence to the contrary . There is no arguing with the fact that the movie is fascinating as long as you have at least the slightest interest in modern American politics , but it's true that it's impossible to ignore the political slant . I don't have much nice to say about Bush myself , but it would have been a much better artistic and ethical decision to lay off the Bush-bashing in a movie like this . Granted , the movie presents itself as an honest attempt to tell the story of a man whose life was peppered with enormous mistakes , addictions , failures , and short-comings , and who then made it into the highest office in America and continued many of the same habits of making mistakes and ignoring advice , but when you have things like Bush's famous creation of the word " misunderestimate " and his inability to articulate what happens when you " fool me twice , " it becomes obvious that the movie has an agenda entirely different from showing us something more about a compelling and fascinating figure in the annals of modern American government . Especially when such things as those little slips of the tongue are taken entirely out of reality and plugged into situations convenient for them to fit nicely into the screenplay . I agree that Bush was a terrible president , it's just too bad that Stone felt so compelled to spend so much time poking immature fun at the man when he should have been making an informative and lastingly important film about his life . There are amazing impersonations of many of the members of his administration , Richard Dreyfuss gives us an incredibly effective portrayal of Cheney's quiet , ruthless confidence , Toby Jones is a small Karl Rove but captures his political brilliance and his understanding of how to pull Bush's strings , and Jeffrey Wright gives a great performance as Colin Powell , a sole voice of warning about the implications of going to war . A voice that is clearly informed and knowledgeable but that is summarily ignored . But there are also some lacking performances . Scott Glenn doesn't look or act like Donald Rumsfeld but fills the role well enough , James Cromwell couldn't be less like Bush Sr . but provides the necessary imposing father figure whose apparent preference for his other son created a lot of Bush's drive to become something , even if , as the movie argues , it was something that he was not prepared or qualified for . Worst of all is Thandie Newton as Condoleeza Rice . Hers is one of the closest physical comparisons , but my god , what a nasally , whiny performance . Her bizarre attempts to capture the voice of the real Condoleeza was the most distracting and ineffective thing in the entire movie . This is her worst performance since Beloved . The two things that the movie attempts to do are to show us who Bush the man is and to give us some insight into how and why he made the decisions that he made while in the White House . It is an interesting portrayal of a young adult life that shows us a lot of things that we have long since already known about . But the reading public and those who follow political developments in at least minor detail will not learn much of anything new , and that's probably the movie's biggest weakness . It's most compelling scenes are the ones in the inner circle , meetings with top members of the administration discussing the run-up to the Iraq war , although the extent to which these scenes are all conjecture ? educated conjecture , but still conjecture ? subtracts from the immediate believability of it all . I was disappointed at how much time I spent wondering how much of this was just made up , especially the stuff from Bush's personal life . When the director so obviously makes no efforts to hide his own political opinions , it's a little distracting when he presumes to paint such a detailed picture of both the personal and professional lives of Bush and so many of the important members of his administration .
The poor kid would have dealt with the ordeal with the dog a lot better had he read Call of the Wild .	Then again , of course , the whole point was that he was a poor black kid , pretty much a slave to the rich white man who doesn't exactly prepare him for the University . I just couldn't help remember how vicious the beatings were that the sled dogs suffered in that book . The story focuses initially on a rich white man who takes a puppy away from a young boy , puts the dog into a burlap sack and proceeds to kick him viciously , because " the dog must learn . " There is some room for individual interpretation of that statement , but the overwhelming fact is that the man forces the boy to open the sack to let the dog out , and the boy worries because he knows that the dog will think that it was him doing the kicking . It's difficult to say whether this technique was more to subordinate the boy or to turn the puppy into a working dog that will be useful on the farm as well as useful as a watchdog when it grows into a full sized dog , but I get the feeling that they are both the goals of this repulsive practice . The film transcends the rather limited and immediate lesson of the dangers of abusing those under you and comes off to me as more of a life lesson of the extended effects that your actions can have . This process of claiming and maintaining power over the boy and the dog combined to cost the man his life and the boy his best friend . It's odd that the tagline listed on the IMDb says that ultimately both of their lives hang in the balance at the mercy of the dog , because other than not being able to get his master's medicine to him , his life was really not in any danger . I guess he was his master , anyway . But the only way the boy's life was in danger was if he depended on the man to the point where the man's death would mean he was going to starve to death . The dog thought he was protecting his master and would not have attacked the boy unless he tried to approach the man . This is a pretty powerful film , and while I think the message itself is not exactly lightning out of a clear sky for unexpectedness , it is delivered with a richness and clarity that should be praised , especially in such a short film .
The most impressive thing was the cast .	Before I go on , I should mention that Mystic River is an outstandingly well-made movie . I saw it months after it was released , after it had been acclaimed one of the best movies of the year , and after it had officially been nominated for a Best Picture Oscar . So I guess I just expected more , especially from Clint Eastwood , one of the greatest living stars of the cinema . That being said , I can appreciate it being hailed as one of the best pictures of 2003 , it definitely was , but I was bothered that Big Fish wasn't nominated for Best Picture BEFORE I saw this movie . And I'm sorry to all you Eastwood / Penn / Fishburne / Linney / Robbins / Bacon / etc fans out there , but Big Fish was better . I was immensely impressed with the cast in this movie . For the first half hour or so , almost every scene introduced another well-known and enormously talented actor . Lawrence Fishburne proves that he has not been typecast as Morpheus ( thank God ) , Sean Penn delivers yet another smashing performance as a man desperately trying to cope with his emotions , which have been scattered out of control , I was shocked at Tim Robbins ' incredible ability to completely transform his voice to one with a Boston accent ( this is one of the most difficult things for a well-known actor to do ) , Kevin Bacon makes an outstanding detective ( he's one of the most versatile actors working today , regardless of how much you like or dislike him ) , and Laura Linney gives a performance that is interesting in that it is hugely effective but she still seems to be holding something back . Even while you're seeing her perform this role with amazing skill , you can tell that she is an even better actor than you're seeing . ( spoilers ) Essentially , Mystic River is a murder mystery . Robbins , Bacon , and Penn play the parts of Dave , Sean , and Jimmy , three kids who grew up in the same neighborhood ( two on the same street ) but grew apart as they got older ( grew apart , that is , in contact , not so much in proximity ) . The film begins with them carving their names into wet cement when a black car comes along and a man gets out , pretending to be a police officer . Sean and Jimmy live on that very street , so they are let go , but Dave lives across the neighborhood , so he has to get into the car to be taken home . It's not long after that car stops that you know it's not really a police officer ( even back then their cars were never that filthy ) , and so Dave is kidnapped and , while it's never explicitly mentioned in the movie what happened to him beyond that he was held in a dirty basement for four hours , the unnecessary hints are more than enough . What I like about the murder mystery that comes later is that Dave has such a concrete mental reason for committing the murder that he did . It's understandable that he might have gotten scared and not come out and admitted what he did , but I would have thought that he would at least have told his wife what really happened . She was obviously not going to turn him in , given the extent to which she went to cover up her beating of what he claimed to be a mugger . Meanwhile , the same night , Jimmy's 19-year-old daughter has been shot and beaten to death in another part of the city , and Sean is the detective assigned to the case , along with his curiously named partner , Whitey Powers ( Lawrence Fishburne ) . Hopefully there's no subtle meaning to what happens when you remove the last letters of his first and last name . What Eastwood constructs from this outline is a tense thriller that comes to a tense conclusion that , I think , is just a little too similar to the tense conclusion of his outstanding 1999 film True Crime . Sean , Dave , and Jimmy have interestingly all grown into fairly unhappy or at least spotty lives , Jimmy as the owner of the corner store ( closely watching over his 19-year-old daughter ) , Dave as a handyman with deep emotional scars from his childhood , and Sean as the homicide detective with the nutcase of a wife who keeps calling and then not saying anything . Jimmy's daughter is dating a boy named Brendan , who Jimmy viciously disapproved of , and he is asked at several points in the movie why he dislikes the boy so much , and he can't really answer , because he has no reason . He dislikes the boy so much because the screenplay needs him to . Each of the actors is given at least one scene where their acting abilities are tested , and mostly all of them do remarkably well . It's kind of disappointing to learn that Sean Penn is just as incapable of doing crying scenes as Jack Nicholson proved that he also is in Something's Gotta Give ( indeed , Tom Guiry , who played Brendan , performed his crying scene much better than Penn did ) . I think Penn is more skilled as a man who is struggling with his emotions and the chaos in his life , illustrated through the lines on his forehead and the vacant look in his eyes . Actually crying is a little too forward for him . So now that I've made my superficial complaint , I think that the main reason that I don't think Mystic River deserves the massive Oscar buzz that it has generated , besides the fact that Big Fish is better by leaps and bounds , is because underneath all the big names and impressive production value , it is really a pretty simple detective story . Sean and Whitey ( Bacon and Fishburne ) , as the lead investigators working on the case of Jimmy's missing daughter , spend the majority of their scenes together acting like bumbling B-movie detectives , speaking to each other as though they have to explain everything they say to the other person . They're both detectives , right ? So why do they constantly have to explain to each other why certain theories and possibilities won't work ? The vast majority of their conversations with each other in respect to the case are so obviously contrived that it's almost like they're reading cue cards , and I happen to know that they are each better actors than to do something like that . That's just shoddy writing . Sean's wife also plays a rather obscure and unnecessary role . Sure , she represents the chaos that has befallen Sean's life , as well as the order that ultimately follows ( conveniently when the case is solved ) , but the symbolism is so shallow and textbook that the movie would have been better off without it . If anything , they could have had her start actually talking to her some other time than the exact minute that Sean discovers the last remnants of the mystery still lurking beneath the surface of the screenplay . Jimmy admits what he did , Sean's face registers the understandable shock , and his phone rings . Cute . And while I'm at it , I might as well mention that , by the time the case is solved , Sean has been working on it too hard and for too long to simply let Jimmy walk away at the end , chugging his bottle of Jack Daniel's as he walks down the street , having admitted to killing Dave . It really bothered me that he was willing to just let him walk away like that ( sure , he lost his daughter and was an old friend , but he also killed their other old friend . Was Sean just going to let that go ? ) . The only reason that I can think of for doing this was a pretty effective shot that came later during a parade downtown . Dave's wife can be seen wandering the crowd aimlessly , Sean is there with his own family , and as he looks into the crowd across the street , he sees Jimmy surrounded by his usual hoodlums , the ones who had been conducting his own tragically misled investigation of his daughter's murder . As Sean looks at Jimmy , he makes a gun with his fingers and points it at Jimmy , I suppose indicating that he plans to take him down in the future ( or maybe just saying hi , imagine the same gesture with a wink , for example ) , to which Jimmy responds by spreading his hands and raising his eyebrows as if to say , ' What are you gonna do ? ' I love the way Jimmy looks in this shot . He's matured in the few moments since we last saw him . Years have been added to his life , he has noticeably changed . His new confidence and his new experience and the way he sits , is dressed , and carries himself indicate that he has become a different person . He's become a godfather .
Yeah , Steve !	You know what I love about the Academy Awards ceremonies ? They provide insight into the personalities of so many of our favorite Hollywood stars . There was a great , although short , interview with Anthony Hopkins in the pre-show event , where an obviously star-struck reporter asked him how he did what he did and whatnot , and Hopkins responded simply , ' Well , that's what they pay me to do so I do it . ' There's something really refreshing about knowing that even such gigantic stars as Anthony Hopkins are really just regular people like the rest of us . Steve Martin , not very arguably the greatest host the Academy Awards have ever had , hosts the show this year , delivering some of his less effective but always amusing comedy . In the ceremony for the 2002 Oscars , Martin was absolutely hilarious from beginning to end , but I thought that this year he had a few jokes that were a little too dry or tasteless and weren't as effective as his brand of humor generally is . This year he kind of reminded me of the heavily rehearsed and almost universally flat humor of someone like Dennis Miller , although not necessarily quite THAT bad . Nonetheless , I still think that Martin is the best host that the Academy Awards have ever had . Russell Crowe certainly seemed upset or angry or something this year , which rather amazed me since he had such an enormous presence at the ceremony , not the least reason for which was his spectacular role in Gladiator . Obviously , Björk had the most memorable outfit , showing up and performing in what looked to be a swan draped over her neck , but she is an eccentric and artistic person , and at least it's nice to see someone who didn't just show up wearing a $20 , 000 dress like everyone else at the ceremony . There comes a point where even the most ridiculously expensive attire becomes repetitive and boring . Notice , for example , that her outfit may very well have been made by Björk herself , and yet it's the one that was the most talked about . Björk's performance was also one of the highlights of the evening . It's so weird that she can deliver such a good performance when she is so obviously terrified , but she is definitely one of the more talented musicians working today , and has also proven her skill as an actress in the excellent ( although more than a little depressing ) Dancer in the Dark . Best Picture went to Gladiator , obviously , just like we all knew it would . This year was particularly strange in that category , since you could tell that Gladiator would win Best Picture just by looking at its cover . It's an epic film and it is amazingly well made in every category . I also thought it was strange that Crouching Tiger was in the Best Picture category , since it kind of defeats the purpose of having a Best Foreign Film category at all . If that's the way they run it , they might as well just combine the two categories . On the other hand , I think it's very important to have a Foreign Film category separate , because it allows for more focus on foreign films , which tend to be the best films . And besides that , Crouching Tiger , if any foreign movie , deserves to transcend the Foreign Film category and participate in the most anticipated category of the evening . So now that we actually have an Academy Awards ceremony where there is not too much controversy over who won the big awards ( at least not as much as there was in the ceremony in 1999 ) , it's still disappointing that no one has done anything about the streams of celebrities that come onstage to deliver wooden speeches about the next category . If these are sometimes multiple Oscar winners , why do they read their introductions as though they're reading it for the first time off an index card ?
An entertaining but very strange black comedy . Almost too strange .	Bud Cort plays the part of Harold , a young man who seems to feel that his mother does not pay enough attention to him . After not receiving much of a reaction from her after having staged numerous extremely elaborate suicide scenes , he soon loses interest , especially after meeting Maude , an eccentric 80-year-old woman with whom he eventually falls in love . Their relationship , obviously , is the subject of the majority of the story of this highly entertaining film . Maude is your typical elderly lady who likes to steal cars and mouth off to cops who are more interested in arresting her than anything else . While she speeds off after having been pulled over , she laughingly mentioning how the police always like to ' play games . ' This unique film follows Harold and Maude through their adventures and portrays the development of their highly unlikely mutual love , and the result , strangely enough , is quite good . One of the only negative things that can be said of this film ( keeping in mind all of the things that it can get away with , given the kind of film that it is ) , is that it has dated pretty badly . When watched today , its age is very clear , but at the same time , this does not necessarily take away from the film as a whole . This is good comedy partly because there are really no other films like it , it is a true cult classic because of the following that it has developed over the years , and regardless of its shortcomings , it remains an interesting film .
Charlie struggling to get a job in the movies ?	There is something uniquely charming about the short comedies that Chaplin made that poke fun at his art form or that show us a little bit of the mechanics of how these movies are made . The most notable example other than His New Job is the charming and fun Behind the Screen , although this film is a lot of fun , too . It starts out in the waiting room , apparently for the opportunity to interview for a job as a film extra . He immediately begins flirting with a woman in the room , and soon does the old hat gag where someone demands that he take it off but he keeps putting it back on , finally doing that cute trick where he flips it up in the air . I feel like I've seen him do that in at least four or five films , although I have to say that he does it best in The Immigrant . It seems that the characterization is getting pretty developed by this point , and that the little tramp has earned a good following of fans who want to see him in each new Chaplin film . There is less and less effort put into giving him a role in each film , he generally just comes out and plays himself . There are lots of traditional Chaplin antics in the waiting room as he competes for the film extra position , although when he finally gets into the interview room and blows into that earpiece , it might be the first time I've literally laughed out loud at one of these short comedies in quite a while . Charlie is dressed as a soldier for his part in the film within the film , although as is to be expected , things soon go wrong and his lack of acting talent becomes abundantly clear . I always find it a little amusing when actors play roles in which , at some point , they lament the fact that they have no acting talent . But my favorite part of the film is that it shows us behind the scenes , what some of the film sets looked like back in 1915 . I always find it fascinating when I catch a glimpse of something real in these old movies , even if it's something tiny , like wafting smoke or the unintentional movement of curtains or a throw rug . It is endlessly fascinating to me to imagine what it was like to really be there , what the set looked like to the naked eye , in real life and in color . Here , we are treated to some shots of the inside of the soundstage , which I guess is the next best thing . Generally , the movie is clever and fun , but other than some interesting behind the scenes shots there's really nothing new here . The ending is even a little violent , but this is still one of the more fun of Chaplin's earliest work .
A boy's best friend is his mother . . .	This strangely titled film is something that should have been presented to the horror genre years ago . Normally , you would say that this is a blatant rip off of such classics as Psycho and The Texas Chainsaw Massacre and The Silence of the Lambs , but as the tagline says , this is a true story that took place in the 1950s and was inspirational toward all of those movies . Even if nothing else , the film is a curiosity piece because of its portrayal of the always morbidly fascinating interior of a tremendously troubled mind , combined with the added bonus that it's a true story . Probably the best element of the film was the way that so much of Ed Gein's childhood and background was presented . He was raised in a horrifyingly dysfunctional family , with an physically abusive father ( as in The Cell ) and an intensely and forcefully religious mother ( maybe she was the inspiration for Carrie White's intensely religious mother ? ) . There is a particularly memorable scene in which a ten year old Ed walks in on his mother and father as they are brutally butchering a pig , and he begins to cry , angering his father enough to hit his mother , and causing her to blame him for the entire thing . No wonder he's so messed up ! His terrible experiences as a child clearly played a huge role in the formation of his twisted personality and outlook on life as an adult , and this is extensively and necessarily presented in the film . What results is not a horror film , although this is what would be expected from a film that is a true story about the life and times of a famous serial murderer . Instead , we get sort of a hybrid film that is one part drama , one part documentary , and one part horror / thriller . Nothing in the film is going to make you jump out of your seat , but you will squirm uncomfortably at least a few times as some of Ed's deeds and habits ( such as the fascinating anatomical interior design of his room ) are vividly presented . ( spoilers ) As a horror fan , I was particularly interested in watching the scenes that were clearly the inspiration for the films mentioned above . We know that Psycho was inspired by the whole portion of the film with Ed's religious and overpowering mother , especially his obsession with bringing her back to life later in the film . And , of course , some material from Texas Chainsaw can be seen when Ed is wearing other people's faces on his own , in a grotesque scene in which he gleefully parades on his front porch wearing a full bodysuit of human skin , including a woman's torso , breasts and all , clearly the inspiration for the nasty habits of Jame Gumb in The Silence of the Lambs . Obviously , none of these scenes were available to be viewed when any of the above films were produced or written , but Gein's behaviors have been unmistakably influential towards all of those films . Horror fans may be put off by the film's relatively slow pace , but you have to appreciate the depth that this pace allows the movie to have . We have time to get to know the people in the town . And not just the murderer and his victims , but the investigating police and the mystified and horrified citizens as well . The story is told in this way so that it can get under your skin and move you , and I think that it succeeds in doing that . This stuff really happened , and the movie manages to present it in a way that makes it seem more real to us - even though it happened half a century ago - in a way that no news article ever could . It's not for the weak of heart or stomach , but it is informational as well as entertaining , and it avoids manipulation and gratuitous violence or gore because the story it presents is true . You know it's about a serial murderer , so watch it to get into his head and learn about why he did the things that he did .
Is Weird Science a piece of cinematic cheese ? Yes , undeniably . Is it a must-see ? Hell yeah !	Sure , Weird Science is not a spectacular film . It will never be mentioned in a history of film class , and watching it fifteen years after its release shows that time has not been kind to it at all . But as a good , fun comedy , it lives on forever . Just as computers were really beginning to make a big impression on the world , a couple of geeky kids , Gary ( Anthony Michael Hall ) and Wyatt ( Ian Mitchell Smith ) , decide to create a girlfriend for themselves using Wyatt's ' sophisticated ' computer . The way that they actually design her , although ridiculously unrealistic , is hilarious ! Weird Science is what I like to call a " Cheese Classic . " It required minimal talent to put it together , but there is an element of endless amusement that can be found in the film that makes it great . From the bras on Wyatt's and Gary's heads during the creation process to countless inexplicably hilarious pieces of dialogue ( " Wyatt , your kitchen is blue . . . " ) , Weird Science is a true comedy classic . It is , however , the film which probably had the most mixed reviews until the Blair Witch Project , so I suggest watching it for yourself . Just keep in mind that it is meant to be laughed at , not learned from !
" I'd much rather be in here than out there in that cold world . . . "	It has taken me years to get around to watching Laurel Canyon , even after having lived in Los Angeles and worked in West Hollywood for a year and a half . There is more about the southern California lifestyle to dislike than can ever be explained in less than 1 , 000 words , and this movie takes on really just a tiny , tiny part of it , but it paints a picture of show business life clashing with ' normal ' life that matches the reality that I experienced there with astonishing accuracy . Of course , a lot of the effect comes from the location shooting . Anyone from Los Angeles will instantly recognize many of the locations , particularly things like the Château Marmont hotel ( where , incidentally , Lindsay Lohan lived for months and months in 2006 while she couldn't seem to stop partying enough to find a real apartment ) and , more importantly , that charming cafe at the corner of Laurel Canyon and Kirkwood Drive , where I often used to go for coffee . Jim Morisson's house , a few feet away , is sadly overlooked , which is strange since the movie is about the hectic world behind the scenes of the music industry . Christian Bale plays the part of Sam , a young professional , a psychiatrist already tired of his profession and struggling to start a life with his young wife , Alex . Kate Beckinsale is the perfect embodiment of a young bride horrified by the debauchery taking place around her , as she and Sam move into his mother's house to find , to their dismay , that she has not moved out as promised , but is still there recording music with some dirty , stoned musicians . It is truly remarkable how flawlessly Francisc McDormand fits into the role of the aging mother still stuck in a rock star lifestyle . She is truly one of our most versatile actors ! While the relationship between Sam and Alex is realistic and convincing enough ( especially Sam's dismay at bringing Alex around his mother , and his clearly desperate need not to displease her - note the way he looks at her when he declines his mother's offer of a drink . . . ) , but the mother-son relationship is not believable in the slightest . But this , however , is not something that I think the movie is shooting for . This is not a family drama , it's a comparison of different lifestyles , sort of a peek into the craziness of show business life juxtaposed with everyday American society ( the educated kind , at least ) , and how completely different and unmixable they are . Unmixable ? Is that a word ? Anyway , you get the idea . Water and oil . It's nearly impossible to imagine a smart , well-balanced young man entering his career as a psychiatrist having come from the environment that Jane ( McDormand ) would have provided him during childhood , but the situational drama that comes from their relationship is revelatory about both lifestyles . The actual neighborhoods and the style of the houses in that part of Hollywood are presented perfectly , thanks in no small part to the location shooting , but it also captures the attitude in many ways as well . I will say that I found the ending to be a bit sudden , but if nothing else , it's one of those movies that makes you think . You may find yourself imagining one lifestyle or the other , and comparing your own thoughts to how the people in the movie were living . It makes you think , and while I found some scenes and situations a little too far of a stretch ( Sam's fascination with the darker lifestyle is interesting , but getting involved sexually with her husband's mother ? Yeah RIGHT . . . ) , it's still an interesting and well-written drama .
If you didn't love Caddyshack ( like I didn't ) , watch this documentary and maybe you will .	I didn't love Caddyshack before or after I watched this documentary , but I liked the movie more afterwards . I prefer making-of documentaries that have more recent interviews with the cast and crew , as this one did . I think there are better insights provided by people looking back at the making of the movie and their experiences and goals during production rather than interviews of people on the set during filming , where they are interviewed between takes , wearing their costumes from the movies and whatnot . The stars and director of Caddyshack look back with tongue in cheek , particularly Chevy Chase , who thinks that less money should have been spent on the mechanical gopher and more on more of him in the movie . The actor who played the Italian golfer in the movie looks back with what appears to be genuine resentment that there was so little of him in the movie . Evidently , there was a lot more of him in the script than in the final film , because he claims that he and one or two other people were the stars of the film but were cut out in the editing room . Given his role in the movie , however , I find it hard to imagine how his character was the star of the movie . Then again , this is the same guy who claimed that the movie was originally supposed to be an epic drama , so maybe he thought he was performing for a different movie . At any rate , this documentary gives some great looks back at what the director and stars experienced during the production of the movie , as well as lots of looks at outtakes and behind the scenes footage . One actor was unable to eat chocolate for years after the movie was made because of the Baby Ruth in the pool scene . Good thing she didn't do a shower murder scene , she might have ended up looking like a peasant from the time of King Arthur , whose skin was scarcely visible through the dirt ( if , of course , Mark Twain's Connecticut Yankee is to be believed ) . Whatever the case , I would think that the director's ability to get sponsorship from a candy company for later films suffered more than this woman's ability to eat chocolate , and probably led to him taking bit parts in better movies later in life , such as the doctor in As Good As It Gets which , incidentally , is what Caddyshack becomes after watching this making-of documentary . Not bad .
" Isn't life ironic ? "	I've never been a big fan of Woody Allen , although I have seen few of his films . Mostly I feel like his performances get a little old for me , since he can only really play himself , in all his awkward , stuttering glory . He has a peculiarly dry style of humor that , to me , seems to get a little routine . He sort of satirizes the world around him as though consistently astonished at the strangeness of it all , dropping clever comments and observations as though by accident . He's not my favorite filmmaker , but one thing that seems pretty consistent about his films is that they are generally brilliantly written , and Mighty Aphrodite is no exception . I was a little put off by the intercutting to the bad performance art group , acting out Allen's interpretation of life's little absurdities on a decaying Greek amphitheater , and in increasingly modern and unpoetic language ( " Certain thoughts are better left unthunk ! " ) . Allen stars as Lenny , a sportswriter in a failing marriage with a woman named Amanda ( Helena Bonham Carter ) , who thinks that if they have a baby it might save their marriage . The film opens with their conversation on the subject , in which they discuss all of the possibilities , including adoption , which Lenny immediately dismisses as unacceptable . All it takes , however , is one look at the cute kid from the adoption agency and his heart melts . Max , the new baby , soon grows up into a remarkable young man , and Lenny sets off on a personal mission to find his birth mother . He believes that any kid as smart as Max must have an equally brilliant mother , and he wants to know where the prodigal son came from . In Allen's illustration of some of life's great ironies , the birth mother that he discovered is a woman who calls herself Linda or Leslie , when she's not using one of the screen names she adopts in her performances in porn films , which she believes is just acting . There is a strange chemistry between Linda and Lenny , because she is so much younger and taller and sexier than he is , and because she's a prostitute and thinks he is just another paying customer . Quite the contrary , he is so astonished and horrified that he can hardly stand up . There is obviously a very strong sexual undertone in the movie , since Linda is both a hooker and porn star , and I've read reviews of the movie that suggest that even the graphic sexual descriptions have a sense of innocence , as if they are not really signifiers for the explicit sexual acts that they describe . I wouldn't quite say that . I think they take on that sense of detachment because Linda is so unbelievably dumb that she doesn't really understand the meaning of what she's talking about . She seems childish when she talks about it , which lends a sense of detachment , but I would hardly say innocence . Lenny's mission is to get Linda to clean up her life and become a respectable woman , like he imagined Max's mother to be . An intellectual giant is clearly out of the question , so he decides to settle for just getting her into a healthy and respectable relationship . His first attempt is a young boxer who dreams of moving back to his brother's farm and becoming a potato farmer . He is a match for Linda's diminutive intellect , and there is a touchingly awkward scene where he introduces the two of them in a park and then leaves . Both of them are clearly clueless about what to do . For almost the entire movie we're waiting to see when Lenny will tell Linda the real reason why he sought her out , especially when she emotionally reveals that she once had a child but had to give him up . The other revelation that we wait for is for Kevin , Linda's new boyfriend , to discover who she really is . Lenny had given him an impossible story about her , one which would fall apart the first time they had a normal conversation . When it finally happens , he reacts violently . Mira Sorvino's performance as Linda might be the most irritating performance that has ever been nominated for an Oscar . Her bizarre falsetto whine always made me think of the kind of voice that a babysitter might adopt to make the kids laugh when they miss their mom . Her mind is absolutely vacant and uncomprehending of the world around her , so it's hard to imagine her in a normal relationship at all , which may be why we never see that happen . She's also given ridiculous lines like " Not a day doesn't go by that I don't wake up thinking about him . " The double negatives render it nearly meaningless , but we can guess what she means . The film's biggest weakness , however , is the astonishingly obvious plot devices , which are so incredibly witless and weak that they stand out like big red flags in an otherwise well written movie . Linda's pimp won't let her quit but has an intense love of sports ( " I'd give my own mother for courtside Knick's tickets ! " ) . Lenny , conveniently , is a sportswriter . Or , my favorite , the movie spends all this time trying to find a good man for Linda , but when all efforts fail , Mr . Right quite literally falls out of the blue sky . Nice . Thankfully , the movie ends with an interesting twist of fate that calls attention to the movie's interesting assertions about the human condition . It's a strange tale of highly flawed people eventually achieving happiness . Maybe most people would choose a different form of happiness , but what they found this might have been the only kind available to them .
A fun look back .	Several years after the introduction of the hilarious Bean show , it is only natural that there should be a Best Of episode . We get a look back at some of his old classic bits , and probably the only thing disappointing is that there is no way that they could fit all of the worthy skits into one episode . My favorite of the flashbacks is definitely when he drives his car with the armchair on the roof , this is something that only Bean could come up with . He has such a bizarre outlook on the world that when he gets these wild ideas into his head , you don't even think twice . I mean after all , the guy locks his car with a padlock ! I'm still not crazy about the out of control giant turkey scene , but all the rest are great fun . Even the turkey scene is amusing , the thing is just so pasty and clammy and unpleasant looking . Interestingly , the attic scenes with teddy , which we cut back to in between flashbacks , are also some of the better parts of the episode . Bean's " ta-daaa ! ! " when he opens Teddy's umbrella is a comedy skit unto itself . Outstanding !
007 entering the computerized age ?	Dr . No , the original 007 film , was basically a murder mystery , so whenever I see a Bond film like A View to A Kill , I am always struck by how far the series has come and how much bigger the stories get . In this installment , we get a truly evil , classic Bond-style villain with Max Zorin ( played by a wonderfully nefarious Christopher Walken - who looks exactly like Luscious Malfoy , by the way ) , with a truly evil , classic master plan . The movie starts with Bond on a mission in the Soviet Union where he narrowly escapes after recovering a microchip off the snow-bound body of another British agent . There is a great ski chase in the movie's opening scene as he's pursued by the Russians , but at one point , the song " California Girls " comes on for about a minute and then fades out just as suddenly . I'm going to go ahead and say that this must be the most out of place piece of music in any James Bond film ever made . It seems that the microchip that he recovered is a " silicon integrated unit " capable of triggering a magnetic pulse and blowing out everything that uses a similar chip , which would include anything from toasters to the most advanced computers . I didn't know toasters were computerized in the mid-1980s ( are they now ? ) , but needless to say , a nuclear explosion over England would short out the entire country , destroying their national defenses and rendering the entirety of their population completely toast-less . The British have a computer chip that is impervious to all magnetic pulse damage , and Bond's mission is to find out how the Soviets have managed to get a hold of an exact copy of one . An investigation of a suspicious horse-race gambling circuit leads to Max Zorin ( also the maker of the original chip ) , who is suspected of selling the design to the Russians . But of course , starting a war between the British and the Russians is not nearly enough , Zorin plans to create an underground earthquake in California , sink the entire Silicon Valley and corner the market on all computer manufacturing ! I think it's safe to say that the plot of this particular movie is years ahead of its time . If Zorin had succeeded in his plan , no one would have known that he had created the earthquake , and he would now be the most powerful man in the universe . His sidekick , May Day , is played by Jamaican actress Grace Jones , who is best known for doing scary roles like this one . I'm not sure what the deal was with her hair in this movie , but they definitely went overboard a few times . There is one point in the film where it looks like it was sculpted to look exactly like Batman's ears . Who comes up with this stuff ? Nevertheless , she is one of the better female Bond villains ( and a rare example of genuine character development and change ) , as is Walken's Max Zorin . In order to raise money for his take-over of the computer market , he has devised a scheme where he implants devices into race-horses that time injections of horse steroids , so that they aren't detected in pre-race blood tests . Pretty clever , but it's the design of that underground earthquake that really takes the cake . It's so good that it even provided the inspiration of an episode of " Ducktales ! " There is some depth added to the characters of Zorin and May Day near the end of the film as well when it is revealed that Zorin is ex-KGB and , if it weren't for them , he and May Day would now be nothing but walking biological experiments . We never learn exactly what is meant by this , but it doesn't matter . There is a great chase through the streets of Sa Francisco and a thrilling finale atop the Golden Gate Bridge . Love it or hate it , this is definitely vintage Bond . Note : A disclaimer at the beginning of the movie informs us that " Neither the name Zorin nor any other name or character in this film is meant to portray a real company or actual person . " What about the KGB ?
It's frightening how close we came . . .	K-19 has a massive cast , especially in the two lead characters of Mikhail Polenin ( Liam Neeson ) and Alexei Vostrikov ( Harrison Ford ) . My understanding is that Ford wanted to take on a role different than ones he had taken in the past to prevent type-casting , and while he does a good job in his role ( as does just about everyone involved ) , the movie does slip up a little bit by having an almost nonexistent Russian presence in what is supposed to be the story of a Russian submarine . Comparisons to the far superior Hunt for Red October are inevitable , and it is interesting to note that that movie was also about a Russian submarine but was presented all in English , but it doesn't lose credibility the way K-19 does , probably because it at least maintained a Russian accent , while Ford is speaking an unmistakable American accent and Neeson , well , Neeson is just Neeson and that's always good . He makes a great German but is less convincing as a Russian . I don't know why . Nevertheless , as a story about an extremely important submarine mission rife with problems the movie succeeds brilliantly . K-19 is basically Russia's protection again nuclear war , which they fear the Americans might start at any moment . They hope to deter attack by showing evidence that they can issue destruction in return , and it is because of this that the sub is commissioned and sent on a mission to the polar ice caps to launch a test missile . There is a great scene where all of the crew and many other people are witnessing the launch of the submarine , and a woman swings a bottle of champagne on a rope to smash against the hull , but it bounces off unbroken . " We're cursed , " one of the dismayed crewmen says . That woman must have felt terrible . There is an immediate rivalry between Polenin , who understands the ship's limitations and wants them corrected before beginning the mission , and Vostrikov , who also understands the ship's limitations but also understands how important the mission is and so outranks Polenin's protests . One of the best things about the movie is that the dramatic action is pushed along by genuine concerns . The movie would have suffered terribly if they were ignoring such important problems with the submarine without good reason . One of the best things about the movie is that it is able to create so much dramatic tension , even though it takes place during peacetime . There was a huge amount of political tension in the air , but there wasn't a war going on . This is why there is not a lot of concern shown when an American destroyer is sighted near the submarine , because one of the goals of the mission is for the Americans to see what they're doing . Instead , a small leak aboard the nuclear sub becomes a problem big enough to potentially start a war . Incidentally , one of the crewmen noticed something wrong with one of the dials at least twice before the leak was discovered ( once before the ship left port ) . Had he reported that problem when he first noticed it , he could have saved the lives of everyone who died because of the radiation and prevented the entire thing . At any rate , once the leak is discovered , the options are to abandon ship and surrender the crucial technology to the Americans ( a single concession which could dramatically alter the futures of the two nations , and thus rendering it unacceptable ) , try to repair the reactor without sufficient protection against the radiation , or scuttle the ship ( also unacceptable because of the boat's importance ) . There is a tense scene where Vostikov orders the ship to dive to almost crush depth , one of the obligatory scenes in submarine movies where the hull creaks and groans and everyone stares at the ceiling , like there's something to see there , and then he orders the ship to ascend at breakneck speed , surfacing through a layer of ice . Vostrikov intends to push the boat and the men to the limit so that they all know what the limit is , but unfortunately it culminates in a hugely disappointing display of digital effects as the ship breaks through the ice in something that looks more like it belongs in a cartoon than a serious film like this ( I was reminded of the unfortunate Scrat's efforts to save an acorn from a splitting glacier in Ice Age ) . The film requires an extra bit of suspension of disbelief to accept a story about a Russian submarine but without any Russian actors . I'm curious to know how it was received in Russia . I imagine it was a hit , despite the lack of Russian presence in the film , because it illustrates their courage and dedication to their country in the most difficult of times . But nonetheless , it is hugely effective and never lets up once it gets going . The ending strikes me as the part where the most creative liberties were taken with the original true story , leaving you with the feeling of a Hollywood ending imposed on a true story from Russian and American history . But if nothing else , the movie is a fascinating look at how close we came to widespread destruction during one of the most tense times in modern history .
Quite possibly the late Chris Farley's funniest movie .	Black Sheep is one of the two films in which Chris Farley stars alongside the constant sarcasm of David Spade ( the other being Tommy Boy , which is almost as funny ) , and the results are childish but endlessly amusing . Farley plays Mike Donnelly , the younger and nuttier brother of Al Donnelly , who is campaigning to be governor of Washington . Mike's seemingly constant screw-ups , which cause serious havoc during his brother's campaign , provide for the majority of the comedy in the film . There can be no mistake that this is entirely slapstick comedy , but it succeeds very well because Farley can pull it off so well . The hopelessly geeky Spade balances out Farley's hyper-activity with his collected but nerdy performance , leaving us with an odd couple that could be called a slightly less mature version of that of the late Walter Matthou and the later Jack Lemmon ( a moment of silence for Matthou , Lemmon , and Farley , would be in order about now ? ) . It is strange that such an immature film could deal so extensively with a relatively serious subject as politics and still manage to keep the slapstick successful , especially since there are moments of real emotion in the film . Gary Busey appears in a small but very effective and amusing role as Sgt . Drake Savage , a military-minded guy who ultimately seems to have a heart of gold . The interactions between him and Spade are some of the funniest moments in the film , along with the constant humor that seems to always be emanating from Farley . The cabin scene with Mike and Steve ( Spade ) is especially amusing ( " I got dibs on top bunk ! " ) . I am not going to attempt to say that Black Sheep is a truly intellectual film , nor is there anything particularly amazing about the script or direction , but the comedy is excellent , there can be no mistake about that . I mean , Tommy Boy and other movies , like Major Payne , are no cerebral workouts either , but the comedy is there . That's the reason to watch these movies , and to their credit , you can tell that just by looking at the cover . You probably won't learn anything or see the portrayal of many serious issues in a movie like Black Sheep , but you will laugh heartily and you will remember it for that .
The Patriot truly was an epic film , but the effects of Hollywood were much more heavily felt than in the movie's 1995 counterpart , Braveheart .	The Patriot is a beautifully made film . It has a very engaging story and it is very well acted and directed , but it was also heavily influenced by Hollywood . Normally , the effects of Hollywood are not inherently damaging to movies in general ( although they rarely add to a film's cinematic value ) , but in the case of a period film like The Patriot , it is best to avoid the influences of Hollywood . The first problem that is presented is the fact that a " Hollywood Movie " is NEVER compatible with real life . The real world is just not the same as the world that is presented in the movies , and the Patriot attempted to tell a bit of real history , the same way that Braveheart did . Even though the film was historically accurate to a certain extent , many of the battles were either blended together or completely fabricated , and the events that took place in those battles are , in many cases , clearly manipulated . I believe one of the ending scenes , involving Benjamin Martin ( Gibson ) and Charles Cornwallis ( Tom Wilkinson ) , provides a good example . And Mel Gibson played EXACTLY the same role that he played in Braveheart ! ! He was the average guy who suffered an unimaginable loss to the sheer brutality of the ' enemy , ' and decides to take it upon himself to take the enemy out . He is such a spectacular warrior that he is able to kill dozens of men single-handedly , and the enemy is so shocked that they think he is a " ghost . " Wasn't that exact line in Braveheart somewhere ? I have to admit that it was a lot of fun to watch those battle scenes , but the lack of originality is something that I absolutely have to complain about . Besides that , the film also attempted to address certain issues in history , but these attempts were clearly very weak . They wanted to address the slavery issue , so they had a slave in the movie who is fighting in order to earn his freedom , but winds up fighting alongside the other white soldiers even though the necessary time to earn his freedom has passed . This is a very noble thing to do , and it was very inspiring to watch , but then you realize that this was the only black man in the entire film . That is a very small effort to put towards addressing such an enormous issue , especially in American history . Furthermore , the very end of the film ( possible spoilers ahead ) , while uplifting and much easier to watch than the ending to Braveheart , was obviously meant to manipulate the audience's emotions . I don't like to have my emotions manipulated like that , even if it IS nice to see a " happily ever after " ending . Everything was finally coming together for everyone in the movie , including the solitary slave , who apparently found the perfect white man to spend his freedom working for . It's ironic that when everything works out perfectly in a movie , it ends up being more disappointing than a film that has a tragic ending , like Braveheart did . I think that this is a pattern that can be seen most in war films , because the target audience for war films likes to see what really happened . They don't want a nice flowery ending , they don't want anything sugar coated to make it easier to watch , they want the history books acted out on film . This led to the success of films like Braveheart , Saving Private Ryan , All Quiet on the Western Front , Full Metal Jacket , etc . When the facts are altered in any way , it immediately lessens the impact of the film . Despite all of my complaints , I do acknowledge that The Patriot was an amazing film , and it was extremely well made , with even a bit of good comic relief included ( comic relief is almost required in war films , in my opinion ) . It is something that should be watched by anyone who even remotely enjoys war films or even just period films . All that I have pointed out in this review are some of the things to be advised about before watching it .
Why so serious ?	Like Part 2 , Rocky 3 starts off where the last movie left off , but things are totally different now . Rocky has the feel of a real person with a real , three dimensional life by now , but he's come a long way from the Rocky we knew in the first two movies . Most notably , he's RICH now . He has a genuine career going in full swing in boxing by now , and the first part of the movie is a montage of event fights , all of which he wins soundly and comfortably . He is a tremendous champion with 10 successful title defense fights and a whole list of corporate sponsors . Not surprisingly , he begins to feel overconfident and a little lazy . There is some ham-handed foreshadowing as we see clips of a concerned Mr . T in the audience at Rocky's fights , and it's not long before Clubber Lang ( Mr . T ) begins publicly insulting Rocky , challenging him to a fight and taunting him at press conferences . I'm curious about where Lang's anger comes from . He is clearly furious with Rocky , but we know nothing about him . We don't know anything about his past as a fighter other than what is passed on through dialogue , and the unsolved mystery surrounding his uncontrollable rage is probably the movie's only genuine fault . The important thing that we are told is that Lang is not a boxer , like Rocky , but a wrestler , so it's a completely different , ah , ball game this time . There is an interesting fight that Rocky has midway through the movie with a hulking giant ( Hulk Hogan ) curiously named " Thunderlips , " in an illustration of what had become of his career . He had reached such a level of success that his fights became little more than performances put on to generate ticket sales , but Rocky's humanitarianism shows through , as he sometimes donates all proceeds , as in the case of the fight with Thunderlips , to various charities . But as always , Rocky maintains his laid back demeanor , letting the insults and taunts roll off his back , which is one of the qualities that has really allowed him to win so many hearts . But at an outdoor press conference , Lang taunts Rocky's wife , and he gets genuinely angry for the first time in the first three movies , other than the sudden tantrum he had in the first film when Mickey first asked to be his manager . After this , everything starts to fall apart . It turns out that his championship is not what he thought it was , and he is put into a position where he has to defend his wife's honor as well as his own , and to do that he has to fight a fighter that no one , including himself , really believes he can beat . True to his form , Mickey tells him , " This guy'll kill you to death inside of three rounds ! " And there is no mistake to be made about that . Lang is absolutely a KILLER . This guy has no interest in getting a knockout , he doesn't even seem that interested in being recognized as the real champion , he just wants to hurt Rocky . Essentially Lang's role in the movie is to knock Rocky out of the rut of complacency that he has gotten into . Thunderlips was billed as nearly 7 feet tall and 390 pounds , which I think it roughly twice Rocky's size , and is clearly a wrestler and not a fighter , and yet Rocky was able to win a fight with him , so it's no surprise that he assumed the fight with Lang would be about the same . When they finally fight , Lang walks all over him , and Rocky realizes that he has gotten soft . Apollo Creed , by the way , is now a sportscaster , and becomes Rocky's trainer when they learn how tough Lang really is . The movie loses track a little when Apollo starts training Rocky like he's never been in a gym before , like he's a complete amateur . Yeah , he hasn't been losing much lately , but does that mean he hasn't set foot inside a gym in all those years ? Doubtful , but nevertheless , it's great to see Rocky whipping himself back into shape and once again becoming that hardened hero that we have come to love . Although I have to admit , I loved the swimming scene . Rocky swims like my grandmother ! There is one moment of almost unforgivable cheese when Rocky and Mickey have a heart to heart on the beach at sunset in which , for example , Rocky claims that he's really afraid for the first time in his life . Isn't that a direct quote from the first movie ? There is notably more anger in part three than either of the previous movies , and while a second sequel runs a high likelihood of being the one that marks the first really noticeable turn downwards in the quality of the series ( hear that , Terminator ? ) , this one is no less watchable than the first two and , amazingly , neither is part 4 . Well done ! By the way , it's interesting that , at one point , a sportscaster notes just before a major fight , " The odds of Rocky making a comeback at 34 are long indeed ! " Yeah , how about at 60 ?
The ultimate action b-classic !	When I was a kid I may have been the biggest Commando fan ever . I think I must have watched it at least 30 times or so , I used to watch it every day after school . It is totally cheesy and Arnold is basically a superhero not far removed from Rambo other than by the fact that he has more honorable intentions . Rambo was just mentally destroyed by his military experience , while Schwartzenegger's John Matrix was turned into a nearly perfect military fighting machine but just wanted to live a normal life , but was forced back into action when his daughter is kidnapped . Now that I'm older I notice that it's a little strange that nothing is ever said about Matrix's wife , the mother of his daughter Jenny , an early role for Alyssa Milano . But at any rate , he has certainly done well for himself , living together with Jenny in an absolutely beautiful mountain home with spectacular views of the valley below . We are introduced to John as he is carrying an enormous tree trunk through the woods back towards his house to chop up for firewood . This is how he spends his time , you see . His relationship with his daughter is shown through a cloyingly cheesy musical montage of them skipping along and holding hands and putting ice cream in each other's faces and whatnot . We get it , we get it . But I'll tell you why I love the movie . Jenny is kidnapped by terrorists who try to force him to commit an assassination in order to win her freedom . In one of the best scenes in the movie , Matrix is escorted onto an airplane by one of the terrorists , who he manages to kill before take-off and disguise as a sleeping passenger , and then he makes his way to the undercarriage of the plane , literally tearing through canvas barriers and whatnot , and onto the landing gear , flinging himself off of the plane upon take-off and landing in a swamp below . He then has until the plane lands in the distant country to rescue his daughter before the bad guys learn he wasn't on the plane . Arnold long ago said that guns are his one love in all of his movies , and this one is no exception . I don't know why it is so fascinating to me , because I am not a fan of guns myself , but when he breaks into that gun shop and fills shopping carts with guns and grenades and whatnot , I always feel like a kid in a candy store . There is a slightly awkward relationship between John and Cindy , a woman with whom he had a very rough introduction but who soon sided with him to help him rescue his daughter . There is no chemistry whatsoever between John and Cindy ( presenting a convincing romantic relationship has never been one of Arnold's strong points ) , but they make an interesting enough team as they make their way closer and closer to Bennett , the big bad guy and one of Matrix's old enemies . There are some outstandingly overblown gunfights and explosions and car chases , but it is all so much fun that I can't really say anything bad about it . Like all good bad b-movies , Commando is packed with explosions and firepower and dynamite and guns and grenades and whatnot , but still comes down to a hand to hand knife-fight at the end and is packed with cheesy one-liners , except that some of them in this movie are genuinely entertaining and amusing . This is not high class action , but it is definitely tons of fun !
Jim Carrey is back in yet another great comedy , although it doesn't quite live up to the spectacular Dumb & Dumber .	Liar Liar is about a boy who , after being stood up by his big-shot lawyer father one too many times , wishes that for just one day his dad couldn't lie . This wreaks havoc on his personal life and even more on his professional life as a lawyer who makes a living putting criminals back on the streets . Carrey is immediately and constantly hilarious in his role as the unwillfully honest Fletcher Reede . Every scene is full of awkwardly straightforward behavior and dialogue ( " Whatever takes the focus off your head ! ) that is funny because it is so unusual and unexpected . Maura Tierney delivers one of the best performances of her career ( second only to her wonderful job in Primal Fear ) , but Cary Elwes plays a disappointing turn from his amazing job in The Princess Bride . Seeing him as the endlessly charming Wesley in that film and then seeing him as a squirrely step-father type in Liar Liar just didn't seem to fit , but the film was able to overcome such small problems and present itself as a good and entertaining comedy . In addition to the good comedy that Liar Liar presented , there were strange comedic scenes that Carrey had never done before . For example , I have never seen him portray a descent into madness as was shown with the blue pen , and it should be noted how well this funny man played the part of a man trying very hard not to be funny , with hilarious results . This is a bit like his role in Man on the Moon where he was a comedian playing a comedian who was often deliberately not funny , and the results there were hilarious as well . Jim Carrey's great comedy acting skills were a crucial element of this film , but they are not the only redeeming value of the movie itself . The story is solid and legitimate as well , and it is well-presented and directed , resulting in a good , fun comedy .
A classic thriller that deserves another look .	Hush . . . Hush , Sweet Charlotte has , over the years , deteriorated into the type of film that was clearly a tremendous experience in 1964 , but is fairly tame by today's standards . The thrill is unmistakable , but the film can hardly be called a horror film anymore , especially when we now have been subjected to films like The Texas Chainsaws and The Exorcist and a steady succession of generally satisfactory Stephen King films . The thing to keep in mind is that this is one of the films that Stephen King himself watched as a kid and was influenced by when he first began to write creatively . This is a horror thriller to be compared with something like the original Carnival of Souls ( nevermind the awful re-make ) . When you watch that movie , you can tell that people in the 1960's were deeply affected by it , but it's not gonna send your popcorn flying across the room when you watch it today . Bette Davis delivers a remarkable performance , to add to the respectable list of strikingly diverse roles that she played in her extensive career . While the pacing of the story in Hush . . . Hush , Sweet Charlotte runs a little slow , and the film tends to be slightly longer than necessary , the murder mystery is so well presented that even as a member of the all-knowing audience , we don't know the truth about it all until the very end . The black and white photography has , as always , made for a better focus on the performances , and director Robert Aldrich made some excellent use of lighting and shadows that are especially effective in black and white . An influence from Orson Welles and Alfred Hitchcock may very well have been the inspiration . This is not an edge of your seat type horror thriller , but it's cinematic value and the talent behind the camera are unmistakable .
Rover , wanderer , nomad , vagabond , call me what you will ?	Chaplin starts out The Vagabond playing in a bar , basically as a street performer , but soon finds himself run out by the more fully developed band who is unhappy that he's stealing their customers . Soon he wanders out into the woods and almost aimlessly stumbles across a group of backwards country people . There is a hunch-backed hag of a woman that looks like a witch but is probably the wife of a mountain of a man who likes to beat the women around him and carries a huge whip wherever he goes . This guy is ripe for a slapstick smack down . There's an amusing scene where a young girl is beaten by the man and then Charlie shows up and tries to cheer her up by going nuts on the violin , succeeding only in getting too excited and falling into a tub of water behind him . After a series of unfortunate events , he trades his trademark cane in for a bigger stick and proceeds to knock out all the men in sight , finally making off with the young girl and the family's house , which is really just a horse-drawn wagon . I am curious about one of the first things that happens after he " liberates " her from her family . He takes a tub of water and roughly scrubs her face , sticking his fingers into her ears and nose while he washes her . The fact that he washes her face rather than allowing her to do it herself is obviously a physical comedy ploy , but it also gave me the feeling that he is sort of washing the country off of her , turning her into a respectable woman . At any rate , soon she stumbles upon an artist who finds her so beautiful that he wants to paint her , and the result is so wonderful that she gains a following in the uppity art world . Soon some rich art fans show up to take save her from a life in rags and bring her , presumably , to the big city . Charlie refuses a reward ( or payment for selling the girl , as it were ) and simply hugs the girl and probably wishes her good luck as she sets off in the big car . But the girl decides she doesn't want to leave without him , so they turn around and go back for him . This story is fraught with problems , of course , like if she would ever start to miss her family or if her upbringing in the big city would conflict with her background as a country girl , and the ending is also a little too cute and neat , but for Chaplin's early silent comedies , this is a very complex story with a definable beginning , middle and end . I felt a little uncomfortable during the face-washing scene , but overall this is definitely a higher quality example of Chaplin's early work .
A special effects movie like Troy deserved more than 11 minutes about the special effects .	This is one of three other production documentaries included on the two-disc DVD of Troy , and it tells some interesting footage about how some of the special effects were done and how they were edited together . My favorite is how they talk about how a shot of the Greek soldiers storming across the beach toward Troy was filmed on a beach in Mexico while the shot of them entering the city was filmed in Malta , on the other side of the world . Both shots were filmed on a cable ( another interesting technique explained here ) and edited together into a single shot . So without even cutting , a smooth tracking shot switches locations thousands of miles apart and is perfectly smooth . I love that . One of the guys on the special effects crew also talks about how they took out about 60 % of the ships that appeared in the trailer for the film because it just looked too crowded , they were sailing too close together , taking each other's wind , etc . That's a pretty interesting story , I just found it a bit odd because the shot they refer to is not in the theatrical trailer included with the DVD . Maybe they took them out of the theatrical trailer , too . But the thing that I found most impressive was that they wrote their own software for creating many of the special effects shots in the movie because there wasn't really any software available on the market that could accomplish everything that they wanted to do . There was an incredible amount of work put into making people believe that they were looking at history and not at a movie , and in my opinion it was with much success . The video also includes an interesting segment on the sound effects in the movie , which are always interesting . See , for example , the segments on sound effects in the making-of Indiana Jones documentaries . That's the kind of thing that makes me want to learn more about how sound is done in movies ! Overall it's a good show , but the editing again is jolting , there is quite often not enough time allowed for you to get a good look at the sets and locations . There's nothing worse than a behind-the-scenes documentary that doesn't allow you enough time to get a look behind the scenes before cutting to something else . Luckily the information revealed in the video is still very interesting . My biggest gripe is that , over all three of the documentaries included on the supplemental DVD that comes with the movie , there is all of a single , solitary line included from an interview with Peter O'Toole , by far the biggest actor involved with the film . Disappointing , to say the least .
An excellent look at the history of the real Troy .	At the risk of revealing the sheer extent of my ignorance of Greek history , I must admit that before I saw this documentary I wasn't sure if Troy was a real place or if it was mythical , like Atlantis . I know that there is some debate as to whether Achilles ever lived , but this documentary gives great insight into what relatively little is known about the real city of Troy . I love how they talk about how they didn't know much about what Greece looked like at the time , so they combined research with imagination which is really the only way it could have been done . But they glamorized it because it is an epic film about heroes , which to me is a satisfactory justification for straying from reality . It is not completely historically accurate , but we don't know much about the history so I see no problem with taking some liberties , providing that any real information known is adapted into the movie whenever possible . They talk about the guy who actually excavated Troy , even showing footage of the ruins of the real city , which is a truly amazing sight . Some of the research for what Troy looked like was done at the British Museum , which I happen to know is a great place for doing research like that because I have been there and the amount of history collected in that building is astonishing . There are so many statues and other things that would have been wonderful as props in the movie if not for their great historical value and the difficulty that would have been involved in stealing them . An incredible amount of work and detail also went into designing the square of Troy . And not only did a hurricane destroy the entire wall of Troy so that they had to rebuild it , but they were initially shooting in Morocco and had to move production to Mexico , on the other side of the world , because of the impending war in Iraq . I always find it interesting to hear about the logistical problems like these that come up when making a movie , particularly on location . There are some weird quirks in the editing , such as jolting transitional sequences and a quick shot of a trailer that has " Living The Dream " spray-painted on the side of it , which appears out of nowhere and literally for about five frames , barely enough time to note that there are words on it , much less to read them . I hate it when these things are put together like that . These documentaries promise a look behind the scenes but are cut together so fast that you hardly get a good look at anything . If you want to show a lot of different things , make the documentary longer , not the shots shorter . There is some great stuff about the making of the Trojan horse and the way the city was made to burn , as well as the revelation that , while it seems reasonably clear that Troy was destroyed by enemy attack , it's possible that there may have been more than one war . Lots of interesting historical facts that really made me want to learn more .
A worthy adaptation of Fitzgerald's novel , with only the really necessary drawbacks .	The Great Gatsby is a book that is very much expected to be made into a movie , and has been adapted several times before this one . It is an intricate story that entails an enormous amount of meaning and significance to society , but the literary version is not one that is capable of being adapted into a film that can capture the entire effect , because so much of the quality of The Great Gatsby lies in the words that are used in the novel , the way things are described , the way people think , etc . This can never be completely transferred to film , and this version of Gatsby leaves out a huge amount of the language and even unnecessarily changes several important scenes . I have heard Robert Redford criticized for fitting the upper-class half of Gatsby's personality too closely and not capturing his darker side well enough , but this is a completely superficial argument . It's true that Redford looks right at home in Gatsby's mansion and his clothes and everything , but it's also true that he walks through the entire movie as though he's not quite sure where he is or how he got there and , above all , that he's nervous about something that he's done or is about to do . I can understand someone thinking that Redford doesn't look like a bad enough guy to play Gatsby , but if there is any problem with him portraying Gatsby's darker side , it's probably more a result of the fact that so much of his hidden dealings are hidden or removed from the film than any weakness on the part of Redford's performance or his appearance in the role . We see one suspicious phone conversation and we realize his intentions with Daisy and how he came to be where he is , but this is told rather than shown . Mia Farrow gives a satisfactory performance as Daisy , although she does not capture many of Daisy's characteristics from the novel , most importantly , I think , the stunning beauty of the sort that would cause a man like Gatsby to spend several years completely transforming his life and becoming filthy rich ( and becoming a criminal while he's at it ) , only to keep his mind occupied with thoughts of Daisy despite all his money and the fact that his ocean-side mansion is constantly crawling with celebrities and beautiful people . Daisy has to be a ridiculously beautiful woman to justify that kind of behavior , or else Gatsby would have to at least be a completely obsessive nutcase . Neither is true . Farrow's shortcomings as Daisy are hugely overshadowed , however , by the character of Tom Buchanan , who is changed from a ' hulking brute of a man ' in the novel to a tall and skinny guy who only has the slow intellect and harsh jealousy toward Gatsby from his character in the novel . Bruce Dern is hugely miscast in this role , but does a decent job going through the motions of his character , at least the verbal ones that he's given . Sam Waterson probably gives the best performance in the film as Nick Carraway , although there is something of an awkward feel with his character if only because he is the narrator in the film , telling the story through his own eyes , while in the film he is an external character and the vast majority of his internal thoughts are necessarily erased . More than the performances , however , there are some scenes that are changed from the novel that just shouldn't have been . I can understand changing or reducing a scene or some dialogue here and there ( although in the case of a classic novel like this , changing anything is almost always a dangerous proposition ) , but there were some scenes that were very important in the novel , either to the story or to the process of characterization or anything else , that were changed for no good reason and with no good affect . The introduction of the characters of Tom , Daisy and Jordan , and most importantly , Gatsby himself were enormously altered for the film , for no apparent reason . Tom has a self-involved introduction in the novel where he introduces himself to Nick by making a comment on his own success , Daisy and Jordan are introduced sitting carelessly in the gigantic living room at Tom and Daisy's house amidst an atmosphere the likes of which no film is likely to reproduce , and Gatsby , most of all , has a wonderful introduction where he is sitting talking to Nick at one of his parties , and Nick casually mentions that he has been invited by some man named Gatsby that he's never met or even seen . Gatsby looks at him in surprise , saying , ' I'M Gatsby . ' This is the perfect way to introduce Gatsby as a man with the means to put on a social event of this caliber but without a clue in the moon about how to interact with his guests . Rather than this simple introduction , however , Nick is approached by one of Gatsby's servers and asked to come upstairs . This is a creepy scene which makes Nick feel nervous as though he's in trouble ( which is understandable since the man who approached him won't say a word and gives him a sly smile here and there as though Nick's the enemy and he's being taken prisoner by the mob boss ) . Nick gets upstairs and Gatsby is standing alone in a room looking out over his party , and there follows a creepy scene in which Gatsby stumbles over his words trying to introduce himself , and no a scrap of his joviality is captured from the novel . In the book , Gatsby is a man who doesn't know the social rules of his parties but is glad to have a grand old time with Nick even though they'd never met , while in the movie he nervously stumbles through plans to go out boating the next day , leaving Nick to stand there still not quite sure what he's supposed to do . I watched this version of The Great Gatsby just after watching the 1993 version of The Secret Garden , which is a film that takes a magical novel and makes a wonderful film out of it , but only really captures the basics of it , the necessary parts that are needed to have the film present the story and make sense . This version of The Great Gatsby is similar in that it is an enjoyable film that captures the story of the novel , but because of the richness of the language used in the book and some of the things that were , for some reason , changed for no apparent reason other than to be different from the original text , it doesn't capture the same experience as the novel .
You've heard of dolls that bleed ? This one pees !	Contains Spoilers So here's my synopsis , I liked Bride of Chucky as much as the original , a little more than part 2 , and MUCH more than part 3 . I really think that the move toward comedy and slightly away from horror , as well as our increasing familiarity with Chucky himself , has allowed the movies , and Chucky , to look back at themselves from a different level which , as we all know by now , is a great perspective from which to have some great one-liners and horror movie homages . The appearance of various horror movie souvenirs like Jason's and Michael Meyers ' masks and the Texas chainsaw as well as the re-creation of pinhead from Bride of Chucky are some examples . This is what Seed of Chucky sets out to outdo , not add to the already elaborate nature of the murders committed by the monster doll that we all nonetheless love . Seed of Chucky starts off with an odd scene . I guess I should have caught on to what was really going on in this scene , since it opens with the fruit of Chucky's loins being given as a gift to a child in the UK , the little girl's father casually eating a plate of raw steak as he looks disgustedly at the hideous little doll that arrived in the mail with no return address . I've lived in England , and to the best of my knowledge , I don't remember uncooked red meat being a great midday snack . On the other hand , I don't remember the gutterpunks traveling overseas to collect new dolls for their ventriloquist acts either . While their offspring has been given as a gift to a young British girl , Chucky and Tiff ( who is sporting a brand new , totally unburned body ) are starring in Child's Play 5 , in this case , I believe , called Chucky Goes Psycho , one of countless classic horror film references peppered throughout the movie . My favorite was the scene where Chucky hacks through the door with a hatchet , then just as he's about to explain exactly where Johnny is , he blanks and says , ' I can't think of a thing to say ! ' Goofy on the one hand , but on the other hand , as in the pinhead scene in Bride of Chucky , I thought it was clever that they set up this reference to a classic horror film and then didn't even need to go through with it . They know their audience knows what's going on , and I like that . In another , more extensive reference , the movie takes place during the making of the new Child's Play movie , just like Wes Craven did in his New Nightmare . Jennifer Tilly plays herself , but Brad Dourif does not because , of course , Chucky was real all along , right ? He's just hibernating while they have him hooked up to wires so they can make him act in their movie . Jennifer Tilly pokes fun at her craft and herself , complaining extensively in one scene that she never gets any good roles , that she's just as good an actress , if not better , than Julia Roberts , and that she deserves more than anyone else the role of the Virgin Mary in the upcoming Bible epic directed by , of course , rapper Redman . I have not had the nerve to put myself through How High , despite it's having been filmed at UCLA , my own backward , but I was hugely impressed with Redman's performance in this movie . He will never be able to portray a director preparing to shoot a Biblical epic , much less really direct one , but that's not the point of this movie . This entire sequence is poking fun at the fakeness of Hollywood , and it cracks me up . Besides , given the cavernous nature of Jennifer Tilly's mansion , she hardly seems to be doing too badly . Martha Stewart would be proud of her home , if not her choice of company . And speaking of cracking me up , here's something interesting . Just when you thought horror movies couldn't be unpredictable , especially in high-numbered sequels , Chucky has a cross-dressing , kung-fu fighting , Japanese-speaking British son with razor sharp teeth . Okay , the teeth were predictable , but a British kung-fu master who speaks Japanese ? Where did THAT come from ? ? The movie walks a tenuous line between an asexual nature for Glen / Glenda and outright homosexuality . The cross-dressing scene leans toward the latter , especially because not for a second from beginning to end does Glen / Glenda look or sound female . Those idiots in White Chicks looked more female than this kid . I'm assuming the choice of name is another film reference , this time to Ed Wood's 1953 film Glen or Glenda , otherwise it would seem to have been more prudent to select a name that could have been either sex , like Chris or Sam or Alex or Bill . Wait , scratch that last one . There is a scene where Jennifer Tilly sneaks onto the horror set to get a candy bar that she hid in Chucky's clothes , in another of the scenes where she pokes fun at herself ( in one later scene , Tiff is dragging the unconscious Tilly and comments , ' My God she's fat ? ' ) , and she comes across the head of one of the prop men , picking it up and kissing it before realizing that it's real . This is the only scene in the movie that I wasn't too impressed with . I guess I've just lost my taste for beheading scenes in the movies . But as Day After Tomorrow shows that it's okay to destroy big cities in the movies again , I guess it's okay to behead people , too . Still , however , a fun movie , but one most likely to be enjoyed by horror fans and , especially , Chucky fans . Note : Watch the movie and you'll get an idea of where the alternate title Bride of Chucky 2 comes from ?
A Few Good Men takes a routine legal conflict , packages it in a formula film , and brilliantly makes it into a great legal thriller .	As is quite often the case with legal thrillers , A Few Good Men starts off by showing the act of violence that the rest of the movie tries to justify . It is a taut legal thriller that keeps you breathless from beginning to end as the case slowly unfolds , going into startling detail and even more surprisingly maintaining the audience's attention throughout the entire ordeal . Tom Cruise stars as Lieutenant Daniel Alistair Kaffee , a smart-ass young lawyer , barely a year out of law school and taking on a case that's much bigger than anything he's ever attempted . He has already compiled an impressive list of successful cases , hence his appointment to this rather intimidating case . Demi Moore stumbles over her role as Lieutenant Commander JoAnne Galloway , who is supposed to be sort of supervising Kaffee's performance in this case , but anytime she lectures him in what is supposed to be an authoritative dialogue , it's not hard to see why he talks back to her so much . I am not what you would call an expert on Demi Moore's iconography , I can't say that her roles in films like Striptease or G . I . Jane affected her role in A Few Good Men , because at the time I'm writing this review I've never seen either of those films , but there is something about her that makes her completely unconvincing as a threatening superior officer . Her dialogues are strained and over-rehearsed , but luckily the strength of the rest of the cast and the story itself is more than enough to make up for any weakness on Moore's part . Jack Nicholson also stars in a role that he seems to have been born to play , although as the film plays out you realize that the role doesn't do him justice as an actor . Oddly enough , it is the ultimate fate of Nicholson's character that turns out to be one of the few things that brought the quality of the movie down . Obviously this is not because of Nicholson's performance in the film , but because of the way his character was written . As we approach the end of the film , and Kaffee takes the biggest risk of all ( putting Colonel Jessep ( Nicholson ) on the stand and making an accusation that better be true or will result in Kaffee being court-martialed , which he drunkenly acknowledges in what is arguably the most hilarious scene in the film ) , the plot starts to jump through hoops just to get to a conclusion . ( spoilers ) The legal case presented in the movie is so intricate and entails so many people and so many different morals that it's hard to determine who the real bad guy is . This is certainly not an open and shut case . But the thing that brings the movie down is that it has the guts to present a case that is not easily solvable , but then has such a copout ending . As Kaffee has a final brainstorm to put Jessep on the stand , he is fully aware of the consequences that he will face is he fails to get the necessary self-criminating information out of him , but decides to go along with the plan , completely convinced that he will admit his guilt in the case so we can all go home ( ' I think he WANTS to say it ! ' ) . Sure enough , in the courtroom when Jessep is on the stand , Kaffee eventually asks him if he ordered the Code Red ( after the now-laughable ' You can't handle the truth ! ! ' scene ) , to which Jessep brilliantly responds , ' You're damn right I did ! ! ' Okay , we know what really happened ( even though we had known pretty much since the beginning , so the movie's over , right ? My concern here is that throughout the entire movie up to that point , Colonel Nathan R . Jessep is NOT portrayed as the kind of man that would accidentally admit something like that in a military court of law . What he IS presented as , on the other hand , is the kind of man that WOULD know that letting information like that slip would certainly result in him going to prison . Well , at least they left out the part where he nervously scans the courtroom and says , ' I ? hope I didn't say that out loud just now ? ' with a weak smile . In keeping with the overly-intricate legal content of the film , A Few Good Men realizes that it is not a simple legal thriller that can be ended as cleanly as a Scooby-Doo cartoon , even to the point that it ends with Kaffee and his rival lawyer , played expertly by Kevin Bacon , discussing their next moves in continuing this case in other directions , similar to the ending of Rules of Engagement , another deeply involved military thriller . The question that A Few Good Men approaches is the moral conduct of the military officers that stand on a wall at the edges of our nation and provide us with the freedom that we enjoy , how much civilian law applies to them , and even , on the outside , whether or not it is really them alone that provide us with freedom , or at least protect it . Certainly flawed , but A Few Good Men lives up to the expectation of being a star-studded military legal thriller that will keep you on the edge of your seat for almost two and a half hours , with plenty of comic relief thrown in that is amazingly able to not take away from the seriousness of the film at all . Rather than cheap laughs , we are given an amusing personality that makes us like the main character , Kaffee , even more . The acting and the story and the direction certainly deliver what is promised , but the movie ultimately pans out to be something that should have been better than it was . The ending was open-ended and complemented the complexity of the moral content , but still came about entirely too conveniently .
Ahhh , MUCH better ! !	Blade II is an exciting action film that takes the tired vampire story and adds a new twist by introducing an entirely new villain . Sure , there is sure to be some controversy ( at least among film fans and fans of the genre ) about whether or not it is right to introduce new characters in this way . Vampires are a tired theme at the movies , but it is a time-honored genre in itself that deserves respect just from the fact that it has been around for so long in literature before the movies . The question of whether or not the writers were justified in introducing these new characters is , in my opinion , satisfied by the fact that they made such quality villains that fit so well into the genre . I am thrilled to see that they didn't just make another dumb Blade film that was exactly the same as the original except for the possibility of some new special effects , because these new characters , called Reapers , are exactly what the film series , as well as , potentially , the genre as a whole , needed . Reapers are blood-feeders , just like vampires , except they feed on humans as well as vampires , effectively making them an enemy of both , and their thirst is much stronger than the traditional vampire . And to make matters worse ( or better , depending on whether you are an enemy of the Reapers of a member of the audience ) , they are identified by a scar which runs down their chin . This scar is where the lower jaw splits open when the Reaper is feeding , creating a frighteningly massive mouth like a vampire version of the Predator , and which has things inside it reminiscent of the horrifying and strangely unique Tremors . There are some amazing make-up effects here as well , although I can see the film being automatically overlooked at the Oscars in 2003 simply because it is the successor of such a low class action / horror film , as well as because this is just not the kind of movie that wins Academy Awards . I'm not sure that there is anything in this film that is likely to catch the Academy's attention , but the make-up was very impressive to say the least . Wesley Snipes returns to the role of Blade , the half-human / half-vampire creature dubbed the ' Daywalker ' because of his ability to withstand sunlight . This is in itself one of the better parts of the movie , because even though I was enormously unimpressed with the original film , there is no one that could play this character as well as Snipes does . There is also an interesting conflict introduced as Blade is forced to team up with the vampires , his mortal enemies who we are to assume could turn on him at any time , in order to fight the Reapers ( by far the more dangerous enemy ) , who ? reproduce , ' you might say , at an astonishing rate . It's too bad , though , that the existence of the Reapers was introduced by vampires in a rather impressive although entirely unnecessary fight scene between a couple of vampires and Blade himself . Blade is attacked one night by two vampires wearing body suits ( and some goggles that probably retain the coolest effect of the entire film ) , they fight violently for several minutes at full speed without rest , until one of them suddenly kneels before Blade and asks for a truce , informing him that there is now something on the streets that is even worse than him . If they were going to ask for a truce , you would think that they would approach him at least a little differently . One of these vampires ( the better fighter , as it were ) turns out to be Nyssa Damaskinos , a sexy brunette vampire who's lipstick was not smeared in the least even by all of those flying kicks that she took to the face from Blade about 15 feet in the air . Remarkable . There seems to be a growing trend of having honest fight scenes replaced at an ever-increasing amount by special effects . Consider how vastly the role of special effects increased in Jet Li's fight scenes in Lethal Weapon 4 ( relatively few special effects ) , Romeo Must Die ( massive amounts of special effects ) , and The One ( relatively few movements that were NOT special effects ) . This same trend is clearly influencing other films that are not made to be primarily fighting films , such as Blade and Blade II . The weapons that Blade carries around are still cool ( think of them as a dark version of the toys that James Bond was sometimes given to take on his missions ) , and while the fight scenes in Blade and especially Blade II are undeniably thrilling and fun to watch , it's impossible to ignore the fact that most of what we are watching is computer generated . As a whole , Blade II succeeds in reviving the story of Blade , which was not done justice by the original film . The Reapers were a much-needed and very impressive addition to the story , and the resulting conflict between the vampires and Blade himself as they are forced to take sides together provides such an interesting conflict that it almost overshadows the one created by the Reapers , who are by far the more dangerous villains . There is , of course , some stuff here that was thrown in without apparent reason and therefore without beneficial affect ( such as the unnecessary , however impressive , fight scene between Blade and the two vampires early in the film ) , but as a whole the film rises high above its predecessor . The fact that the original film ends with Blade becoming a worldly vampire-hunter is mostly ignored in this film , although this one does end with a similar bit of comic relief and may even leave room for a second sequel . And as much as I disliked the original film , after watching Blade II I can't say that I would be too disappointed to see a Blade III come out in a few years .
" Dulce et decorum est pro patria mori . "	The irony of this quote ( " Sweet and fitting it is to die for the fatherland ) is what All Quiet on the Western Front is all about . The movie paints a very clear , even blindly obvious , picture of the difference between the young recruit's expectation of battlefield glory and the battle weary veteran's knowledge of the bloody reality of war . The beginning of the movie suggests a military atmosphere that will stifle everything else in American daily life , as a military marching bands trudges past , drowning out the words of a lecturer in a classroom , but then changes directions when we realize that that professor is spouting militaristic propaganda at his young male students , vehemently urging them to join up and fight for their country . By the end of his speech , modern audiences might be astonished at the naked lies about battle , but the young men are cheering by the end and desperate to enlist . There is , of course , massive difference between the audiences that first saw the film in April 1930 and today's audiences , and the thematic elements make this abundantly clear . Remember that this movie , one of our first Best Picture winners , was made for an audience most of whom had never seen moving images of war , and had no idea what life was really like on the battlefield . Because of that , the movie lacks in realism , although mostly only in the behavior and dialogue of the men . The actual battle scenes are startlingly realistic . The men remind me of reading old Hardy Boys books , which contain dialogue which can't possibly be at all realistic . Some of the dialogue here in this movie is funny because it is so different from how people would speak today ( " You are the gay heroes that will repulse the enemy when called upon to do so ! " ) , but mostly it is simply the ham-handed delivery of the thematic elements that gets a little tiring ( " You're just a man , like me , and I killed you ! We only wanted to live , you and I . If we didn't have these guns and these uniforms , we could be brothers ! " ) . Needless to say , the men quickly realize that they are not running off to the glorious battle . As with any war , when they left home , they were leaving to fight for their country . But when they arrived at their destination they find that they're not fighting for their country at all , they're fighting for their lives . My historical knowledge of World War I is pretty limited , so I was a little confused at one scene where four American soldiers are bathing in the river , and soon notice three attractive French women casually strolling past the river . Initially I thought that they were just camping near a small village , apparently oblivious to the war , until the men managed to seduce the women using some soggy bread that had been soaked in the dirty river water , suddenly revealing that these smiling young women are virtually starving . The plight of the French civilians is hardly portrayed well . One soldier goes home on temporary leave , and the movie also gets his battle remorse totally wrong . When he sees his family , he mumbles and trudges past , indifferent to see his loved ones again . It is as though he has lost his job , not returned after months and months and months at war . Soon he is at a table talking to some of the old politicians pulling the strings of the war , who accuse him of not knowing a thing about it when he tells them that the war isn't what they think it is . To say that this is an anti-war film is certainly an understatement . In fact , the film ends on a decidedly unpatriotic note . A soldier speaks in the same classroom he used to go to , telling the eager young men about the reality of war . " It's dirty and painful to die for your country , And what good is it ? Death is stronger than duty to one's country . " He then returns to the front , which now feels more like home to him than his home . The film has a great , meaningful ending , as well . It is as anti-climactic as you can imagine , but has a deep and resonating meaning . The movie has not dated well , but being one of America's earliest war films , it is certainly successful .
Not just another Denzel movie ?	The more Denzel Washington movies that I watch , while he remains one of my favorite actors , the more apparent it becomes that he seems to play basic variations of the same character over and over . I think I was first put off when John Q came out , I saw it , and it occurred to me that he was playing yet another desperate black man deciding to take matters into his own hands , sort of the character who disregards the law completely , but we allow it because we , unlike almost anyone else in the movie , know that it's okay because his purpose is honorable . The end , as they say , justifies the means . Given that , I watched Out of Time expecting something similar ( certainly the movie's tagline doesn't promise anything different ) , but was surprised at how entertaining and subtly different it was from his other films . Granted , he is still a desperate black guy forced to break the law in order to prove his own innocence , but in this case his innocence is not quite as flawless as it is made out to be in many of his other films . In John Q , for example , he is the perfect father , willing to go to any length possible ( including giving his own life ) in order to save his son's life . In Out of Time , the main purpose of the first third of the film is to expose his failed marriage and his willingness to have a relationship with a married woman . In a sense , the beginning of the movie is all about his imperfections . ( spoilers ) The movie also makes an unexpected and fairly sharp turn about a third of the way through . It starts off being about a police chief who falls in love with a married and terminally ill woman and so decides to steal massive amounts of evidence money so they can run away together , and then quickly turns when the woman and her husband turn against him , faking their own fiery deaths and smartly setting up the entire situation so that every bit of evidence points to him , Matt Whitlock , so they get away with all that evidence money that she stole for him at the beginning . The tension builds brilliantly as Whitlock tries desperately to prevent the rest of the police force working on the case from realizing that he has been named the new beneficiary on the life insurance policy , that he was seen outside the house the night it burned to the ground , supposedly killing the woman and her husband , he's all over her phone records , etc . Probably the main problem is that , pretty much from the beginning of the conflict , you may find yourself yelling at the screen , wishing that he would just come clean early on , because there's a pretty good chance from the beginning that he could explain away the deaths , and accept responsibility for only the crime that he was really guilty of , having an affair with a married woman . Doesn't it seem , for example , that it would be hard to prove that a CHIEF OF POLICE would be so stupid as to kill a woman mere days after she named him the primary beneficiary to her million dollar insurance policy ? Few members of any police force are that foolish . Nevertheless , the tension built as he tries to prevent the discovery of his involvement long enough so that he can straighten things out keeps the movie moving at a brisk pace , but the movie sadly comes to a tired cliché of an ending . I'm sick and tired , for example , of seeing action movies that come to an end where our hero is on the floor on his back holding up his hands in defeat while the villain points his / her gun at him , and just as the villain is about to shoot , we hear a gunshot and see a look of surprise , then shock , then death come across their face . It's been done too many times , and it's too bad that an action film like this one , which was otherwise very well made , had an ending like this that just didn't fit with the creativeness of the rest of the film . The same thing happened to a recent , very well made action film called 15 Minutes . Despite the character flaws that are introduced in the early portion of the movie , we are able to forgive Whitlock because of his motives . He and his wife , to whom he is still married , are separated and headed rapidly for a divorce ( the plot thickens because she is the head homicide detective working on the case that's leading rapidly toward him ) , and Ann , the woman he's having an affair with , is married to an abusive boyfriend who Whitlock is trying to save her from . Despite the fact that the movie comes to a boring end that is something of a let-down , as a whole it is very entertaining and more in the vein of the quality suspense thrillers that I have come to expect from Denzel Washington .
Quite possibly the scariest funny movie ever made . Or the funniest scary movie ever made .	They Live is one of those horror movies that is so scary and so good that it has become a comedy classic . Yes , comedy . There are maybe a total of five horror films that were made in the 80s that are or ever were even slightly frightening , the majority of them , particularly those which remain popular today , are popular because of their comedic value much more than their scariness . Now , I don't mean to badmouth 80s horror or to suggest that these movies are a sustained string of cinematic failures , but you really can't watch something like one of the Nightmares on Elm Street or a Friday the 13th film and afterwards say that you laughed less than you were scared . Okay , so maybe this is just me , but I really think that it can hardly be denied that the comedic content of horror films provide a large part of their overall appeal . And whether you personally agree with me or not , it's not hard to see that John Carpenter agrees . My favorite example of this in They Live is the way Nada ( the basically nameless main character ) reacts when he first begins to see what the alien beings really look like when he finds those glasses . Personally , I would have kept my visions a little more to myself until I figured out what was going on , but this guy hilariously tells an elderly woman exactly what he thinks of her appearance in the middle of a crowded convenience store . Now , I should probably point out that this is not really something that translates very well into film-review form , you just have to see it for yourself . By explaining it in writing here I feel like Mr . Burns trying to be funny ( ' We'll have some excellent practically-based jokes ! ' ) . And then , of course , there is the violence , which is so overdone that it's subsequent humor is nearly unrivaled until Quentin Tarantino came along and made Kill Bill . Nada is a construction worker who is struggling to maintain a job ( as are many of the other workers ) , but desperately needs to show his visions to someone else just to make sure he's not insane . He finds himself wanted by the police ( for reasons that I won't explain ) , and shows up at the construction site where he works to try to get one of his coworkers ( also struggling to maintain this job to make ends meet ) to try on the glasses . Personally , if I was in that guy's situation I wouldn't want to be getting involved with this apparent nutcase either , especially if I needed that job as badly as he obviously did . Nada is not about to let the guy go until he sees , though , and thus follows The Fight Scene , capitalized for obvious reasons . And by the way , if the guy didn't want to get involved with Nada , it seems like it would have been slightly less troublesome to just look through the glasses and walk away than to get into a full-on kickboxing match with him in broad daylight for half and hour or so . I watched the DVD version of They Live , and I have to say that I was a little disappointed that there was nothing on the DVD about how they did the makeup of the aliens , because I always thought that that was the most interesting part of the movie ( besides the fact that the whole control issue so closely resembled the operation of mass media and commercialism in real life ) . So what you have in They Live is a very interesting premise with a pretty simple delivery , but it works because it's cleverly done and believable , despite the fact that the whole magical sunglasses thing is more something that you might expect to see in a fiction story written by a kid in fourth grade . When I was in fourth grade I wrote a story about a hat that I could put on to make myself invisible , and the conceptual difference is really not that much . They Live is one of those 80s horror / comedy gems that is widely overlooked , especially today , when massive video chains like Blockbuster have reduced their horror sections to contain little more than the ridiculous crap that Hollywood cranks out and foolishly labels horror films , like Jeepers Creepers ( one of the dumbest horror films to come along since I Know What You Did Last Summer ) and other such nonsense . Granted , they still carry a few of the good ones - my local Blockbuster still has the original Nosferatu in its horror section , as well as some of the excellent recent horror films like The Ring and Ringu , upon which The Ring was based . And I DID rent They Live from my local Blockbuster , but it was in the DRAMA section . WOW . This is an example of the way that the horror genre has evolved and the way that older horror films have been affected . You would think that if they were going to completely redefine a genre , they would at least have put a movie like They Live in the COMEDY section .
And the baby goes to ?	Coming on the heels of the great writer's strike in Hollywood , the 2007 Academy Awards ceremony began amidst wonder about what it would be like , after the Golden Globes , I think , was presented as a bare bones ceremony to which few people showed up . I didn't pay much attention to the writer's strike , partly because I'm living in the middle of China at the moment and partly because I just don't see what the big screaming deal is . Maybe it's because I work for a living so it's hard for me to understand the unjust plight of people who get paid 100 times what I make to sit at home and write jokes . Anyway , John Stewart , again the Oscars ' host , introduces the show by exclaiming , " You're here ! I can't believe you're here ! " He then , of course , goes on to ridicule the whole fiasco , clearly touching some nerves but hopefully lightening the tone a little as well . As usual , Stewart has some great jokes ( " What a shame , Titler had some great ideas ! He just couldn't get past the name ? . and the mustache ? " ) , and some that just clearly make the audience uncomfortable . But again , luckily we have the writers back so we can watch some of our most talented actors come on stage and tell jokes with all the animation and energy of a hockey puck . That's one of the biggest mysteries of the Oscars . Every year , we see the most talented people in the business come on stage and give astonishingly wooden deliveries of their highly rehearsed jokes and speeches . Maybe this is what happens when they don't have a good director helping them ? George Clooney , surprisingly , seemed to get just a little stuck once or twice during his speech introducing the outstanding 80 years of Oscar sequence . Maybe because of the deadpan response to his cheerful " Hi guys ! " greeting to the audience . Maybe they were tired . I thought it was funny . The show could always use a little informality to lighten the tension . John Stewart doesn't exactly have the most perfect track record of delivering classic jokes on stage . He's a funny guy , but nearly half of his jokes must make at least half the audience squirm in their seats ( " I believe Javier Bardem told his mother where the bathroom is ? " ) . I'm sure that high school kids failing their Spanish classes are still rolling over that one . The rest of us , not so much . As always the awards are criticized for that ridiculous time limit imposed on the winners . It is certainly true that this show , and any awards show , is ABOUT the winners , and the majority of it should be given to them to give thanks to what is often one of the greatest honors of their lives . John Stewart has plenty of time to make bad jokes and often poke ridiculous fun at some of our most talented actors , yet those actors themselves are so often rushed off the stage by that incessant orchestra music , which is really no different from someone extending a hook onto the stage and yanking the speaker off by their neck . Obviously , it's clear why this happens . The Oscars , unfortunately , are about honoring the greatest achievement in film-making , but more than that , they are a media frenzy . The show is designed to get ratings much more than to honor performances or achievements . This is why the greatest actors and animators and directors and costume designers and writers are shooed offstage so that Stewart can introduce another pointless montage that does nothing but eat up time . In this ceremony , he even mentions that , had the writer's strike continued , they would have had to " pad the show with even more montages " ( Oscar Salute to Binoculars and Periscopes ? ? Bad Dreams , An Oscar Salute ! ? ? ) . Pad the show ! ! What , was there a shortage of material ? After showing these film clips , which Stewart introduces as pointless , he quips about how great it is that they don't have to waste our time by showing them . What the hell is going on here ? Is this what the winners are rushed off the stage for ? And by the way , best category announcement of the evening has to go to Forrest Whitaker , and best acceptance speeches ? Tilda Swinton and Marketa Irglova . Definitely . Note : John Stewart mentions the IMDb as he is introducing Nicole Kidman onto the stage . I think that's the first time I've ever heard anyone mention the IMDb at the Oscars . It's just too bad that he has become so famous as a political satirist , because political satire only has the tiniest place at an event like the Oscars . More importantly , it has made it nearly impossible for Stewart to offer genuine congratulations without sounding like he's going to crack some stupid joke afterwards ( which half the time he does ) . All in all , even though the Oscars seem to get more commercialized every year , they are still all about the love of movies , and this year is no different . It's an inspiring show no matter how many little bothersome things we have to deal with , and it's hard not to enjoy a lot of people experiencing their dreams literally coming true before our eyes . I particularly loved the occasional history of the Oscars montages that they would show in between awards . THAT is the stuff the show should be padded with . After all , remembering great moments in film is what it's all about .
" Looks like we're gonna need new sheets again , baby ? "	It is perfectly fitting that the new X-Men movie should include " Wolverine " in the title , since none of the three previous movies explained the history of his mutation , although slightly less fitting that " X-Men " should be in the title , because it is more like a spin off for Wolverine , the franchise's most popular character , than it is another X-Men movie . Granted , the histories of some of the other X-Men that we know are mentioned , such as Sabertooth , who is the result of Wolverine's brother Victor evolving along darker lines , and Cyclops also shows up , but for the most part we get Wolverine growing to understand his mutation as he is put into a team with a whole new group of mutants . Not that that's a bad thing , of course . Die hard fans may not be so pleased to see that so little of the new movie has to do with the mutants that we know so far , and while my own knowledge of the comic books is absolute zero , I'm going to go ahead and suggest that the new movie is enjoyable even though it almost certainly doesn't live up to the expectations of the comic-thumping crowd . The movie opens in northwestern Canada in 1840 . Wolverine ( now just Jimmy ) and his brother Victor witness the brutal killing of their father which is almost exactly the same as the killing of young Rory Devaney's father in The Devil's Own , except for one crucial difference . You'll know it when you see it . It's a moment that comes dangerously close to an homage joke , but the recovery is thankfully quick . Their Canadian citizenship makes for a great scene late in the film that will have Canadian movie theaters erupting with cheers , although it doesn't explain why Jimmy and Victor fight side by side in the Civil War , World War I , World War II , and Vietnam which , unless I'm sorely mistaken , are mostly all more American wars than Canadian . Nevertheless , it's one of the movie's many great sequences . Anyway , in Vietnam things get a little crazy . Victor loses his cool and has a confrontation with a senior officer that results in the death of one of them , and when a firing squad fails to kill them , they are offered a position on board a super-secret black Ops team so they can REALLY serve their country . Well , they can serve their neighbors to the south , anyway . What follows is Jimmy's journey to find a place in the world for himself , and all along the way he has to avoid being used for powers that he has but doesn't even fully understand yet , and he discovers a major project headed by William Stryker ( Danny Huston ) , who is secretly planning to capture all of the mutants ' powers and create a single super-mutant with the powers of all of them and , presumably , none of their weaknesses . A lot of action tension falls away as it becomes more and more apparent that the relevant mutants , particularly Wolverine , are immune not only to death but to injury , but the entertainment level is high and the effects and photography are generally pretty good . There is some pretty disappointing blue-screen work late in the film in it's ambitious climactic scene , although to be completely honest , I was forced to watch a pirated DVD that I bought last week here in China that had 13 other movies on it . The picture quality is of course reduced , but more importantly , somehow someone got their hands on a copy of the movie where a lot of the visual effects weren't even finished , like external shots of planes flying and mostly the entire final scene . There was actually one point where Victor puts his hand on a window and a text label pops up saying " claws grow . " I'm assuming that in the final version , his claws grew menacingly . For those of you with access to American theaters , I hope you appreciate the sheer picture quality that you are able to experience , you don't know what you're not missing ! X-Men : Origins is not the best X-Men movie ( I would argue that X2 was the best so far ) and it's a strange choice for director Gavin Hood , whose directing efforts include the hugely impressive 2005 film Tsotsi and 2007's Rendition . He has definitely hit the big time with this movie ( like Alfonso Cuaron did when he was asked to direct Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban ) , although it seems like fans of his directing will be unimpressed with his latest choice , but those of us who remember him acting in bad action and horror films like The Curse III and American Ninja 5 will be thrilled at how far he's come ! But even though a lot of fans and critics may not be as impressed with the latest X-Men film than past entries in the series ( Roger Ebert was pretty much a dick about the whole thing ) , X-Men : Origins is definitely a strong film considering that it's the third sequel . If they can keep them at least this good , they could easily squeeze out a couple more .
An entertaining twist on the traditional modern romance .	As has been the case with nearly every romantic comedy ever made , Jerry ( Brad Pitt ) and Samantha ( Julia Roberts ) are in a wonderful relationship that is nearly destroyed by a lot of stupidity . There is a horribly frustrating encounter between the two in which Samantha refuses to believe that Jerry is being forced to retrieve this priceless pistol from Mexico or else be killed . Never mind the gun , Jerry , you promised to take me to Las Vegas . I don't care if they're going to kill you , either , it's your life , or me , you decide ! Why can't we ever have a conflict introduced in a film like this that's not introduced as a result of a nerve-grindingly stubborn woman or a complete moron of a boyfriend ? In the recent The Bachelor , for example , which was an otherwise very entertaining film , much of the conflict comes as a result of Chris O'Donnell's character DAYDREAMING at the most crucial moment , which happened to be a moment on which any flesh and blood human being would be focused like a freaking laser beam . Jerry is forced to go pick up this pistol in Mexico , charmingly named The Mexican , by his criminal boss , who is in jail partly because of Jerry . So needless to say , Jerry owes him a favor , to say the least . The movie picks itself up and dusts itself off is when Samantha is kidnapped by James Gandolfini's wonderful character , Leroy . Samantha's stubborn departure early in the film separates her and Jerry for the most part of the rest of it , but they are still involved with each other , entirely through Leroy . He has been sent to kidnap Samantha as sort of an extra inspiration to get Jerry to complete his task , and the interactions between Leroy and Samantha are arguably some of the most entertaining parts of the film , along with Jerry's pathetic attempts to fit in among a completely and hopelessly foreign culture . Leroy and Samantha ultimately wind up searching each other's souls and helping each other out enormously on an emotional and sociological level , while Jerry struggles down in Mexico to get the pistol and then return to Samantha . The conflict , as well as the drama , is increased along the way as Samantha complains to Leroy about Jerry , listing all of his inefficiencies and shortcomings , while Jerry is at the same time running into one troublesome situation after another , mostly due to mistakes that come as a result of his seeming inability to stop thinking about her . He can't wait to get back to her , and she can't get over her anger that he left in the first place . Clearly , this is a fascinating story compared to the general slop served up in romantic comedies , and I think that the only thing that really takes away from the film a great deal is the initial formation of the rift between Jerry and Samantha , which the rest of the film concentrates on filling . This is the tough spot for romantic comedies , and if The Mexican had had a better introduction of the conflict , the film would have been nearly perfect as a romantic comedy . It did , at least , only have the horribly stubborn girlfriend , rather than the horribly stubborn girlfriend combined with the abysmally moronic boyfriend , as was the case in the above-mentioned The Bachelor . Probably the film's strongest points are the complexity and diversity of the characters , as well as the originality of some of them ( Leroy , for the most part ) , and the interactions between them . The conflict is curiously explored as Brad Pitt and Julia Roberts , the two huge names associated with the film , are separated for most of the movie , but kept tied together with the fascinating character of Leroy , who never seems to surprise us . While the premise is not very interestingly presented , the film itself attempts to solve it in interesting and fun ways , leaving us with the feeling that we didn't just watch the exact same romantic comedy that has been released five or ten times a year for as long as many of us can remember . Pitt plays a character that doesn't fit very well with his iconography , and the film has it's share of tactical flaws , but as a whole it meets its lofty expectations .
Very Bruckheimer-esque ?	John Grisham is famous for constructing tight , fascinating and tense legal thrillers , and Runaway Jury is really no exception , but unfortunately it doesn't really seem to take itself very seriously , which is bad for a movie that falls in a subgenre that should really be taken seriously . The movie's basic idea is to take a high-profile court case involving a potentially massive settlement and transfer the suspense from the prosecution / defense and place it largely on the formation and manipulation of the jury itself . Gene Hackman plays a powerful behind-the-scenes sort of jury-selection officer who is paid by the gun company , the defendant , to select the jury that is most likely to provide a favorable verdict ? hence the popular quote , ' I was under the impression we had already purchased a verdict . ' The movie focuses entirely on the corruption and injustices of the justice system , presenting the jury as a manipulated mob of people chosen for their similar characteristics that even they don't know that they have ( or at least don't know that they're the reason they were selected for the case ) . Some of the best moments in the movie are the quick editing and fast dialogue during the jury selection process , as Hackman's character establishes his confidence , experience , and knowledge . At this point in the movie , you almost wish he were a good guy just because he's so good at what he does . The novel on which the movie is based was about a case against big tobacco , the movie uses a case against a gun company to add a sense of immediacy and a more direct , violent death . The film starts out with a man going on a shooting rampage in the middle of a business office , shooting and killing anyone who crosses his path . The widow of one of the victim's files a lawsuit against the gun corporation that provided that weapon , and the corporation responds by hiring Rakin Fitch ( Hackman ) to root out a jury that would swing the verdict in their favor . John Cusack delivers a great performance as the guy on the inside , so to speak , in that he and a woman with whom he is working are doing a little jury swinging of their own . Thus enters the eyebrow-raising portion of the film . Cusack plays Nick Easter , a man who manipulates Fitch the entire time that Fitch thinks he's manipulating him and the rest of the potential jurors . He is teamed up with a woman named Marlee , and some of the tricks that they pull in order to create the illusion that they have complete control over the jury , not Fitch , are hugely impressive , but many if not most are at least as unlikely . I particularly liked the ' Are you feeling patriotic ' trick , but there were others , such as the one where they got one woman kicked out for having alcohol in the jury room , that just worked out too conveniently for them . He acts hungover and gets her to offer him a bottle the second that a bailiff walks in the room . Please . ( spoilers ) Aside from that , however , the movie moves along remarkably well and never drags . There is the rather pressing problem that the laws in America , I think , are pretty clear that the manufacturer of a firearm cannot be held accountable for what people do with their products ( every major city in the country would be so buried in legal battles against the gun industry that there would be neither time nor lawyers for anything else ) , so I think the point of the movie is more to punish them for trying to buy the verdict than for any initial wrongdoing . Unfortunately , that takes away a lot of the satisfaction from the final verdict , or at least renders the change from tobacco to guns rather meaningless , since the trial is about corruption in the legal system , not wrongdoing by the industry in question . The tensest parts of the movie are when Fitch catches on to what's happening with his jury , and his subsequent inability to do anything about it , since so many people are watching this high-profile case and you can't exactly change the entire jury right in the middle of the trial . The movie trips a little bit when it tries to pass on a message about gun violence , because that's really not what kind of movie this is . Runaway Jury is meant to entertain , not necessarily to deliver a message about gun violence , especially since it takes place in a legal world that is so picture perfect ( even in it's corruption ) that it could really only exist in a John Grisham movie . Besides , Michael Moore recently eliminated any need for a fictional film to tackle the issue of gun control . Runaway Jury went a little too far , tackling subject matter more serious than itself when it took on gun control . It should have just kept to its area of expertise ? jury control .
" Let's start building some hurting bombs ! "	Another Rocky movie is definitely a long shot , to say the least . Stallone came out with a new Rocky movie and a new Rambo movie pretty close to each other , so it's pretty easy to assume that he's having career trouble and desperate for a couple of new hits . I haven't seen the new Rambo yet , but I just watched Rocky Balboa and it was much better than I expected . I remember one scene in Rocky III where a newscaster said something like " A comeback for Balboa at age 34 is a longshot indeed , " and that was more than two decades ago ! Adrian has died of cancer and Rocky has become a restaurant owner , still loved and respected throughout his community by pretty much everyone except for the people who are immediate and stunning a$$holes to him . What was the deal with that teenage girl berating him at the bar at the beginning ? Are there really teenagers who act like that ? And why didn't the bartender swiftly boot her and her clearly underage friends out into the street where they belong ? Clearly , this was an attempt to show how times have changed , from that foul-mouthed little girl in the first movie who Rocky walked home and gave his famous pep-talk to ( and who , by the way , is now the bartender ) , and into these clownish teenagers . Sad , how the times have changed . Even sadder , the changing times don't stop at the teens . The neighborhood is falling apart , all the old places that we have come to know and love from the first five movies are all dilapidated wrecks , and Rocky takes a few reminiscent strolls through the neighborhood , remembering fond memories . The whole beginning of the movie is pretty sappy , but the movie becomes interesting ( and strikingly predictable ) when we meet the new Heavyweight Champion of the World , which himself must also be a suggestion of how times have changed for the worse . The Heavyweight champions used to be enormous fighting machines , guys of unbelievable size who are carved out of wood and represent truly formidable and intimidating opponents . So what is the deal with this Mason " The Line " Dixon ? Antonio Tarver is a real life light heavyweight fighter with a highly impressive record , but he does not for one second look like a world heavyweight champion . I knew guys on the junior varsity football team at my high school who looked more like heavyweight champions than this guy . He may be a good fighter , but he's just not a heavyweight champion , especially not a movie champion . At any rate , you know those guys who sit around those noisy TV studios talking about sports after the game ? I always thought those were some of the goofiest guys on TV ( they're like frat boys in fancy suits ) , but soon they start talking about how the undefeated Dixon has been spoon-fed all of his opponents , and that back in the old days Rocky fought much tougher , harder fights . You may remember this form of media taunting as the major catalyst that drove Rocky II , but this time around they have the technology to actually computer generate a theoretical fight between Rocky , in his prime , and Dixon . Rocky scores a pretty decisive win and Dixon , of course , is unimpressed . Soon begins Dixon's expected taunts and demands to fight Rocky , who is sort of dragged into the whole thing unwillingly . There is also the issue of his son , who has grown into an older version of the disrespectful little punk that he was in part 5 . He has some uppity office job and is striving for respect among his colleagues and superiors , but can't ever seem to get it because of who his father is . Needless to say , he's not so enthusiastic about this new fight with Dixon , because no one takes Rocky even the tiniest bit seriously in the run-up to the fight . Paulie is still around and still his old , lovable self . At one point he walks into Rocky's restaurant and Marie ( the little girl from the first movie who was a bartender in this one until she lost her job and started working for Rocky ) asked him if he has a reservation , and he responds , " Do I look like a freakin ' Indian ? " At least some things haven't changed ! Despite Mason Dixon never for a second looking like a professional boxer , they did do a good job of making him an arrogant , immediately dislikable character . He's an egotistic , pompous jerkoff , and when juxtaposed with Rocky's ever-present charm , it's impossible not to know how the movie is going to end . Still , I won't give it away . The important thing is that this is a respectable addition to the Rocky saga , and I think a successful and satisfactory conclusion to the series . Rocky is clearly getting to be an old man by now , but they do a good job of making us believe that he still has enough left in him for one more fight . And best of all , the very last line in the movie proves that he has still done it for all the right reasons ?
A dark look at the subconscious mind of the typical American male .	American Psycho seems to be concerned with what it is that Americans really think about , and puts forth a rather disturbing assertion . This movie reminds me of an old video I saw of Jim Carrey back when he was a stand-up comedian . I think this was even before his Saturday Night Live days . He was talking about how we all have these weird , violent urges many times a day , but luckily we all have that voice of reason in our heads that tells us not to act on these urges ( ' Ah-ah-ah , turning the car into oncoming traffic ? is counterproductive ! ! ' ) . Christian Bale's Patrick Bateman is a guy who has those normal urges , just like any normal American , but lacks the voice of reason . He acts on his urges , and basically becomes what any of us would become if we did the same thing . Sure , I'm kind of going out on a limb to say that any normal American would turn into the murderous monster that Patrick Bateman is , but there is definitely an element of truth to that . If everyone acted on their urges , the world would be a nightmarish place . The movie starts out by introducing Bateman as a typical young businessman in the tradition of the guys in Boiler Room . Completely obsessed with money , superficiality , a dizzying array of skin creams and ointments , reservations at the trendiest restaurants in town , the goofy names for the colors of his business cards , etc . You know , things that normal people don't care about . But of course , Patrick Bateman is not a normal guy . These are all things that reflect the heavy undercurrent of sexual symbolism . This film is packed with references to the insecurity of the typical male about his sexuality , and Bateman acts all of these things out in every way from the kind of business card that he has to the kinds of people that he kills and how he kills them . Not a pretty idea , but the film definitely has something to say . This is not just some frivolous exercise in sex and violence and murder and rape , the movie has a message to deliver and it knows how to get some attention . American Beauty had a million things to say , not the least of which had to do with modern American society's obsession with superficiality and skin-deep beauty . American Psycho has some similar things to say , most of them much darker than anything in American Beauty ( which had some pretty dark stuff in it ! ) , but not delivered in quite the same stunningly skilled and complex package . American Psycho is a masculine film about American males and directed by a woman , which is just as well because a male director may have been a little insecure about portraying a deeper level of male consciousness in such a brutally accurate manner .
That's it , I'm getting a job at a hotel . . .	Directed by Alfonso Cuaron's lesser known brother , Carlos , Wedding Night reveals a shared interest in sex and comedy between the two brothers , although with slightly less tragedy than Alfonso tends to portray . While Alfonso mixes sex and tragedy and gets comedy as a result , Carlos goes straight for sex and comedy in this diminutive short film which , at a tiny four or five minutes long , is surprisingly effective at telling a story . A short , short story , but an entertaining one and a funny one . I haven't seen any of Carlos Cuaron's other work , but he shows a genuine skill and storytelling ability in this short comedy .
Much better than expected !	As it is described in the collection in which it now appears , The Man Who Cheated Himself is definitely a classic piece of textbook film noir . I am embarrassed to say that I had never heard of Lee Cobb until I saw him in 12 Angry Men a couple months ago . He was an astonishingly busy actor between the 1930s and 1970s , appearing in more than 100 films and television shows . The video quality of the copy that I saw was not the best , the picture was unclear and scratched and the sound was like an old vinyl record , but I watched the movie expecting to see a stunningly bad old movie , given that I bought it in a collection of something like 15 movies , most of which seem to have been long since forgotten . I will admit that I didn't feel a lot of chemistry between Cobb's police chief Cullen and Lois Frazer , Jane Wyatt's femme fatale , but I was willing to accept it as a catalyst to propel the plot and their fates further down the tubes . There is a definite effort to generate Hitchcockian suspense during the middle portion of the film as their cover story grows thinner and thinner . I have read some reviewers that disagree , but I think that this part of the film is done particularly well , given that it is so realistic . The process is complicated by the fact that the other lead investigator on the murder is Cullen's younger brother , who grows continually closer and closer to the truth , which he desperately doesn't want to be true , while Cobb's Cullen has more and more often to talk down to him as though he's a rookie , telling him he is naïve and inexperienced when , in fact , he is doing everything right . ( spoilers ) The chase sequence at Fort Point at the base of the Golden Gate Bridge is the best part of the film , although for some reason it seems like it is dragged out a bit , as if they wanted to get as much out of their access to the site as possible , yet the scene was barely five minutes long . I have visited Fort Point many times when I was a kid and lived in the Bay Area , and I seem to remember a rather eccentric portrayal of it in Bicentennial Man , but this is clearly a much more interesting and successful use of it in a film , at least until Kim Novak threw herself into the Bay here in 1958 . The very end of The Man Who Cheated Himself is a little confusing to me . The plot is clear and the ending is perfect , although I can't understand the half smile on Cullen's ( Cobb's ) face as he sees Lois walk by with her new lawyer boyfriend , whom she is entrusting to ensure her freedom almost as a trade for her love , as Cullen is led away to his miserable fate . Maybe he simply can't believe what has happened . The movie has a definite B-movie feel ( not the least reason for which is Wyatt's uninspired performance ) but it is well written and otherwise well made .
Hey , at least the series isn't sinking as precipitously as the Hellraiser series . Just kidding . This movie rocked . Seriously . You're hearing this from a dedicated Halloween fan . Resurrection deserves to be w	I read another reviewer's comments about Halloween : Resurrection , and one of the things that he said in his review is that hardcore Halloween fans will be disappointed . On the contrary , I think that hardcore Halloween fans , a brilliant group of movie buffs with whom I proudly associate myself , are among the few that will really be satisfied . The Halloween that John Carpenter released in 1978 is among the most well known horror films ever created , which is why people who are not so familiar with the series ( and the fact that the original will never be topped or even matched ) are the ones that will expect a horror movie experience of some incredible mangnitude , and when they realize that no sequel can never accomplish that , they'll walk away shaking their head in disillusionment . I , on the other hand , with the benefit of a very in-depth understanding of the Halloween series as a whole , realize that any sequel to a film as good as the original Halloween is made for entertainment purposes only , and for the most part , this kind of entertainment doesn't include many real scares . If nothing else , I enjoyed this movie just because of the film score , which remains one of the best and most powerful horror film scores ever recorded . Granted , the movie trips over itself almost immediately . It contains a scene very early in the film which is so ludicrous that it threatens to set the stage for an hour and a half of no-brain horror , but luckily the movie is able to turn itself around . There is a stereotypical scene in horror movie lore , and I don't know if it really has a name yet , but this is how it goes . There is some goofy and contrived conversation that leads to one person being in a high-risk room ( this is a horror movie term ) alone , while the other person ( who SHOULD have been there at the time ) lags behind doing something stupid ( in this case , eating a candy bar from the vending machine ) . The moron finally catches up ( I'll give a spoiler warning here , even though I'm only about to spoil a scene within the first ten minutes of the film ) , and notices that a running dryer is making a suspicious amount of noise . He walks up and finds a severed head inside the dryer . The problem here is that we know there's a head in the dryer as soon as the guard slows down and looks at it , but the dryer is drying a load of WHITES and there's not a DROP of blood on a single garment . I hope I'm not the only one picking up on the discrepancy here . I've gotten a quarter of an inch cut on the top of my head ( from a water-skiing incident that I won't get into ) that bled so much that it covered my face and chest and completely soaked my swimming shorts ( the lesson I learned that day is that head wounds bleed a LOT ) , so I ASSUME that a SEVERED HEAD would bleed at LEAST as much . Okay , let's overlook the bleeding head thing ( this is the kind of thing that comes up when you're analyzing a horror movie , so hear me out here ) , you still have to deal with the fact that , while the guard nervously creeps up to the drying machine that contains not a single solitary drop of blood , he evidently didn't notice the headless body of the other guard , which was so close to him when he was peering into the dryer that he tripped over it when he stumbled backwards in shock . Was this guy so curious about what was in the dryer that he stepped right over his friend's headless body ? Before you answer that , let me just tell you that the rest of the movie doesn't operate at QUITE that level of sheer stupidity , so feel free to check it out . I was a little dismayed at first when I realized that Busta Rhymes was in the film , if only because he so viciously mutilated an Ozzy Osbourne song a few years ago , but he proves me to be an idiot by delivering an excellent performance as one of the heroes of the film . I'm a die-hard Ozzy fan , but even after Busta ruined one of Ozzy's songs , I am willing to forgive him after seeing his performance in this film . One of the things that I liked about this movie , that I should have seen coming given the sheer magnitude of horror films that I've watched ( REAL spoiler warning ) is that Michael Myers was not brought back to life by some goofy Evil-Can't-Be-Killed crap , but by the simple fact that he disguised someone else as himself in the previous film , and so Laurie Strode decapitated someone who she thought was Michael Myers , but was really some poor guy with a crushed larynx and three kids . At this point , by the way , I'd like to point out that if you're revolted by the fact that a guy withthree kids getting killed is a RELIEF , you may not enjoy the Halloween films . I'm still a little confused by the fact that Laurie gets stabbed and apparently killed ( I'd like to reiterate my spoiler warning here ) . I assume that her ' death ' ( see my X2 review if you think I'm referring to an actual death here ) is just another sign that yet ANOTHER Halloween film is inevitable , but I was expecting her to jump out at some crucial moment when some helpless teenager was about to get killed . Oddly enough , I think the internet portion of the film was remarkably effective , since I've seen total trash like Dee Snider's Strangeland , and realize how easily this kind of thing can be totally screwed up . The movie contains the obligatory element of romance , and like almost not a single other film that I've ever seen , the two characters involved in romance never meet each other . For that alone the movie deserves some commendation . There is a little bit of a Can't Hardly Wait element as two geeky freshman go to a party supposedly designated for people older and cooler than them , and they wind up heroes without forcing us to suffer through any cheesy romance scenes beyond the heroine thanking her hero on television . When was the last time the hero and heroine made contact only through television ? Am I wrong to think that the movie deserves to be rewarded for at least trying something new ? I am not a fan of endless horror movie sequels . I have yet to see Jason X , but having seen all 47 or so sequels of Friday the 13th , I know that unless they come up with something as fresh and entertaining as Halloween : Resurrection , the series has long since passed away . I am also , I might mention , not at ALL a fan of rap musicians covering classic rock songs , but even though Busta Rhymes did that and screwed it up just as badly as they all do , I really enjoyed Resurrection , as well as his individual performance in it . It is Halloween 8 , a sequel number that holds no distinction other than the fact that it is the only one in years worth watching that goes beyond being worth watching just because you're a fan and are obligated to see them all . This sequel undoubtedly stands above the rest , I can only hope that it sets a trend .
Never underestimate the importance of release forms ! !	Speaking of time travel , there is an interesting paradox that seems to surround movies that involve time travel ( The Time Machine ( namely the remake ) , Timeline , Time Cop ( for obvious reasons , admittedly ) , etc ) , in that no one seems to like them but they keep getting made . Well , maybe no one likes them but me . I can't get enough . I think that the fact that their popularity seems to exist only among filmmakers ( and me ) , and not the general public , is more a symptom of sci-fi in general . Science fiction is one of the two easiest genres to be badly screwed up ( the other , needless to say , being horror ) , with a massive quantity of awful movies being made for every one good one that comes along , and a massive number of good ones for every great one . So do the math . The great movies are not common . I would say that one of the main reasons that these movies are generally not too well accepted , especially science fiction ones involving time travel , is that any amount of time travel involves a certain perspective on the world ( pertaining to time travel in the past ) , while time travel into the future involves a certain imagination of what the future will look like , and that vision is not likely to be very similar to your own vision of the future . Hence the common dislike . I , on the other hand , get a huge kick out of seeing other people's imagination about what the future will hold , which is why I tend to enjoy time travel films so much . There are exceptions , however , such as the fact that the people who made the 2002 version of The Time Machine seem to have a massive misunderstanding of the mechanics of evolution ( both of organic life as well as the evolution of the language spoken by the creatures 800 , 000 years in the future ) , but for the most part , I think time travel movies are not assertions of what the future will look like , but a more direct approach to the very basic function that all movies are meant to create ? escapism . What better way to escape the routine of daily life than by going to a completely different time ? That being said , I'd like to take this opportunity to defend Timeline , because scanning through the other reviews on the IMDb is enough to reveal that there are a lot of people out there who didn't appreciate it as much as I did . Roger Ebert was certainly less than impressed . Okay , so I could have done without Paul Walker , who hasn't been in a good movie since Pleasantville ( I should say whose ONLY good movie was Pleasantville ) , but the overall premise and execution of the film I found to be tons of fun . There is a lot of talk about nothing interesting being done with the premise , and while I can't say that I completely disagree , it also doesn't completely bring the movie down . True , there are millions of possibilities that the movie could have explored , and it only explored maybe five of them , but they were still fun . For example , the actual experience of traveling through time ( which I was very much looking forward to , given the fact that the travelers have to be broken down to a molecular level ) is conveyed with nothing more than a series of underwater shots and a bunch of dissolves , very disappointing . Then there is the fact that so much could have been added had someone from the 14th Century been brought back to the present time , which would have been more interesting since they would not have had any idea what was going on , unlike the scientists . But I guess that was already done in Kate & Leopold , another movie that I genuinely enjoyed but that received lukewarm reviews . There was a very interesting event involving someone that snuck a hand grenade back into the 14th Century ( perhaps knowing that they were going to arrive right in the middle of a war ) , only to zap himself back in time after pulling the pin , just in time to destroy the machine that sent everyone back . This , unfortunately , is where the movie really starts to fall apart . We're told at the beginning that this machine has been able to fax actual , 3-dimensional objects from this machine to an ' identical ' one in New York City . The question that immediately arises , then , is why the hell don't they go to that machine to get the scientists back instead of furiously trying to repair the exploded one ? ( spoilers ) Then , of course , you have the ' villain ' who ultimately refuses to allow even an effort to get the scientists back , since they only have the machine back to 81 % performance when they begin to run out of time . Simply having the scientists sign release forms upon their departure would have solved that problem right away . They already knew that they sometimes had problems getting people back in the same condition in which they left , you would think that it would have been standard procedure . There is , of course , the question of ethics , but this guy was clearly more concerned about their resulting deformities ' ruining us . ' It was also pretty clever how they introduced a deadline into a movie involving time travel , by the way . There is nothing more frustrating than the characters rushing to get something done in a movie in which they can simply travel back further and have more time . This was one of the only things that bothered me a little bit about the Back to the Future movies , how Doc is always rushing around saying , ' Damn ! I'm late ! ' But I guess it's kind of like when you were a kid playing Nintendo and you used to get mad at the video game even though you had the Game Genie and had infinite lives . Come on , you had the Game Genie , didn't you ? ? Anyway , in order to travel back in time in Timeline , they open up a wormhole , I guess in the space-time continuum or something , which only stays open for a certain length of time before closing again , and the people have to come back through the same wormhole that they left in . Hence the deadline and the opportunity to include one of those digital clocks counting down the time that Roger Ebert loves so much . Now , while the movie ignores tons of possibilities that could have been explored with the concept of time travel , I really liked the idea of the scientists themselves going back and thoroughly altering history , one of those things that mostly all time travel movies and books ( even The Simpsons ) before revel as the ultimate thing NOT to do when traveling through time , especially into the past . Not so here , the professor , first of all , is able to send a message back to the future in leaving a note and his glasses to be found 600 years later so that his contemporaries will know that he's in the past . They travel back and arrive right in the middle of a war , hence the widespread and justified complaints that the movies simply uses time travel as an excuse to stage some elaborate battle scenes . I can hardly argue with that , but due to my own undying love of time travel in the movies , I found much more beyond that to enjoy . It could have done so much more , but the entertainment value is hardly sacrificed .
Models and Boy Scouts advised to avoid riding subways alone after 2am ?	It is one of my unwritten principles about film criticism never to say things like " Such-and - such movie could only have come from the mind of so-and-so . " It's a self-congratulatory phrase that sell-out critics ( film critics and books critics alike ) use in efforts to get their names on movie or book covers , and having been a fan of writers like Clive Barker and Stephen King since I was about 11 years old , I've heard it more than enough times for it to have become an empty cliché in my mind . Nevertheless , The Midnight Meat Train , my friends , could only have come from the mind of Clive Barker . Sorry about that . It has been probably something like 15 years since I read Barker's Books of Blood , and pretty much the only thing I remembered very clearly from The Midnight Meat Train were the creatures on the train and that thing with the tongue at the end of the story . That's an image that won't leave your mind easily ! I also recommend reading " The Skins of the Fathers " and " The Body Politic , " the latter of which was featured in the disappointing film Quicksilver Highway . Bradley Cooper stars as Leon , young photographer desperate to earn the recognition of a local famous artist named Susan Hoff . Unfortunately , his main technique is the gigantic cliché of trying to " capture the city as it really is , " which has to be the most uninteresting goal imaginable for any photographer . Maybe he doesn't understand for how many decades that exact same thing has been pursued by countless tens of thousands of photographers . As is to be expected , Susan is unimpressed and wants something more , so Leon soon finds himself perusing the late-night subways trying to catch the perfect stills of violent crimes in progress . He discovers a man who has a habit of riding the last train past the last stop and butchering the remaining subway inhabitants like cattle , and Leon becomes obsessed with getting to the bottom of the crimes , only to discover that this particular series of murders has a history that can be traced back well over a century . The movie is padded pretty heavily , of course , given that it's adapted from a short story , but for the most part it stays true to the original tale . Mostly , certain things are fleshed out a lot more , characters are added , and other side elements are added completely , but the disturbing heart of the story is here . We could easily have done without Leon's atrocious girlfriend , however . She has to be the whiniest , most self-righteous and controlling woman that I've seen in a movie in years . They are meant to be getting married soon , and when Leon photographs an attempted gang-rape in progress and then the victim later goes missing ( and the police don't believe anything is really going on ) , his girlfriend is not for one second supportive or interested or even concerned , she simply instructs him not to take night photography anymore . She informs him that he is to turn in his photos to the police and move on . She also has an emotional scene in the second half of the movie that is such a preposterously bad piece of acting that it made me want to throw myself in front of a meat train ! As a horror movie it works surprisingly well . There is at least one shot that I've never seen done in any horror movie , and I've been a pretty avid horror fan for nearly two decades . Unfortunately , there are also more than a few scenes that simply make no sense whatsoever . Mahogany , the " butcher " ( played by Vinnie Jones ) has bloody gastric problems that are never really quite explained , although the more distracting aberration is his bizarre outbreak of marble-sized moles or warts that covers his chest , which he routinely cuts off with a scalpel and collects in jars in his medicine cabinet . It's a satisfactorily horrible affliction , to be sure , but it would have been nice if it hadn't just been thrown in randomly for effect . I was also a little confused by the Asian hottie that gets assaulted near the beginning of the movie . She nearly gets gang-raped by a group of gangsters , is barely saved , and proceeds to get on the subway alone anyway . It was weird enough that she was riding the subway home alone in the middle of the night anyway ( she's a MODEL , by the way ) , but man , she sure made a quick recovery from the attack ! Later , a group of kids are walking through the subway selling fund-raiser candy bars at 2am . I hope they get a dedication merit badge for that ! The movie is shot in a properly metallic blue that permeates just about every shot of the movie , never letting you forget that you're looking at a series of horror movie sets , but this is still leaps and bounds better than the vast majority of horror movies being heaved into theaters these days . It has buckets and buckets of gore and so will definitely satisfy the gore-hounds , but it has an interesting story which prevents it from coming off as a stupid , mindless orgy of violence , like Eli Roth's head-smackingly stupid film Hostel . The thing that I have always appreciated about Clive Barker's stories ( and Stephen King's ) is that the better ones are not just scary movies , they have something of what Freud called the " uncanny . " They tell stories of familiar things , familiar objects , but cast them in a light and place them in surroundings that make them off-putting on a level that lesser horror films can't even begin to aspire to . So even when the CGI blood effects are laughably bad , the arc of the story is taking us somewhere so different than what we're used to that it's pretty easy to overlook . For horror fans , this is a definite must-see .
Pretty interesting look behind the scenes of the Flight of the Phoenix remake .	The first thing that really struck me about this documentary was how much of an , ah , emotional man John Moore is . There are some great looks behind the scenes of the making of the movie , which are almost always overshadowed by the occasional tempter tantrums the John Moore throws . Granted , he's in the middle of making a multi-million dollar movie on the other side of the planet and in the middle of the desert , but it really seemed to me like he was the only person getting upset all the time . There is a funny scene where Giovanni Ribisi is taken away from the set to give an interview for Entertainment Tonight or something , and he has to introduce himself four or five times for all of the different channels that will be playing the interview . Most of the main actors give interviews , impromptu or not , in this documentary , and I especially like that it spends very little time showing footage from the final film , concentrating more on footage taken of the actual shooting of the movie , not the results of it , and that is how good supplemental documentaries are made . And like most documentaries included with the DVDs of less than great movies , this one actually made me like the movie more , because it gives insights not only into the intentions of the movie but the experiences of the cast and crew in making it , which always helps me identify . Not bad .
A surprise classic !	I just read a review of Can't Hardly Wait on the IMDb by a user who mentioned that he has walked by the movie in his local video store countless times before finally renting it . Personally , I saw it countless times when it was released because I worked at a video store at the time , but it is probably the one movie that I have been " meaning " to write a review about since I started writing reviews on the IMDb nearly ten years ago . The teen comedies , especially the ones that use losing virginity as major plot devices , are an intolerable lot almost without exception . This one , however , is definitely an exception . Everything is blown out of proportion from what high school is really like ( and I went to a ridiculously rich high school , so I know what it's like to party in multi-million dollar mansions while the parents ( someone else's , of course ) are away ) , but it's blown out of proportion in all the right ways . It's hard to pinpoint what it is that makes this movie work while so many other movies like it fail completely , because it does have a lot of the same flaws . Granted , I should be a little careful , because I haven't seen the movie in at least six years and it's dangerous to review a movie I haven't seen for that long ( the movies that I thought were cool when I was in high school are now sometimes shockingly bad ) , but while this is certainly not a family movie or a critic's movie , for its target audience it can definitely serve as some pretty good fun . It's true that Can't Hardly Wait doesn't remotely approach the honesty and importance of the classic high school films , like Say Anything or The Breakfast Club , and it's also true that most of the characters ( almost all , in fact ) are comic caricatures of the traditional high school types , but the movie never pretends to be anything more than that . I think it understands that it's a joke , and so it just has fun with itself , and with the right state of mind we can have a blast along with it . Seth Green is the white kid who thinks he's black , and he pulls off the accent and the behavior remarkably well . So well , in fact , that for a while I thought he might be typecast like Sean Penn was for a while by Fast Times ( another classic ) and Keanu Reeves was by Bill & Ted ( Keanu had a much harder time shaking that image , but he has definitely done it by now . Peter Facinelli is good as Mike Dexter ( his most memorable role before or since ) , the cool kid with the hot girlfriend who has an agreement with his friends to break up with their high school girlfriends so they can graduate to college women . Unfortunately , he's the only one who goes through with it , and thus enters poor Jennifer Love Hewitt , who mopes and moans through most of her role , one of the only boring and totally uninteresting parts of the movie . Even her goofy future-sorority-girl girlfriends are more entertaining . Then again , Hewitt's character , as it is , doesn't belong in this movie , she belongs in a movie that takes itself a little more seriously , and even then she should be played by someone else . But the real highlight is Charlie Korsmo as William Lichter , the geeky kid trying desperately with his Star Wars buddies to get into a cool party and sabotage it . While his buddies wait on the roof acting out their favorite Star Wars scenes , William proceeds to get drunk and ultimately give us the best scene in the movie , a heroic live performance of Guns N ' Roses ' Paradise City in front of the whole party , who finally begin to see him in a new light . Strangely , Korsmo hasn't acted since this movie . There is another character named Denise Fleming who spends most of the movie locked in a bathroom with Kenny Fisher ( Seth Green ) , with whom she used to be close friends until he became , as they say , too cool for her . Their conversation is the most realistic and heartwarming thing in the movie , it's always been confusing to me why the writers locked her in a bathroom for the whole movie . Probably to give her and Kenny enough time to have their heart-to-heart chat , " etc . " It's easy to badmouth a movie like this . It has many of the stereotypes of your typical high school comedy , and the situations and the structure that the writers have created are often ludicrous in the extreme . The movie's target audience may not be as big as the truly successful coming of age films , but the target audience is richly rewarded with this movie . It's about 100 times better than American Pie , for example . Unlike that movie , there are no cringe-inducing scenes , no stomach-turning toilet humor , and no conspicuously shaped holes in any apple pies . This movie is just good fun !
It's too bad that Sean Connery foresaw the succession of awful movies that were to eventually follow , because he was by far the best James Bond ever .	Dr . No is the film that introduced the movie world to James Bond , the world's most famous ' secret ' agent . This is where we first see most of the things that have come to be traditional in 007 movies , such as Bond's indestructibility , his blatant but perpetually uneventful flirtatious exchanges with Moneypenny , and the fact that he always gets the girl , or , as is often the case , girls . What we don't see here are the fast paced opening sequence ( although there is a skeletal version that can be found here ) or many of the high tech gadgets that are 98 % of the reason that Pierce Brosnan is able to pull off the role . Disagree ? Just imagine Pierce trying to be James Bond without a brand new remote control BMW or some cool x-ray glasses . Pierce is the flashy version of the calm , collected James Bond that Sean Connery portrayed . What Dr . No lacked in sheer technological paraphernalia it more than made up for with it's character development and it's quality story . Dr . No himself is built up to be the real star of the film . We find out that people are more willing to risk substantial personal injury rather than cross him , and we know so much about him far before we ever see him that he develops a mysterious aura . He is not exactly an imaginative villain , but this suspensefully slow introduction makes him very effective ( similar to the eventual introduction of Harry Lime in The Third Man , a method that prompted Orson Welles to call his part as Lime a ' true star role ' ) . While this is very effective in developing his character , his Wizard-of-Oz-like appearance in that strange room at the end of the pier was a little more on the clumsy side . But hey , he's the proud owner of the biggest baddest goldfish on the planet , so who's to argue with him ? It's true that Dr . No is not the same hard core and high tech action film that James Bond has come to be known as in the latest films , but it still is not afraid to clearly broadcast its commercial intentions . While the more recent Bond films are little more than entertaining BMW commercials , this one heavily advertises vodka ? I guess BMWs weren't cool enough back in 1962 . In one particular scene , Bond picks up a half empty ( or half full ? ) bottle of Smirnoff vodka , smells it , suspecting poison , and then opens a drawer and pulls out fresh bottle of Smirnoff vodka . For someone with such an important job and who has so many enemies who would love to catch him a little off guard and kill him , James Bond sure drinks a lot . Of course , being the first Bond film , Dr . No had a lot of influence on the Austin Powers films , and this is something that is fun to watch for in the old 007 movies . We see the way Dr . No is dressed , in a prototypical outfit later adopted for Dr . Evil ( the origins of that name can be found here as well ) , you have the goofy plastic radiation suits at the end of the film , and there are also a few pieces of dialogue that the first Austin Powers film has rendered completely hilarious ( ' I'm sure the west would welcome a scientist of your ? caliber ? ' ) . Interestingly enough , Dr . No seems to have borrowed from previous films as well , but not with such great success . The control room at the end of the film is strangely similar to the great machines from Metropolis , which is pretty weak as far as set design . Sure , sets in 1962 weren't as spectacular as many are today , but Metropolis ' sets were just as good as those seen in Dr . No , and Metropolis was filmed in 1926 . ( spoilers ) Bond's relationship with Honey Ryder - played by the stunningly beautiful Ursula Andress , the most beautiful Bond girl ever , but with by far the ugliest name - is not very realistic ( he meets some girl on the beach who travels the world collecting shells and they are initially forced to team up , after which they gradually fall in love ) . But despite this , she added a great deal to the rest of the film , and she also established the tradition of the Bond girl . The day for night photography was not convincing at all , and the film even had some traces of racism that were very disturbing . For example , just after having been shot at on the beach , and the three of them are preparing to leave , Bond tells Quarrel , the simple-minded black man , to ' Fetch my shoes . ' Not only that , but this poor guy is dressed in a bright red shirt while they're trying to hide in the jungle , and needless to say , he dies a horrible death early in the film . It's a good thing that this racism didn't become a Bond film tradition . Dr . No is the film that started it all in the seemingly endless 007 film series , and is therefore required viewing for any James Bond fan . The film is interesting and entertaining , despite its many shortcomings , and is also worth watching because of the many things that are now amusing but were not originally meant to be . The Austin Powers stuff , of course , is funny to see , but there are also more subtle things , like Sean Connery's line , ' There are no such things as dragons . ' Who would have thought that this guy would go on to provide the voice for a digitally created dragon in a mediocre fantasy film in 1996 ? If you are into fairly well developed action films , this one shouldn't be missed .
It begins . . .	The Phantom Menace is one of those movies that I have been meaning to review since I first saw it on opening day years and years ago . I have a little book where I make notes of movies I would like to review , and when I flipped back to the page for Episode I , I noticed that the last time I jotted down a couple of points about this movie was December 26 , 2002 . Odd coincidence that I should be four years later to the day that I finally sit down to review it . The first thing that really struck me after seeing it for the first time was a huge sense of surprise at how much it did not live up to my expectations . I'm hardly a Star Wars fanatic , I don't even know many character names beyond the primary three or four , but I know the three original films and I understand how brilliant they are . I think that what went wrong was a combination of almost unprecedented expectation , too much CGI capability , and too much money . Lucas , who loathed studios in his earlier days as a filmmaker , now laments the fact that he has nearly become a studio himself . He funded Episode I out of his own pocket , and I think that now that he has the ability to really do anything he wants ( since he has unlimited funding and it's all his own anyway , so he makes all of the rules with virtually no limitations ) , we get for the first time a really look at his strengths and weaknesses . I'm not going to go into the weaknesses too much because there are far more strengths than weaknesses , and I suppose I should point out at this point that The Phantom Menace is a very strong Star Wars movie , it's just not what it could have and should have been . It will take audiences time to accept additions like a digital Yoda , Samuel L . Jackson , and Jar Jar Binks to such a well known saga as the Star Wars films , and I think that things like that can account for some of the bad reactions that the movie received . On the other hand , the film really emphasizes how powerful Lucas ' visual imagination is , which could also be seen in the first three films . His ability to dream up imaginary worlds and creatures and societies is as astonishing as it ever has been , and the general , overall badassedness ( and the names ! ) of characters like Qui Gon Jin and Darth Maul is astonishing . The battle between Obi Wan , Qui Gon Jin , and Darth Maul I think is one of the best fight scenes in the entire series up to this point . Consider the way that Qui Gon , when they are fighting through that hallway where they're separated periodically by force fields , kneels and meditates when they're separated , while Darth Maul paces back and forth like a caged tiger . And of course the pod-racing scene was phenomenal ! And the look of the film is beautiful from beginning to end . Indeed , during the slow parts , if you find yourself drifting away from the complexities of the plot being unfolded through diplomatic dialogue a little too thick to handle , you can entertain yourself just by gazing at the stunning surroundings . Jake Lloyd handles his role well for someone so young , as does the initially questionably cast Natalie Portman , who seems far too cute for the role but pulls it off brilliantly . Liam Neeson steals every scene he is in ( and seems to belong in the film more than anyone else ) , but the casting seems to be all pretty much right on the mark . It's really unfortunate about Jar Jar though , he's just not a clever character . This is the first film that George Lucas has directed in more than 20 years ( since the original Star Wars film ) , and it's clear that he is getting the feel of it all back in this movie . As brilliant as he is , directing is not his strong point , but as we saw from Episodes II and III , in The Phantom Menace he was just getting warmed up .
You know what ? Don't tell me anything about Pretty Woman , because I don't even want to hear it .	Runaway Bride is just a good romantic comedy . Yes , the director and the two big name stars are the same as the film's 1990 counterpart , but even though the two films have striking and almost offensive similarities , Runaway Bride has a good enough story that I refuse to believe that it relied on the success of its predecessor . Julia Roberts is Maggie Carpenter , a hardware store owner ( a laughable profession surpassed only by Denise Richards as a nuclear weapons specialist in The World Is Not Enough . Yeah RIGHT ! ) , and Richard Gere is a newspaper columnist ( Ike Graham ) who has been fired for printing a supposedly false column about a woman who consistently runs out on her marriages . When he travels to the tiny town where she lives to learn more about her life and possibly get his job back , he finds that there is more to her than just a newspaper column . By the end of the film , there is such a huge media hype about Maggie's wedding that it's a wonder that Ike wasn't honored for his ' false ' column about her . Joan Cusack has never looked and acted better than she did in this movie , delivering a wonderful nasally performance that was strangely heartwarming . Runaway Bride had all kinds of wonderful scenes . I particularly liked the wedding rehearsal scene . The look on Christopher Meloni's face was priceless ! There were so many good things about this film that I am able to overlook the superficial look of unoriginality . If you just look past the director and the two big names , the story itself is not at all like any other film . There will , of course , be the inevitable cynical comparisons to Pretty Woman , and these complaints are understandable , but people who condemn Runaway Bride as a rip-off of Pretty Woman or some sort of re-make are simply not looking at the film , but only at the names on the bill . This is a very good romantic comedy , and it should not be missed simply because of a superficial comparison to Pretty Woman .
A worthy sequel .	( spoilers ) Ace Ventura : When Nature Calls is unmistakably a childish movie , but so is the first Ace Ventura , so what did you expect ? The opening sequence involving a raccoon suspended from a wire high up in the mountains ( in an amusing parody of Cliffhanger ) is a little too cheesy even by Ventura standards at some points , but the movie as a whole is a very satisfying comedy . Ace commits himself to an Ashram after losing the raccoon , unable to bear the emotional turmoil of allowing the poor animal to fall to its death . When Fulton Greenwall shows up to ask for Ace's help in retrieving a sacred bat so that war between two African tribes can be prevented , Ace at first refuses the task , citing how sorely needed he is here at the Ashram . The monks ' wild party after he agrees to take the case was a little too childish , but it was a hilarious scene when Ace rolls the slinky down the stairs of the Ashram ( ' Of course ! Let's do all the things that YOU wanna do ? ' ) , and it was even funnier when Greenwall was trying to explain the situation to Ace on the plane ( ' I'm sorry , what were you saying ? ' ) . There are a lot of goofball antics that sink slightly below the level of Ace Ventura comedy , such as the dusting for fingerprints scene and Ace's ' meditation ' scene , but there is no shortage of laughs in the film . The hilarious scene at Ronald Kamp's party is also done in a slightly different version here , as Greenwall takes Ace to see Vincent Cadby at the consulate in Africa ( ' Funny , it didn't seem that painful when you were doing it to the horse ? ' ) . Some of the jokes are recycled , such as Ace's breathless analysis of Cadby , but even these recycled jokes are not entirely without effect . In the movie's defense , at least the jokes weren't copied to the extent that they were copied in the sequel to Austin Powers , which was far inferior to the original . Jim Carrey delivered a style of acting in the Ace Ventura films that is fairly unique to them - he never really acted this crazy in any of his later films , probably because he became so much more well-known and this kind of acting was just too silly for the quality of an actor that he later proved himself to be . There was some of what could be called over-acting in Ace Ventura : When Nature Calls , but the comedy is never compromised because of this . The Ace Ventura's are not the most classy comedies ever made , and they require the presence of at least some of your inner child in order to fully enjoy , but their comedic appeal is much higher than is common in movies like this . Watch them with an open mind , and you're sure to enjoy them .
Great detail from cast and crew .	The Making of Sands of Iwo Jima goes into great detail about who starred in the movie and who some of the main crew members were , presumably because so little on set footage exists . A surprising number of the original cast appear in interviews in this short documentary to talk about their experiences making the movie . Leonard Maltin also goes into detail about the military atmosphere at the time the movie was released , giving valuable insight into its relevance . It seems that in the late 1940s the Marine Corps itself was in danger of being eliminated , seen as unnecessary because of other organizations like the Army . In fact , one of the reasons that Wayne did the movie was to help the Marines . They were badly in need of a PR boost at the time and they certainly got it from this film , which was tremendously popular and successful . There are interesting tidbits revealed by one of the men who appeared in the film about John Wayne's acting , such as the way he always hesitates slightly when he's making so he can get himself four or five feet of film . This guy turned himself into a star in more ways than just his acting skills ! His son also makes an appearance in this documentary , talking about his father and his own relations to some of the men involved with the film . We also learn in this documentary that a lot of Sands of Iwo Jima was filmed at Camp Pendleton in San Diego , the extensive beach of which was used for many of the battle scenes . There are details revealed about methods used by the special effects team to achieve the appearance of full scale battle , which is actually one of the weak parts of the film , although was great for 1949 . Some interesting facts are revealed as well , such as the fact that lots of Marines were enlisted from Camp Pendleton to appear in the film , and the original flag and three of the original six guys who erected the flag on Mt . Surabachi also appear in the film , which garnered John Wayne his first Oscar nomination . The film ultimately became sort of a recruiting film for the Marines , who evidently capitalized on the movie's popularity . One of the few things that I didn't like about this documentary was that it ended with a dramatic slow motion American flag waving in the wind and filling the whole screen . Not that I have anything against the flag , obviously , but it overemphasizes a point that is already very strongly made . There's no need to smack the viewer over the head with the patriotism that the movie and this documentary celebrate . All in all , though , this is an entertaining and informative documentary .
Quality in this series didn't rise exponentially , like the titles , but this one is still worth seeing .	Just about everyone I talk to about the Alien movies always says the same thing , that you only need to watch the first two because the Alien 3 and Alien Resurrection are both terrible . Having just watched Alien 3 again recently for the first time in probably ten years , I'm surprised that people think it is such a terrible . My theory is that since the first Alien was a groundbreaking science fiction film and the second one knocked people over backwards because many people thought it was even BETTER than the first one , there was expectation that this one would be better than them both . And when you look at the titles , it's not hard to see where that expectation came from , even beyond the unexpected rise in quality from the first to the second film . The first film was about an alien , the second film was plural , and this one is Alien Cubed , for crying out loud . The movie takes place in a distant prison outpost for what you might call the " lost cause criminals , " which results in an odd combination of rapists , murderers , child molesters and ? religion . What ? It is indeed odd that when Ripley inadvertently finds herself there , the only woman these men have seen in years , they struggle to remain composed , having sworn an oath of celibacy . This all takes place early in the movie and I was completely convinced that it was all downhill from there , but gradually I found the movie more and more interesting ( or maybe I was just in a mood to be entertained rather than to look for things to complain about , which is another mood in which I often find myself ) . After all , I've never been to prison and I do not adhere to any particular religion , so I'm willing to grant that this is just beyond my understanding . It is , after all , a moving explanation that the men have been able to escape temptation at this outpost and look to spiritual means as sort of a way to cleanse themselves of their sins and prevent themselves from committing any more . Once on the island , Ripley is made to shave her head because they " have a problem with lice there , " which results in the shaved mug of Ripley which has become the iconographic image of this film . The scene where the alien first approaches her is a great scene . She's pressed against a wall , terrified , and we get a close of up her face , turned to the side toward the camera as the alien pushes its gigantic head against her cheek , which is another of the most famous images from the movie . The alien retracts without harming her , almost as though it recognizes her . To me that doesn't say " I recognize you so I'll let you go , " it says " I'm back , and I'm saving you for last . " Open your mind and you have to love this stuff ! Ripley has crash landed on Fury 161 , the prison outpost , and is the only survivor . The little girl , Newt , from the last film was killed and Ripley begins to raise eyebrows when she insists on an autopsy to ensure that there is not an alien incubating inside her . Again , she has much difficulty getting people to believe her until they start turning into greasy spots on the hull . The image of the film is completely different from the first two movies , Ripley is not only completely unarmed because she's on a prison outpost , but she doesn't even have any hair . She has nothing but the most basic human resources , which I think justifies this sequel , which could have fallen easily had it tried to take the firepower in the other direction . Not as great as the first two , obviously , but David Fincher made his feature film directing debut with something that is certainly worth seeing .
Interesting analysis .	The full first half of this supplemental documentary concentrates on what almost comes off as a conspiracy theory about the likelihood of a biological weapon being launched somewhere in the world , causing an epidemic of disease that wipes out a frightening number of the people on earth , similar to what happens in the movie . It's up for debate about how justified that concern is , because people have been talking about how we're on the verge of nuclear war for decades , and now it appears that , despite all of the terrorism in the world , the likelihood of sovereign nations knowingly destroying each other gets less every year . Or maybe I'm just not tuned in to the level of hatred that is taking place in the world today . More interesting is the second half , which talks a lot about the production of the movie , how they did the make-up for the infected victims and how they emptied the streets of London for those opening shots , as well as plenty of commentary about what the people involved thought about the subject matter . For me , the only drawback seems to be that the discussions of past pandemics and the possibility of future pandemics are conducted with such inevitable conviction that it makes them come off as just a little bit hysterical . Yeah , the danger is there , but the danger of something is always there . In modern times , it just seems to me that mankind is more likely to reach a higher level of peace if we all stop trying to predict pandemics and wars and terrorist attacks and start trying to live in peace with our neighbors . I don't see a lot of that effort going on these days ?
Much better than I expected .	30 Days of Night starts out with a fascinating introduction to its fascinating setting , Barrow , Alaska , the northernmost city in America . A quick look at Google earth with reveal this to be true ? Barrow is very near Barrow Point , the northern tip of North America . I have a strange fascination with places like this . I'll probably never make it out there , but when I hear of places like that it always makes me want to visit them . For now , however , I'll have to settle for this vampire movie , which in many ways is better than average , but is less than average in many other ways . Josh Hartnett plays the town Sheriff , Eben Oleson , who spends his days crossing the t's and dotting the i's of his job , often just keeping up the formalities or other times in order to make the citizens , even the ones living alone out in the frozen wilderness , remember that they are all part of the town . You see , it's a pretty quiet life that they lead up there in the far north . Before long , however , some Strange Occurrences start taking place , with increasingly mysterious implications and circumstances , and then animals and people start turning up brutally killed . Structurally the film is pretty routine , but it's location adds a new element to the genre , and some of the photography is outstanding . There are a few aerial shots of the carnage , for example , some while the killing is actually taking place , which are some of the best shots I've ever seen in a vampire film . Similarly , the vampires themselves are impressively performed , despite your occasional overacting . The special effects and make up come together for an impressive affect that reminds me of those unbelievably creepy Asian schoolgirls in that LFO music video called " Freak . " I recommend it , it's crazy . Before long , as is to be expected , you have a core group of the townspeople , the only survivors , we can presume , holed up somewhere sleeping in shifts , taking turns on watch out , rationing food , etc , and of course there is somewhere that " if they can reach it they'll have enough food to last a month . " This has all been done who knows how many times , but there is something added to the personality of the vampires that I hadn't seen before . There is an interesting hierarchy to them , they are stratified with a leader and his minions followed by I imagine an army of lower level vampires that obey orders . In order to achieve motive for the screenplay's need for the whole town to be exterminated , the leader actually makes a clever statement , telling his followers that it has taken them centuries to make people believe that they were just a bad dream , so the humans all had to be destroyed to prevent the escape of any eyewitnesses . Evidently he's unaware of the real world response that a group of people would get from the rest of America if they were to come forward and claim that a horde of vampires had wiped out the entire population of the country's northernmost city . And one thing that I have to mention , the ending of the film ( which is generally the worst part of most horror movies ) is outstanding . Sheriff Oleson , in order to save the rest of the survivors , infects himself with vampire blood and then battles the vampires on his own before he fully transforms into one of them . There is , of course , going to be the standard complaint that the sun doesn't " set " one day and then lead to 30 days of darkness , but I should think that such a thing is irrelevant to a movie like this . In reality , think of it like the sun rises lower and lower in the sky as winter approaches , finally doing sort of a ring along the horizon for some time during winter , at which time it's never really daytime and never really nighttime . I've always wanted to see that . Although the movie is not without plot holes ( there is an eerie shot of a ship ominously approaching the shore in the opening of the movie , which one of the vampires watches with some mixture of fascination and fear , and yet we never find out anything about it ) , the last shot in the movie is the perfect ending to the story , and the movie also , by the way , has what might be the most graphic beheading I've ever seen . If you're into that , don't miss this one !
Apollo's mad ?	So when Apollo says at the end of the first film that there isn't going to be any rematch ( sorry , " ain't gonna be no rematch " ) , I'm thinking that it was probably because no one really knew how big the movie was going to be . I think the original film was meant to be a single movie that stood on its own , but a sequel was squeezed out when it turned out to be a Best Picture winner , and since this first sequel was so good , it seems only natural that it should be followed by four more , right ? The movie starts off exactly where the original film left off . It even shows the last few minutes of the last film before continuing on to the hospital , where Creed's attitude has changed drastically . He is no longer telling Rocky that there will be no rematch , now he's so angry that he's demanding , from his wheelchair , that Rocky get up out of his own wheelchair right then and there and they'll finish the fight . Rocky , in his unique way , politely wonders what Apollo's so mad about , but ultimately they both go their separate ways in the hospital because , of course , neither can really stand up under their own power too well by this point . Rocky and Adrian are now married and shopping for a new house and a new life together using Rocky's winnings from his first fight with Apollo . But the money goes quickly , even though it was such a huge and commercially successful spectacle . You remember in the original film , for his amateur fights , his total prize money was something like $40 . Rocky brought home tens of thousands from the fight with Apollo , but he and Adrian bought a house and a car and various other essentials and soon found themselves again with little to no money and a whole list of new expenses . Rocky promised Adrian that he wouldn't fight anymore because she just can't handle the stress and the emotional trauma of watching her love getting battered all over the ring , so when Apollo begins publicly chastising Rocky for winning by freak chance and demanding that he face him again in the ring , Rocky has to grin and bear it even though he is forced to earn money doing janitorial work at the local boxing gym . The movie works because it plays on all the things about Rocky's personality that made us love him in the first place . A lesser film would have had the hero angrily fling his mop and bucket against the wall and get right up in Apollo's face , but Rocky is more devoted to his wife than to his public image , so he literally does grin and ignore the taunts and demands coming from Rocky , even though his life has become something so timid and moneyless . Adrian hears the demands and watches Rocky worriedly , afraid that he is going to give in to the pressure and endanger his safety again , but even though Rocky is tentatively interested in defending his reputation in the ring , it is more important to him to make his wife happy . But both are driven to the ring because Apollo has lost the respect of his fans , who think that he was paid to take a fall , and Rocky and Adrian are on their way to the poor house . It is one of the film's few week moments when she changes her mind and urges him to fight again , but the formula that we saw and loved from the first film comes back and it still works here . The only major drawback of the first Rocky sequel is that it is much , much too sappy . There are genuine emotional moments when Adrian falls into a coma after giving birth to their son , but mostly it is things like the army of thousands of children following Rocky completely parent-less as he goes on one of his famous training runs . I realize he's famous in Philadelphia now , but an endless crowd of children ? Come on ? The fight at the end of the movie fulfills a dream that was unfulfilled in the first movie , and some people will argue that it is unnecessary since , in some ways , it sort of negates the whole purpose of the first movie ending the way it did , but Rocky II is such a good movie that this doesn't seem to matter . The fight's not as well done as in the original film , for most of the time you may find yourself wondering why Rocky , from start to finish , doesn't block Apollo's punches at ALL , but it is no less exciting . In the world of sequels , this is definitely among the best ones . Oh and by the way , Rocky II was released the day after I was born !
A reminder that more racism is not the answer to racism .	In the movie , it is stated that the Bible says " An eye for an eye . " There is , first of all , the old saying that an eye for an eye leaves the whole world blind , but I think a more important concern is that an eye for an eye being applied in this case would lead to three " death by dragging " convictions . That would be a pretty bad publicity stunt , to put it mildly , even though the three men who would do something like that to someone do not deserve to live . My thought during the movie was that George W . Bush was the governor at the time , and he famously stated that he gave an average of 15 minutes of consideration to each case before approving a death sentence . Jasper , Texas is a brilliant TV movie about the horrendous dragging death of James Byrd in 1998 , as well as the staggering ineptitude of the government , brought on by conflicting policies . The movie , for example , certainly doesn't believe in the boundlessness of the Second Amendment . There are extensive scenes where the immediately likable but barely literate town sheriff , played brilliantly by Jon Voigt , struggles to convince the Black Panthers not to bring guns to their demonstration outside the courthouse , but is rendered powerless by their right to bear arms . True , they have the right to bear arms , but do they have the right to incite violence ? To instigate a riot ? These are both avenues by which the sheriff could have forbidden them by law from appearing armed in front of the courthouse , but chose to ignore them or was unaware that he had the power to stop people from inciting violence , an intention which the Black Panthers and KKK made no effort to hide . The Black Panthers plan a demonstration outside the courthouse to rival the KKK , a group of backward lunatics who also organized a demonstration . I didn't even know the KKK still existed , this is a group whose beliefs are so absolutely archaic that it is indeed heartbreaking to know that there are still people in this very country , in the 21st century , who still adhere to them . It's pathetic . But the Black Panthers , as this movie shows , are no less racist than the KKK . The trial scenes in the film are great , although we only see the trial of one of the three men involved in the murder , and at one point the dirtbag defense attorney objects , saying that no chain has been introduced as evidence . I would have thought that he would have been well aware of the fate of the chain used to kill James Byrd , at least from the prosecuting attorney , since both sides are required by law to reveal to the other side the details of their respective cases . Also , in one scene , as a friend of the murderer reads to the court a letter that he wrote her in which he says " white is right , " he mouths the words along with her and then grins , proud of his racist wit but apparently unaware that he is helping to cement his conviction . We didn't need that . We know the guy's guilty . The movie makes it very clear , however , that it is the media that creates the real trouble with things like this . There is one reporter who would constantly ask questions designed to make the interviewee uncomfortable of back them into a corner . Every time this woman opened her mouth I wished someone would take that microphone and shove it in . It's an interesting parallel that blacks and whites work together on this case and are friends with each other outside of work , but the people that they represent seem completely divided . In one scene , however , we learn that racism exists on all levels , and the movie ends with a sign that racism will go on . It's odd that there is all of this talk about whether or not the town is a racist town , which might be hard to prove even given the heinous murder that took place went unpunished since the town has a black mayor . Although the trial resulted in the right decision , it is clear at the end of the movie that the race situation might be worse off than it was before . I like to think that the human race is headed in the right direction , though .
There is something to be said about the story of The Secret Garden when even such a skeletal film adaptation as this one can be so wildly entertaining .	This version of Frances Hodgson Burnett's The Secret Garden takes the novel and eliminates all but the most crucial elements to make sure the story makes sense , but there is so much left out from the book that it takes away a lot of the magic . Rather than have the garden act as a magical entity in itself , it is more of an escape from the creepy dreariness of Misselthwaite Manor , a gigantic monstrosity of a mansion that does justice to the enormity of the one portrayed in the novel but is such a brooding and unpleasant place that the escape of it overshadows the magical curiosity that should be entailed by the garden . The film creates a great sense of atmosphere , with the long hallways and the tremendously and unnecessarily elaborate living quarters that Mary is placed in , and we see some wonderful things as Mary sneaks around to explore the mansion , although she really only goes into one room and then her explorations are over . Kate Maberly delivers a wonderful performance as Mary Lennox , the spoiled little girl who is sent to live with her uncle , the reclusive Lord Craven , when her parents die of cholera in India , an event which never seems to affect her since her parents were always too busy for her anyway . Mary doesn't seem to care too much where she is being moved to beyond the fact that it is such an inconvenience for her , and she soon has to face the fact that she is no longer going to be waited on hand and foot like she was by her Ayah in India . Heydon Prowse also gives a great performance as Colin Craven , the young boy who is so extraordinarily spoiled that he has become literally incapable of caring for himself or even standing up . The young actors in this film are much more impressive than young actors often are ( this is the kind of actor that is most likely to be forgiven for a bad performance because they're so darn cute ) , each portraying wonderfully the characters as they are presented in the novel . Andrew Knott as Dickon is the other major example , perfectly portraying the magical young boy who has a way with animals . The thing that makes the movie not compare to the novel is that there are some important things from the book that are left out of this film version , some of which I can understand being done for time purposes but there are some things that just should have been put in , in one way or another . There is nothing , for example , about the exercises that Colin indirectly learns from Bob Haworth in order to strengthen his legs , there's nothing about Colin's plans to become a scientist and an explorer and a lecturer ( this kid wanted to be Indiana Jones and they didn't even mention it in the movie ! ) , we see nothing of Colin's extravagant plans for how he should present his newfound health and strength to his father , there's very little said about the Magic that all three of them have found in the garden , and even Dickon's entire family ( which is enormous in size as well as significance to the story ) is left out entirely . These are just a few of the things that I noticed to be missing , and I'm sure the list goes on . The story itself is also hugely simplified , but if you take into consideration a film adaptation of something like Frankenstein , you can see that this could have been a lot worse . The 1933 film version of Mary Shelley's 1818 novel covered maybe 3-5 % of the novel , which completely changed the meaning of the story and transformed Frankenstein's monster ( Frankenstein is , of course , not the monster , but you already know that because you've read the book , right ? ) from an enormously intelligent creature who only wants to fit in to the world that he has been placed in and into a hulking , thoughtless beast . In this case , this version of The Secret Garden could have been a lot worse , but on the other hand , it could also have been a lot better , hence my conflict . For the most part , the story is here , which is a good thing . We know that the garden once belonged to and was loved by Lord Craven's wife , and we know that she died giving birth to Colin which is why Lord Craven locked up the garden forever and can scarcely stand even to look at his crippled son , who he fears will turn out to be a hunchback like himself ( although neither of them look like hunchbacks at any time during the film ) . We briefly see Mary's life in India and we see a heavily diluted version of the part where she realizes what has happened to her parents , and then she is moved to Misselthwaite . The movie diverts from the book almost immediately , but mostly when Mary goes to Misselthwaite Manor . She is urged to go outside and explore by the endlessly patient Martha , and almost immediately runs into the secret garden . The grounds are bitterly cold and it's almost uncomfortable watching this portion of the film , which reminds me of other uncomfortable but wonderful films like Buffalo ' 66 and Affliction , but this is the sort of thing that replaces the real magic in the book . Rather than find the garden as a truly magical place , it is an escape from the dreariness of the rest of Misselthwaite . The robin is an important part of the story and it is found in the movie , but thankfully it is not presented quite as much as in the book . This is one of the only things that is fortunately subdued a little bit , since in the book the robin goes through a mating period and there is actually one chapter late in the novel where the robin and his mate have a conversation about Dickon and his strange friends , whom they're not too sure about . There are certainly some things from the novel that are left out of the movie with good reason , such as this scene where the narrative goes into the thoughts of the robins , which can only be disorienting and awkward unless it was done much earlier in the novel ( and even then it would not have fit too well with the rest of the story ) . The ham-handed delivery of the moral at the beginning of Chapter 17 is also left out with good reason , but then there are little things changed as well , such as the simplification of the plot which takes away from the magic of the story as a whole , and even smaller things , like the fact that the command that Mary teaches Colin to tell her servants that he is done with them is changed from ' You have my permission to go , ' in the novel , to ' I have spoken , all depart , ' in the book . Did you ever see Sphere ? That bad science fiction movie from 1998 that was based on the Michael Crichton novel ? They did something similar in that movie , changing some of the names of the characters for no apparent reason . I can never understand why they would do things like that when making books into movies . On the one hand , I can understand that there are some books that could be made a lot better with a little tweaking here and there , but The Secret Garden is a classic novel that , with a few tweaks here and there , is most likely to be changed into a movie that could have been a lot better with a few small changes . Or , as it were , without a few small changes . This movie is sure to entertain and delight its target audience , but it should not be taken in place of the novel , which is hugely superior . I have spoken . All depart .
Lost Super-Puppy , Answers to the Name of Bolt . If Found , Please Contact The Incredibles . . .	I've read that Bolt is the first computer animated feature to come from Disney Studios since Pixar's John Lasseter took control of it , and it's easy to see the Pixar presence in the movie . John Travolta and Miley Cyrus provide the celebrity voice talent for the movie , about a dog who stars in a superhero TV show but who is just as unaware that he's an actor as he is that he's a dog . Remember at the end of A Bug's Life when they animated together some outtakes where shots from the movie were messed up because of various mishaps on set ? I thought that was one of the most charming ideas in an already fun and entertaining movie , and in Bolt they have taken that and centered an entire movie around it . Bolt and Penny are a team battling the evil green-eyed man , who has kidnapped Penny's father and are attempting to extract information out of him . Between shooting sessions , Bolt lives in a trailer , unaware that Penny is going home to her real life and that the world returns to normal when he's not around . He believes that he is exercising extraordinary restraint in not using his superpowers to teach a lesson to a couple of wise-cracking alley-cats who tease him through the roof vent of his trailer at night . Through a series of unfortunate events initiated by an encounter with the cats , Bolt finds himself accidentally shipped in a box to the east coast , from where he must travel across America in the real world in his quest to become reunited with Penny . In watching a movie about a cute superhero who suddenly finds himself in the real world and must gradually accept the heartbreaking news that there's nothing special about him , it's impossible not to think of Buzz Lightyear , who suffered through exactly the same situation in Toy Story almost 15 years ago , but even though this seems to point to a disappointing characterization weakness in the movie , it is the characters who are the most interesting . There is nothing particularly fresh or interesting about Penny , who is really nothing more than a catalyst to drive Bolt's adventure , and even Bolt himself is giving us a predictable performance of a dog who thinks he has superpowers , but the characters that he meets along the way are the best things about the movie . He encounters a hardened alley-cat in New York named Mittens who has been bullying pigeons into making regular food donations to her ( a clear homage to the bullying grasshoppers in A Bug's Life ) . She and Bolt become tied together with a leash and he forces her to help him get to California . But it's the even smaller characters that are the most interesting and charming . The Italian-American pigeons that Bolt meets in New York , who just know that they know his face from somewhere but can't quite place it , are incredibly well-animated and cleverly voiced . But my favorite is Rhino , a superfan of Bolt's TV show whom Bolt and Mittens meet in a trailer park on their way to the west coast . Rhino will be a popular favorite character from the movie . He's overcome with excitement at meeting his hero , and it provides a unique comedic situation when both he and Bolt think that Bolt has super-powers , while Mittens must pacify them in order to get what she wants . She has been dragged scratching and screaming into this situation , and her disbelief at her miserable luck provides a good portion of the movie's comedy . The family content of the movie plays up the ongoing cats and dogs rivalry that I don't remember seeing this directly portrayed since the relatively disappointing 2001 film Cats & Dogs . In one of the movie's more amusing sequences , Mittens teaches how to beg , and he successfully gets one trailer park family after another to offer food to his puppy-dog begging skills . When Mittens tries it , she gets a frying pan flung at her . The movie knows how to work the comedy of a computer animated feature , which is why it was nominated for a Best Animated Feature Oscar and is also why it's a lot of fun , but beneath the clever screen-writing and occasionally amazing animation , the standard-issue cartoon-messages of never abandoning a friend in need make the rest of the movie pretty un-spectacular . Bolt deserves to be nominated as one of the best animated features of 2008 , but it also deserves to come in behind Kung Fu Panda , the second best animated feature of the year , and WALL-E , which will win .
Every installment gets worse than the last one . Except this one .	The movie starts off fairly well , relatively speaking . Tommy Jarvis has grown up into a young man and returns to Jason's grave , unable to go on living unless he can completely verify for himself that Jason is really dead . On the other hand , digging up Jason's grave and essentially freeing him ( since Tommy doesn't believe that Jason can be killed ) doesn't exactly strike me as the best course of action . What was he planning to do , collect Jason's teeth and go check his dental records ? At any rate , at least there is some thought put into an interesting way to bring Jason back to life , at least long enough to kill enough kids to fill up another movie . Tommy digs Jason up and then stabs his decayed corpse with a nearby fencepost , which is promptly struck by lightning thus bringing Jason back to life . It was earlier in this scene in the movie that someone utters the line , " Some folks have a strange idea of entertainment , " which I had planned on using as the summary line in my review . Sadly , I logged on to the IMDb and the first thing I noticed was that I was not as clever as I thought . It is , after all , one of the best lines in the movie , since it is such a tongue in cheek jab at the movie's biggest fans . During the paintball scene that soon follows , I was immediately struck by the intelligence of the characters . I really appreciate that this movie has people in it who are boneheads but they're not stupid . These are regular guys with undeveloped intellects rather than the typical horror movie moron , one of the worst things to ever see in a horror film . Or any other film , for that matter . It is a great scene when Jason gets his hands on a machete , for example . One of the boneheads in the movie , Burt , is shot by a woman during the paintball game , after which he proceeds to hack away at the trees around him , and check this out . He curses to himself that she shouldn't have been out there in the first place , she should have stayed where she belonged ( presumably the kitchen ) , etc . This is a development of his character as well as the revelation of a deep character flaw that allows the audience to enjoy his death even after learning something about who he is . When was someone invented as fodder ever given that depth of character ? Never ! Sure , we hardly learn about his childhood and his dreams , but the point is that he ceases to be nothing but some poor sucker to get hacked up in a creative way by Jason . Then you have the other guy who loses his gun . Again , a lesser horror film would have had him lose his gun through some monumental act of paralyzing stupidity . In this film , he's just an office geek who isn't used to handling guns . He thinks he's in a warzone but he is just out of his element , and Jason is closing in to remind him of where he belongs . These are some of the best characters ever put into the Friday the 13th series . Granted , the movie does have its share of lame goofiness . The cemetery man ( that's a good movie , too ) , for example , at the beginning responds to Tommy's request to dig up Jason with something like , " Dig him up ? Does he think I'm a farthead ? ! Huh huh huh ! " but the characters clearly have the most depth and meaning that we have seen in the series so far . The dumbest characters in the movie are the cops , which I'm sure has some sort of hidden message ( which Hitchcock would have appreciated , no doubt ) , and there is also a clever scene involving the TV . One of the kids staying at the camp ( oh , I forgot to tell you , they've changed the charming name of Camp Blood so that they can operate as a summer camp ) one night swears that she saw a monster . The counselors tell her that it's okay , it was just a bad dream , but she insists that it was real , " just like TV . " Hear that , parents ? Don't let your kids watch too much TV or they'll grow up and watch movies like this ! Besides that , the little girl's name was Nancy . Could this be an homage to Nightmare on Elm Street ? There is an interesting plot structure that involves the police thinking that Tommy is doing the killing , which ties in neatly with their status as the dumbest guys in the movie . This is leaps and bounds better than the sequels that preceded it ( and light years better than Part VIII ! ! ) , there's even some good direction . The shot of Jason standing on top of the burning motor-home is one of the best shots thus far in the series . If you're going to watch some Friday the 13th movies , definitely don't miss this one . It's easy to get tired of the same old thing by this point , but this one is worth skipping ahead to see .
A surprisingly clever and heart-warming family comedy .	Hey here's something interesting . If you type " Junior " in to Google , the first hit is this movie , but if you type it in to the IMDb , the first hit is George W . Bush . I just thought that was funny . So by 1994 , Schwarzenegger had just done a series of pretty hardcore action movies ? Terminator 2 , Last Action Hero ( shut up , that movie rocked ) , and True Lies ? so I'm really curious to know who came up with the idea of making a movie in which he gets pregnant and carries a baby to term . Yeah , Last Action Hero and especially Kindergarten Cop showed the world that Arnold was a big action movie star that was not above having a little fun with himself , but a pregnancy ? ? Amazingly enough , however , the movie is much better than you might think . He stars as Dr . Alex Hesse , a scientist working on a new formula that will help create successful pregnancies for women having trouble conceiving . But the problem is that they are unable to get authorization to perform necessary tests so , desperate to prove that their formula works , Hesse and his partner Dr . Larry Arbogast decide to create a pregnancy in Hesse ? the world's first pregnant man ! They do not , however have any intention of allowing the pregnancy to go on for more than a month or a month and a half , they just need to prove that their formula works . I am reminded of that scene in Terminator 2 when they are all at Miles Dyson's house and Sarah is telling Dyson that men like him through of the hydrogen bomb and they only know how to create destruction , they have no idea what it's like to feel a life growing inside you . In Junior , Hesse learns what it's like to have a life growing inside him , and tat life becomes more important to him than the science experiment that he and Arbogast were carrying out . There is a cleverly designed side story about Arbogast's ex-wife carrying a baby that resulted in a one-night stand after an Aerosmith concert , but the majority of the comedy in the movie is derived from Schwarzenegger literally not only turning into a woman , but poking fun at his real life self . When he goes to a pregnancy retreat dressed as a woman , he explains his manly performance by stating that back in " her " native Germany , she was a body-builder and excessive steroid use was considered perfectly common and acceptable . He experiences all of the ups and downs of being pregnant , but no matter how outlandish the premise is , there is no denying that the movie is definitely pretty charming . It was great to see Schwarzeneggger and Danny DeVito together again after their classic work together in Twins several years earlier . Once again , they have come together and brought us a great piece of family entertainment .
Art imitating life imitating art .	In an early depiction of Hitchcock's fear and mistrust of the police and the legal system , we have a very legal thriller about a murder and it's subsequent trial . We are given the facts of the case , even a sort of a limited view of the murder itself taking place , followed by the prosecution and defense presenting their cases at the trial and a detailed look at the jury's discussion of the case . Sort of Hitchcock's version of 12 Angry Men . There is a curious cast of characters involved in the film , and two of Hitch's biggest interests , the law and the arts , are on center stage . Sir John in the single character who takes the time to really look deeply into what really happened that night , even though someone's life is on the line based on the verdict that they reach , and his personal investigation is probably the best part of the film . One of the things that this movie is famous for is for being the first film where someone's thoughts are shown in a film , in the scene where he is looking at himself in the mirror , shaving . For this scene , a recording of him speaking was played off screen , since vocals could not be added to the film later . There is a scene in the film where Mr . Marlowe goes to visit Sir John at his request , and as he approaches Sir John's desk there is a close up of his feet , which sink deeply into the rug as though it were laid over a soft mattress . This is never explained , although I am willing to accept that this is a spot of symbolism the meaning of which escaped me , since so much of the rest of the film is deeply layered , literally and figuratively , as well . There is an astonishing amount of technique and content to be seen here , impossible to catch all in one viewing , which is one sign of a great film . Some editing and filming techniques I suspect were not as successful as they seemed in the writing stages , but the film is strong nonetheless . Consider , for example , the brave and highly successful technique of lingering on the empty jury room while the verdict is read offstage , and the shockingly effective technique of having the face of the victim hanging in the vision of the murderer . Incredibly , I think this is one of the single most haunting shots I have ever seen in a Hitchcock film . It has its slow moments and may be a bit longer than it's content can support , but this is a brilliant example of Hitch's early work . Also keep your eye out for Hitchcock's cameo , which is a full hour into the film . This was long before he began putting all of his cameos in the beginnings of his films , knowing that the audience would be watching for him and not wanting this to distract from the stories .
We still love you , Martin !	I was a little concerned during parts of the show that it was going to be swept up by The Aviator , it seemed like just about every category was going to something from that movie . It is understandable since it is such a great film , but the competition for awards this year included an unusually high number of great films . The Aviator , Million Dollar Baby , Finding Neverland , and Ray all deserved the Best Picture Oscar , for example . And so did Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind , by the way . Here's an interesting little factoid ? Eternal Sunshine received six times as many votes by IMDb users for Best Picture than The Aviator ! Chris Rock delivered a completely unexciting performance as probably the most anticipated host the Academy Awards has seen in years , at least in terms of the potential for controversy . People were afraid he was going to do something obscene or vulgar , and all he did was get up there and make a lot of bland , dumb jokes like so many others before him . He had some moments , but I know that he is a much , much funnier man than the one we saw during the show . For much of the second half he seemed to disappear completely . Pierce Brosnan was the only person forced to announce an award winner alongside a wildly unamusing animated cohost , which was one of the options that the IMDb gave in a daily poll that asked what event would make you immediately turn off the show . Interestingly enough , another option was if someone referred to Million Dollar Baby as some gigantic cliché like " a knockout , " which strikes me as funny now because , in announcing the winners , the quote on the IMDb home page is " With a one , two , three punch Million Dollar Baby proved to be the one , the darling of the Academy as Clint Eastwood's boxing drama put the competition out for the count . " Clever . I was glad to see Eternal Sunshine awarded in the Best Screenplay category , although I think it deserved more . I also agreed with most of the main acting categories , which is rare , although I was surprised that Jamie Foxx won Best Actor , I was sure he was going to win Best Supporting Actor for Collateral , if only because I really think Don Cheadle deserves an Oscar for his performance in Hotel Rwanda , which was brilliant all around . But Foxx delivered an astonishing performance in Ray as well , and it was also good to see Morgan Freeman recognized for his work in Million Dollar Baby . Troy should have won costume design over The Aviator , The Passion of the Christ should have won Best Makeup over A Series of Unfortunate Events , I , Robot should have won over Spiderman 2 for Visual Effects , and I really think SuperSize Me should have won Best Documentary , although I haven't seen any of the other nominees , so what do I know . These are just a few categories that I had other opinions on , but I really had a problem with the Best Foreign Film category this year . I haven't seen any of the films in the category , so I won't say that they don't deserve to have been nominated . I'm sure they do , in fact . But here are a few films that not even recognized ? Hero , The Motorcycle Diaries , and Maria Full of Grace . What is that ? The Motorcycle Diaries certainly deserved much more than recognition than Best Original Song . Catalina Sandina Moreno was at least nominated for Best Actress , but how about Hero for Cinematography or Art Direction ? Anyone with me on this ? Oh , that's right . The Motorcycle Diaries wasn't exactly a foreign film , and Hero was originally released in 2002 . But still . Ah , nobody cares . The winners won and that's the end of it , I'm just another in an endless line of people who have to rant and rave about how it should have gone . But I should mention that while I disagreed with some of the awards this year , it's like that any year and I think that all of the winners this year deserved the Oscars that they were awarded . There were just so many other films and people that deserved so much more than they got . Just see them all , that's my solution .
The return of John McTiernan ! !	I was pretty thoroughly disappointed with Die Hard 2 , but that might have made watching Die Hard 3 even better , because it was so good to see such an immediate and clear improvement over the first sequel . The movie begins in Harlem , where a terrorist has forced John McClane to go wearing a huge sign with a slogan on it that is sure to get him shot in minutes . The villain is Simon Gruber , the brother of Hans Gruber , the bad guy from the original movie , and he plays a vicious game of Simon Says with McClane , forcing him to do things that endanger his life . Gruber has detonated a bomb in a department store and asked the frantic police for McClane by name , intending to play games with him and ultimately avenge his brother's death . Things have not been going well for McClane . He's been suspended from the force , his marriage is falling apart and he's now a full-blown alcoholic . It is only Gruber's personal request for him that brings him back into use from the police force , and Gruber has him running frantically around New York with the unwilling company of store owner Zeus Carver ( a brilliant performance from Samuel L . Jackson ) , who wants nothing to do with McClane but is coerced into going along . The action is brilliant and the story lives up to the original , with McClane ultimately figuring out that the cat and mouse game that Gruber is forcing him to play is a ploy to distract him and the rest of the police force while Gruber pulls off a much greater crime . A couple of brilliant plot twists and a slew of great performances are a great sign for the Die hard series , which was headed in an unflattering direction after Die Hard 2 . See this one !
Chan ? Jackie Chan .	It has been so many years since I have seen a Jackie Chan film , but after finally watching First Strike for the first time since something like 1998 I am completely hooked again . Te fight scenes are astonishing and even though the sets are bad and some of the fight situations ( underwater with sharks ) are cartoonish it is still a non-stop thrill ride . Plenty of comic relief , as always , and one unbelievable stunt after another make this one of Jackie's best films ever , I think . I think that since Jackie Chan became an international star in the middle of the series , they were made available in America out of order , but this is the kind of series that you can start watching with any of the installments . Highly recommended !
A satisfactorily uncomfortable adaptation of Edith Wharton's novel .	Ethan Frome is one of those stories that is meant to be uncomfortable and unattractive , so if you were put off by either the novel or the movie , it just shows that they succeeded in what they set out to do . Personally , I am slightly ashamed to admit that the novel bored me nearly to tears , but this film version not only refreshed the story in my memory but also breathed a much needed bit of life into the literary version , which is something that I rarely say about a film version of a novel . Before I go on , however , I would like to point out that I realize how much is lost in the transition from novel to film , in that the film is not able to capture Wharton's writing style and there are scenes that are taken out and artistic liberties taken with the material , but as far as a structured story , this is a worthwhile adaptation . Liam Neeson brilliantly portrays the fated Ethan Frome , a character who is in an unhappy marriage to a wife who is more interested in the social status achieved by being married than in Ethan as a person . Zeena , his wife ( played by Joan Allen ) , is a woman who has become embittered by her life as the wife of a poor man ( as Ethan describes her at one point ) and the fact that any scrap of love or passion has leaked completely out of her marriage , which was pretty dry to begin with . When Mattie ( Patricia Arquette ) comes to live with them , things begin to fall apart much more seriously than the emotional way in which the marriage between Ethan and Zeena has long since crumbled . There are a lot of religious and social undertones throughout the film , as we struggle with Ethan and Mattie , watching them desperately falling in love with each other but each as helpless to do anything about it as the other . Ethan can't leave Zeena for religious reasons , and social reasons as well , since he will be disrespected by the community if he does that ( which is a little strange , since you would think there would be even more disapproval from the fact that Ethan and Zeena are distant cousins ) . And besides that , Ethan has moral reasons of his own for not wanting to leave Zeena , feeling that he has an obligation to her that prevents him from leaving her alone and helpless . This obligation is , of course , derived mainly from Zeena having put so much effort into caring for Ethan's mother before she passed away , an extended act of charity of which she constantly reminds him . Patricia Arquette delivers a fine performance in the role as Mattie Silver , although her iconography since making this film has completely changed the way she is seen in movies and makes her role as Mattie slightly less believable . But Liam Neeson is the actor here who deserves the most recognition , I can't even imagine someone portraying Ethan Frome more accurately as far as the way he was described in the book than what Neeson did in this film . If you're studying this book in school , it would probably be a good idea to just go ahead and read the book , because this movie is not going to inform you enough to be able to pass a test on the novel , but it certainly works as far as entertainment or as a way to complement the book .
Attention Parents ! !	Butterfly Wings is a heavily symbolic film that focuses on one family as representative of the society in which they live . The film opens with a hospital scene in which a clearly frustrated grandfather receives the news that he has a new granddaughter , not a grandson . His daughter in law has yet again been unable to provide his son with an heir , reflecting the favoring of boys in the society in Spain at the time of the film . This scene sets up the stage for the rest of the film , which presents a picture of the home life of one family , which is influenced by their society . The movie is an exploration of a patriarchal society through female central characters . The daughter born at the beginning of the film is Amy , a little girl with dark hair and startling blue eyes who is neglected by her mother , Carmen , who seems to want an heir for her husband even more than he does . Carmen eventually gets pregnant again , and is upset because she is afraid that she will have another girl . It is significant here that the grandfather was introduced as the one who is strictly following the traditions of the patriarchal society in which they live , and then the mother continues this strictness even more than the father does . Indeed , the father plays a fairly minor role in the film , if only because he is so complacent about the gender of his children . Rather than being desperate to have the more socially acceptable male child , he accepts whatever gender they get as a blessing , as God's will . ( spoilers ) When the mother has the next child , however , it is a boy , and this is where all the real trouble starts . Amy's mother is so elated that she has had a boy that she gives him all of her attention , not even paying any attention to Amy even when she is literally bleeding from her head . This is the major turning point in the film , where the damage has been done to Amy by her mother , and her consciousness takes a turn for the worst , which is most clearly evident in a comparison between the butterflies that she drew and made up to this point in the film and those that she makes for the rest of the movie . There is a great dream sequence soon after the son is born where Carmen dreams that Amy picks the baby up out of the crib and drops him out the window to his death far below . There is soon a situation where Carmen finds the baby gone , Amy is out on the balcony that she dropped the baby off of in the dream , and Carmen freaks out thinking that it has come true . She starts beating Amy , who takes it silently , and then Gabriel , the father , walks in the room carrying the baby and asks what's going on . Carmen's fate is pretty much sealed at the point where Amy smothers the baby , imitating something she saw on TV , if I remember correctly . This is the point where parents should really pay attention , because Carmen's rough parenting style combined with the oppressive patriarchal society in which the family lived led to the rejection of Amy as a member of the family , her desire to escape into television , and her ultimate effort to get rid of the new baby so that she can be noticed again . Amy smothers her little brother , and Carmen begins to go insane . It is significant that the only time that we ever see Amy smile as a young girl is when her little brother squeezes her finger , right before she smothers him . She did not do this maliciously out of anger or hatred for her brother , she was too young for that , she didn't realize the gravity of what she was doing . All she knew was that this was something that her mother loved more than her , and it caused her to be ignored . She probably felt that if she got rid of it , her mother would be mad at her for a while and then things would go back to the way they were before . Amy's life is packed with tragedy from the moment we meet her , as an unwanted little girl . She has an abusive mother , was born into a society that looks down on females , she unknowingly murders her baby brother , frequently attempts suicide when she gets old enough to realize what kind of life she is stuck in , has to care for both her father ( who has been rendered paralyzed and silent ) and her mother , who is completely insane by the end of the movie . Not only that , but she has been forced into this motherly role , which is forced on women anyway in the society that she lives in , but she doesn't even have any children or even companionship of her own . She is stuck caring for her debilitated parents , and even the fact that she is pregnant , which is the only thing that symbolizes any hope for the future , is not a very bright point because she is pregnant with the baby of a rapist . But the important thing is that Amy is presented as a strong character , or at least a resourceful one . She attempts suicide several times , noted by the numerous scars on her forearms , and she manages to fail at killing herself , but she steals food when she goes grocery shopping so that she can save up the grocery money to escape the house where she was raised . Unfortunately , she took over caring for her parents before she gets a chance to leave ( or , rather , right when she DOES get a chance to leave , which she decides not to do simply because her mother calls her ' daughter , ' quite possibly for the first time in her life ) . Given the fact that Amy failed to commit suicide ( which is a failure at a dishonorable task ) , she ironically gains our respect by stealing to save money to better her own life . The mark of the intelligent mind is the ability to hold conflicting opinions about the same person or subject and still be able to function , which is something that has also been done in recent films like Insomnia and , more importantly , Monster's Ball . This film does that in several different ways as described above , particularly in the character of Amy , whose life is a picture of the oppression of the patriarchal society that she was born into .
Sure , this is cheeseball comedy , but Jim Carrey makes it memorable .	Ace Ventura is the kind of comedy that stems directly from a TV show , and in this case , that show was probably In Living Color , where Carrey got most of his publicity before he became famous as a movie actor . A quick look through Carrey's filmography will prove that Ace Ventura is the film that really acted as a springboard for his career . He had a few small roles in films previous to Ace Ventura , the largest of which was probably his role as one of the aliens in the awful film Earth Girls Are Easy , but after Ace Ventura , his career skyrocketed . The Mask ( hey , he's still new , give the guy a break ) , Dumb & Dumber , a sequel to Ace Ventura , Liar Liar , The Cable Guy ( oops ) , The Truman Show ( ah , better ) , Man On The Moon , Me , Myself & Irene , The Grinch , and there's no end in sight . Sure , Ace Ventura does not compare to half of these movies , and is clearly more on the side of the bone-headed comedy that he was doing on In Living Color , but his talent is unmistakable . I first saw this movie when I was in high school , and I remember that I would ditch school and go to the theater to see it and I would laugh hysterically until my sides hurt every time I saw it . There's something about seeing a slob at a tremendously rich party who just doesn't care about the etiquette of the rich people . Did anyone not laugh when he was ' testing ' the food at Ron Kamp's I'm - the - richest - man - in - the - universe party and stuck his tongue out at that poor guy next to him ? That whole scene at that party is classic ! And , of course , it only gets better with Ace's dealings with Lois Einhorn . The whole crying game idea may have gone a little too far , but it was always amusing . Jim Carrey saves Ace Ventura from sinking to the totally brainless level of more recent crapfests as the Scary Movies , and even makes this into one of the better comedies of 1994 . This is not the type of movie that is likely to win any awards , but you will remember the hilarious dialogue and Jim Carrey's immediately recognizable rubber-faced antics in this film that served as a spring board to his career , which later brought us many more excellent movies . Way to go , Jim .
Making the food channel cool again .	Not that it was cool at the time , but I was a huge fan of the cooking channel , as it was called then , when I was a kid , but for years and years and years I completely lost interest , but have noticed recently that the Food Network is literally overflowing with surprisingly fascinating shows , one of my favorite of which is my recently discovered Food Network Challenge , which combines one of my childhood favorites , the cooking channel , with one of my other childhood favorites , the Guinness Book of World Records . Granted , not every episode is centered around an attempt , or multiple attempts , to set a new world record , but the challenges that make up the premise of each episode are almost always fascinating ideas to test the current limits of culinary capabilities by some of the best chefs around the world . Certainly , the show is not for everyone , but anyone not interested in seeing an attempt to make the tallest structure entirely out of sugar ( and , incidentally , modeled after some famous American skyscraper ) or the highest pizza toss is someone I would wonder about . I can't really think of a practical use of being able to cook 555 pancakes in an hour or scoop 20 ice cream cones in a minute , or even to make a massive , intricate , and extremely delicate sculpture out of various types of melted sugar ( even if it was made to be eaten , which almost nothing on the Food Network Challenge is ) , even if they are made to look like Elvis or Gene Simmons , but it sure is fun to watch .
" Honest men make unconvincing liars . . . "	A man gets caught in a rain storm while on a " walking trip " in Europe , and he knocks on the first door he comes across , looking for food and shelter but finds instead , as Serling love to say , the outer edges of the twilight zone . It's interesting that the man isn't perturbed at all by the fact that the people in the house he comes to are all dressed in what can only be called biblical garb , with staffs and long robes . Maybe he was distracted by the even stranger way that they refused him and meant to send him back out into the rainy night . Not the kind of thing you would expect from a religious group . This is the most overtly religious episode of the twilight zone that I've seen , but it never becomes preachy or anything like that , which is good . It seems that these people have captured the devil and have him imprisoned in a room in that house , rendering him powerless to harm people , little more than a howling man . I was reminded of the old phrase ' the greatest thing the devil ever did was convincing the world he didn't exist ' ( which , no offense to anyone of any belief , always strikes me as a little bit of religious propaganda ) , because that's what the howling man does in the episode . The wanderer hears the man and sneaks back to his cell , and the howling man begs for his help in escaping from these lunatics who are imprisoning him . Probably the best thing that the episode does is present an idea of what would really happen were Satan ( or Jesus ) to actually appear on earth . Naturally , it's the people with the robes and staffs that seem crazy , and the poor guy suffering in the cell seems like the victim . I have always had a sneaking suspicion that if rapture did occur , Jesus may very well find himself throw into an asylum of some sort . The question that may arise from this is What asylum could possibly hold him ? But I asked the same question about the devil in this episode , and one other IMDb user mentioned that he is locked in the room using a staff of light and truth , which is the perfect explanation . Once again , the episode scores big . Of course , the devil is very convincing , and manages to escape and then , in the show's most impressive sequence , gradually transforms back into the healthy devil himself , much to the dismay of the unassuming man who just set him free . Thereafter , he makes it his life's work to capture the devil and put him back in prison where he belongs . Cut back to the beginning of the episode ( the whole show is told as a flashback ) , and you have the only big problem with it . Admittedly , it's not a huge problem , because it happens right at the very end of the episode , but he commits the same enormous mistake that the first captors did in their lax security measures . I would think that if you had Satan locked up in a room in your house , you might want to arrange his captivity in such a way so that a wanderer off the street couldn't just sneak in and have a conversation with him . Similarly , if you find yourself with Satan in captivity , especially after having set him free once already , you may not want to leave the responsibility for his captivity in the hands of your house maid . Oops . Nevertheless , this is still one of the most well-developed and interesting episodes of the twilight zone that I've seen , and is a great example of how good the show can be .
Dated , but still a classic .	Blade Runner is one of Ridley Scott's earlier films , which , being science fiction , takes place in the future and deals with the common theme of man vs . machine . It seems that there are cyborgs ( called ' replicants ' ) mixed in with society that resemble humans in every way ( they are , in fact , ' more human than human , ' a statement that all White Zombie fans are sure to notice ) , and , because they have turned against their makers , they need to be exterminated ? or ' retired , ' as it is eloquently called . Clearly , the influence on the Terminator films is unmistakable . Blade Runner was made in 1982 , back when Harrison Ford was working more in sci-fi than anything else , and even though the technology in the film is badly dated , the effect is still impressive . While it's setting is no longer in the distant future ( 2019 ) , the film is still effective , despite the fact that with each passing year , it becomes less and less likely that the year 2019 will look like that . Besides its obvious influence on the Terminator , Blade Runner also pays subtle homage to Stanley Kubrick's 2001 : A Space Odyssey , in a scene where a video phone call charge is $1 . 25 , the exact same charge as a video phone call in 2001 from the space station back to earth . ( spoilers ) One of the best features of this film , besides Ford's always-excellent performance , is the skilled direction of Ridley Scott . Also , the special effects were also very impressive , both in creating the futuristic atmosphere and in other areas , such as some very impressive and amazingly violent replicant deaths . Pris ' death , in particular , was incredibly convincing . The conflict in this film stems form the fact that Ford's character develops emotional feelings for one of the replicants , and he has to face the reality that she must be destroyed . Clearly , there are numerous scenes in this film that verify the fact that the replicants do , in fact , experience emotion , and this is not shown only by the replicant that Harrison falls for . The nazi looking replicant pushes Pris ' tongue back into her mouth with his own tongue after her violent death , which left her tongue protruding slightly . Sure , that's not a real appealing sight , but it makes a pretty strong point . Blade Runner very much deserves the classic status that it has achieved . It is a very well thought out and very involved science fiction story , and it reflects influences from earlier classic science fiction films like 2001 and even , from the distant past , Metropolis . Harrison Ford delivers a better performance than he did in any of the Star Wars films , and Ridley Scott returns from his brilliant direction of Alien to once again prove his skills as a filmmaker .
A great classic thriller , unfortunately overshadowed by the spectacular psychological thriller released the same year - Alfred Hitchcock's Psycho .	Village of the Damned is a very well-made thriller that seems to have been overlooked because of the sheer magnitude of its competition - Psycho . Both of these films are testaments to the idea that low budgets are very capable of producing great films . It is not the size of the budget that matters , it is the skill of the filmmakers and the actors . Village of the Damned makes use of a variety of very easily done but also very effective special effects , such as the boundary across which all people and animals lose consciousness , the creepy eyes on those kids , and their hypnotic powers . The discussion of the exact same phenomenon happening to a few remote towns all over the world does a lot to show what these kids can do , and it increases the dramatic tension of the film as a whole . Cheaply made , but also very well made because a lot of thought was obviously put into it , Village of the Damned is a timeless thriller , even in black and white . When you watch a movie like this , if you are the kind of person who is so superficial about your movies that you refuse to watch black and white films , keep in mind that black and white photography REQUIRES good acting , to put it in the immortal words of Orson Welles . You can't have black and white photography and bad acting , the film would never work . Village of the Damned takes black and white photography and fills it with excellent acting , a fascinating story , and good direction that makes me wonder why this was the only film that Wolf Rilla ever directed .
" I don't like what you're become . . . "	In what is one of the best episodes of the Twilight Zone that I've seen so far , Brian Aherne stars as Booth Templeton , an aging Broadway play actor unhappy with what his life has become . One day , after witnessing his trophy wife flagrantly galavanting with an attractive lodger half Templeton's age , he beings lamenting about his lost past , and soon finds himself transported back to it . Anytime I see time travel stories in movies or TV shows , one of the most interesting things to me is how the actual time travel is presented . In this case , it's not presented at all , Templeton literally walks out to the door to go to work , we go to commercial , and when we come back he's dropped off more than 30 years in the past , but this episode still has more layers of meaning than any other episode of the show I've seen so far . Templeton is understandably shocked to find himself transported into his past , and succumbs to the obvious desire to get alone with his wife who , at the time we had met Templeton at the beginning of the episode , had been dead for many years but remained very much alive in his memories . In one of the show's most interesting scenes , he and his lost wife get into an argument , leading him to tell her he doesn't like what she has become . What we in the audience know , and Templeton eventually figures out , is that it's not her that has become anything , it is him who has been changed by the decades that have passed since the last time they saw each other . It's an interesting analysis of how people change over the years , both from who they were when they were younger and , unfortunately often , from the person they have chosen as their life partner . We wonder how happy Templeton and this woman would be had she lived . Watch for Sydney Pollack in an early role as an obnoxious director , of all things , and for Adhere's revelation early in the show of the fact that he has no idea how to tie a necktie . Past and present become confused at the end of the episode , but it's still one that makes you think even more than most other . . .
Well , they're definitely united ?	The original X-Men was a cool action movie with great special effects , excellent characters , awesome fight scenes , and , my personal favorite , some highly effective comic relief . Consider , for example , some of the stuff in the first film , such as the scene where Wolverine proves to Cyclops that he's really himself and not Mystique disguising herself as him , or when he tells Cyclops that someone else is in the room with them and to ' keep his eye open . ' Classic stuff , and as was the case in the original movie , the comic relief in the follow-up is great , and most of it comes from Wolverine . It's interesting to consider the fact that the movie tends to try to satisfy both its evolutionist audience as well as its creationist audience ( the latter of which obviously makes up a considerably smaller portion of the audience ) . Nightcrawler is a great character , although after the opening fight scene ( arguably the best scene in the entire film ) he changes into a completely different character almost immediately . I was looking forward to seeing him as a wonderfully effective villain ( at this point I'd like to remind you that I am not familiar with the X-Men comics and so don't know a lot about the characters beyond what's in the movies ) . I even loved the sound effects that were made when he would disappear and reappear somewhere else . It was strange that he kicked so much ass in the opening scene and then turned out to be completely timid . Besides being an interesting character , Nightcrawler is the one in which the majority of the faith-based content of the movie is concentrated . It is well known that evolution is based entirely on observable facts and is totally open to change when new revelations and discoveries are made , while creationism is based entirely on faith ( and , it might as well be noted , on ignoring observable facts ) . It's interesting to watch as the movie tends to switch back and forth between the two , seeming at first to be almost a fight for screen time by screenwriters of different ideologies but turning out to be a revelation that faith and evolution are not opposites , but can work together . Evolution is a fact , we KNOW that it is true , and X-Men takes the formula and uses it to make a great action movie . The dangerous line that it walks is that is provides creationists , people who are notorious for taking evolutionary theory and mutilating and distorting it completely beyond recognition in a desperate attempt to make it look ridiculous . It is not going to be any surprise to see hordes of creationists who will latch on to something like X-Men and accuse evolutionists of thinking that X-Men is some sort of documentary-style , non-fiction account of the generally accepted current state of human ' evolution . ' I would like to take this opportunity to laugh in advance . It should be obvious that this is a movie made for entertainment purposes , even if only by the fact that not all of the ' mutants ' are , in fact , mutants . Wolverine , for example , was created by a human ( not a God , by the way ) , as was his worthy adversary near the end of the film . But as far as taking enormous liberties with evolutionary theory , it should be noted that the movie also makes extensive efforts to clarify the way that evolution really works , although it leaves out the small detail that the X-Men are a massive exaggeration . In comparison with the original movie , X2 was a hugely entertaining and well-made action film , just like X1 , but it is the story that has evolved more than anything else . I loved the introduction of a new bad guy who forced the X-Men to come together , although the movie did tend to trip over itself at some points , such as with the paper-thin content of the meaning and need for the little boy with the freaky tongue . ( spoilers ) I was disappointed with the fate of Jean Grey , even if only because her ' death ' was so avoidable . It was never explained very clearly why she didn't stay on the jet and use all of her energy to lift the jet itself out of the path of the oncoming water instead of getting off and trying to levitate the jet while stopping the water at the same time . Even if exiting the jet was absolutely necessary , there is really no fathomable reason why , given the fact that she held the water back that long and was ultimately able to stop her efforts at lifting the jet , she could not let the water gradually come to her and slowly engulf her so that she could swim and wait for the jet to come back and pick her up . At any rate , if her death was necessary for furthering the story or for preparing for the next film ( the creation of a third X-Men is an absolute certainty , after all ) , then I suppose I can understand it , but making Jean's death necessary and making it believable are two of the weakest parts of the film . On the positive side , however , Hugh Jackman was given the opportunity to prove his effectiveness in performing emotionally charged scenes while playing a comic book character ( which is certainly a daunting task ) . Speaking of weak parts of the film , by the way , there is also Magneto's escape . Not only does Mystique inject a massive amount of ' iron ' into the body of one of Magneto's prison guards without killing him ( there are VERY few things that can be injected directly into the blood stream in that quantity without resulting in almost immediate death , and iron in ANY form is NOT one of them ) , but Magneto also manages to latch on to all of that iron and pull it out of the guard's body , using the nice little ball-bearings that he gets out of him to escape . However , even the most basically educated members of the audience , who realize that the iron in your blood is not exactly metal , will probably appreciate the way this was pulled off ( that is , of course , if they were able to see the screen enough while repeatedly slapping their foreheads in disbelief ) . I have never been into comic books , I don't think I've ever even seen a copy of an X-Men comic , but even coming into the films completely new like that I enjoyed both of them and I think they were both remarkably well-made . It is a sign of deserving respect when a movie or series of movies based on comics books or cartoons or old TV shows or something can entertain an audience that is not familiar with the original material ( this is not true for example , according to Roger Ebert , of the recent Scooby-Doo film , which I have yet to see or develop any interest in seeing ) . With that in mind , I think it would be appropriate to end by emphasizing the sheer broadness of the target audience . Kids will love the characters and the fighting and special effects , high school and college age kids will appreciate the same things as well as the intricacy of the story ( adults will more than likely appreciate this as well ) , and , as was the case with the first film , just about every male in the audience of any age and sexual orientation will appreciate the astronomical hotness of Mystique , which translated from the first film to this one quite well . I don't have much to say in defense of the little stunt that Magneto pulled in pulling the ' iron ' out of the guard's blood in order to escape , although even that was convincingly done . As with all movies , X2 has its faults , but it is definitely a worthy follow-up to the original , which was something of a tough act to follow .
Excellent remake !	So I briefly browsed through the postings for The Omen on the IMDb and noticed that someone had started a line of postings about strange occurrences on / 06 . I have one for you , although mine is more disappointing than strange . I go to the Marina Cinema in Marina del Rey , right by where I live , and I arrive minutes before screen time , walk around the corner and find a massive line for the ticket booth . Seconds from giving up and going home , I decide to stay in line because the whole reason I came to the movies on a Tuesday by myself after work was because I wanted the ticket stub for The Omen dated / 06 , so I stay in line . The line goes fast enough so that I get through in time enough even to stop and buy popcorn and a coke , the dietary supplement that I am by now convinced will eventually kill me , and walk into the theater . The lady tears my ticket , says " The Omen , Theater 2 , " and I'm on my way . I thoroughly enjoy the movie , and as I leave the theater with a smile on my face , I take my ticket out of my pocket , having not even looked at it since I purchased it , and as I look down to see how prominent the movie title and the date are displayed , I stop in shock as I read : Marina Unit 2418PresentingBREAK-UP-THE4 : 10PM TUE / 06Aud # 1I stop in my tracks in dismay , unfortunately in the middle of the street , and get honked at by the passing car that almost hits me . At least they got the date right ? Getting to the movie , I was surprised at how good it was , because it could so easily have been watered down , or have had the satanic element wildly exaggerated to appease the goofy teenage goth crowd that surrounded and horrendously irritated me throughout the film ( I was lucky enough to sit right in front of the one jerkoff who burst out into hysterical laughter every time Damien was on screen , an excellent way to summarily ruin the movie ) . Live Schreiber gives an outstanding performance as Robert Thorn , an up and coming young American Ambassador , surpassed perhaps only by Julia Stiles , whose portrayal of his increasingly disturbed wife is at once maternally comforting , subsequently unsettling and astonishingly accurate throughout . Seamus Davey-Fitzpatrick delivers an incredible performance as the satanic title character . In some scenes he is nothing short of frightening , such as when he is making a sandwich in the middle of the night and stares motionless at his awoken and inquisitive mother . At other times , however , the grimaces that he gives bring to my mind the image of the director behind the camera telling him to make a real , real mean face . Then again , that impression could very well have been inspired by that idiot behind me , laughing in my ear . I found some of the film to be a bit talky and slow , but it maintains a creepiness throughout and has some outstanding shocks , which is one of the areas that a movie like this is most likely to screw up , because the audience walks into the auditorium expecting and watching for them , and it is so hard to come up with something original . Remember the girl getting hit by the bus in Final Destination ? That is an example of originality . If there was a screeching cat in this movie it would have been a struggle for me to resist walking out of the theater , but the scares were plenty and they were effective . I have to say that I found it a bit odd to see the Italian priest at the beginning of the film giving a lecture about what he believed signaled the coming of the Antichrist , since it was inter cut with a lot of American tragedies . But no matter , the film was well made , the performances were spot on , and it was faithful to the original without being a simple re - shooting , as was famously the case with the Psycho re-make . . It's easy to immediately condemn a re-make of any kind as teetering on the verge of insulting the integrity and sanctity of the original , but given the sheer onslaught of remakes that are pouring out of Hollywood these days , I find myself pretty thankful to see one as faithful , yet original , as this one .
Possibly Christian Bale's most genuinely disturbed character ever ?	It's gotta be great to have a past like Christian Bale's , man . He has the perfect past for an actor , and he has the talent to put it together into something useful . He was born in England but was raised in England , Portugal , and California . I don't know how long or at what points in his life he lived in any of those places , but it helps to explain why he can so easily and effectively pull off such wildly different roles as the wealthy British kid in Empire of the Sun , the nutcase in American Psycho , the nutcase in The Machinist ( did you see that thing ? See it ! ) , Batman , for crying out loud , and of course the nutcase in Harsh Times . I had never heard of Harsh Times when I stumbled across it in a pirated DVD store a couple weeks ago , but for 6 yuan ( about 85 cents ) I could hardly go wrong , right ? Bale plays the part of the perfectly named Jim Luther Davis , a south-central Los Angeles native with dreams of a high-ranking career with the LAPD and who couldn't possibly have a more military sounding name . He has a fiancé in Mexico that we understand that he truly loves and hopes to land a good job so he can bring her to the states . His best friend Mike is living comfortably off his girlfriend , who he supported as she went to college but who now has a successful legal career and is pressuring him to get off hit butt and get a job himself . Jim and Mike on their own seem to have real goals , they seem to really want to get their acts together and achieve their ultimate goals , but they have very different priorities on the path to their respective versions of success . Mike truly wants to find a god job . He really loves his girlfriend and he really wants to make her happy even though she's a nagging wench ( sorry , but she is ) , while Jim on the other hand feels that they're both about to get the jobs and paychecks that they deserve , so they better make the best use of their dwindling free time in the best way that they can , which generally involves weed , beer , and driving . Nice ! The movie does an amazing job of creating two characters native to the more dangerous sections of Los Angeles . I lived in LA for some years , and while I never lived in south central ( and Venice Beach hardly qualifies as one of the hard parts of LA ) , I have spent time in east LA ( and I lived in Oakland for a while as a kid ) , so I understand some of the harsh realities of urban life . Not that I've ever gotten involved in selling drugs or stolen guns or , you know , impulsive multiple murders , but there is a level of realism achieved with this movie that gives it an effect that a lesser movie could never have reached . It was written and directed by David Ayer , the same guy who wrote the screenplays for both U-571 and Training Day , so it comes from the pen of someone who knows how to generate tension and how to create complex characters . Christian Bale's Jim is a character whose complexities would have been cartoonish in a lesser movie , but with Bale's incredible performance and Ayer's capable work behind the camera , the movie comes off as a surprisingly good character drama . It will definitely be too violent and , ah , harsh for some tastes , and there is a scene about three quarters of the way through the film that is pretty difficult to sit through , but you have to remember that nothing is compromised for wide appeal or pacification . Harsh Times strikes me as the kind of gritty action drama where a few people got together and made the movie they wanted to make without any consideration for what anyone would think of it . And if more people did that these days , just imagine how much better our movies would be ?
So different , and yet so much the same . . .	The first thing that struck me as I started watching Barry Lyndon ( which I'll admit that I knew almost nothing about when I put it on ) was that it's a period film , something that I have definitely not come to expect from Kubrick . Granted , I'm a little behind in my detailed look at his filmography , given that more than a quarter century passed between the film's release and me finally getting around to watching it , but I very soon began to see the same Kubrick that I have come to know and love . The film is about a man named Redmond Barry , who we love and then hate and then pity and then admire for his luck and then pity , love , hate , etc . And the most interesting thing about him , of course , is the sheer magnitude of events that happen to him , given that he never for one second has even the slightest bit of control over his own life . He begins with a childish crush on his own cousin , which leads him to engage in a foolish duel , the results of which force him to flee his home without much plan of what to do with himself , other than make himself scarce until things blow over . And we witness the beginning of his truly bizarre adulthood , during which time he is robbed and forced to join the British Army basically just because he had no other choice , and then an increasingly unexpected series of circumstances and events take place that ultimately lead him to the most unexpected conclusion . The film itself is structured in an interesting way , in that it is filmed and presented with such an emotionless detachment . As Ebert pointed out , there is a narrator that gives away any important events in advance to remove any sense of tension or suspense , and he narrates as though he were talking about field mice rather than real people . As such , the film is able to come across more as an exploration of Kubrick's ideas of human nature rather than another cloying period romance . Bravo ! I have read ( and am not surprised by ) a lot of people saying that the movie is intolerably boring , which I must say is to be expected . Like so many Kubrick films , it is prohibitively long at just over three hours , and it is interesting in that it gives a feeling that nothing ever happens from beginning to end , and yet there is ALWAYS something happening . Personally I absolutely loved it . It reminded me of another unique and enormously entertaining period film , Tom Jones , with it's brilliant comic performance by Albert Finney . Recenltly I have been going back and watching all of the Kubrick movies that I haven't seen as of yet , and even at it's prodigious length and slow pace ( which is a Kubrick trademark if I've ever seen one ) , Barry Lyndon is still one of my favorites , at least of the overlooked classics . It is a bit of a commitment , but well worth it .
NOT the Russian One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest .	One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest is a great movie that was based on an even greater book , but I wish people wouldn't compare this movie to that one so often . Yes , the similarities are extensive and impossible to miss , but House of Fools , as the title translates into English , is a different film that has it's own weight and it's own meanings . This is not , by any means whatsoever , another vision of Ken Kesey's classic , nor is it a remake in any way of that of Milos Forman . ( spoilers ) Yuliya Vysotskaya , who played Janna , the main character , delivers a wonderful performance of this woman who lives in a mental hospital right on the Russian border during the Chechen War ( a war about which I admittedly know absolutely nothing ) . Her ailment is never made clear ( nor are any of the others ) , except for a scene in the middle of the movie where she reveals , through dialogue , some of what are probably many more illusions ( I won't count her illusory belief that she can dance ) . As she is being abandoned by Ahmed , who she thinks is the love of her life , she tells him that she loves him , and asks him to please don't kill her . Then she tells the mud that she loves it , and please don't kill her , etc . Her mental condition is not important , although her character , while skillfully performed , is so laden with a cloying freight of symbolism that it often becomes difficult to see her as a person rather than a heavily symbolic character in a heavily symbolic movie . There is a common misconception ( supported by the movie's very own tagline ) that the doctors at the mental hospital around which the story revolved abandoned the patients , leaving them to fend for themselves during the Chechen War during which the movie takes place . I don't really understand this assertion , since the doctor returns at the end of the film , explains what happened to him when he went to find a bus to transfer the patients to a better hospital . Just the fact that he returned should have been enough to show that he didn't simply ditch them all . I wish I had a better memory for the names of the characters in the movie , because one of the other patients , the one with the wraparound glasses and the backpack full of his poetry , played a significant role in the movie . He and Janna are clearly the mother and father figures for the rest of the patients when they are left to their own devices , seeing over the rest of the cast and , periodically , offering the chance for audience members to question the validity of their respective mental instabilities . I don't know much about mental disorders , but there were certainly scenes in this movie where it seemed to me that they were being treated for more mental instability than they regularly displayed . These were balanced out , however , by scenes where they each displayed rather crippling disabilities , his the complete inability to communicate or assess situations effectively , and hers some dangerous attachment issues and the displacement of emotions onto things like inanimate objects . As far as the war goes , I won't go into detail about the meaning of the war itself in the film because , like I mentioned above , I know nothing about the war that is going on offscreen , but the movie makes some interesting points about the chaos and destructiveness of war . One of them is the almost-cliché of the man who saves another man's life , only to find himself fighting on the opposite side from him later on . Sort of a cliché by now , yes , but it adds to the movie's later concentration on the chaos and confusion surrounding war in general . There are several scenes in which the mental patients are understandably terrified and utterly lost as to what is going on around them . This is to be expected , but there are also several scenes in which the soldiers and even their commanders are pretty confused as to what is happening . One tense scene has two opposing factions facing each other ( notably making an illicit drug deal ) , when one of the soldiers carelessly stumbles on his gun , making it fire off a few rounds into the air , which leads to the two groups firing machine guns at each other for several seconds before anyone realizes that it was all just a stupid mistake . The soldier who accidentally caused it laughs it off . The references to One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest are everywhere . The patients are left to their own devices ( in this case because the doctor left longer than intended because he was delayed by the war , in the other case because McMurphy persuaded them all to escape for a while ) , which has a healing effect on all of them but not enough to make any of them want to leave the hospital , their home , at the end of the film . There's an interesting element of the movie involving Bryan Adams , who literally colors Janna's life with his music , even though she has a completely delusional relationship with him , which would seem to have a detrimental effect on her mental health . What I see by his occasional entrances into the movie are not some weak effort to provide recognizance by inserting an American pop star , but a layered effect of meaning that reflects the many other layers of meaning in the film . Bryan Adams , while he is not meant to have had a real relationship with this woman who thinks that she is engaged to him , lights up her life with his music ( notice how the color fills the screen when it's playing ) , while she attempts to do the same for the rest of the patients with her own accordion playing . She doesn't always succeed with all of them , but she certainly does much more than she does with the soldiers , who she also plays for on more than one occasion , and is laughed at each time ( which may very well signify some kind of juvenile cynicism among the lower ranks of military forces ) . I don't pretend to understand every level of symbolism that is portrayed in this movie , but it's important to notice that they're there . It's amazing how much more meaning and importance some little movie from Russia like this has than the typical multi-million dollar blockbuster released here in America , and I really wish that people would pay at least a tiny bit more attention to the few movies released ( dare I say the majority of which come from other countries ? ) that actually mean something . There are a lot of things in this movie that are difficult to comprehend , indeed , many which seem to be in the movie as examples of pure artistic expression , but the movie as a whole , like it's main character , is so laden with meaning and symbolism that it is virtually impossible to see it all on just one viewing . The movie deserves at LEAST that much .
A very different kind of war movie .	Jacknife is a war movie that is just about as far removed from the war as war movies get . It can hardly be classified as a war film , because the only way that any war has an effect on the story or the characters is in their memories of it , and even these we are hardly ever shown . It poses very interesting questions about life , especially in the way that the movie's tagline says that only one of them is really alive ( and by the way , even though the tagline refers only to Dave ( Ed Harris ) and Megs ( Robert DeNiro ) , it is talking about all three of the characters in the film ) . Dave and Megs were friends in the Vietnam war , and Megs has returned to take Dave out on a fishing trip that they have been planning for a lot longer than you might have guessed . DeNiro provides a perfect performance of the character of Megs , who we are not really sure if we should like or if he really is as nuts as Martha thinks he is . Dave reminds Martha several times that Megs is not his friend , just someone he knows . There is a great scene early in the film where Megs has gone out to grab a six pack of beer from his car for breakfast , and he is just around the corner of the room when Dave says this . Megs pauses for a moment and then proceeds into the room with a smile and a huge greeting . It isn't until later that you realize how Megs must have felt when he heard that , having been the one to remember what they had planned to do on this day . It reminds me of the fakeness of the old , ' Sure , let's do that , ' thing that people so often say to each other , never having any plans to do any such thing . Ed Harris delivers a wonderful performance as Dave , who never got over the effects that the war had on him . Even so many years later he has not managed to get over the death of a friend during the war , blaming himself to this day for it and thus drowning his life in alcohol , cigarettes , and loneliness . All he wants , he says , is for people to leave him alone . This is not a man who is living his life the way he wants , whether people actually leave him alone or not , he is a man trying to forget that he's alive , to detach himself from the world of the living as much as possible . His sister Martha reminds me of myself , at least in terms of my roommates . I have two roommates who are 21 and 24 years old , and both act like they still live with their mothers , expecting their messes to just go away when they leave the room for a while . One on particular ( the older one , sadly enough ) , has absolutely no clue how to care for himself , I'm surprised I don't have to wipe his chin while he eats . Martha has to do much the same for her brother , who she waits on hand and foot while he staggers through life from one hangover to the next . Martha and Dave are stuck in a stagnant life and neither of them can get out of it until something major changes , and Dave is the one that needs to do the changing . I tend to complain about romance in movies where it just doesn't belong about as much as Roger Ebert complains about those pathetic little tension devices , the red digital readout . But in this case , I don't think that the romance that develops between Megs and Martha had any adverse affect on the rest of the movie . On the contrary , it made it that much more interesting , because it was not predictable . The problem with the romantic subplots in Bruckheimer movies and whatnot is that they are so predictable that you just wait for the obvious end to come and hope that something interesting happens along the way . In this case , however , it's not as obvious that something is going to happen between Megs and Martha because we don't know enough about Megs . Martha could be right about him , that he's one of Dave's crazy war buddies and that he's not the kind of man that she should be dating . Dave certainly encourages this idea . ( spoilers ) A couple years after this movie , DeNiro did Cape Fear , where he plays a deranged criminal out for revenge against the lawyer that landed him in prison , a character that , in retrospect , makes it pretty easy to think that maybe at the end of Jacknife Martha realizes her mistake , gets rid of Megs , and she and Dave make up because he saved her from a horrible relationship and then he decides to clean up his act because he has done something good for her . I was half expecting this to happen , so I was pleasantly surprised when Martha and Megs wound up together and even more pleasantly surprised when Megs asks Dave all the questions about what they had planned to do after the war was over . At times this is a slow moving drama , but Jacknife is entertaining along the way and has a huge payoff at the end , which amazingly manages to be sappy without being cheesy . There is an almost excess of emotion at the end of the film that scarcely fits with the rest of the movie , but it is so good that it doesn't dumb down anything that the movie has accomplished up to that point . Everyone involved gives a wonderful performance , and it is one of those rare films that just about makes you want to stand up and shake your fists victoriously in the air .
Hey wait a minute , what HAVE I done lately ?	I wasn't excited to see Wanted . I'm back in America for the summer and I was going to the movies with a friend , and she has what can only be called an unhealthy obsession with Angelina Jolie , so of course this was at the top of the list of movies to see . Personally I don't understand a lot of the hype about her as an actor , but I have to admit she looks good with a gun so I decided to check out the movie . In perusing some of the reviews on the IMDb , it seems that people either loved it or hated it . I liked it a lot , although you have to understand that it's what I call an over-the-top action movie , where everything is taken to the extreme ( see " Shoot ' Em Up " ) . With movies like this the goal is spectacle , not realism . Hence all of these piddly complaints about the physics involved in bending bullets are rendered meaningless . Why would you complain about realistic stunts when cars can flip through the air with precision and then accelerate off the side of a bus ? Or when super-assassins can throw bullet curveballs ? Is it not obvious what that this is not exactly cinema verite ? I have to agree that some of the plot devices are a little witless ( a magic loom that weaves fate ? Come on . . . ) , but the action is outstanding to say the least . Angelina has clearly been working on her war face , every time she fired her gun and showed that grimace I could only imagine her in her cavernous mansion practicing for hours on end in front of a mirror , but especially in comparison to a lot of the garbage sent to theaters these days , the entertainment is high . The movie is loud , fast , and explosive , but not exactly a cognitive workout . It's great as an hour and a half of action entertainment , and it's also fun to pick out the scenes that feed off of other films , the most obvious to me being Office Space , one of my favorite comedies . I have only recently become aware of James McAvoy , after seeing The Last King of Scotland and Atonement ( which , in a single shot , features , by McAvoy , one of the finest pieces of acting I've ever seen in a movie - see my Atonement review . . . ) , and while he doesn't exactly knock my socks off here with his performance , he's perfect for the role and pulls off a disillusioned blue-collar American perfectly . Add him to the list of British actors so talented that many moviegoers didn't even know he was British . To a greater extent than McAvoy , obviously , the great Morgan Freeman is also clearly just having a good time here . The material is distantly below his talents , as it is for McAvoy , but at the same time , I see no reason why actors of his caliber shouldn't do a movie like this every once in a while . Shoot ' Em Up , as well , is also distantly below the talents of Clive Owen , but MAN he was good in it ! Angelina Jolie , however , fits right in here , because this is the kind of movie that she is best in . I am thrilled , by the way , to have read that she has been ordered to gain weight for her next role , partly so she will be attractive again , and partly so she won't faint on set , like she did while making this movie . At any rate , I won't say to ignore all of the bad press about the movie , because it's true that a lot of people won't like it , but it seems a perfect example of a movie that , if you go in with the right state of mind , it can be great fun . The cleverness of the highly choreographed stunts , for me , often outweighed my lack of belief . Enjoy !
More complex than it looks .	Chaplin's early short films are common targets for complaints about their simplicity and lack of real story or plot , but I think it is important to remember that the films were made at time when huge audiences wanted to see films exactly like this . Chaplin had no great directors of the past to look to for inspiration , and film itself was an emerging medium , so really the only thing he had available to him was to see what worked and what didn't work by trial and error . Bricks and punches and kicks and everyone falling into the lake made people laugh , so that's what Chaplin gave them , and it helped him to achieve the success that allowed him to bring us the truly great films of his later career , so I think it's unfair to judge these films by the same standards as what Chaplin achieved later , and it also prevents you from really enjoying these films for what they are . Audiences in 1914 , for example , would have been fascinated by something as simple as one frame showing a person throwing a brick off screen , and then the next shot showing the brick flying into the screen . It is such a simple technique , but this is how movies started , and something this simple would have nearly knocked people over , because what they were looking at was really a moving picture , and one which really came to life because it moved so effortlessly around the park or the stage or the set or wherever the film took place . The important thing back then was not a moving story , but a moving picture . And if you could throw in a few punches and a few cops getting hit with bricks , so much the better . Also , if you think that it is a joke to say that a film like this was " Written and Directed by Charlie Chaplin " since there is clearly no writing or direction involved , I would argue that you have simply never considered what is involved in making a short film . Yes , Chaplin has said on numerous occasions that in those days all he needed was a cop , a pretty woman , and a park and he had the ingredients for a short film , but he didn't mean that he could get away with throwing together something that simple , he meant that that was all he needed to satisfy his audience , and any entertainer's number one concern is to give the people what they want . Since Chaplin began his career acting on stage , he was thinking about the immediate appeal to his audience , not about critics or how history would see his films . He wanted people to laugh while sitting in their seats in the theater in 1914 , not in 90 years when they were watching DVD compilations of his early work . The film even seems to have been randomly titled , since " Recreation " really has absolutely nothing to do with what happens on the screen . It could even refer more to the film itself being made by Chaplin and a couple of friends just for fun than the story that unfolds on the screen . There are a couple of classic Chaplin moments in the film , such as when he tries to put both of his feet up on a fence rail , and when a police officer sees him just as he is about the throw a brick , but for the most part the film is just a raucous slapstick romp involving a girl who wanders away from her boyfriend , who falls asleep while sitting with her on a park bench , and then a fight ensues over her affections and ultimately involves a couple of cops who want to find out who's throwing bricks around . As some reviewers have noted , it seems to be a good example of what Chaplin was talking about when he said that in the old days all he needed was a cop , a girl , and a park bench and he could make a film , but I think this is a little misleading , because the film is more complex than it looks . Yes , of course the comedy is very , very simple , but it's a mistake to say there is no direction or story or plot . Scripts for silent films were very different than talking films , and while a lot of the comedy is clearly improvised , there is still more planning involved in putting something like this together than you might think . I made a few 6 or 8 minute films for film classes when I was in college , and at the time I was so proud of them I almost couldn't stand it , but looking back , it's amazing how flawed and simplistic they are , despite the hours and hours of work I put into planning and shooting and editing them . I think that in order to really enjoy Chaplin's early films for what they are ( and they are certainly still enjoyable , despite the physical decay and the lack of depth or story ) , you have to have either made your own short films or be willing to be open minded about something that was made in a very different time for very different audiences and with very different technology . If you consider the other films that were coming out at the time , these were some of the best .
Confessions of a porn industry ?	Boogie Nights is a surprisingly good drama that deals with one man's rise and fall in the adult film industry . Mark Wahlberg delivers one of the best performances of his career as Eddie Adams , the young man who is spotted at his job as a busboy by porn filmmaker Jack Horner ( Burt Reynolds ) , and who changes his name to Dirk Diggler , the newest and temporarily most popular porn star in the business . Wahlberg even managed to make the screaming , emotional scene very convincing , which is the type of scene that is almost always screwed up ( see about 90 % of Chasing Amy ) . Evidently , Horner's dream is to make an adult film that has a good story , and literally sucks the audience into it . Maybe there should have been some debate about whether or not that was possible , or necessary ( who goes to see a porno for the story ? ) , but it doesn't matter that there wasn't . The 1970s are very realistically created , in every way from the outfits to the disco soundtrack to the god-awful interior decorating . Heather Graham is also very convincing as Rollergirl , the high school girl who flunks out of school and works in the adult film industry as well . This , by the way , is one of the roles that makes her performance in Lost In Space totally unconvincing and impossible to take seriously . Poor William H . Macy plays one of his traditional , unenviable roles . Why does this guy always get awful parts in his movies ? This poor guy's wife is constantly cheating on him ( in some cases , in the middle of a circle of gaping , nearly comatose people ) , and she clearly has no respect for him . And to make matters worse , being in the porn industry , no one seems to understand what his conflict is . ( spoilers ) The majority of the film deals with the business aspect of adult films ? everything from the hiring to the shooting to the big money and drugs and the awards ceremonies . While this aspect of the film was very well done , as was Dirk's eventual fall from celebrity status , there were a lot of things about the movie that were either very badly presented or just didn't make any sense . For example , near the end , when the donut shop gets robbed , the robber walks in with a gun and pays all of his attention to the black guy in the nice white suit while he's robbing the store , completely ignoring the rough looking redneck with the hunting magazine that was sitting in a nearby booth . And then , after all of them have ingeniously shot each other to death , Cheadle's character grabs the paper bag full of money off the floor and runs . Evidently , he didn't see the recent film A Lesson Before Dying ( in which he starred ) , which was about a black guy in the 1940s who did that exact same thing and then faced murder charges in a heavily racist society . And then there is the scene where Dirk and a couple of his buddies go out to sell a large quantity of fake drugs to a big time drug dealer with the intent of robbing him ( in a scene , by the way , where Sister Christian is playing , which is Marilyn Manson's favorite song ) . What the hell was going on in that scene ? ! There was some half naked Chinese kid walking around and casually lighting off dozens of fireworks in the freakin ' house ! This was one of the things about this movie that made no sense whatsoever and just should not have been there . Overall , despite numerous weaknesses , Boogie Nights is a very good film that is miraculously able to live up to all of the expected notoriety that it developed , given such facts as that Heather Graham gets naked in the movie and , of course , that infamous , groan inducing final scene . Ironically , I think that the film deserves extra praise because they had enough nerve to make a film about a topic that is not generally accepted by society . The thing that really makes Boogie Nights succeed is that it is based on reality . It's not attempting to use the nudity or the subject matter to pull along a weak script . All of the big porn stars eventually fall from stardom , and return to small and unappealing occupations . And the occasional pedophile winds up exactly where he belongs ? in prison getting slapped around and treated like a bitch by a huge black man . Paul Thomas Anderson wrote and directed a film about the porn industry , which is one of the most hated industries in the world , and the film that resulted is not only informative about the workings of that industry , but also very entertaining .
Like Dianne's , this one really adds to the story .	Of the three short plot hole videos included on the Shaun of the Dead DVD , Dianne's and Ed's add something new and unexpected to the story , while Shaun's simply illustrates what we already knew , while at the same time coming off as amusing and fun . Nick Frost narrates the brief and believable story of how he managed to , ah , survive the incoming onslaught of zombies from which Shaun and Liz barely escape . Granted , this is a zombie film , so the term " believable " has to be used in an entirely different way , but what I mean is that what happens in this little video fits with the rest of the story . And as with Dianne's story , there's a clever little joke in there at the end . Pretty fun stuff .
Contrary to recent theories , the living dead are actually very slow moving ?	This is the first time I've ever seen a movie make an effort like this to clear up so-called plot holes in the story . The plot holes here are really not plot holes at all , but strike me instead as just being some things that they wanted to tell a little more about , probably because they had such a good time making the movie . We don't need to know exact details of what happened when Shaun led the zombies away , and it's reasonable to assume that Dianne was killed by the zombies after she went after David , who was dismembered before our eyes . How Ed became a zombie-pet for Shaun is indeed curious , but it strikes me more as one last joke than an important plot point . Nevertheless , these short animated comic-book style stories serve as a fun supplement to the rest of the movie , and I hope to see other movies take this example in the future . Simon Pegg narrates with the same comedic tone as the movie , mentioning how sometimes he had to sit and wait for the slow-moving zombies to catch up with him , so he could continue to lead them away from the Winchester . Nice work !
Excellent short comedy in which Charlie Chaplin satirizes his own craft .	Chaplin plays the part of David , the lowly assistant to the oafish stage hand Goliath , and as is to be expected , everything goes wrong in the most hilarious ways . Being an early short Chaplin comedy , a good portion of the comedy is slapstick , with such elaborately acted scenes as the one with the stage pillar prop that just would not seem to stand up . Poor David works like a slave for the lazy Goliath , but at first , he just keeps messing things up - he just can't seem to do anything right . But later , when he starts working really hard and doing things right , his boss always walks in just as he sits down to rest , and he gets into trouble for loafing on the job , and Goliath , who spends most of his time sleeping , gets all of the credit for David's work . Not only does this film satirize the falsity of film and stage , but it also goes into actual filming , in the surprisingly effective pie throwing scene . Eventually , all of the workers go on strike , leaving only David and Goliath on stage and , as is common in Chaplin's films , he ends up the victor as a result of some inadvertent events concerning a trap door and a lot of guys fighting . The ending of this film is unusually violent for a generally light Chaplin comedy , but the comedic value is never diminished .
Dana Brown brings to the screen another adventure that so many would otherwise never see .	Dana Brown follows up his spectacular surfing documentary Step Into Liquid with the spectacular race documentary Dust to Glory . I just read the unemployed critic's review in which he asserts that Dana Brown had some kind of ulterior motive in imposing meaning onto the race itself which was never there to begin with and doesn't fit with the material anyway , which is outstandingly wrong . Then again , he also called Step Into Liquid " lukewarm , " so the fact that Brown's next film blew over his head as well is hardly lightning out of a clear sky for unexpectedness . Brown highlights the human aspect of the Baja 1000 , a grueling , 24 hour race down the length of Baja California , but the movie is only peppered with scenes about the race , because it's not about winning , it's about being out there with so many other like-minded people , and the people you meet and the adventures you have along the way . It's amazing to see people in million dollar trucks racing on the same course as people driving un-modified Volkswagen Beetles , and the film manages to overcome the tendency to identify other drivers as cars rather then people . Brown's narration is just as effective as it was in Step Into Liquid , and it is clear in both films that he is fascinated with the subject material and is not simply reporting it . Interestingly , he describes the Baja 1000 at one point as the longest nonstop endurance race in the world , which is not even remotely true . The Race Across America has taken place every year since 1982 , and is a 3000 mile transcontinental endurance race on BICYCLES , no less . Let's put it this way . By the time the Baja 1000 is over , most riders have not taken a single break from riding in the Race Across America . They generally ride for about the first 40-50 hours literally without getting off the bicycle , then they stop and sleep for 90 minutes , then get up and get back on the bike and ride 22 hours a day until they get to the East Coast . The Baja 1000 is truly an impressive event , but as an endurance race it doesn't even compare to Race Across America . Nonetheless , Brown again displays his skill in bringing the wonder and excitement of such an unusual event to the screen , telling the story thoroughly and entertainingly , and certainly leaving me wondering what marvels he'll focus on next .
I should have watched this a long time ago .	It was Quentin Tarantino's famous interest in the old 1970s blaxploitation films , as well as Pam Grier , that first got me interested in the genre , but not knowing what the genre was really about , or at least not knowing the history behind it's formation , its themes , even its actors , made me not enjoy the first handful of the films that I watched , like Coffy , Foxy Brown , Black Mama , White Mama , and Sheba , Baby . Granted , I don't think any amount of documentaries could make me enjoy Sweet Sweetback's Badaaasss Song , but I suppose I can certainly understand the society in which it was made . What I loved about this documentary is the way it gives a look not only at the blaxploitation films of the 19670s , but also gives the historical context under which they were made , including their level of popularity in places like Los Angeles , where I live , and Hollywood's response . There are a number of debatable claims made in the documentary , such as blaxloitation saving Hollywood or Hollywood killing the blaxploitation genre , but what I really appreciated were the interviews from some of the original actors as well as brief looks at several of the more prominent blaxploitatoin films , some of which I enjoyed , like Black Caesar , and some of which remain not really my favorites , like Sweet Sweetback and Super Fly . The cast give very revealing interviews , both about their experience in being involved in the blaxpoitation genre , as well as giving their insights into the meaning and fate of the genre . I was glad to see that Quentin Tarantino appears to talk about blaxploitation's influence on him and his films because he is obviously so heavily inspired by them , but there were some other heavyweights that are far too conspicuously absent , most notably the tremendously successful Spike Lee . Odd , since this documentary was released in 2002 , far too early for them to have already been mad at Spike for She Hate Me . Gloria Hendry tells the story about getting her first role in Black Caesar and becoming instantly famous , and others talk about their involvement and experience with the genre , such as Samuel L . Jackson and even Ameni Shakur , Tupac's mother , who was a member of the Black Panther party . Pam Grier gives a brilliant interview , revealing a depth of character and a studied intelligence that far surpasses anything that she has ever been able to reveal in any of her films . She speaks so intelligently that this interview alone almost makes it look like she has been accepting roles far beneath her ability for the majority of her career . And she's good , too , I'd like to see a lot more of her in the future . I really think she has adapted well to the changes that have taken place in her life and in the film industry since the end of blaxploitation . Fred Williamson , one of the most famous actors from the genre , gives a rather sour , disillusioned interview , focusing on pretty negative subjects and ideas . The one that stuck out to me the most was that he said something like no one ever wanted black film , their was never any real desire or need for it , people just wanted to see black people on film . Something like that , at any rate , he claimed that no one ever really wanted blaxploitation , it happened for other , more superficial reasons , which I don't agree with at all . The people that packed those theaters sure wanted it . Blaxploitation is something of an offbeat subgenre in cultural film history , but I think that it is one that needs some explanation before a lot of people will really enjoy , and some people won't enjoy it even then . Sort of like how some supplemental documentaries included with DVDs will make you enjoy certain movies more than you otherwise would have , this documentary is an excellent way to get a basic introduction to the genre , and make sure to have a pen and paper handy when you watch it , because you'll want to write down some of the movies that it talks about so you can remember to watch them !
Ah , to have had penicillin in the old west . . .	A family traveling west in hopes of striking it rich in a mysterious paradise that they've heard about called California suffers more and more every day , until they can think of nothing but the heat and thirst and sickness that they deal with on a daily basis . Serling gives us a pretty obvious story where he imagines what would have happened if one of those people traveling west all those years ago were to have been able to experience modern convenience for just one afternoon during that torturous journey . It's not the wildest stretch of the imagination as far as a story idea , but the entertainment is high and the performances are some of the best I've seen so far in the series . The couple in the diner hit the nail right on the head with their subdued reactions to the strange stranger's story , not sure to react with shock or to hide their surprise from someone who must be a little crazy . There's a cute twist at the end and an interesting paradox that calls your attention of the episode thus far into question , the time travel is not presented as anything more than simply walking over a sand bank , and the 100-years-in-the-future theme is done again the following week , but this is an excellent example of how good the twilight zone can be .
The lady vanishes . . .	I'm not sure if , at the time this movie takes place , it would have been as pointless to steal one of the world's great treasures as it would be today ( what are they going to do , put it up for sale in the London Times ? ) , but whatever the case , this classic Sherlock Holmes case keeps you guessing even though you already know you're going to be kept guessing . I think it's the mark of a great mystery when it can pull the hood over your eyes even while you're watching all the while for it to happen . I have to say that I'm not quite sure where the title Terror By Night came from , since nothing scary or terrible happens in the movie , but it's a classic mystery still just as satisfying as it must have been in 1946 .
Serling gets serious . . .	Dust is one of the episodes of the twilight zone that deals with the very real and very scary subject of a person taking another life while operating a vehicle while drunk . It takes place in the interesting setting of the old west , rather than modern , early 1960s America ( when , incidentally , Dick Cheney was first arrested for drunk driving . His second arrest was fully a year later ) . A humble Mexican man has accidentally taken the life of a young girl while driving his wagon through town , and is slated to be hanged in front of the angry townspeople . A sleazy self-labeled businessman ( also a drunk , interestingly enough ) , shows up at the jail and taunts the condemned man , berating him for his crime and taunting him about his impending death . The convicted man sits silently , clearly suffering desperate grief for what he has done . What I love the most about the episode is that it shows all sides of the case , but still never really calls any of them right or wrong . We see the desperate fear and grief of the condemned , the unbearable suffering of the parents who have lost their child , the anger of the townspeople , represented mostly by the sleazy businessman but also by a local father who has brought the whole family to watch the execution in order to teach the children something about the real world , the horrified father of the condemned , begging for his son's life , and even the disillusioned sheriff , disappointed that all he can to do prevent crime is to inflict more violence for a killing that he couldn't stop . The father of the condemned man gives the only real performance in the episode as he begs for his son's life in front of the crowd just before the hanging is about to take place , but the most important scene in the show is at the very end , in which we witness an unexpected bit of character change . The strangeness of the ordinary subject matter of the twilight zone is replaced by what it seems to suggest as the human heart's wonderful capacity for forgiveness . The man committed a crime , but in this case it seems that something other than death is the best punishment . The show suggests , correctly , that someone who has inadvertently taken a life by drunken driving will suffer for the rest of their life , imprisoned or not , and they don't need further punishment , at least in the form of execution . This is one of the more serious episodes of the twilight zone that I've seen and one that deals not with anything paranormal , but briefly ( and possibly not at all ) only with something as little as superstition . A case of what we now would call double jeopardy leads to the possibility that there is magic in the air or , more likely , a just punishment is inflicted , despite it not being the one intended . Excellent show .
This is the classic action film that introduces one of the best action duos ever to come to the big screen .	Lethal Weapon is a nearly perfectly structured action movie . The acting , the story , the script , the directing , even the IDEA of the movie all combine to make up a fascinating and thrill-packed police film . The cross-cutting at the beginning of the film was particularly effective , in my opinion , as Martin Riggs ( Mel Gibson ) and Roger Murtaugh ( Danny Glover ) are introduced . The startling difference between their separate lives provides for tons of fun to be had later in the movie . Roger starts his day off as the family man reluctantly celebrating his 50th birthday party with his numerous children and his loving wife in the big family house , while Riggs is shown waking up naked in his trashy trailer and beginning his day with a healthy breakfast of a cigarette and a beer . The fact that both Roger and Riggs hated that they had to work together was especially effective in creating a touching atmosphere as they grew to be closer and closer friends . They worked so well together in this movie ; it was a symbiotic relationship . It was almost like they fed off of each other , and kept each other in line and out of trouble . I also liked the way that they showed that Riggs was deeply angered when he learned that the bad guys had taken Murtaugh's daughter . Things like this , when done right , can really get you to sit up and really get into the movie , and it was definitely done right here . Riggs was also very amusing in his anxiousness about being a cop ( ' Why don't you let me go to sleep ? ' ' No , come on , we gotta get up and catch bad guys ! ' ) , and Gary Busey delivers an excellent performance as the lead bad guy . This is the type of role that he plays best ( see " Under Siege " ) . Although the violence was painfully present in some parts ( the torture scenes were short but extremely difficult to watch ) , the film never relied on violence to pull it along or keep the audience's attention . The story was sufficient enough so that there was no overindulgence necessary in anything like that . In this film you see the first of the now traditional Lethal Weapon scenes in which Riggs and Murtaugh stagger away from a smoking crime scene , seeming to hold each other up . The final fight scene between Riggs and Mr . Joshua ( Busey ) was a little excessive , and there were a few scenes which were a bit faulty ( how did the guy on the building ledge expect to kill himself when there was such a huge air bag inflated on the ground directly below him ? ) , but overall this was a spectacular crime thriller . The movie rushes along at a feverish pace , and particularly Gibson's and Glover's success working together on screen make this a timeless action film that is not to be missed .
An excellent legal thriller . One of Tom Cruise's best performances .	In The Firm , Tom Cruise plays an extremely intelligent young lawyer who takes a job with a tremendous firm , having been seduced by their huge financial offerings . " The Firm " begins to sound very creepy very early in the film , when it becomes known that ' the firm ' has never had a divorce , ' the firm ' encourages children , ' ' the firm ' is a big , happy , 41 member family . Unfortunately , it seems that another interesting little side note is that no one has ever left ' the firm ' and lived . Mitch McDeere ( Cruise ) is hired by ' the firm , ' and at first , everything is great . The firm loves him enough to pay back all of his student loans all at once , and he is completely taken in by everything , even down to the way that the firm furnished his new house , in his beautiful new neighborhood ( ' To make you feel at home . Hope you don't mind . ' ) . The lives of Mitch and his wife Abby ( Jeanne Triplehorn ) are completely and drastically changed when he is hired by the firm , setting up a disorienting atmosphere , especially when strange things start happening , people getting killed by boat bombs and whatnot . Gary Busey plays a small , seedy role , and it works really well because he's best at playing seedy characters . Ed Harris also delivers a good performance as an FBI agent trying to coerce McDeere into helping them investigate the big bad firm . It seems that McDeere has been helping the firm in its illegal activities , making him guilty without him even knowing about it . If he doesn't help the FBI , he'll go to jail with the other 40 members of that big , happy family . The Firm really gets going once McDeere starts trying to investigate , making copies of incriminating files , etc . Some things may have gone a little too far , like the conveniently placed pillow truck , but as a whole , The Firm is a great thriller . It may not be quite as good as other John Grisham adaptations , The Rainmaker , in particular , but The Firm's complex and fascinating plot , as well as good direction and acting , makes it way above average .
Brilliant ! The funniest comedy since Dumb & Dumber !	Run , Ronnie , Run is a comedy with the rare distinction of having an excellently written script , especially since it was meant to sound dumb . Ronnie Dobbs is your typical beer guzzling redneck who can't seem to avoid getting himself arrested , and who always seems to have his elaborate arrests caught on film and broadcast on television . Some dumb guy is discovered through his unenviable skill of getting embarrassingly arrested , has a TV show created around his arrests , and becomes an instant star . Clearly , this is not Oscar material . In fact , a plot outline like that leads you to believe that it will be just another bonehead comedy in the moronic tradition of American Pie and Road Trip and Big Momma's House . However , Run , Ronnie , Run proves to be much more than any of those movies . Not only is it packed full of sidesplitting comedy , it is also presented in numerous unique ways . The film opens with an introduction by an elderly man whose vulgar speech prepares the audience for the sheer hilarity that is to follow . The rest of the movie is sparsely narrated by Clay , one of Ronnie's accident-prone friends who is the funniest redneck I've seen in a movie in years , besides Ronnie himself . David Cross delivers a hilarious performance in this film , and hopefully this movie will allow people to forgive him for his part in the pathetic Scary Movie 2 . As is necessary in a comedy like this , the dialogue is full of great comedy , but the thing that makes this movie unique is that it is not only hilarious but it's very well written . There are lots of very simple but very effective speech gags , like Ronnie's dim-witted comment to a police officer who was being excessively angry with a young kid ( who happened to be the officer's son ) , as well as his charming response to his stripper girlfriend ( one of the many products of his instant fame ) when her very presence doesn't manage to create the response that he hopes for in his ex . And by the way , it's just not the same to read all this in a review , you have to see this stuff for yourself . Not only is it more effective to see it all for yourself , but there is so much uproarious comedy in this movie that it is impossible to list it all in one review . Every character in this film is significant and well presented , and the movie never gets boring or slow . There are a couple of things that could have been left out , such as the Mary Poppins spoof about giving your woman a good old kick in the cnt , as well as the eventual fate of Clay , but even this childish and sometimes crude and grotesque humor is not enough to bring down the movie as a whole . This is a great comedy in the tradition of Dumb & Dumber , although I can't say that the movie actually manages to pass that one up as far as sheer quality . Even though there were a few things that were a little excessive or did not need to be in the movie , Run , Ronnie , Run is still a tremendously amusing and entertaining film . Every character in the film will have you cheering , and there is even one noteworthy scene where the town Mayor's fat , video game addicted son gets ped off and does something that will make every jaw in the audience drop . That's one of the best scenes in the film , and the irony is one of the things that made it such a good scene . I assure you that I am not exaggerating when I say that this is one of the best comedies to come along in years . It is so rare to see a comedy that is driven by the mishaps and misfortune of the uneducated ( and inbred ? ) that is able to overcome the simplicity of its content and come off as such a fulfilling and entertaining comedy . Definitely do not miss this one .
One of Scorsese's best and most disturbing films ever . . .	I just watched Casino again for the first time since around 1998 . The thing that I remember most vividly from seeing it that last time is being thoroughly upset by the scene in the cornfield at the end of the film . Most of the rest of the movie was overshadowed by the memory of that one scene , so I wanted to watch it again because I love Scorsese's films so much that not knowing about Casino was just acceptable . So I watched it again and I loved it again and my respect and amazement at the quality of the movie and the acting and the story and everything else was renewed , and nothing was that bad during the whole movie , so when the cornfield scene was coming up I thought , come on , there's only maybe 8 minutes left in the movie , how bad could this scene really be ? Still , my heart was pounding in my chest . It was bad , man . It was real bad . Now , when I say it was bad , I should clarify that it wasn't bad film-making , it was brilliant film-making . But it was too brilliant . It was so brilliant that it affects me as though I was watching what took place in that scene before me eyes in real life . Scorsese gets a lot of bad press about his films being too violent ( from my mom , anyway ) , and Casino is no exception . In fact , it's probably the flagship of violent Scorsese films . I've been an avid horror fan for more than a decade now , so violence doesn't really bother me , but Scorsese's violence has a grittiness and realism that sets it apart from most other types of film violence . It is graphic and sudden and has a gravity and an on-screen affect that makes it look like a documentary depiction of it . Spielberg achieved this same effect in some of the murders in the not so well received Munich in 2004 . Now , as I watch the end of Casino , I wonder what it's like watching the dailies with Scorsese , as he sees for the first time what they've captured on film . Do he and the other cinematographers that work with him jump up and clap each other on the back and pump their fists and yell , " YES ! ! We got it , that's the PERFECT shot ! ! " Or does Scorsese turn his head from the screen in disgust and whisper , " That's the one . Print it . " I'm guessing ( hoping ) it's some combination of the two . ( spoilers ) Odd , by the way , that the cringe induced by the final scene should be caused by seeing what happens to Nicky ( Joe Pesci ) , who is by far the film's most violent and out of control character . The brutality of his character is as thorough as can be , but Joe Pesci is just so COOL . He plays almost the same character as he was in Goodfellas ( an infinitely more watchable and , in my opinion , even better film overall ) , and he just does it so well . Makes me wonder what he's really like in real life . He can't really be like that , but he can't be that different , you know what I mean ? Sadly , no matter how good this movie is , I just can't watch that cornfield scene . I learned this afternoon that I don't ever want to see it again , just like I don't ever want to see that cop get his ear cut off in Reservoir Dogs . I think those are the only two scenes in any film I've ever seen that I really don't ever want to see again . Brilliant film-making though . I haven't said anything about the myriad of brilliant performances yet , so I'll just say that Sharon Stone plays your typical hysterical woman , always shrieking for her money , her drugs , and her jewelry , her jewelry , her jewelry , for crying out loud , and DeNiro is brilliant as well ( and as always ) . But Pesci steals the show in every scene though , including that last one . Now I need to go watch Home Alone to get that image of him out of my head . . .
I'm just trying ' to be a better person . My name is Earl . . .	I have a feeling that Mr . Brooks is going to be difficult for the more narrow-minded moviegoers to accept . Sadly , Kevin Costner is one of those actors who carries an iconography that makes it difficult for a great many people to accept him in certain roles , similar to people like John Travolta or even Leonardo DiCaprio and Brad Pitt . But the thing is , all of them are tremendously talented actors , and the constant bickering that I associate with their names stems from the guys I used to work in the video store with for a year or so after I finished high school . I never understood their immediate condemnation of the new Pitt of DiCaprio movies , which most often I watched myself and loved ( with the exception of The Beach , of course ) . I had immediate reservations about accepting Costner as a serial killer myself ( not the least reason for which is that I just watched Dances with Wolves again a couple weeks ago and haven't seen A Perfect World in maybe 15 years ) , but I watched the trailer and decided to give it a chance . Having done so , it's easy to understand the criticisms , but sad that these people were so focused on anything negative they could find , because it made them miss out on what is undeniably a taught , fascinating and brilliantly written and acted thriller . Yes , the relationship between Costner's Mr . Brooks and William Hurt's character , and the very existence of Hurt's character in the film , is some pretty thin cinematic ice , as is the concept of treating killing as an addiction , like alcohol or drugs . But the reason this works is because Costner and Hurt have genuine on screen chemistry and for many people , killing is done for a thrill . Mr . Brooks is just a guy who no longer wants that thrill , just like people who no longer want to drink , even though it makes them feel so good . Killing as an addiction is an extremely difficult concept to sell and the movie never really pulls it off completely , so instead it relies on high entertainment , outstanding performances and a simply brilliant script , and you know what ? That's just fine with me . Personally , I found it harder to believe that the one time Mr . Brooks made a mistake , he ended up getting photographed by an amateur photographer who just happens to share his lust for blood . RIGHT . ( spoilers ) There are definite weak moments in the film , it's far from perfect , but after re-thinking the entire movie , the only moment that really takes away from the film is not Demi Moore ( OR her character's divorce ) , it's not Brooks ' daughter committing murder herself ( she DID do it , or at least was certainly criminally involved ) , and it's not Hurt as the physical manifestation of Mr . Brooks ' rationalizing ego . The only thing that just doesn't fit is that bizarre techno shootout near the end , which looks like it would be more at home in a music video . It just came out of nowhere and went nowhere . And by the way , some have complained that we're supposed to " feel sorry " for Demi Moore's Detective Atwood for having to give up one or two million dollars when she is worth more than $60 million . Her conflict is not the money . This is made obvious by the fact that , as it is mentioned directly through dialogue , she doesn't do her job for the money . Her conflict is that her husband is a total dirtbag and she doesn't want to give him a dime . I would feel exactly the same . In many parts it's hard not to crack jokes , or at least think of cracking jokes ( " Hello , my name is Earl and I'm a killaholic . . . " ) , but to write this movie off because of it's weak , if numerous , shortcomings is a terrible mistake . It is inarguably one of the most original thrillers to come along in a good number of years and it's a tremendous accomplishment for everyone involved . Bravo !
Ben Stiller in a good movie ? ! There's a first time for everything .	Meet The Parents is an excellent comedy , despite the fact that the casting director was not the most brilliant person in the world . A lot of the material in the film was clichéd or simply not creative , such as the fact that Greg's ( Stiller ) luggage obviously got lost , but the film as a whole is an excellent and very entertaining comedy . Robert DeNiro is horribly miscast as the overprotective father , but he is such a good actor that he makes his performance in the role work very effectively . He didn't get to really be the startlingly effective tough guy that he is so famous for , but at least he was introduced in a domineering low angle shot , as he looks down at Greg and Pam from his bedroom window ( a very smart move by the film's director ) . Ben Stiller plays the part of the charmingly named Greg Focker , who wants to marry his girlfriend but has to earn the approval of her parents first . His name is bad enough , but he has to constantly explain his job as a nurse , a profession which provides him little to no respect from Pam's family . The majority of the film relates the events of the weekend spent at Pam's parents house , and everything imaginable goes wrong for him . The thing that makes this movie so funny is the well-written script and the way that some of the actors deliver their lines , particularly Robert DeNiro . The casting director deserves little to no credit for DeNiro's quality performance , but he just did such a good job in an uncharacteristic performance that he really steals the show . Some of the situations and especially the dialogue in this movie are destined to become classic lines ? ' Not many men in your profession , are there , Greg ? ' ' I have nipples , could you milk me ? ' And , of course , there is the hilarious way that DeNiro constantly calls Greg ' Focker ' or , in at least one instance , ' Greg R . N . ' Meet The Parents is a film that a surprisingly wide variety of people can enjoy . Meeting the parents is a part of relationships that the vast majority of men go through , and this can either be a smooth or devastating experience , so they can relate to what goes on in this film . Also , the point of view of the woman whose parents are being met is thoroughly presented , so the female audience will not feel left out at all . Even parents can enjoy this movie , because what parents don't worry about their kids and their dating experiences ? Some of the situations may go a little too far , I mean , it's not very often that an eligible bachelor meets his girlfriend's parents and nearly burns their house to the ground , and it's a little excessive that EVERYthing goes wrong , not just a lot of things , but the comedy is so good that these excessive things are okay . Ben Stiller is actually a good choice to play the role of Greg Focker , because he is such an annoying actor that it is very effective in the way that he gets all of Pam's family and friends to hate him . He makes a good scapegoat , and his unfortunate luck produces a good portion of the comedy in this film . But it is DeNiro , above all , who makes this such a good movie . He is cast strongly against type , but Meet The Parents is still a very well-made comedy that is just a lot of fun .
A strong follow-up to the tremendous 1995 hit , Toy Story , but the sequel is not quite up to the same standards as the original .	First of all , it should be noted that when I say that Toy Story 2 is not up to the standards of its predecessor , I do not mean the computer animation , which is just as spectacular as it was in 1995 , if not better . One of the things that the 1995 version really tried to do ( to some extent ) was to avoid actually showing human faces . We never see the faces of adults particularly , and the faces of the children that we saw ( such as Andy , the vicious Sid , and his pathetic little sister ) are obviously animated and do not fit in with the level of reality achieved by the rest of the film . In Toy Story 2 , we see a lot more faces , and while they're still never done quite right , it's good to see that they have made a significant improvement in this area . In the original Toy Story , we were so fascinated to see a presentation of the real life that we all imagined that our toys had when we were away that that was enough to make a great story for a great film , while in the sequel we are taken a lot deeper into the lives of our toys , which possess a lot more than even the extensive amount of emotion seen in the first film . The toys seem to possess a much deeper sense of neglect than was made clear by their competition over who is the favorite toy in the first movie , and we are even treated to an overly emotional and altogether unnecessary song called ' When She Loved Me , ' which really only serves to sadden the entire film and slow it down . There is an entirely new antagonist presented in the character of Big Al , the toy baron who desperately seeks Woody as the last toy to complete a classic collector set which he is planning on selling for some huge amount of money . We learn about Woody's past in this way , and he is faced with the conflict of staying with his friends ( Andy's toys , as well as Andy himself ) , or returning to what I guess would be called his family , with the unfortunate addition that if he decides to do that , he will remain in a box and be looked at the rest of his existence , never to be played with or loved by a child again . The characters , thankfully , have all returned for the second movie , and we are again treated to a great show of hilarious adventure with them all , including a wonderful scene in which Buzz Lightyear finally encounters the evil Emperor Zurg , which results in a great toy battle scene that plays respectfully ( note that , Kevin Smith , RESPECTFULLY ) off of the battle between Luke Skywalker and Darth Vader in The Empire Strikes Back . The movie is yet another marvel of animation from the people at Pixar , and it does not fail in the least to generate laughs ( see , for example , the ultimate result of the battle between Zurg and Buzz ) . Where the movie goes wrong ( and , it should be noted , it goes VERY slightly wrong ) is where it tries to insert too much emotion and sadness where it really doesn't belong . It was enough in the first film to see that Woody was so heartbroken as he watched Andy's interest in him begin to fade , but the sequel erroneously thinks that the audience should have tears brought to their eyes , which is just not true . But despite being overly emotional , Toy Story 2 captures the wonderful level of adventure and entertainment that made the original film so memorable , and it solidly earns itself a place as one of the great animated films . Fans of the original film are sure to love it , just beware of an excessive amount of emotion presented in the film . It's a comedy with a little too much heart , which makes it a little lop-sided , but the adventure is undeniably strong .
A phenomenal piece of historical film-making .	It will be hard for some viewers to look past assumptions that this is a documentary made by a Hollywood director trying to cash in on the success of Titanic by making documentaries like Expeidition : Bismarck , Ghosts of the Abyss , and Aliens of the Deep , but from his past as the director of Titanic and Thhe Abyss , I think it becomes genuinely clear that he just has a true , child-like fascination with the unreachable depths of the ocean , and he has achieved a level of success that allows him financially to travel miles down into the deep and show us parts of the world that no human being has ever seen before and may otherwise never have seen at all . Granted , I understand that Cameron is not solely responsible for our ventures to the bottom of the ocean , but his efforts have given us images and memories and knowledge about the wreck of the Bismarck , one of the most controversial shipwrecks of World War II , and has made a tremendous contribution to science and to history . This documentary goes into astonishing detail about the political climate of the world at the time the Bismarck was built by Nazi Germany and the jaw-dropping statistics that she boasted , both physically , from her deck guns at over 100 feet long able to fire thousand pound pieces of metal thousands of yards with frightening accuracy , to the tremendous number of ships that she was able to sink before was finally sank herself during a battle with British ships . The controversy comes in over who is to take credit for the actual , physical sinking of the Bismarck , as the British claim to have sunk her while the Germans claim that her crew destroyed her in a last effort to have some control over their own fate . The film features astonishing research and a detailed look at the history of the ship and the battle that sank her , as well as some incredible computer generated recreations of the actual sinking of the ship , edited together masterfully with the new footage of the 61 year old wreck . The addition of two of the survivors from the Bismarck , as well as the fact that old enemies now look back on the battle and the war and the lives lost with mutual sadness and regret add a poignant human element to the story , which was always there but which is easy to forget in the face of the sheer magnitude of the ship , her power , and the wrenching inhumanity of that war . This is a powerful documentary that only suffers from a goofy , highly over-dramatic narration that reminds me of the similarly goofy narration of the atrocious documentary Gunner Palace , which generated high expectations and satisfied none . This documentary is the exact opposite , and whether or not James Cameron is cashing in on any kind of success , if he keeps them this good , I say keep them coming .
Heavily symbolic film about Spain's struggle to escape from the oppressive regime of Franco .	( spoilers ) One of the things that I really like about this film is that its message can be delivered whether you know the situation in Spain at the time or not . The nationalists win violently at the end of the film , and you know the meaning of this without even having to know many historical details about the oppression of the Franco regime at the time that the movie takes place , which is important in making this movie internationally comprehensible . Carmela is a maternal figure both for her husband Paulino as well as for the young mute boy that they have taken into their care . They are entertainers seeking to escape the violence of the war , which is coming closer and closer to their home , but ultimately end up trying to entertain the Nationalist army and thereby win their freedom . There is a great scene at the beginning of the movie where Carmela and Paulino and Gustavete are performing for the rugged , less organized Republican army ( sort of the roughnecks who have to defend themselves against the offenses of the Nationalists ) . This is a delightful performance that hugely entertains the audience , but it stops in its tracks as the sound of planes is heard overhead , and everyone in the room goes completely silent , waiting to hear the sound of bombs dropping . In this early scene , we see exactly what is going on in the film without having to have it delivered flatly through dialogue . We see the winners AND the losers in this film . The movie opens up with the performance for the Republicans , where everyone is having a good time including the performers , but by the end of the film , Carmela and Paulino and Gustavete have been captured and are nervously performing for the stolid Nationalist army , all the while terrified that they may say something wrong and offend the diminutive Franco in the front row ( who reminds me of Lord Farquaad from Shrek ) and be thrown back into prison or killed . The difference between the two armies is striking . The Republicans are clearly less organized , less trained , have less equipment , weapons , training , financial backing , etc , and most importantly , are very clearly there to defend themselves rather than wage war against the Nationalists . These are the peaceful people who are forced into a war situation by a regime that is about to attack them . The Nationalists , however , are a much more organized and well trained and funded group . They are , in fact , so organized , that the suits in the audience at the end of the film are literally color coded . The majority of the symbolism in the film is centered around Paulino , Carmela , and Gustavete . Carmela represents Spain , obviously , and her death at the end of the film represents the expiration of freedom and possibly the death of Spain itself . She tries to save everyone , worrying about the suffering of all people and therefore putting herself in danger in an effort to help them , while Paulino is much more realistic , concerned mostly with their own problems and saving themselves . He is not portrayed as selfish or as a coward , but as a realist . He knows that trying to fight against the Nationalists is simply not realistic and is a stupid way to get himself killed . Carmela died at the end of the film because she stood up against people that she had absolutely no power over . When Carmela is shot , Gustavete finally managed to get some sound out of his throat , representing a hope for the future . Carmela was killed , but Gustavete represents a new youth , and he has been given a voice by the display of violence put on by the Nationalist army , embodied in the one man who pulled the trigger . There is , however the fact that the Nationalists erupt into total confusion when things get rough at the end of the film , as well as the stunned look on the soldier's face when he realizes that he has killed Carmela , which shows that the movie is not about bad people , but about a bad ideology . The Nationalists are not portrayed as evil people , just people who made bad choices and got involved with a bad cause that did not turn out to be what they thought it was . This movie reminds me in a way of Life Is Beautiful ( as does José Luis Cuerda's Butterfly ) , except that both the tragedy as well as the comedy are each reduced in each film . This is not a film about the power of stupid people in large groups , but rather the effect that a large idea can have on impressionable people . It warns against the dangers of being weak willed and simply going with the flow , the extremes that this kind of conformity can lead to . Clearly , this is a worst case scenario , but the film had a message that crosses time , culture , and international boundaries .
True , it's a true story , but HOW true ?	I can't say that I am entirely familiar with the events portrayed in Mrs . Soffel beyond what I read about it in William Coles ' novel , ' Another Kind of Monday ' ( except that it was based on a book called ' The Biddle Boys and Mrs . Soffel , ' by a man named Arthur Forrest , who wrote for small , trashy magazines around the turn of the century , similar to The National Enquirer , magazines which were not very accurate but were packed with information ) , so I'm not entirely sure how much of the film is a presentation of true events and how much was glamorized for the pulp magazines and glamorized again for the movie . What I do know is that the movie is based on true events , and as a loose adaptation of reality , I think it succeeds pretty well . Mrs . Soffel is the wife of a prison warden who is supervising the sensational case of the Biddle boys , two disarmingly attractive and charming boys who are sentenced to hang for a murder that they claim to have never committed and that the movie never tells us for sure whether they did or not . Since she takes on the task of being the divine counsel of the boys while on Death Row ( meaning she reads certain Bible verses to them to keep them calm ) , she is in close contact with them for an extended period of time and , as is to be expected with a criminal good looking enough to be portrayed by Mel Gibson , she falls in love with one of them . This is the foundation of the whole premise of the movie , but if you're already wondering how a God-loving wife of a prison warden could possibly fall in love with a convicted murderer on Death Row , let me just transcribe here a poem that he wrote for her while in prison : ' Just a little violet from across the wayCame to cheer a prisoner gimmeattahere in his cell one day . Just a little gimmeattahere flower sent be a loving hand , As a kindly meaning that true hearts gimmeattahere understand . God has smiled gimmeattahere upon it and the sender gimmeattahere fair , And soon that little gimmeattahere token , wrapped in hand so gimmeattahere neat , Rests quietly in the gimmeattahere grave , For which a heart that's true gimmeattahere does beat . ' Very sweet , and since it's Mel Gibson , this honest woman doesn't realize or even consider the possibility that he wrote the poem during a sudden abundance of free time in an effort to get close to her and inspire her to help them escape . I have a particular fondness for movies that show people cleverly escaping from prison ( and / or bravely enduring it , both of which Paul Newman does in Cool Hand Luke and , even better , Papillon ) , so I though the idea of sawing through the prison bars and holding them in place with candle wax was brilliant , and the escape was wonderfully pulled off . There are a lot of people who criticize the film for doing little more than making a comment on women's roles at the turn of the century ( and as many others who criticize it for almost making such a comment and then not making a real commitment to any specific point of view ) . I don't really think that something like this should be held against the movie , because it makes you THINK about women's roles at the turn of the century . There is a very distinct value to movies that make just enough of a statement about something in order to get you to think about it and come to your own conclusion . Kate Soffel , the title character , is stuck in a marriage to a man with whom she is not necessarily unhappy as much as she just disagrees with his moral character , convinced that he does not take the content of his profession seriously enough beyond just the fulfillment of his duties . She knows that she is a subordinate to him , which is why , after she protests the hanging of the Biddle Boys ( this is just a little nickname that I made up for them ? ) he suggests that she go away for a while to clear her head , to which she responds , ' Go ahead and write to Elsie , or your mother , or wherever you want to send me . ' Later , there is a fire in Ed Biddle's cell ( the one she falls in love with ) , and Mrs . Soffel screams for the guards to come , and they drag him out of his cell barely saving his life . As they are dragging him away to the infirmary , Ed chokes to Mrs . Soffel , ' You should have let me die , ' to which she responds , ' I won't . ' She's already made up her mind about what she's going to do . The escape itself is wonderfully entertaining , even though clearly contrived . It's more than a little convenient that the prison is absolutely silent ( apparently the Biddle Boys are the only prisoners in the entire place ) , and there is a nice booming sound anytime an approaching guard enters for a periodic walkthrough , slamming a heavy steel door on his way in and on his way out . They might as well have had a bell for the guard to ring to warn them anytime he was coming . He also runs his nightstick across the bars as he passes through one time ( interrupting Ed's and Jack's frantic sawing ) , foreshadowing a discovery of their plan , although such a discovery never happens . But things like this do not take away much from the movie as a whole , because the important scenes work so well . ( spoilers ) Just before the escape , Ed suggests to Mrs . Soffel that it might be helpful to them if they had guns , and she gets angry , refusing immediately to the request and , as she says , ' You think you can sweet-talk me into anything ! ' forgetting that she is saying this to a prisoner through bars that he and his brother have been able to saw through , using saws that she provided for each of them . Evidently he CAN sweet-talk her into anything ! It is also a wonderful scene when the warden is faced with the task of explaining where his wife is at a press conference concerning the escape of the Biddles . Again , back to the fact that the movie doesn't take an immediately discernable standpoint on women's issues , it at the very least does not present flat characters . There is a scene after the escape where the movie introduces the possibility that she doesn't after all , want to go with them . Ed jumps off the train that they have hitched a ride on , and Mrs . Soffel is hesitant , first telling Jack to go first ( hinting that she may just stay on the train and be rid of them forever once he jumps ) , but ultimately she goes with them , accepting her fate as she leaps from the moving train . If the movie does not make a specific comment on women's role at the turn of the century , it most certainly does make a strong comment about the flaws of law enforcement . The film , as is to be expected , ends with the Biddles lying in snow soaked in their own blood and Mrs . Soffel in prison , but as the Biddles lie there dying , one of the men goes to fire the final shot to kill Ed but is stopped by a fellow officer , who puts his hand on the man's arm and says , ' Leave him be , he can't hurt nobody no more . ' Given the fact that the Biddles are likely innocent , the slow-motion panning shot of all of the heavily armed men who just gunned down a couple of young brothers fleeing for their freedom and their very lives makes you wonder who is really hurting who . As a side note , I would also like to mention that this is one of those extremely valuable films that Mel Gibson made before the Lethal Weapon series turned him into a Rambo-style Hollywood badass , doomed to make one goofy action film after another , which vainly tries to capture the success of the excellent Lethal Weapon movies ( which was , as all series ' are , a diminishing one from the first film , although the rate of descent was not as precipitous as many other series I've seen , like Austin Powers ) and , to a lesser extent , the Mad Max films . Another of his meaningful early films to check out is the staggering anti-war film Gallipoli , which stands with Mrs . Soffel as one of the most effective dramas he's ever made . Bravo .
Much creepier than I expected !	The Gift comes on the heels of The Watcher , another relatively lesser known thriller in which Keanu Reeves plays a bad guy surprisingly well . The Gift is the much better of the two , and for obvious reasons , given the astonishing level of talent involved . Everyone is in this movie ! Cate Blanchette , Giovanni Ribisi , one of our most versatile actors , Reeves , Greg Kinnear , Hillary Swank , Michael Jeter ? and it's directed by Sam Raimi ! It amazes me that this movie is not more famous , because this is one of the best teams I've seen assembled all at once in years . This movie , despite the surpernatural content , has a much more realistic approach than The Watcher , which was really just your standard by the numbers thriller . Granted , there is not much subtlety in the characterization ( especially with Donnie ! ) , but Sam Raini has never really been known for his subtlety . Reeves plays the role of Donnie Barksdale , the abusive husband of Valerie Barksdale ( Hillary Swank ) , who comes under suspicion when a dead body is dredged up in the pond behind his house . This is the makings for a boring murder mystery , but the tangled web that is weaved among the striking number of three dimensional characters is brilliant in its complexity and ( as is usually the case when a murder mystery goes for this level of complexity and depth ) , none of the scenes or occurrences or revelations of evidence ever seem contrived or tacked on . For a movie with such a supernatural element , it has an amazingly real world feel . Cate Blanchette plays Annie Wilson , a local mystic who makes a meager income telling fortunes , or whatever you would like to call it , mostly to local friends , many of whom receive her tellings for free . Wilson's husband had been killed some time before , casting doubt on her true ability to see the fortunes or misfortunes of others before they happen . Soon she has a vision of a woman's murdered body Jessica King , played by Katie Holmes ) having been dumped in a lake , which turns out to be the lake behind Donnie's house . The movie spends a lot of the first half establishing how viciously abusive Donnie is to his wife . She shows up at Wilson's house asking for help , but refuses to leave Donnie . She's afraid , as abused women so often are , to leave him , because she is sure that he'll kill her . And judging by the extent of her bruises and injuries , it doesn't seem like a stretch . Needless to say , Donnie forbids Valerie from seeing Wilson because he's sure she's involved in some kind of witchcraft . Similarly , his defense attorney has a field day with her story about her vision of Jessica's body in his lake . She becomes the one weak link in an otherwise airtight prosecution . Interestingly , there is something to be said about human nature , as it is difficult not to sympathize with Donnie , even after all of the terrible things that he said and did during the film , when he is on the stand , admitting that he is an abusive husband and acknowledging how wrong it is . The entire courtroom scene is outstanding , you can literally feel the tension in the air . Imagine how terrified Valerie must have been ! ! It's good to see such a well-made courtroom scene , since it's the most important part of the movie . Then again , the rest of the law enforcement content of the movie is botched pretty badly . Donnie gut-punches Annie Wilson right in front of the Sheriff when they're searching his lake . No one seems to mind , even though everyone had a right to be there , even the police , yet they do nothing . There is also the unexpected addition of the fact that Valerie WANTS To forgive Donnie , because he had been having an affair with Jessica King , and she thinks she deserved what she got . It's an interesting analysis of the bizarre mentality that some abused women have . I can never understand why women stay with abusive husbands . It always seems to me that they would be embarrassed to still be married to a man who beats them , but apparently their fear outweighs that . Here , she forgives Donnie for cheating , but not the woman he cheated with , even if he was the one that killed her . The story involving Buddy Cole ( Ribisi ) is wonderfully acted , as always , and satisfying in that we get to see something that , I think , we sometimes wish more people could experience , the abused son getting back at his father as an adult . I think this almost never happens , because while abused children tend to hang on to that anger for the rest of their lives , they also hang onto their fear , so revenge stories like this are remarkably hard to come by . I'm no expert , of course . Just thinking out loud . The end of the film is great , even though it ends with the hint of a small cliché about the senselessness of violence ( You think you know someone ? ) , but can I just say one thing ? The music that comes on when Cole rescues Wilson at the end of the movie at the lake , for the first second or two , sounds almost exactly like the beginning of the Back to the Future overture . Maybe it was just me . The movie also , by the way , contains what might be the creepiest fiddle playing I've ever seen . At any rate , this in an outstanding accomplishment for everyone involved . Highly recommended !
Absolutely among the greatest war films ever made , with just a few unforgivable mistakes .	As a die-hard Steven Spielberg fan , I find it difficult to give such a tremendously powerful film like Saving Private Ryan anything less than a 10 , but there were a couple of things in the film that caused huge problems for me , mainly because they could have been avoided so easily . For example , whose brilliant idea was it to cast a teenage heartthrob like Matt Damon ( and yes , I realize that he is not a teen himself , but he is extremely popular among junior high school girls ) in the role of a private in a World War II film ? ! Tom Hanks was perfect , but only because he is one of the best actors working right now , and he can do a great job in virtually any role . Furthermore , Ted Danson literally stops the film in its tracks . However , Saving Private Ryan , despite these superficial problems , is a truly timeless film , and is an extremely powerful depiction of the brutality of World War II . Besides being hugely entertaining , a lot can be learned from this film . It is a landmark in filmmaking history and should not be missed .
A modern horror milestone .	We have a tendency to look back and glorify the old , great horror films , like The Exorcist and Rosemary's Baby and Night of the Living Dead , etc , automatically hailing them and lamenting the depressing thought that films like that will probably never be made again . Rob Zombie recently eased that fear a little bit , but in Sam Raimi's early career , he was making gritty , grimy horror films that reminded us that the old days of horror can still be brought back to life . For every I Know What You Did Last Summer or Hostel or other idiot teen slasher I think back to the days of Raimi's early horror films and just wonder what happened . Here's something interesting , in modern times , there are more and more high budget horror movies coming out , with a noticeable decline in quality as the money gets bigger . I wish someone would notice that one of the best things about The Evil Dead is that it was made on a shoe-string budget . Like Chaplin's favorite part of his career , the early years when he would just go to the park with a bench and a girl and a big oafish guy and just bang out a film , Evil Dead gives the feeling of being just a bunch of friends who went out to the woods and cut themselves off from society for a while to see what they could come up with . And they came out with a classic ! The plot , of course , focuses on ( you guessed it ) a group of friends who go out to the woods to camp . The opening of the movie , the drive through the creepy woods , is one of the best examples of mood-setting that I can think of . You can almost feel the trees closing in around you as the hapless friends drive through the woods , teasing each other about the scary woods . There are several scenes in the movie that will immediately put off a lot of viewers , such as the infamous tree love scene ( not my favorite either ) , but the fact that the movie doesn't try to please anyone is what allows it to cut loose and just be a real horror movie . Trying to please a wide audience is the worst thing that any horror film can do , because that's what gives you those stupid sophomoric teen thrillers . Bruce Campbell , in the first performance of his best role , Ash , is surprisingly geeky in the first Evil Dead movie , at least compared to the hardened badass that he was to become in the two sequels , and considering the fact that he is generally remembered as being the coolest horror hero imaginable . But I think that may be what makes the trilogy work so well . A good story should show character change , and through the course of the trilogy Ash becomes something completely different from what he was when we met him in 1981 , and Campbell fits the geek and the hero exceptionally well . Raimi understands the cartoonishly excessive blood and gore will reduce the real scariness of the movie and make it almost into a bloody comedy , so he uses that idea to its maximum potential , causing us to laugh and squirm all throughout the movie , although the real scares are few and far between . The sound effects , camera work , costumes , and vile liquids spraying forth across the screen , however , are horrible enough , and it's clear that Raimi and the cast and crew are having a lot of fun with the material , which is one of the many reasons that it's so easy for the audience to have fun with it , too . It should be noted that , because of the shoestring budget , they had to be truly creative in their effects and filming . Much of the camera work is done using very crude techniques , and the creativity involved creates a feel that the biggest budget could never approach . There are dollies and slides and other devices that are handmade from things like pieces of wood and duct tape in order to get the necessary shots , and the effect is brilliant . Can you imagine ? They actually used duct tape to film this movie ! Outstanding ! Strangely , Raimi took a four year break from directing after the Evil Dead , before finally following the movie up with the astonishingly bad Crimewave , the badness of which just strikes me as a real mystery , given the talent involved in making it . Luckily , he almost immediately followed this disaster up with the first sequel to Evil Dead , which plays like a sequel and a remake at the same time . It serves as a testament to the success of this early effort that it was basically remade Evil Dead II , and now is set to be remade again in 2009 . Let's just hope that , now that he's a Hollywood director , Raimi can still capture the same attitude and gritty goriness of his early career !
Oh , you KNOW they're gonna make a sequel !	For the first third or so of the original Nightmare of Elm Street , I was trying to figure out exactly what Freddy Krueger's motive was , since he seemed to just be some boogeyman that was haunting the dreams of a few high school kids , and later on it turns out that his motive is to get revenge against the people ( and their kids ) that killed him . So Freddy was a child molester , and after having been released on a technicality , the citizens decide to take matters into their own hands to get rid of him . I actually like that he's back to exact his revenge for what I believe to have been a justified death , because it makes you even more interested in seeing his demise . As if molesting kids wasn't enough , now we get to see him killed for what he does to these teenagers , too . I think that what sets A Nightmare on Elm Street apart from other slasher movies is that it has found a way around the fact that movies like this are only scary if you're really young or just really high strung . While the movie itself is not scary in the slightest , it does know about that line between consciousness and sleep and it utilizes it very effectively . You never really notice the point at which you fall asleep , you just suddenly find yourself dreaming , and this is why you never really know when Freddy could show up in the movie . This reminds me of all those times in high school that I would dream that I had gotten up and taken a shower and eaten breakfast and gone to school , and then I wake up still at home halfway through third period . The scares may have grown completely obsolete , but the movie remains interesting because it's not as predictable as so many other movies of its kind . The whole theme of teenagers being slashed by relentless killers ( often seemingly in response to them having sex with each other ) is not new at all , but A Nightmare on Elm Street takes that theme and adds in the clever addition that the killer resides in their dreams and can kill them through them . The movie has no memorable score at all besides an old nursery rhyme , but it is a testament to the quality of the rest of the movie that it remains memorable even without something like Halloween's infectious film score . It may not be scary anymore , but A Nightmare on Elm Street is still a signpost of the more interesting horror films made in the 80s .
The Score takes the age-old one-last-heist premise and makes it good again .	Edward Norton is one of the best actors working today , and Robert DeNiro and Marlon Brando are among the best film actors in history , so it is to be expected that a good film would result from a combined effort from all three of them . DeNiro plays Nick , a veteran break-in artist who is forced to do one last score before his plan to fade into blissfully obscure retirement with his clichéd girlfriend , and who doesn't like the entire set-up from the beginning . Norton plays the characters of Jack ( the man who investigated and set-up the heist from the beginning ) and Brian ( the man who works as a janitor at the building where the priceless scepter is kept , and who pretends to be mentally challenged to avoid drawing attention to himself ) . You can't help comparing these performances to his similar roles as Aaron and Roy in Primal Fear , which was Norton's second best performance ever , second only to his role as Derek Vineyard in American History X and followed closely by his Jack in Fight Club . Marlon Brando is back to remind the world of what a gigantic , gigantic man he has become . He plays the role of Max , the aging crime lord who has become wealthy and powerful enough so that he can preside over break-ins and take a cut of the final profit without doing any of the actual breaking and entering . The film follows the set-up and the execution of the heist , in which the three men plot to steal a French national treasure , and the plot becomes necessarily thicker as the movie goes on . It is a sign of skillful filmmaking when a two-hour film spends the vast majority of its screen time setting up a heist that we don't see until very late into the film , and it still manages to move along briskly and keep the audience's attention . ( spoilers ) The heist itself is particularly well done , with several new difficulties coming up even as the heist is in progress ( they've already had to deal with the sudden addition of motion detectors and cameras in the basement , after it was finally discovered how valuable that thing is that they found in the leg of the termite-infested piano ) , including new revelations about the characters themselves . There is a scene where Jack leaves Nick hanging upside down from the ceiling in the basement , and there is really no apparent reason for him to have done this other than to let us know that Nick seems to have some questionable intentions . The heist itself is obviously the most exciting portion of the film , and the tension escalates more and more with every passing minute . First we are on the edge of our seat because Jack is downstairs , turning cameras on and off for Nick , while we know that his janitor friend Danny is waiting for him upstairs , growing increasingly suspicious . Then Danny comes looking for him , and Jack locks him in a basement room , leaving the rest of the night crew to grow suspicious about both of them . The point of no return was passed a long time ago , and it seems at several points that something is going to go horribly wrong and force them to abort the entire thing , but we know that it's too late for them to be able to do that . The film's finale is truly respectable in that it avoids the traditional high action and manipulative shootouts , and we get a great twist involving Jack and Nick . Nick assumingly goes off into the sunset with his girlfriend , who is played by the under-used Angela Bassett , and everyone lives happily ever after except for Jack , now the subject of a massive manhunt , and Max , who presumably gets nothing from the whole deal . We know that this is a focused action film , even if only from the fact that no one in the film has a last name , but it manages to have an interesting and involved plot with several colorful characters , and an ending that is not exactly original but is made to work very well . Good action , good performances , good direction , and an excellent script make this an action film to remember .
Vertigo's got nothing on this rooftop sequence ! !	That's not really true , of course , but the level of action and the quality and style of editing in this film is leaps and bounds above a lot of the kinds of films that were coming out at the time , even the ones that Chaplin himself was directing . The first 15 minutes of the film , the build-up to the boxing match , are noticeably slow and almost eventless , but the last ten minutes are so action packed and so frantically fast paced that it almost feels like a full length film . Fatty Arbuckle stars in this tale of a fixed boxing match gone horribly wrong , and it has slapstick violence , Charlie Chaplin as a referee who doesn't seem to know that he's not supposed to get involved with the fight , gunfights , police chases , and Arbuckle dragging the whole precinct of officers attached to a rope into the ocean off of a pier . There's intrigue , betrayal , romance , crime , comedy , and illegal gambling . There is so much going on in this film that it's amazing how short it is . Chaplin didn't write or direct this film , and in reality was only a co-star , but this is one of the best films I've seen in the Chaplin collection I have . Chaplin at the time was a very inexperienced filmmaker , and he wasn't really turning out anything better than this at the time that it was made . He became much better than this later in his career , obviously , but any Chaplin fan should not miss this one .
Robin Williams should really stick to more serious roles like this .	I was completely stunned at how well Robin Williams pulled off more serious dramatic roles , since he's much more well-known for high-energy comedy . But his roles as the bad guy in movies like Insomnia or , even better , One Hour Photo display the extent of his acting abilities , since he is able to pull off such different characters so well . In Jakob the Liar , his comedic talents are restricted just enough so that he is able to function properly within the atmosphere of the movie , but is still allowed a scene or two in which his ability to get laughs can come out . He plays Jakob , a Jewish shopkeeper in a Nazi ghetto who tells a friend that he has a radio in order to prevent that friend from committing suicide . Things do not appear to be going well within the ghetto , the war seems like it will never end , and morale among the imprisoned Jews is steadily waning , resulting in suicides left and right . As Jakob finds a friend of his doing something that will certainly get him killed by the Nazis ( this particular friend decided to make a ham-handed attempt at escape rather than overtly kill himself ) , Jakob runs to him and tells him that he heard on the radio that the Russians were closing in and would liberate them any day . His skeptical friend doubts him , so Jakob quickly tells him that he has a radio so that he will believe the Russians will be there to save them all soon , and his friend's suicide is prevented . By the next morning , literally everyone in the ghetto knows that Jakob Heym has a radio , and so he is venerated like a God and constantly hounded about what the newest news is , and thus enters the main conflict of the movie . And speaking of which , one of the things that I really liked about the movie was the complexity of its conflict . It's a conflict that you sit there knowing what needs to happen for a happy ending and so you sit there and hope for that , because every option has terrible consequences . Jakob , first and foremost , is absolutely terrified that word will reach the Nazis who will execute him if they discover he has a radio ( whether he really has it or not ) , yet at the same time he can't let it get out within the ghetto that he DOESN'T have a radio , because since the whole rumor began the rampant suicides have completely ceased . What he has to do , then , is walk the fine line between delivering lots of fictitious good news to the whole ghetto without letting the Nazis find out about it . There is definitely something that needs to be said about the importance of a movie like this . Obviously , holocaust movies are nothing new , and different depictions of the holocaust have been especially in the spotlight since Roberto Benigni made a holocaust movie called Life Is Beautiful in 1997 , at least half of which was a comedy . A lot of people felt that it was distasteful to present something as serious and tragic as the holocaust in such a light . And not just average moviegoers like me , either . Spielberg thought it was too lighthearted for such weighty subject matter , and from a certain point of view , he's right . On the other hand , however , the fact that you laughed during the film does not change the meaning of the war that it focuses on . The Nazis killed funny people , too . I read a review on the title page for Jakob the Liar here on the IMDb , where a reviewer who completely missed the boat on this movie criticized it for things like the comedic content , the behavior and presentation of the Jews of the ghetto , and the choice of Robin Williams for the role of Jakob Heym . To be perfectly honest , I can never understand people like that . The way I see it , as long as a movie takes the holocaust seriously then it should not be criticized for being a holocaust film that's not in the right format or that had an actor who has done too many comedy roles . This same reviewer , by the way , praised Life Is Beautiful , a spectacular film , as is Jakob the Liar . I can certainly understand that there are people who are touchy about the holocaust . It is inarguably one of the most tragic events in all of recorded human history , made even more tragic by the fact that it was perpetrated by humans against other humans . It's sickening . But there are no jokes about the holocaust in Jakob the Liar . The Jews do not act like victims . It is historically accurate and does not compromise the truth of what happened for the sake of entertainment . It presents a story of a ghetto full of captive Jews who have had their lives stolen from them and are desperate for some hope , and one man tries to help and inadvertently finds himself in a position to provide massive amounts of hope to them , but at massive risk to his own safety . So if you don't like to see Robin Williams playing serious , dramatic roles ( roles at which he is increasingly displaying his massive talent ) , don't watch the movie ! It is neither a secret that Williams is in the movie , nor that it's a serious role . One look at the cover box will tell you that . But if it's the holocaust being taken seriously that troubles you , maybe you should be more concerned about the fact that there are people , alive TODAY , here in the 21st Century , and presumably relatively educated American citizens , who DO NOT BELIEVE THAT THE HOLOCAUST EVER EVEN HAPPENED . So like I said , if you're that concerned about the portrayal of the holocaust , maybe focus your efforts on these nutcases who have convinced themselves that the holocaust itself is just a fable . Maybe a myth that mothers started telling their kids to make them scared of Germans or some other such nonsense . Jakob the Liar has no illusions , it takes a tragedy in human history and tells a story of a man who did what he could to help those suffering around him , and Robin Williams should obviously be commended for the power of his performance , as should the rest of the cast . The thing to keep in mind is that there is no certain perspective from which to view things like the holocaust . Everyone has different thoughts and feelings about it , and in the movies these different perspectives can be provided in different ways without compromising the severity and finality of the event itself . Jakob the Liar does not at all trivialize the holocaust in any way , what it does is honor the loss of its victims , who came from all walks of life .
The Little Tramp as a little tramp .	A Dog's Life has more layers than the usual Chaplin films , taking the character slightly more literally than he usually does . The overall appeal of Chaplin's Little Fellow is that he is such an everyman that he can be thrust into an almost endless multitude of situations , and Chaplin uses his limitless talent to mold it into brilliant , humanitarian farce . In this film , the little tramp is more of a homeless fellow than usual ( I think he's usually just poor and struggling ) , and in the process he be-friends another homeless and struggling tramp . There are some great scenes in the film , although even at only 40 minutes it is a bit too long for the material to support . One scene in particular , where Charlie knocks a bully unconscious , is going to be the most memorable one in the movie , along with a scene where he outsmarts some police officers . There is a charming romance that is neither cloying nor overly involving , just the right amount for a short , light-hearted comedy . This probably would have worked even better as a two reel film , but as it is it stands as one of Chaplin's better three reelers .
" Sorry , I thought I was someone else . "	It's a little difficult to say exactly what This Charming Man is about , if only because there is so clearly so much going on beneath the surface . On the surface it is a charming romantic comedy , but there are times where the very serious issue of racism is brought up in a very serious way , but the movie has a remarkable ability to switch back and forth between comedy and drama that allows it to utilize each genre to its maximum potential each time it is brought up . Lars is trying to find a job , just about any job . He's desperate . One day he meets a girl that he used to know in school who was sort of the girl that everyone picked on because of her weight , and he was certainly no exception . He is shocked at her appearance , she has lost a lot of weight and , simply put , is beautiful . He soon realizes that she is also very successful and not desperate for any job she can possibly find , like he is , and he quickly falls in love with her . Evidently racism is quite rampant in Denmark , or at least that is how it is portrayed in this film . The guys go out to the bars and tell jokes like an atomic bomb exploded in Pakistan and guess how many people died , none because they are all here on the dole ! Very clever . Since I grew up mostly in California , I have heard plenty of similar jokes about Mexicans , but this movie takes a very real approach at the prejudice that immigrants suffer in Denmark , because employers are quite open about the fact that they don't want to hire someone who is an immigrant . There is something of an open dislike or distrust of them that makes their lives extremely difficult . Having come from a family of Colombian immigrants , I know almost first-hand what it is like for those people . I have never experienced racial prejudice myself , since my mother in white ( Danish , actually , as it were ) and my father Colombian and I got my light brown hair and blue eyes from my mother's side , but while I was growing up I saw my father struggling from one menial job to the next , trying to learn to speak English at the same time as he is trying to help support his sizable , unskilled and uneducated family in a new country . It's rough , you really have to appreciate what these people go through , and while this movie spends a significant amount of time making you laugh , I think it does give you a clear picture of the plight of the immigrant , which is obviously not limited to Denmark or America . Interestingly , there is a point where Lars , the main character ( under cover as El Hassan ) does not get a job , and Ida , the woman Lars has fallen in love with , jokes that he can't find a job " Just because you're not blonde and you're name's not Hansen ! " I just found that to be pretty funny , because my mother's maiden name is Hansen . At any rate , the movie works very well as a romantic comedy . The love-struck Lars reminds me of the hopeless romantic Shaun in Shaun of the Dead , another outstanding , if a bit unorthodox , romantic comedy . This one takes on some pretty serious issues , but it does so with a clear understanding of the gravity of the subject matter that it was dealing with , and with wonderful success in the final film . Seek this one out .
HELL yeah . This is some excellent sci-fi .	Contains spoilers Lost In Space is a tremendously upgraded adaptation of the old campy TV show , in which the Robinson family is , of course , lost in space . The film has an excellent opening battle sequence that nearly rivals anything that George Lucas has ever done and comes close to being as exciting as the opening of any of the James Bond films . It is particularly noteworthy that Matt LeBlanc was able to deliver such a convincing performance as a tremendously skilled fighter pilot , given his popularity from Friends . Lost In Space presents a pretty dismal prediction of the future . The movie takes place ( initially ) in the year 2058 , and John Robinson , the father in the famous Robinson family , has been working for years on a mission to Alpha Prime , a planet which is capable of supporting human life . It seems that in another two decades , Earth will no longer be capable of supporting human life . The wooden performance of William Hurt in the role of John Robinson takes a little getting used to , but overall , he pulls it off very well . Probably the best character in the film is Dr . Zachary Smith , the self proclaimed ' monster ' of a man that was hired to sabotage the Robinson's mission , played with flawless precision by the brilliant Gary Oldman . It turns out that he is double-crossed himself , and he winds up on the ship with the Robinsons , along with the robot that Smith re-programmed to destroy the family as well as the ship's navigation systems . Science fiction films generally have very weak and simple plots , and it was great to see that this one got interesting so fast . The thing that really causes the family to get lost in space is that they accidentally get caught in the sun's gravitational pull , and because they don't have enough power to escape it , they have to open up the stargate ( meant to traverse the tremendous distance between Earth and Alpha Prime instantaneously ) and go THROUGH the sun , thus delivering them into an unknown part of space . Lost . The trip through was a little much , but it definitely was cool , and the resulting setting that they find themselves in is just fascinating . And as if a trip to unknown space wasn't enough , they throw in a great time travel element to the story , making it that much more interesting . Almost immediately after shooting though the stargate and finding themselves lost in space , the Robinsons come across a spaceship from Earth , and in the captain's log they find a recording of an old man who says that he ' refuses to give up ' in his search for the Robinsons . Even though they had only been lost for a matter of hours , this ship had been searching for them for YEARS . While there was some highly entertaining acting in this film , not all of the characters were as well presented and acted as John Robinson and Dr . Smith and Major Don West ( LeBlanc ) . Mimi Rogers provided an effective and believable mother in the family , as well as the life sciences expert , but the high pitched Lacey Chabert , the pedophile's dream , got real annoying real quick , and Heather Graham was horribly miscast as Judy Robinson . After several of her previous roles , it would be best if she would avoid taking on a role that is to be taken seriously for quite a while . And there were a few things in the film that didn't make sense . There is the obvious problem ( that all Back To The Future fans will notice right away ) with the older Will's plan to travel back to the day they left and stop the ship from taking off - you already know that won't happen , because when they left at the beginning of the movie , Will would have shown up and told them not to leave . And how about the scene where Dr . Smith tricks Will into using his voice-print ID on his gun to ' enable for all users , ' only to have Smith turn it on him ? Wouldn't it have been just as easy for Will to use the voice ID to turn the gun off while it was pointed at him ? Seems that such a smart kid would have realized that all he had to do was talk to the gun in order to eliminate all danger . Lost In Space is also famous for its ludicrous amount of special effects and , surprisingly enough , they were very well done and very effective . Obviously , special effects are mandatory for a space movie , but they are most often screwed up so badly that they ruin the movie ( see : Mission To Mars ) . In this movie , though , the special effects have the unique distinction of being both way overdone and very effective - with the exception of that damn alien monkey that doesn't look real in a single frame in the entire film and is also totally unnecessary . The only thing that really took a lot away from the film was the transformed Dr . Smith at the end of the film . Sure , it was a cool idea that he got transformed into one of the spiders in true vampire form after having been scratched by one , but the cartoonish creature that he turned into was just too far , even for this otherwise high-quality science fiction movie . A lot of things are never clarified , like how Will ( who sure grew up to be an ugly guy ) comes up with the tools necessary to build time traveling warp zones and whatnot , but it doesn't really matter that this isn't explained . This is usually not good , but Lost In Space is an unusually well made science fiction thriller that is fun for all ages , so it can get away with a lot of stuff like that . The tremendous gap at the end of this film makes it pretty obvious that at least one sequel is inevitable , and we can only hope that any sequels live up to the original .
Don't try this at home , kids !	It's no accident that Crank is named after a hardcore narcotic , and while I don't happen to have any personal experience with it myself , I imagine that if the experience were made into a cinematic version it would look something like this movie . It feels like a fast-paced action movie boiled down to it's basest elements , with pesky things like character and plot development mostly tossed out the window . Or out of the helicopter , whichever looks better with a death metal soundtrack . A lesser movie , however , would have made such a simplified approach feel exploitative and cheap , but Crank gives the feeling that such baggage would only slow things down , which is just contrary to the whole idea . I can respect that . There is no set-up , we are immediately thrown into a life-threatening situation where Jason Statham's character Chev Chelios stumbles out of a daze and finds a video left for him by a Hispanic gangster , who gleefully explains that he has injected a " Beijing cocktail " of synthetic something or other . The details are not important , what matters is that he now has an estimated hour or so to live until the drugs cause his heart to stop . The only way to survive , of course , is to keep his heart pounding and the adrenaline pumping through his veins . It's sort of like Speed , except it's his body that can't slow down , not a bus . And basically that's about all there is to the story . The premise is mostly an excuse for Jason Statham to run screaming through the streets ( and hospitals , as it were ) of Los Angeles with a level of disregard for the law that by itself is enough reason to watch the movie . There is a part of the movie where Chelios is speeding down the street on a stolen LAPD motorcycle wearing nothing but a hospital gown and a gun . Try to imagine a situation which would lead to something like that , and you'll have some idea of what your frame of mind will be like while watching the movie . My only real problem with the movie is Amy Smart's character , who is written stupendously wrong . Chev Chelios is given some minute background as a contract killer for a widespread crime syndicate , sort of like Arnold Schwarzenegger's character in True Lies but without quite so much government backing , and his girlfriend is this air-headed blonde who thinks he's a video game programmer . Chelios is collected and focused even while drugged and on the verge of death . He concentrates a hard-edged anger on his enemies , and his girlfriend hiccups and grins like an imbecile when he tries to get her to get dressed and get out of the house before he drops dead on the spot . " Are we going on a trip ? " she blurts . You get the idea . Their relationship is so wrong and so ineffective that it probably would have made more sense if she had been cast as his daughter instead . Then again , that would mess up their scene in Chinatown , but I'll leave that for you to find out about . The main villain , a punk gangster curiously named Verona ( and yes , he does invoke Shakespeare's name early in the movie ) , is also wildly overacted for most of the movie , but that's in fitting with the rest of the film . If he had delivered a subdued performance he would have looked totally out of place , like the girlfriend , who really serves no purpose other than to enter the film in her underwear and , you know , the Chinatown thing . There is , of course , some great humor in the movie , which is to be expected in this kind of over-the-top action comedy . It's brutally violent but knows when to slow down for a few laughs , and many of the laughs are real . There is a great periodic interaction between Chelios and his shady doctor buddy , played by Dwight Yoakam , who is out of town and can only help over the phone but who calmly explains while on crowded planes and such that the fire in his chest and his steely erection are perfectly normal for what he's suffering from , but that if he doesn't keep his adrenaline pumping he's gonna die . But for the most part , Crank is a hard boiled action movie that is specifically designed to give directors Mark Neveldine and Brian Taylor free reign to bombard your senses with every little trick they can imagine , which includes split screens , animated views of the pounding hearts of humans and pigeons alike , car chases , gun fights , dazed point of view shots , subtitles viewed from both sides , and even a couple of shots where people that Chelios is speaking to on the phone appear on screen ? once projected onto a nearby wall and once , briefly , in a side-view mirror as Chelios speeds down the street . Crank was made with a very specific audience in mind , and for what that audience wants to see , the movie definitely delivers . There will , of course , be plenty of people who will attack the movie for being shallow or exploitative or too violent or for having an ending that didn't wrap everything up in a nice little package or whatever , but the fact that there is a Crank 2 coming up seems to answer the one big question that many people have had about the ending . Personally I didn't see how there was any mystery . The end of the movie fits perfectly with the rest of it . It's totally outlandish and preposterous , but if you don't get a thrill from the last half second of this movie , you missed something .
Outstanding !	I rode this ride on my first visit to Universal Studios Hollywood in about 15 years , so I had no idea what to expect . When we all loaded onto the giant 16-passenger jeeps I expected it was going to just be one of those tour type rides that just drive you around and show you a cool set , which is probably part of the reason why I was so blown away the first time I rode it . The way the jeep jumps around creates an amazing feeling of driving through rough and dense jungle , and there are several times when I was sure that the thing was going to go flying over the side , as it leans outwards on hard turns . This has to be one of the most fun attractions I've ever seen at Universal , it was absolutely a blast . Even the line was fun , once you get inside , anyway . It's like an elaborate tomb set and there is always plenty to look at , including a short introductory film , which some IMDb users claim that this page is actually meant to represent . Personally , I feel like it's a good thing that people are talking more about the ride here than about the video that you watch while waiting for it . Oh , and I'll tell you something strange about me . I have always wanted to visit a ride like this when it is closed , walk around inside while all the lights are on and see what the nuts and bolts of it all looks like . Whenever I ride a ride like this I always snap a few flash pictures of the inside to see what's going on . For some reason I've always been more interested in how it all works than really succumbing to the illusion . But either way this is great fun !
As is sure to be the saying by now , anyone who has ever worked in an office should get a pretty good kick out of this one .	Every aggravating thing about working in an office , from the traffic on the way to work to that damn copier , is in this movie , and dealt with in ways that we've all wanted to , at some point or another . Well , except for the traffic , of course . The traffic remains undefeated . Besides telling a highly amusing story about office workers who are just fed up with it all , Office Space is full of other little comments on society , such as the way the film points out the sheer goofiness of geeky white guys who listen to hardcore rap music . The film presents a heavily exaggerated version of the typical office , but underneath that exaggeration , the depiction is very accurate . You have the fairly timid but passive aggressive superior , Bill Lumbergh , portrayed hilariously by Gary Cole , the repressive office cubicles , the mumbly guy that kind of weirds everyone out , and of course , the disillusioned office employee who just doesn't care anymore . Ron Livingston fulfills this last role very well , being very open about his dislike of his job and his intentions to do as little as possible for as long as he still gets paid , but it is the weird guy that really gets laughs consistently , whose name , in this case , is Milton . This guy's hilarious situation involves having been laid off years before without knowing because no one told him , because he still receives a paycheck due to a glitch in the payroll system , and whose primary concerns seem to be the location of his cubicle , his red stapler , and the fact that last year , he didn't receive a piece of cake at the office party . The way that this guy's situation gets consistently worse and the way that he is pushed further and further toward the edge of sanity is one of the funniest things about this movie . And we can't forget the Indian guy , Samir , whose grammatically flawed exclamations also provide for an endless source of comedic entertainment . Jennifer Aniston plays a small role as Peter Gibbons ' ( Livingston ) love interest , as well as that of a waitress who is also sick and tired of the ridiculousness of her job ( such as a specified minimum of pieces of ' flair ' that employees must wear to work ) . Ron's home life is another thing that is parodied in this high quality comedy , as the shortcomings of living in an average apartment are clearly and side-splittingly portrayed . Clearly , the office scenes are by far the funniest of the film , and the eventual criminal plot to embezzle a huge sum of money from the company and take up a lifestyle of not really doing anything , despite the fact that it is also very well done , can be largely overlooked because of the sheer hilarity of the rest of the film . This is excellent stuff from the famous creator of the endlessly amusing Beavis & Butt-Head who , with Office Space , has further proved that he is just the type of guy who knows what's funny .
One of the very few looks below the surface . . .	( spoiler ! ) So we learned right at the end of season 6 that Sara and Gil were living together ( or sleeping together ) , as she walked into the room in a bathrobe at the end of the season finale . I've always noticed from the beginning of the series that occasionally there are very brief hints into their personal lives , but nothing ever seems to be really revealed . We've known for a few years that Sara is interested in Grissom romantically , Nick's personal life is almost entirely secret still ( except for a fling or two early in the series ) , Warrick popped up married out of the blue one day and Catherine was clearly disappointed to have lost an opportunity , but it has always seemed like any revelations like this were thrown in using just a few seconds of screen time , and then back to the cases . I like that the show doesn't turn into a soap opera because I would lose interest in a hurry , but this is one of the few episodes that tells us more about what's going on . Very little more , but still more . I loved the cases that they dealt with . A new homicide leads the team to an old and supposedly closed case of a double murder . Catherine goes off on her own to meet the guy they put in prison for it , and finds a foul-mouthed dirtbag that claims he's innocent . In order to get him to cooperate and answer some more questions about the crime that he's already been imprisoned for , she promises to unbutton a button on her shirt for each question that he answers satisfactorily . As it turns out , he was apparently coerced by the police into giving a confession for the double murder , badgering him during questioning and claiming that they already had enough evidence for a conviction , and if he didn't confess he'd get the death penalty . Catherine was pretty angry with the local cop for coercing a confession , but wasn't that blouse-unbuttoning a bit of coersion too ? At least it was more enjoyable than the first time , I suppose . Anyway , the two cases taken together highlight the CSI team's skills compared to the bungling foolishness of other police forces . Once the local cops had coerced their confession , they actually stopped investigating , even though they knew there were more bullets buried at the residence where the murders took place . Nice work ! The local cops also left a massive plot hole in the story , something uncommon in a CSI episode . There was a little boy at the residence who was hiding , but apparently they never asked him any questions about what happened . When our team comes in , Nick and Catherine ask him his version , and he gives one that doesn't reveal anything that they didn't already know , but for some reason they seem to feel that they have gotten some valuable information . The boy was hiding under the sink when the killer knocked on the door , forced his way inside and then stabbed and killed his mother and sister , then he walked outside into the backyard . Then , he says , the killer came back in the front door and called the police . I don't know why anyone was interested in this news , because they already knew the sequence of events leading to the boy's mother and sister's deaths . There is , of course , no way of knowing if the man who came through the front door and called the police was the same man who had just walked out the back door . Why would he leave through the back and come in through the front ? Anyway , the hiding under the sink was funny to me , because when I was five or six , I used to hide under the sink drinking maple syrup while my mom was at work , then when she came home I'd run up to her and say , " I wasn't drinking the syrup ! " I was a terrible liar . Gil leaves on sabbatical at the end of the episode and is supposedly gone when he gets a large box from the miniature killer , which is good because the conclusion to that 3-episode case was a little disappointing . In a huge change of character , he tells Sara on the way out the door that he'll miss her . . .
Don't pass this one up just because Mark-Paul Gosselaar is in it !	Ironically enough , Mark-Paul Gosselaar gave a hilarious performance in Dead Man On Campus ! This is strange not because he is necessarily a bad actor , but because the only seemingly out of work TV actor who is less likely to make a comeback than Gosselaar is Rick Schroeder ? I didn't expect to ever see either of them again , and I STILL don't expect to see Schroeder any time soon . Gosselaar excellently portrays Cooper , a college kid from a rich past who has no interest in studying ( having been kicked out of several colleges already , only to have his way paid into other ones by his father , a successful businessman ) , and only wants to party all day every day . I think that the idea to cast Gosselaar in this role was an excellent decision , because not only is it a unique casting choice ( as well as fairly risky , given his heavily type-case iconography ) , but also because he just fit the character so well . Playing the other half of the odd couple presented in this film is Tom Everett Scott , who is not exactly a tremendously appealing actor either . He is Cooper's primarily unwilling roommate Josh , who is seriously intent on keeping up on his studies so that he can keep a prestigious and hugely important scholarship . Josh is the straightforward student here , the Jack Lemmon of the two guys , if you will . After having discovered the joys of partying , Josh scoffs at the hard-core studying life , parties a little too much , fails his midterms , and discovers that there is no possible way that he can ever get a high enough grade on his finals in order to keep his scholarship . Evidently , at their University , it seems that there is a rule written somewhere in the back of the school's charter that if a student commits suicide , that students roommate's will receive straight A's , as they are not expected to be able to keep up with their studies with all of the anguish that they must be going through . The majority of the film is spent watching the Josh and Cooper search the campus for people who look like unstable , and then try to get that person to move in with them before they kill themselves , therefore saving Josh and Cooper's grades . Clearly , the story here is nothing brilliant . The film is literally full of cheesy jokes and goofy situations , but it is still funny because it doesn't pretend to be something that it's not . There are even hilarious bits of dialogue that almost seem to be actively trying to remind the audience of the type of mindless comedy that this was meant to be ( ' I can hear my heartbeat through my penis ! ' ) . Besides that , we are given a side-splitting performance by Lochlyn Munro , an endlessly amusing actor who seems to have been born to play the nutcase that he played in Dead Man On Campus . This guy flawlessly gives some of the funniest lines that I've heard in a movie in years ? ' They wanted to kick me out for not obeying quiet hours ? Well , they can just suck my quiet COCK ! ' Sophistication ? Class ? Definitely not . Tear-inducing hilarity ? Absolutely . This is some funny stuff . ( spoilers ) The film also redeems its childishness at the end of the film , in which Josh and Cooper's plans to manipulate their way into getting good grades are discarded and a healthier course of action is taken . It's amazing that a film that is dominated by this questionable plan to get straight A's is able to turn around and actually deliver something resembling a good message , and it is yet another quality of this great comedy . Dead Man On Campus has some of the same stupid characteristics of idiotic college comedies as American Pie and Road Trip , but it works on many other levels , and it doesn't sacrifice its dignity to get a few laughs . It's a low-brow comedy that respects itself , and that's a rare quality .
Maybe Chaplin's most famous early short comedy .	Of course , Chaplin's early career is over-flowing with famous short comedies , but The Tramp is probably one of the most well-known of the early two-reelers , especially since it is one of the most direct studies of the famous character after whom the film is named . A lot of the Keystone and Essanay films have dated pretty badly , and The Tramp is no exception . Many people may find a lot of the plot confusing or pointless , just random slapstick comedy , although I have a feeling that some of it was not meant to be much more than that . It starts out with the tramp wandering down a dusty road , soon knocked over by the gusts of wind created by two speeding cars , only to pick himself up and dusts his wildly over-sized pants off with the handy little brush that he carries with him , apparently for just such an occasion . There are some clever an amusing sight gags involving things like a pitchfork and huge bags of flour and lot of mallets to the head , but not much in the slapstick department that is entirely memorable . What the film is more famous for is certain elements of the tramp's personality that we learn here , such as his efforts to be proper and presentable despite being broke and wearing pants big enough for two or three of him , along with a jacket that's too small . We also see him protecting a young woman from the bullies of several oafish men , each of whom could easily have brained the little fellow ( as Chaplin later lovingly called him ) , except that he is too smart for them . The film is most memorable for the closing shot , however . Things don't go as planned , we are not given a happily ever after ending , and the movie closes with the tramp again wandering alone down a dusty road , at first seemingly depressed , until after a second or two , he perks up and all but dances down the road . He didn't get what he wanted and he's still poor and lonely , but he faces his life with a smile and seems like he's off to make the best of it . In a lot of ways , that sums up one of the recurring themes that Chaplin espoused throughout his lengthy career . Smile .
Not just another Backdraft .	I only mention Backdraft because the reason I never saw Ladder 49 in the theater was because Backdraft was one of those movies that I absolutely loved as a kid and I didn't think , that there was anything that a firefighting movie could do beyond that . If you think about it , there are not a lot of plot structures that are conducive to a firefighting film . Firefighting movies are essentially about the firefighters and the dangers that they face at work every day , but this one focuses more than usual on the family element . Backdraft was about firefighters losing family members in fires more than anything else , Ladder 49 is more about the people at home . Kind of like We Were Soldiers . The thing that I appreciated the most about the movie was the way it was structured . Jack Morrison walks into a burning building with the rest of his team at the beginning of the movie , and then it cuts back and forth between that fire and the more than a decade that passed between when he joined the firehouse and when he walked into that building . It builds up the story and the tension and our knowledge of the characters in a way that stretches his involvement in that fire out so that we can learn about him and his family while he is fighting that one fire . It's hard to explain more without spoiling anything . Joaquin Phoenix , who I am so used to seeing play pretty unenviable roles , or at least playing characters that don't have the best luck ( see To Die For , 8MM , Gladiator , Clay Pigeons and , probably most of all , Return to Paradise ) , plays something a little different here . I enjoyed seeing him play such a contented character in this movie , even though he's very good at playing dirtbags and losers . He was happy with his work and he found a wonderful wife and they had a wonderful family , and the initial conflict arose from his wife , who was understandably upset at the very high chance that he could be killed at work . The guy is just a tremendous actor . But the biggest difference that it has from Backdraft is that it is not an action film , it's a drama . It's not about heroes rushing into towering infernos and pulling out helpless children and pets ( or mannequins , as it were ) , it's about what it is about firemen that makes them want to do what they do . I can't tell you how many times during the movie when I thought about how easy it would have been to change jobs had it been me in Jack Morrison's shoes , but I guess that means I don't have the same drive that these firemen have . I like to think that I have heart and am a good person , I guess I just would have put my family first in such a situation . But there are men and women that are so dedicated to helping other people and saving lives that they will put themselves and their families second , and those are the real heroes that this movie is meant to recognize . The characters in the movie are not standard movie firemen or action heroes , they are real people with real thoughts who make real decisions that affect the progress of the plot more than the progress of the plot affects them . Consider the character played by Robert Patrick . There is a point in the movie where you are sure he is going to be the one hardass fireman that gets in the way of Jack Morrison , the hero , and he does . But at that point he can either stay a hero and slink away defeated at the end or he can realize what a great man Jack is and come to his side at the end . Well , what actually happens is certainly more one than the other , but it happens in such a way that presents his character as a person , not a movie villain or even a movie character , and that's true of everyone in the film . They are all people , not characters , and that's what makes this movie real .
It's not the whole story , but that wasn't its job .	A lot of times I browse through other reviews when contemplating what I want to say about a movie , and never have I been more disturbed than by reading people's reviews of this film . One IMDb reviewer placed a post on the page for Everest ( 2005 ) in which he attacked Jon Krakauer , author of the spectacular novel Into Thin Air , not only of selfishly misrepresenting the actions of people on the mountain , but also of sleeping away in his tent while people were stuck outside freezing . Bruce Kirkland , writing for Jam ! Movies , stupidly claims that Araceli Sgarra was in the movie simply as sex appeal and , even worse , that ' members of at least one climbing team just crawled back in their tents and ignored the crisis . ' Normally this wouldn't be such a big deal . So a bunch of boneheads completely missed the point and clearly have no idea about what really happened on the mountain , and are just writing reviews pretending like they have some right to criticize events and actions that they don't understand , right ? Wrong . First of all , Mr . Kirkland displays a prodigious capacity for ignorance , apparently having managed to sit through this entire film and still not realize that no climber on earth could make it to the top of Everest without massive climbing skills . So much for that ridiculous little ' sex appeal ' theory . The first Spanish woman ever to reach the summit of Everest , and this moron can do nothing but call her sex appeal . Please . Second , there is nothing worse than people making accusations when they clearly have not read Krakauer's book . The IMAX expedition simply coincided with the tragic events that unfolded on Mt . Everest in May of 1996 , it is not a documentary of those events . This is why the movie does not go into detail about what happens besides Liam Neeson describing them briefly in the voice-over , and is also why we now have so many people posting scathing reviews about a tragedy that they know nothing about . I would love to see the expression on one of these people's faces if they were asked why May 1996 was the deadliest month in the history of Everest , and yet given the statistics , actually had less deaths than the average year . The people that ' just crawled back in their tents and ignored the crisis , ' a group of people which included Jon Krakauer himself , did so for three reasons . First , because they were literally freezing to death . Frostbite had long since begun to set in , they were in the middle of a high-altitude storm , and the wind-chill was such that it would make short work of warm-blooded humans stuck in it . Second , because they were so exhausted that they could barely move . Please remember that these people , at that altitude , could only take a few steps before having to lean over their ice-axes , panting for breath in the dangerously thin air . It does not require a cognitive workout to realize that for people who can hardly stand up to attempt a rescue effort would do nothing but add themselves to the death toll . Third , and most importantly , they didn't even know that there was a tragedy unfolding outside . It is more than a little difficult , Mr . Kirkland , to ' ignore ' events that you don't even know are occurring . In Into Thin Air , tragedy does not begin to unfold until almost 300 pages into the book , the IMAX movie passes that point in less than 15 minutes . The point was not to document the tragedies that unfolded , but to give viewers an unparalleled look at Mt . Everest itself , a monumental task at which it is hugely successful . I just wish there was more stock footage and less re-enactments , because there were scenes immediately recognizable from the book that were clearly not shot on location or during the actual events , like the conversation with the stranded Rob Hall . I have no illusions . I'll probably never even set foot in Nepal , and would never make it to the top of Mt . Everest even I did . Director David Breashears not only went to the top , but brought along an IMAX camera so the rest of us could see it , too . In a startling act of heroism , when he and his team learned of the tragic events occurring at higher altitudes , as they were on their way up , they immediately abandoned their $5 . 5 million IMAX project to participate in the rescue effort , providing their more than 300 pounds of oxygen canisters to whoever needed them . It was not until the rescue effort had saved as many lives as they could that the IMAX team regrouped to decide whether they should still try to salvage their film project . While I was not able to see Everest at an IMAX theater , I was still impressed with it on the small screen , probably because I had read Into Thin Air literally the day before I watched this film , and was able appreciate what these people went through on their expeditions . There are a lot of reviewers on the IMDb who say the movie is pointless to watch on a small screen , but it is only pointless if your imagination is so small that a smaller presentation is not enough for you to understand the sheer magnitude of the event . I could have done without the Jurassic Park music throughout the film , because it only tries to add to the greatness of the mountain , the expeditions , and the people involved , when no augmentation was necessary . It is not because the screen is small that the music seems trite , but because it's not necessary . Everest's soundtrack could have been nothing but wind across the microphone and it would have been more than sufficient . Since I had read the book so soon before I watched the movie , I had an unfair expectation to see more coverage of the events that I had read about , because Jon Krakauer goes into stunning detail , covering every aspect of the expedition . It was not until I read some reviews of Everest , particularly on the IMDb , when I really appreciated the quality of the film and was startled by the idiocy of the people writing about it . The film is marketed by its connection with Into Thin Air , but unfortunately its association with that book only detracts from the movie because of its separation from it . Associating it with the book gives the impression that it will cover some of the same events , which it does with unfortunate brevity , and worst of all , the association of the film with Krakauer's book gives some viewers the impression that they know what happened on the mountain just because they have seen this film . No one who has not read Into Thin Air has any right whatsoever to criticize anything that happened on Mt . Everest in May 1996 .
No fluff , just revenge !	All too often in Van Damme movies ( or any action movie , for that matter ) , the action is dumbed down or spread out along a goofy story that is clearly only an excuse for gunfights and car chases . Wake of Death has a moderately clever story and is moderately delivered , but much more emphasis is put on the action . It's gritty and unapologetic with its violence , clearly trying to effectively capture the mob world in which it takes place , and also features what might be Van Damme's best actual acting performance of his entire career . There's an emotional scene in the movie that is so intense it's almost difficult to watch , so I don't want to hear any more from these people who are constantly whining that Van Damme can't act . I'd like to see any of YOU show me anything close to what he did in this movie ! Van Damme stars as Ben Archer , an aging mobster who wants to get out and have a normal life with his family . Of course , his family doesn't know what he really does for a living , as far as they know , he is in the " bar " business . Claiming to be tired of the noise and the smoke and the drinking , he tells his incredulous superior that he wants out , and then heads home . Having seen this set-up a dozen times or more , we know that nothing good can come of this . Ben's wife , Cynthia , is a social worker , and soon finds herself with the problem of a boatload of Chinese refugees , all of whom must be detained and shipped back to China . Strangely , though , they are refugees from Hong Kong . I didn't know there were many refugees coming out of Hong Kong in the early 21st century . In fact , I can't think of a time in modern Chinese history when there were refugees coming from Hong Kong . Clearly , this is unimportant to writers Mick Davis and Laurent Fellous , who seem to be just going on the assumption that , because of Mao Tse-tung's brutal , murderous regime , there have pretty much always been refugees coming from China . The ones in the movie definitely look like mainland Chinese and not people from Hong Kong , except for the little girl , who looks Korean and is even named Kim . I can tell you one thing , out of almost 1 . 4 billion people in mainland China , not one of them is named Kim ! Anyway , Cynthia sees this young girl and decides she's too cute to be shipped back to the horrors of Hong Kong , so she risks her job and reputation to take the girl under her wing . Unfortunately , she is the daughter of Sun Quan , a Chinese mobster of the triad variety ( you remember them from the Infernal Affairs movies ) . Quan , clearly , is not happy about his daughter living with some white people ( " foreign devils , " as they were called back when people really were trying to flee from China ) , so he sets out to find her , killing anyone who gets in his way . At this point , the movie becomes astonishingly violent , even for a Van Damme film . The movie violence is serious here , like in serious gangster movies . The profanity is thick and the movie is not afraid to shoot older women in the face , showing us her exploding head . I had never seen anything like that in any of Van Damme's movies . Quan kills Cynthia , and Ben's grieving her loss is one of the best scenes in the movie , and one of the best examples of Van Damme's acting ability from his entire career . The soundtrack is suitably depressing when it needs to be , such as in the opening credits , which features one of those god-awful moody soap-opera-ish love songs , like the worst of the Bond themes . There is a major slip-up as the little girl doesn't speak a word of English and then , in the same second that Cynthia starts speaking Chinese ( she explains that her grandparents are Chinese , as if language was hereditary ) , Kim busts out with her perfect American English . Nice . I've been teaching English at a University in central China for two years now , and let me tell you , it is almost impossible to teach them to speak English with any accent other than a Chinese one . For that you have to have been raised in America ( or Canada , as it were ) . The movie is not a cognitive workout , of course , but it is definitely a solid action movie that deserves more recognition than it got . Sadly , like the great Bruce Campbell , Van Damme is a little bit of what they call " box office poison , " although I would like to suggest that the reason for this is because of the bad press that he gets from people who jump on the bandwagon , uniformly criticizing his acting and his movies without even really knowing what they're talking about . No , he's not Orson Welles , but he stands for important things and , for all of the shallowness that we've seen in his films , occasionally he takes it upon himself to prove to us that yes , he can act . The problem is that all too often his target audience doesn't require him to , we just want to see his kick the hell out of some bad guys . Wake of Death is the most violent movie he has ever made , and is proof that he is better than most people think he is . I hope one day he really gets the respect that he deserves !
A great film for children and adults , but they needed more of that squirrel !	Ice Age is a visually stunning animated feature that takes after Shrek in that it is wisely aimed toward adults just as much as children - an important detail the oversight of which just about single-handedly caused the failure of Cats & Dogs . It is structured unfortunately like a birthday cake , in that the candy frosting is at the very beginning and then the actual body of the film , the cake , bears much less of an immediate appeal but is still willingly consumed . The spectacular opening sequence in the film is probably the most recognizable part of the film since it is what makes up the majority of the theatrical trailers . By far the most entertaining part of the film , it introduces a lowly squirrel ( lowly in that it is one of the few animals in the film that doesn't speak ) that makes occasional and very welcome appearances throughout the rest of the film . After this opening sequence ( which easily surpasses the opening sequence of any James Bond film ) , we are quickly introduced to an accident prone sloth named Sid , who is saved from a couple of angry rhinos by a caring mammoth ( Manfred ) who would just as soon save his life and never be seen with him again . They become a grudging partnership when they come across a human baby , as their care of life itself overcomes Manfred's dislike of Sid and his desire to be left alone . I was a little disappointed that this was going to be yet another animated movie with talking animals ( seriously , do we not already have enough of these ? ) the way I was with Dinosaur in 2000 , but for the most part , Ice Age manages to avoid being a routine animated talking animal movie . There is a curious interaction between animals that clearly do not belong together , given their random places on the food chain . Sid sticks with Manfred because Manfred is huge and scary and able to protect Sid from the threat of predators if he can only convince him to let him tag along . Sid does this , even though this is obviously not a symbiotic relationship , and then ultimately they are joined by a sabertooth tiger , of all things , who they trust only because he claims to know a shorter way to get to the humans and return the baby , and also because he alone is not much of a threat to Manfred . ( spoilers ) The place where this film graciously strays from the routine talking animal movie is where the subject of good and evil in the film is concerned . It is no secret that Diego ( the sabertooth , voiced brilliantly by Denis Leary ) is a vicious predator with little on his mind other than obtaining this baby for his pack for revenge purposes and , as an added bonus , tricking Manfred into walking into a trap and feeding his whole pack of tigers with his abundance of meat . This develops a wonderful situation in that we never know what is going to happen and who to trust , and even this involving story is intercut with things like the thrilling ice-slide scene ( which mirrors the sheer thrills created by the door factory scene in Monster , Inc . , arguably the best scene in the film ) , and blanketed by the breathtaking animation first introduced in a mainstream film with Toy Story in 1995 . There is , however , a rather unfortunate quality to the mixing of the characters here , in that it so effectively portrays the carnivores as the bad guys , the evil part of the necessary good and evil ingredients in order to have a story . Also like Cats & Dogs ( which chose to impose the characteristic of evil onto one of the two breeds of rivals seemingly at random ) , this film chooses to present the carnivores as the evil ones , but at least the reasoning is apparent here . The sabertooth tigers are meat-eaters , they kill other animals for food ( and talking animals at that ! ) , so clearly they have to be presented as the antagonists . Never mind the fact that humans are much more vicious and violent predators than sabertooth tigers , right ? Newsflash , vegetarians , if you only want to eat things that were never alive , I hope you can get used to a diet of sand and rocks , because that is just about all that's going to be on the menu . Just kidding , I actually applaud people who make restrictions in their diets because of the things that go on in slaughterhouses . Killing animals for human food is one of the least supervised industries in the world by the animal rights groups , and these practices sicken me to no end ( although have little to no impact on my own gleeful consumption of meat ) , but I hardly think this is an adequate reason to portray sabertooth tigers , who are doing nothing more than following their natural instincts , as evil because of their longing for such a large quantity of meat as Manfred would provide them . The end of Ice Age is the point where the movie comes dangerously close to being overly sentimental and cheesy , given the tearful antics that go on when the baby is returned to the humans . Sid and Manfred give their teary goodbyes just as Diego staggers over the horizon ( assuring us that he is not really dead ) , to do a little peek-a-boo at the baby and then give a little wave . This is cheesy crap , but the rest of the movie is good enough to allow for a little over-sentimentality like this . The best things about Ice Age were things like the rearrangement of the food chain in the partnership that develops throughout the film , the sheer comedy involved in the squirrel's unending efforts to stow away acorns for a winter that is already here , and the new idea of where the English language may have come from ( humans don't speak ! ! ) . Despite the ham-handed message of vegetarianism that permeates the film from beginning to end ( which I dislike more for its blatant ham-handedness than its presence at all ) , Ice Age proudly carries the distinction of being one for the whole family and not just one that the producers want you to BELIEVE is one for the whole family , as was the case with Cats & Dogs . Enjoy it , and don't sit too close to the TV .
Note to self : Make a lot of fake checks , buy James Bond suit , work for FBI .	The latest film from Steven Spielberg and Tom Hanks is much more than a vehicle for Leonardo DiCaprio , who is granted the most screen time by far , it is a massively entertaining film about the true life adventures ( and I should think that the word ? adventures ' should apply here in all possible meanings ) of Frank Abagnale Jr . , a brilliant young man who's con artist abilities are revealed in a thrilling early scene where he impersonates a substitute teacher , going so far as to turn away the real substitute when she shows up to teach class . We are not shown how he is caught after committing this relatively small-time offense , because the last thing we want in our minds about this character is how he gets caught at something . Instead , we see his parents sitting in the principal's office , where the principal reveals to them that their son has been teaching class for the last week , assigning homework , having parent / teacher conferences , and was even planning a field trip . His mother is furious , as most mothers would be , being , I think , the real rulers of the house , while his father was proud of his son's sneakiness as , I also think , many fathers would be ( except for the uptight ones , of course ) . I know MY father would have loved it if I managed something like that in high school . ( spoilers ) It seems that Frank has a brilliant mind that he applies to not the mot legal avenues , and his home life is less than wonderful . He comes home one day to discover his mother having an affair with one of his father's friends , and when he eventually finds out , instead of writing a name on that little form to choose which parent he wanted to live with , he jumps out the window and runs away , beginning the adventure that we learn about during the rest of the movie . Granted , Catch Me If You Can is one of those films where the plot from beginning to end is revealed in the preview ( kind of like Pleasantville ) , but it is still a thrilling ride , which is a testament to the talent involved with it . One of the most interesting elements of the movie is the way it is structured . It knows that it is a predictable film , not only because it starts at the end but because it is a true story and true stories that end tragically are not made into movies ( at least not by Spielberg ) , so the chronology is mixed up at several points during the film . We start at the end , go back to the beginning for a while , go back to just before the end , a little past the end , back to the middle , etc . Not necessarily in that order , but the way the chronological order of events is skewed in the film makes it refreshing even if we already know what it going to happen . The only problem that I had with the movie was that , despite its ending , there were several things about the movie that were just too convenient . As only a single example , there is a scene late in the film when Frank is being transported back home from France to go to prison in America , and after finding out that his father fell down the stairs and died , he runs into the bathroom , escapes from the plane Commando-style in broad daylight , and runs on foot all the way back to his house . I realize that the movie takes place before cell-phones and even in the early days of two way radios , but you would think that it would not take the FBI the ENTIRE DAY to get to his house , the most obvious place that he was headed . In real life , there would have been squad cars waiting for him long before he jogged back , which makes me wonder how this particular detail played out in real life , if it did at all . Either way , it is clear that this scene is , as they say , dramatized for effect , which makes you wonder how much of the rest of the story is as well . There is also one other scene that sticks out for this reason like a bright red flag . About two thirds of the way through the film , virtually the entire staff of the FBI are at the Miami airport , because this is the only airport that Abagnale will use ( the only reason given for this , by the way , is because this is the airport where Hanratty , the agent assigned to capture Abagnale , has set up his stake-out ) . They are looking everywhere for Abagnale to show up , and after his girlfriend sets him up , he goes to local universities signing up a whole crew of flight attendants for a two-month flight attendant training tour throughout Europe . We are never told how he managed to get PanAm to let these fraudulent attendants on the plane when they show up at the airport , or where their uniforms came from , or whether they were all on the same flight or PanAm was nice enough to spread them throughout their entire airline corporation , but the gimmick is that Abagnale is able to walk through the entire airport surrounded by gorgeous young women , and all the police officers and FBI agents their to capture him would be so distracted by all the hotties that they wouldn't even notice him . So here's problem # 1 : Abagnale is going for the art of invisibility , and there are few things less invisible than a lot of beautiful young women wearing matching pink uniforms . Very few things , in fact , would attract MORE attention to his little group of followers . Problem # 2 : If you see a whole group of beautiful young women wearing matching pink uniforms walking in a grinning little group with only a single male within the group , that male attracts at least as much attention as the women . Meaning , if you see that many women walking and giggling together and they are only with a single man , not many people wouldn't be scrambling to see who that man is . In both cases , Abagnale might as well hold up a blinking sign with his name on it . Of course , as with many other scenes within the movie that are just entirely too convenient , Hanratty is on the phone and facing away just as Abagnale walks by with his big pink group of buddies , but has the brilliant foresight to have a look-alike waiting outside with a big sign with Hanratty's name on it , another little detail more than likely added to the story for our amusement in the film version . Like I said , a lot of this stuff is not very likely to have happened , at least not exactly as we see it in the movie , in real life , but it's also not entirely without effect and not entirely unappreciated . Spielberg is America's most popular director , and in this movie he proves that he knows how to present a chase . A good chase film has to be structured with a series of close calls and more comfortable moments . You remember this in The Fugitive , for example , when Richard Kimble is cornered by Sam Gerard in the tunnel on the dam , only to escape by jumping off right in front of him . There is a wonderful scene in Catch Me If You Can where Hanratty finds Abagnale's hotel room and bursts in with a gun , at which point we are sure there's no escape , but Frank manages to impersonate a CIA officer right in front of Hanratty , an agent for the FBI , and narrowly escapes , to the audience's great delight . Again , not exactly the most believable stuff in the world , but it sure is fun . Leonardo DiCaprio has made a tremendous leap both in his choice of roles to play and in his acting skills as a whole . He has certainly come a long way from his chokingly awful performance in Titanic , to play a role in Catch Me If You Can that he seems born to play . The only problem with him in this role is that he is a 28-year-old actor who happens to be able to pass for a 16-year-old kid , when what the part needs is a 16-year-old actor who can , when necessary , pass for a 28-year-old man . Tom Hanks , on the other hand , is absolutely flawless in his role as the driven FBI agent determined to capture Abagnale , even if he asks him nicely to leave him alone . And I don't want to hear any complaints about Hanks ' accent , because he captured it beautifully . If you really want to whine and moan about a well-known actor doing a fake accent , watch Thirteen Days . Overall , Catch Me If You Can has some flaws , it has a few scenes that go beyond the expected suspension of disbelief , but these scenes seem to have just been too ambitious in a movie that maybe was turning out even better than expected . In that sense , these scenes are little more than a slight excursion over the top , while the movie as a whole shines and entertains , even for the slightly lengthy running time . It was a sad and moving scene when Frank's father's death was revealed , and his mother strangely disappeared in the movie into the oblivion of her marriage to her father's friend ( the one she had been having the affair with ) , but as a whole the movie is wonderful entertainment for the whole family .
" When the Gods want to punish you , they answer your prayers . "	Barbara Kingsolver's astonishingly vivid Poisonwood Bible was my first and remains my most detailed image of Africa . It is not a pleasant atmosphere that is presented in the book , but the beauty of that unique natural environment is presented in Out of Africa more in than in it's dangerous potential . Of course , some of the most important and moving scenes in the film involve near-death experiences involving some African wildlife , but I have a feeling that the breathtaking expanses of open wilderness will be remembered more than these close encounters . It is precisely the experience of reading the Poisonwood Bible ( and the characters ' experiences in living in Africa ) that has made Out of Africa have a unique impression on me . The film takes place around World War I , when large numbers of European settlers were leaving the unsatisfying life in Europe and seeking greener pastures , as it were , in East Africa . Certain elevations and locations were known to have fewer insects and dangerous animals , and could be good for farming . The story focuses on the life of the Baroness Karen Blixen , who plunges headlong into a marriage to her lover's brother in order to avoid a life of loneliness , only to gradually watch that marriage fall apart . The damage to her relationship with her husband is extensive but also gratifying , because she has a determination and healthy spirit that he doesn't seem to share , and clearly lacks the respect that she deserves . Her husband is wildly unfaithful to her , even managing to bring syphilis home to her , eventually asking him to move out . Thus begins the curious romance between her and a big game hunter named Denys ( Robert Redford ) . There is a clever and highly satisfying exchange between Denys and Bror ( Blixen's husband ) , after Bror discovers their romance . " You should have asked permission , " he tells Denys . " I did , " he replies . " She said yes . " I have read that the relationship between Baroness Blixen is very different than in the real Baronness Blixen's books , in which the Africans are of great importance to her . Because this movie is an epic romance , it focuses more exclusively on the romance between Blixen and Denys , as well as the juxtaposition of the failed romance with her husband and her genuine hope for something better and more real with Denys . Out of Africa seems to run the risk of having too many well-known Americans movie stars in a story that takes place just after turn-of-the century Africa , but because Director Sydney Pollack understands how to mold their star power to the story and to the passion created within the story , we are able to focus on the characters rather than the actors , and envision a time past in a part of the world that is unknown to so many in the audience . Bravo !
The one that started it all , etc , etc , etc ? .	It was interesting to see Night of the Living Dead turn into such a cult classic , and I think that one of the biggest reasons that that happened was because of its simplicity . You might notice a trend in the horror genre , the less extravagant they are the better , and this is a perfect example of the less extravagant category . Shot in black and white several decades after color became normal in mainstream film , Night of the Living Dead scares through some of the same tactics later used by other classic horror films , notable Halloween , with the slow but relentless Michael Meyers stalking constantly . He's slow , but like the zombies in this movie , he is virtually unstoppable . Granted , the zombies can be killed with a shot to the head or some other way of separating the brain from the rest of the body ( pleasant , isn't it ! ) , but their sheer numbers compensates for this weakness . Because we don't see the events that lead up to what is famously referred to as ' an epidemic of mass murder being committed by a virtual army of unidentified assassins ' ( White Zombies fans are sure to prick up their ears at this radio broadcast ) , it's reasonable to assume that the vast majority of the human population has fallen victim to the walking dead , and the people we see barricading themselves in the house are the few remaining survivors . One of the strange things about Night of the Living Dead is the way it is structured , or I should say the time that it takes place . A lesser director might have concentrated on the widespread attacking and panic that lead to most people being turned into zombies , but not only would that not have been possible with this movie's famously miniscule budget , but it's not really the point . That timeline would fall flat because it would force the movie to focus on a few select people , who would just happen to be the ones that survived long enough to become characters with names and personalities ( well maybe just names , let's not go crazy here , this IS a horror movie ? ) . It would kind of kill the suspense . While it may seem that the movie started right on the middle of things and that we've already missed all the good stuff , I think it's important to keep in mind that , given the movie's budget and intentions , George Romero wanted it to be as simple as possible . It has a little bit of a character study , featuring characters in an extreme crisis situation who can do nothing but quarrel amongst themselves like blithering idiots who can't stand to see anyone else in power ( as well as a blonde woman who periodically can't even speak ) . The movie is about a bunch of people thrown into this situation and how they deal with the situation and each other in order to survive the night . It's telling , for example , that throughout the entire trilogy we're never given a real reason for why people were turning into zombies in the first place , because it doesn't matter . From a technical standpoint , the movie is brilliant because of Romero's sheer ability to get so much out of so little . The movie is crudely shot , but I think that actually adds to the effect because it gives it something of a documentary feel , not the polished look of so many modern horror movies whose special effects do nothing more than remind the audience constantly that they are movies . Night of the Living Dead really couldn't afford to look so fake . The acting is terrible throughout , but the important part is that the zombies looked at least halfway like zombies . Consider the abysmal sequel ( which was recently remade into one of the best horror modernizations ever created ) , in which the zombies look like nothing more than masses of extras with cheesy blue make-up all over their faces . In this movie , it's not hard to see that the make-up is crude , but the crudeness of the film stock as well as the shooting itself gets past that . Ironically , it's more effective because you can't really see it so clearly . Night of the Living Dead has become a cult classic because of how daring it was ( in such ways as the horribly ironic ending ) and how frightening it managed to be despite its miniscule budget . Granted , even this titan of a horror classic has been subdued to the point where it tends to generate more respect than fear ( as is the case with most older horror films which are actually well made ) , but it's position in film history is unmistakable , even today , when it's sequel has been massively improve by a recent remake . It is black and white and seems ancient , but Night of the Living Dead remains a movie for current aspiring horror filmmakers to study and emulate .
Chaplin bursts onto the scene !	I have read a lot of negative reviews of Chaplin's first screen appearance , written by people who can't seem to get past the fact that the Tramp has not been discovered yet and Chaplin plays a character wildly different from the one that we know and love and with whom he is most associated with . It is a curious look at his early career , since Chaplin was acting on stage barely six months before this film was shot , and although his character , dubiously named Edgar English , is something of a swindling jerk , it is hard to imagine any actor putting on a charming performance with such a hideous mustache ! Many of Charlie's mannerisms are already very recognizable , and it is interesting to consider how similar his stage acting was to his film acting , since his style is already so clear . Consider his behavior upon noticing the Help Wanted sign , as well as the extensive fight scenes , which are even more breathless here than usual , since the pace of the film is so much faster than many of his short comedies of the time , given the primitive filming equipment . Making A Living is a very unique film in Chaplin's filmography , not only because it is his first screen appearance , but also because it represents a real testing period in which he was truly unsure of himself as a screen actor . One cannot deny that it is interesting to consider how Chaplin looked back on this film in forming his persona , and what he thought worked here and what he should change . Also of note is the film's final shot , which features a stunt gag , something that would be very common in his later short comedies of this period . Some have said that this is a film only for Chaplin fans and that casual fans of silent film should skip it , but I disagree . Chaplin is considered by many to be the greatest screen comedian of all time , but if you keep in mind that this is his first screen appearance and therefore not one of the greatest silent comedies of all time , I should think that any viewer with even a mild interest in silent film should find it interesting and entertaining .
Cool supplemental documentary that gives insight into a great movie .	This quick documentary gives some pretty interesting insights into the making of Bullitt , which I found to be especially interesting because so much of the film was shot not only on location , but on very difficult locations . Steve McQueen is something of a stuntman in real life , given his extensive interests in motorcycle and car racing , so naturally he wanted to do as many of his own stunts as possible , and I think that kind of dedication really comes across in the film . When stuntmen are used in movies there are so many times when you can just tell , even if you can't really see their faces , and I think it takes away from the movies as a whole . There is also a lot of interesting footage of the cast and crew working on location , behind the scenes , and this DVD includes some pretty interesting information about the research that some actors did in preparation for their roles , such as riding along with SFPD officers to learn how they worked , as well as using real doctors and nurses in the hospital scenes . Overall an interesting documentary , and definitely worth the ten minutes it will take to watch it !
Another wonderful family adventure from Pixar !	Lately I have been watching a lot of Tom Hanks films and old Chaplin films and even some of Rowan Atkinson's early Bean performances , and it seems that all of them have their own unique charm that permeates throughout their work , something that allows them to identify with audience members of all ages , in a way that just makes you feel good . A Bug's Life has that same charm , it has a connection with real life that allows us to easily suspend disbelief and accept a lot of talking insects , because even though they talk , they still ACT just like real bugs . It's like the team that made the movie found a way to bring us into the mind of a child and allow us to think like them , to imagine bugs the way a young mind does . Honey , I Shrunk The Kids was one of my favorite films when I was younger , and to me , A Bug's Life is like a more realistic version of that movie , if only because the animation is so breathtaking and this style of story-telling just opens up so many more narrative possibilities . I try not to compare it to something like Toy Story ( which I still maintain is the best computer animated film ever made ) , because the story of A Bug's Life is not quite as good as Toy Story's , but then again , almost nothing is . The important thing is that it is still wonderful fun . The story concerns a colony of hard working bugs who have an impressively developed society , mostly geared around building a harvest of food , most of which will go to the tyrannical grasshoppers , vastly superior in strength and general meanness , and hopefully still leave enough left over for the bugs to make it through the winter . We are treated to some visits from the grasshoppers , who make it clear that if the bugs provide an unsatisfactory quantity of food , the consequences will be dire . And incidentally , the similarities between this crippling level of food extraction is strikingly similar to Mao Tse-tung's vicious forcing of food from his own people during the " Great Leap Forward ? " The fun and excitement begins when Flik , the main character , sets off on a quest to find a gang of appropriate warrior bugs to come back and help defend the colony against the grasshoppers . You see , he spilled all of the amassed food and placed everyone in great danger , so he feels it's his responsibility , but he inadvertently ends up hiring a struggling group of insect circus performers . Great for the audience , not so great for the safety of the clan . The movie was released back in the late 90s , when so many films seemed to have been coming out in twos , like Armageddon and Deep Impact , Independence Day and The Arrival , A Bug's Life and Antz , etc . Comparisons between A Bug's Life and Antz are inevitable , although it seems clear to me that A Bug's Life is by far the superior film , and not only because it doesn't star Woody Allen stuttering and whining through the lead role . This is great family fun !
CSI gets religious AND political !	There is a point early in this episode where it seems that it's going to be painfully predictable , but luckily it's not nearly as predictable as you might think . A girl is killed and crucified inside a Catholic church , of all places , and her twin sister is shot and killed in an otherwise apparently unrelated killing a couple of hours apart . As far as the structure of the case , I think this is one of the more clever episodes I've seen recently . There are constantly more layers being revealed , and leads that seem promising but lead nowhere . The sisters don't know each other , the mother gave them up for adoption as babies , there are complicated love interests ( one involving a priest ) , and a mysterious adopted sister who lived a lonely life and developed an obsession when she learned that she had a half sister . One of the suspects is revealed to have a motive about some doctored award-winning photos of the troops in Iraq , which gives Grissom a great opportunity to make a more powerful political statement than I have come to expect from your typical CSI episode . Even with a surplus of suspects it's hard to see where the story is going . Excellent performances throughout as well ! Oh and here's a great quote - " I would rather sit on a pumpkin and have it all to myself than be crowded on a velvet cushion . " - Henry David Thoreau . Me too , Henry . Me too . . .
Well well . . .	In The Masquerader , Chaplin sort of breaks the fourth wall , in that he appears in the film as himself , sort of , and then changes into the costume of the Tramp a few minutes into the movie . Similar to his work in Film Johnnie , Caplin creates mayhem on set during shooting and promptly gets himself fired . Just before he leaves , he throws his suitcase at his boss and some hilarious mayhem ensues . The next day , Charlie returns dressed as a woman named Senorita Chapelino ( " . . . a fairy floated into the studio . . . " ) . He is disturbingly convincing as a female , and of course all of the men at the studio come forward with aggressive amorous advances . Eventually , of course , Charlie is discovered , and this is followed by some of the best of those hilarious fight scenes of nearly all of Chaplin's early comedies . As with all of these old comedies , this one is deteriorated pretty badly , but there is still some pretty good editing at the end of the film . One thing about films made during that time is that they move so fast , and this fast motion makes some of the shorter shots go by so fast that some of them are almost incomprehensible , and the editing of these films seems to have suffered from this . But at the end of The Masquerader , there is some editing that is better than usual in these early comedies , particularly in the scene where he falls into the well . Fatty Arbuckle also appears early in the film as a fellow actor , which might be the most interesting scene in the film since Chaplin and Arbuckle play themselves , basically , as they get ready to go to work . I think The Masquerader is a bit of a milestone , as Chaplin is clearly developing the character of the Tramp as a down and out everyman just trying to turn his luck , rather than resorting to drunkenness or so much punching and kicking as in so many of his earlier films .
Hitchcock would have been proud .	I have to imagine that fellow-Brit Alfred Hitchcock would have been absolutely delighted by this little claymation comedy about a mysterious lodger . Hitchcock began his career with a film about a Lodger ( recently made into a Luke-warm remake ) , so surely he would have gotten a kick out of Wallace & Gromit's run-in with a mysterious lodger of their own . Wallace has been perfecting his work on a pair of robotic trousers that he plans to use to take Gromit for walks so he doesn't have to , until he notices that his expenses are running a little high and he and Gromit will have to take in a lodger to help make ends meet . They take in the first one they meet , who turns out to be a curiously Far Side-looking penguin who seems to prefer Gromit's room . They really need the money , so the penguin moves into Gromit ' room and Gromit moves into the doghouse in the backyard . Wallace and the penguin develop a close friendship ( made even closer by Wallace's delight that he's getting money out of him ) , while Gromit sits outside in the rain stewing . Something doesn't seem right about the penguin , but he's not sure what it is . One day , Wallace is woken up by his automatic bed , which this time drops him into a pair of modified robotic trousers and he becomes the perpetrator of a major diamond theft . The animation is roundly superb , as always , and the attention to detail is as wonderful as ever . There are plenty of cool gadgets around the house that make for some wonderful sight gags , but the real jewel of the movie is not the stolen diamond but the thrilling train chase at the end , which is just as well-planned and executed as the most thrilling Hollywood action movie . The final ten minutes of the movie are a spectacular achievement alone , but with the rest of the movie it all comes together as a short animated film that should be treasured . Don't miss this one !
Everyone loves Thanksgiving ?	I watched this movie having heard it mentioned in a fascinating book called Metal Cowboy , which is essentially a sort of journal that this guy named Joe Kurmaskie wrote about his adventures as a touring cyclist . I've gotten very interested in the subject lately , as my increasingly long bicycle adventures have led to an interest in seeing the country from the saddle of a bicycle , and Kurmaskie references Planes , Trains and Automobiles to emphasize a point he makes about the freaky things that can happen to you while traveling , particularly by bus . Steve Martin and John Candy play well off of each other , and it's interesting to note how many weak gimmicks are in the movie and yet how well it pulls it off . You have the traditional odd couple , they run into each other constantly among millions of people , for the sake of the plot , of course , and are such polar opposites that it's impossible not to see the inspiration that the movie took from the classic Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau film , The Odd Couple . But just when you begin to think that the movie is following an easily predicted formula , you get something thrown in that really catches you off guard , like the scene where Neal ( Steve Martin ) finally jumps out of bed , fed up with Del's ( John Candy ) inability to lie still and sleep , and yells at him extensively about every single little thing that he hates about him . It's strange that this can be such a hilarious scene for Martin , similar to Chevy Chase's temper tantrum over his Christmas bonus in National Lampoon's Christmas Vacation , and yet we get cutaways to Del's face that are truly moving . He listens silently to Neal's endless stream of harsh criticisms , and he just watches , his face registering his inability to argue with any of it , and leaving the audience to wonder why we're laughing so hard at this guy who is obviously being hurt . And it's not even that the movie makes you look back at yourself with scenes like this , but that the characters are made so effectively three-dimensional . ( spoilers ) Del is an overly outgoing character who is sociable to a fault . He just wants to make conversation and make friends but ends up annoying instead . Kind of like that line in The Cable Guy , ' I just wanted to be your friend , Steven , but I screwed it up . ' Carrey had won the audience's heart with that one line , but sadly , the remainder of the movie allowed the character to rescind any sympathy . This guy doesn't need a friend , he needs a criminal psychiatrist . Del , on the other hand , badly needs a friend , as we find out later in the movie . As a whole , the movie is about the strenuous things that happen during the holidays . Rather than focus on the difficulties in dealing with the extended family , as was the case in Christmas Vacation , this one focuses on traveling hazards . Three years later writer and Director John Hughes wrote Home Alone , in which John Candy reappears in a similar situation and plays almost exactly the same character . Here , Neal's inability to get on a single plane flight leads to a two-day nightmare involving planes , trains , automobiles and Del Griffith . As is to be expected , this odd couple grows on each other , as they always do , but the movie manages to escape being just another odd couple movie for a variety of reasons . First , there is not resentment and dislike coming from both sides , only an irrational one coming from Neal's side . He has already judged this guy long before he knew him , and it is only Del that is willing to make conversation and simply get along , despite their differences and the difficulty of their situation . I especially loved that the movie did not cop out at the end , which it could very easily have done . It takes two people who could hardly have been more different , puts them together for a matter of days in an extremely stressful situation , and then brings them together at the end without compromising the validity of their characters . It is certainly a bittersweet ending , but one that leaves you with a smile .
The earth turns but we don't feel it move ?	When I hear people talk about how America is the greatest country in the world , which is increasingly common from all political standpoints as we approach the 2004 election , it has always struck me how staggeringly wrong that statement is ( at least since I traveled in Europe and learned firsthand about other countries ) . I'm sure I've already angered plenty of the few Americans who may read this review , so I should clarify . America really is a great country , I've lived here for my entire life and plan to live here for the rest of it , but it is simply not the greatest country in the world . That is , in fact , the summation in a single sentence of the common arrogance for which so much of the rest of the world looks at us with disdain . America is not the greatest , but A GREAT country , in a world with MANY OTHER great countries . Martin Scorsese , in keeping with his expanding collection of startlingly realistic gangster movies , has taken the best step that he could possibly have taken at this point in his career , in my opinion . He has gone into the 19th Century to make a film about the origins of the very genre that he knows so well to finally make a film that he had wanted to make for more than two decades . The first thing that struck me about Gangs of New York was the stunningly impressive re-creation of mid-19th Century New York . You can almost smell the horses and dirty people , the gunpowder , the wide-eyed immigrants as they step out of the immigration ship and onto the military to go out and fight for ' their country . ' The film immediately makes a harsh criticism of the American tendency toward military violence . Immigrants are shown one document that makes them citizens and another that enlists them in the army , and they are armed and sent to war before they even understand what is happening . The issue of gangs comes up in regards to America as a nation as well as the gangs rivaling each other within the cities . Many people compare current American military action as all too similar to the reaction of an inner city gang ? You hit me , we hit you ? and Scorsese shows that this is not new at all , it used to be even a desired impression . At one point a character notes , ' True Americans call themselves a gang , but all they do is stand around damning England . ' Odd that England should now be our # 1 ally in a massively controversial war . It's important to note that the movie is not entirely about the gangs of New York , but sort of a gang mentality that seems to have been disturbingly prevalent since the earliest days of the nation . Criminal gangs run the streets , corrupt politicians meet in smoky rooms to create laws and regulations that make them huge amounts of money and are promptly ignored by the common people , and the government itself bullies immigrants and the poor into the military . Enlist in the military and you go off to fight for a country that you don't even know and only have begun to belong to , but you get paid . Don't enlist , and they'll draft you , and if you get drafted you get no pay . Needless to say , the draft didn't have a lot of fans . That's a serious gamble for someone to take when facing such a monumental struggle as entering another country and hoping to scrape out a living at the same time . It's like playing the lottery with your life . It is indeed an unsettling scene to see bewildered immigrants boarding a ship as coffins are unloaded above them . Although for natives and immigrants alike , a mere $300 , a massive amount of money at the time , could buy your ' freedom ' from military service . This is another thing that has not changed much to this day . And notice what happens when the poor are forced into military service and the rich buy their way out ! Riots ! ! There are surprising things brought up in the film as well , such as the widespread disgust at Lincoln's having freed the slaves , which today stands as one of the great moments in American history , but the greatest thing that the movie does is show the roots of much of today's unrest in America . The gangs run rampant in the streets , unhindered by such trivialities as the police forces , which are too busy fighting each other to perform much enforcement of the law . Even fire departments fight each other . As is noted early on in the film , New York was not a city , it was more like a furnace . The movie focuses on the life of Amsterdam Vallon ( Leonardo DiCaprio ) , whose father , Priest Vallon , played by Liam Neeson , is killed in a gangland massacre at the start of the film . The respect that gangsters had for each other is shown when Bill ' the Butcher ' Cutting , the rival gangster ( and a staggering performance by Daniel Day-Lewis ) , protects his body from the post-mortem assaults of his men , asks that his son gets a good education , and even keeps a portrait of him until almost two decades later when he and Amsterdam's fates bring them together again . Cutting is quickly established as a vicious and cruel gangster , but whose chinks are ultimately exposed , although very subtly , because as his largest weapon , like so many dictators today , is fear . He relies on committing fearsome acts in order to preserve the order of things , to keep people afraid and therefore keep himself in a position of power . The knife-throwing scene , for example , is VERY good . It's interesting to see the young New York split by gangs at every level of society , each side claiming their own territory , each side praying to the same God , convinced that God is on their side . At the end of the film there is a heavy lesson to be learned . Vallon and Cutting find themselves laying side-by-side in the street , each badly wounded , and even Cutting , the malicious fear-monger , looks around at the chaos in the street , seemingly shamed to see what he had helped create . ' Friend or foe , didn't make no difference now . ' It really makes you think about living your life by the way of the gun when the gravestones start to show up at the end of the film , and then the skyscrapers show up around those . Vallon and Cutting had each created positions of power and influence in New York , but after their violence erupted and destroyed their spheres of influence , ' they build the city back up , and for the rest of time , it's like no one ever knew we was here . '
Some of the best of Chinese gangster cinema .	By now the story is famous , thanks in America to Scorsese's adaptation , The Departed . The premise is so simple and so effective that it's amazing that they haven't been making movies like this for years . Or maybe they have . But definitely none have been as well done as this . The story involves a brilliant mirror image in the crime and law enforcement world - the police force assigns a promising new recruit to enter the crime world and live there for years as a mole , meanwhile a crime boss has assigned a young gangster to join the police academy and become a legitimate cop , living inside the force for years as a mole . I watched Infernal Affairs at the same time as I was reading a thick biography of Chairman Mao and while living in China , so I've been reading a lot about undercover moles and their seemingly endless use throughout modern Chinese history , and this movie gives a brilliant on screen example . The development of the plot and story are by far the most interesting thing about the movie . Lau is the mobster living as a police officer , and Chan is the police recruit living undercover as a criminal . Lau is flourishing as a policeman , while Chan is growing increasingly desperate as a criminal , since as the years pass he finds that he is more and more simply becoming the role he is playing , and he grows increasingly desperate to get out . Unfortunately , the force has invested years in him as a criminal , so they refuse to let him out . Before long , a mole is suspected in the force , and sure enough , Lau , the mole himself , is assigned to find it . This puts him in a curious position . He can either continue to fail to find the mole , or he can frame one of his colleagues . Soon both characters are aware of each other , but not each other's identity , and there is a lengthy use of cell-phones to create a complex web of tension , as each is on the verge of discovering the identity of the other , or get discovered himself . A more thorough and effective recipe for genuine tension is difficult to come by ! Then there is the issue of each man playing a different identity for so long . There is a deeper emotional and moral complexity to this film than most crime films , American , Chinese or otherwise . It's a brilliant composition of dichotomies and contradictions , mirror images and switches personalities , and makes for a hell of a ride .
If only it was longer !	This quick documentary is about as good as a making0of documentary can be at a diminutive 7 minute running time , but even though it's barely the length of the Cyndi Lauper song that underlies it , it still gives some great insights into the making of the film , which is a gigantic milestone in my childhood , I must say . It starts out with an interview of Steven Spielberg on the set talking about the movie , and it's pretty funny because he goes right into sort of a disclaimer about the film , as though people are expecting another Close Encounters of the Third Kind or Jaws or E . T . or something . He says something like , " Nothing extraordinary happens in this movie , " which is funny because it became such an enduring classic . I recently watched the documentary that came with the remake of Flight of the Phoenix , where it becomes clear what an emotional man Director John Moore is , and the stress and frustration that Richard Donner suffered through working with all the kids in this movie is pretty similar , giving a pretty good insight into how difficult directing a film can be . The documentary has some pretty good on set footage of the shooting process , although as is almost always the case I wish they weren't edited so heavily . As soon as you start to see what's going on and remember the scene from the film it cuts to something else . There is an interview with Robert Davi , Joe Pantoliano , and Anne Ramsey ( collectively the Fratellis ) that I wish they would have shown more of , as well as some scenes where he's scolding the actors , everyone from the kids to the adults . There's some funny stuff of Richard Donner getting a little frustrated with most of the kids , and one memorable shot where he criticizes Robert Davi pretty heavily , tells him that everything he's seen him do so far is not even acting . That's pretty harsh ! Overall this is a great documentary , it's just too bad it's so short , but then again at the time it was made they may very well not have planned on the thing being anything more than a quick snippet to show on TV at some point , since DVDs were so far in the future , The DVD does include the Cyndi Lauper music video of Goonies are Good Enough , although it's this huge , lumbering storyline version of the video that was remade for the movie . I wish they would have included the original video that they showed clips of in the movie , I've never been really impressed by music videos on DVDs that are nothing but a lot of footage of the movie that the song is featured in , but oh well . Still pretty entertaining , and while the music video was too long and the documentary too short , they are still both worth checking out .
This one really shocked me . I don't even like John Cusack , but I loved High Fidelity .	Why was High Fidelity so good ? That's the question that has been going through my mind ever since I saw it . There really wasn't anyone spectacular involved with it . I mean , it's not like Tom Hanks was in it or Steven Spielberg directed it . But somehow , it ended up being just a great comedy . High Fidelity just had a really entertaining story , and it was extremely well acted by everyone involved . This is what I have come up with in my mission to find out what it was about High Fidelity that made me like it so much . Sure , there's not a whole lot to the story ? a guy gets dumped and goes back and recounts his relationships and break-ups with his top five girlfriends , but it was presented in such a clever way that it made bland material a lot of fun . One of the things that was really good about High Fidelity was the way the ' top five girlfriends ' premise was complemented by Rob Gordon ( Cusack ) and his music geek friends coming up with countless top five lists . Top five dream jobs , top five first songs on music albums , top five this , top five that . Anyone who is into top five lists or top ten lists will probably love High Fidelity just for that small part of it . Speaking of Gordon's music geek friends , the person who really stole the show was Jack Black , as Barry , one of Gordon's employees at the record store that he owns in the film . This is particularly notable given the variety of unenviable roles that Black has played , such as those in Cable Guy and , more recently , The Jackal . The hilarious music discussion scenes that take place in the record store are probably the best scenes in the film , and Black steals nearly every one of them . Almost as amusing as Black was Todd Louiso , playing the part of Dick , another employee at Gordon's record store . Dick is a very soft-spoken music fanatic who is probably so entertaining because we've known someone like him . In fact , that's what is so appealing about Gordon and Barry , too . They are a cross-section of music fans in the urban world and they provide many more laughs because of their familiarity . A number of well-known actors also played relatively small roles in High Fidelity , such as Catherine Zeta-Jones , Natasha Gregson Wagner , Joan Cusack , and , of course , Tim Robbins as the antagonistic ? new boyfriend . ' One of the really good things about High Fidelity is that it eventually delivers a good message about stepping up and actually doing something with your life . It warns of the dangers of getting too comfortable doing one thing , and of giving in to the temptation of hopping from relationship to brief relationship . At the end , Rob begins to realize the mistakes that he made in his relationship with Laura , and these are mistakes that I think a lot of people have made and continue to make . High Fidelity is just good comedy . It's fun , it's entertaining , and above all , it's refreshing because of it's relative originality . There are plenty of memorable scenes in the film , many because of their sheer , if illogical , hilarity . Some of the customers who come into the record store are treated much worse than they would ever be treated in real life , but the laughs are delivered . Don't miss this one .
Of COURSE it wasn't as good as the sequel , what did you expect ?	Obviously , as the sequel to a stunning Best Picture winner , Hannibal has a lot to live up to . In it's defense , the movie takes up that task with fervor and skill . Anthony Hopkins , as is to have been expecting , delivers another spectacular performance in one of his most memorable roles , Gary Oldman portrays Mason Verger , the film's unfortunate protagonist , with appreciable malice and non-appeal , and even Julianne Moore manages to successfully fill the shoes of Jodie Foster as Clarice Starling . The Silence of the Lambs is one of the greatest thrillers ever made , in my opinion , so I was dedicated to that film's performers when I walked in to see Hannibal , and I was still impressed with how well Julianne Moore performed for the role . The magnitude Anthony Hopkins's performance , as a matter of fact , is accented by the character of Hannibal as he is seen throughout the three films in which the character can be found . In Manhunter ( the mediocre film based on Thomas Harris's spectacular novel , Red Dragon ) , Hannibal is little more than an interesting extra with a few spoken lines . He helps Will Graham along periodically in his efforts to catch the troubled ' Tooth Fairy , ' but he is little more than a side character in the film . In The Silence of the Lambs , Dr . Lecter plays much the same role , helping Clarice Starling this time as she hunts down a man who kills large women and takes their skins . There can be no mistake about Hannibal's magnified presence in The Silence of the Lambs as compared to Manhunter , and then this year they come out with a film based entirely on his character , and they do , in fact , name the film after him . Do you think Harris would have written a novel based on the character if Brian Cox had played Dr . Lecter in The Silence of the Lambs ? I can't help doubting it . The story of Hannibal follows the now-disgraced Starling ( due to a publicized FBI raid that was easily manipulated to make Starling look bad ) , as she travels Europe in pursuit of the evasive Dr . Lecter . After his escape in The Silence of the Lambs , he traveled to Italy to hide , but even more , so that he could pursue his vastly intellectual interests . Hannibal is unmistakably gorier than The Silence of the Lambs , but that's clearly because the film follows Hannibal Lecter as its main character . In previous films , we mainly only heard stories through the dialogue of Dr . Lecter's crimes , but here we actually see them . You can't really hold this against the film as gratuitous violence , because it is a movie about the character that was so popular back in 1991 . They're just giving us more of what we want and I , for one , thank them for it . One of the most important things about movies that are made from novels is how faithful it remains to the original work . Movies like The Green Mile and Stand By Me are incredibly faithful , and with excellent results , and Hannibal also remains faithful to the original novel in the most important places . The story is necessarily condensed for the film version , but the film does not take giant liberties from the text , which is something that is sometimes done and almost always deteriorates the quality of the story . This type of destructive behavior can be seen in Manhunter , for one example , and also in classics ( who would think they had any right to change these ? ) like Jonathan Swift's ' Gulliver's Travels ' and Mary Shelley's ' Frankenstein . ' The one part where Hannibal deviated from the novel most noticeably was the ending . Many people ( including myself ) were disappointed that the film ended in almost exactly the same way that The Silence of the Lambs ended , but you should have seen the ridiculous ending that Thomas Harris put in the book ! What a mess ! The movie may not have had the best ending in the world , but it's all uphill from the pitfall that can be found at the end of Harris's novel . For the most part , Thomas Harris has brought us an interesting story for Hannibal , and the film succeeds on most levels in delivering it to ( unfortunately ) the vast majority of the public ? meaning the people who will never bother to read the book . It's amazing how well they managed to switch the roles of protagonist and antagonist here . We find ourselves rooting for the ? bad ' guy ( Hannibal , who has horribly murdered several people ) , and hoping that he will kill the ? good ' guy , who is one of Hannibal's previous victims , but who now plans to viciously murder Hannibal for revenge . Sure , the movie may have seemed excessively gory or unpleasant at times , but that's what kind of movie it is , all of that stuff fits with the story and the characters . We're dealing with a pure sociopath as the film's protagonist , so obviously there is going to be some violence . It is no secret that Hannibal is not on the same level with The Silence of the Lambs , but that is to be expected . But despite all of the astronomical expectations and other odds against it , Hannibal manages to be a very good thriller .
One of Brad Pitt's most memorable roles .	In the same vein as Natural Born Killers , another movie that was not so popular with critics because of its excessive violence but that I also loved , Kalifornia is a movie that clearly glamorizes violence , but I like to think that it turns that around in the final act . Kind of like how The Basketball Diaries glamorizes drugs at first , but shows the bad side by the end of the movie , which is far worse than the good side is good . David Duchovny plays Brian Kessler , an artistic yuppie with an even more artistically yuppie girlfriend , who is into that violent sexy black and white photography generally reserved for , I don't know where , places where nudity passes for art . Maybe it really does and I just don't understand it . At any rate , Brian and Carrie ( Duchovny and Michelle Forbes , who fits the role flawlessly ) , make the perfect couple to go on a documentary tour of famous murder sites . Brian , the writer , will write the book , Carrie can take the pictures . Being artistic types , Brian and Carrie are not quite financially prepared for such a trip , so they put out an ad for someone to share gas and travel expenses , and are contacted by Early Grace and Adele Corners ( Brad Pitt and Juliette Lewis ) . Early is on parole and assigned to janitorial work at the local university by his parole officer , sees the ad on a bulletin board , and decides to leave the state for a while , violating his parole but also leaving the scene of his landlord's murder so he won't have to deal with a pesky murder investigation . Two birds with one stone , you know . The movie has a curious ability to portray two stereotypes , the artsy yuppies and the greasy trailer trash , without resorting to clichés or even ending up with caricatures of either type . Brian and Carrie are artsy liberals , but while Carrie catches on to Early and Adele , Brian is fascinated with Early's status as an outlaw , as seen in the scene where Brian shoots Early's gun . Never having fired a gun before , he's as fascinated as a little kid . While Adele and Carrie are back at a hotel and Adele reveals such things in her childlike way as the fact that Early " broke her " of smoking and that she's not allowed to drink ( Early doesn't think women should ) , Early and Brian are out at the local bar . Brian reacts nervously to a drunk trying to start a fight with him , and Early first gives advice to Brian on what to do and then steps in and dishes out a quick lesson for the guy . " Hit him , Bri , it's comin ' . " This is one of my favorite scenes in the movie , partly because it's so funny what Early gleefully says as the guy's friends drag him away , bloodied and battered , but also because as it is intercut with the girls back at the hotel , we learn so much all at once about the two couples , their differences , and the conflicts that are likely to come up because of them . And besides that , because Brian benefited from Early's actions and Carrie is appalled by what she hears from Adele , it also illustrates the different way that Carrie and Brian react to Early and Adele . Clearly , by now , you can tell that this is not your typical odd couple type of thriller , where the city folk run into the country folk and all sorts of stereotypical mayhem ensues . On one hand it seems a little too convenient that Brian and Carrie go on a tour of murder sites and just happen to be accompanied by a real life murderer , but on the other hand it's a great way to counteract the glorifying of murder that is inherent within a cross-country trip designed to bring fame to murderers and their crimes . While studying the actions of past murderers , Brian and Carrie ultimately find themselves face to face with the very material that they are studying , and realize that murder is not as pretty or morbidly fascinating when it's in your face as it is through disconnected studies of murders past . I am constantly amazed at Brad Pitt's versatility as an actor . Consider , for example , his roles in movies like Kalifornia , 12 Monkeys , Fight Club , and Ocean's 11 and 12 . Pitt is like Tom Hanks in that he can change his appearance drastically or just enough to fit a given character , and is completely believable . Incidentally , I tried in vain to be Early Grace for Halloween this year , but just couldn't get the hair and beard right . I even got the hat right , which initially I thought would be the hardest part . It's easy to understand why a lot of people disliked Kalifornia or why they think that it glorifies violence and murder , but I think that whatever glorifying it does is done with the intention of clarifying the audience's understanding of its subject matter . A film that didn't glorify violence , at least initially , could never be as effective as Kalifornia , but the movie structures it perfectly . The glorification is all embodied in Brian's and Carrie's fascination with the idea of murder and the auras of the places in which is happened , but their realization , and ours , is embodied in the real thing , which they encounter with Early and Adele . The movie's very purpose is to describe that difference between idealizing violence and seeing the horror of it up close and for real .
One of Arnie's genuine best performances ever .	I remember when I was about 12 years old I used to watch this movie a lot and it had a strange effect on me because it is so bizarre and so violent , but I couldn't tear my eyes away . Also , that woman with three boobs was enough for me to sit through the rest of the movie just to see again ! It takes place in a dismal future where colonies have long since arisen and decayed on other planets and mutations are as rampant as corruption . Schwarzenegger plays a construction worker named Douglas Quaid who has recurring dreams about a trip to Mars and a mysterious brunette there . His hottie wife ( Sharon Stone ) is unimpressed by this brunette who keeps turning up in her husband's dreams , but mostly he just can't get over this strange need to go to Mars . I have to say , however , that based on his dream , which we see at the beginning of the movie in which he falls down a hill and breaks his face mask and then his eyes pop out of his head , doesn't exactly seem like the kind of thing that would make me want to go to that place , but no matter . The movie really gets going as soon as Quaid goes to a company called Rekall that sells implanted memories , so basically you can travel anywhere you want to go in the world and be anyone you want . There's no danger because you never leave the Rekall offices , but there's always the chance of an accidental lobotomy . Almost immediately after hooking him up to their machines , he wakes up a completely different person , convinced that he is no longer a happily married construction worker but a secret agent on the run from an evil dictator of Mars named Cohaagen . At this point all hell breaks loose and the movie gets really good . It's a little confusing , but for the thickness of the plot it's amazing how well presented it is . Quaid is suddenly unsure who he really is , and when at one point he is receiving instructions from his other self , the self on the other side of the Rekall implantation , about how to remove a tracking device from his nose ( in one of the movie's most memorable moments ) , it doesn't make things any easier for him to understand . There are tons of great characters , impressive sets , amazing special effects and brilliant performances despite the occasional cheese moment ( such as that bizarre mutant at the end chanting " Open your miiiiiind ? . . " over and over ) . Read Volume 2 of my 50 Amazing Movie Facts on Hollywire and you'll know what I really mean . The movie has the same brutal feeling as RoboCop , and director Paul Verhoeven has really shown that he knows how to do action sci-fi . This is definitely one of the genre's best !
One of Chaplin's better short comedies , which again focuses on his common theme of the rich vs . the poor .	Once again as the loveable tramp , Chaplin again plays the part of the working man , which is particularly amusingly clarified in the opening scene . Charlie walks up to a huge vault door , twists knobs to open the combination locks , and after getting through several doors , he enters the impressive vault and comes out with a mop and bucket . The simple story in this film is overshadowed by the hilarious slapstick comedy , such as the commonplace , fast paced fight scenes . In one scene , Charlie actually hands a guy his coat and hat to hold and then he gives him one of his characteristic punches , sending him rolling over backwards . There is another noteworthy scene in which one guy is looking at himself in a mirror , combing his hair and whatnot , and Charlie uproariously mocks him for prettying himself up like that . ( spoilers ) While the slapstick comedy is probably the best element of this film , there is also a well-done love story presented that foreshadows that seen in the great City Lights . There is very good emotion in the scene where Edna , Charlie's love interest , tears up his love letter . The Bank is an example of Charlie's tendency to really keep you guessing , because although he almost always plays the protagonist , his films don't always end in his favor ( the same is true for Caught In A Cabaret , another of his early short comedies ) . Ultimately , Charlie ends up getting the girl and saving the day , but then it turns out that it was all a dream , and he is alone . It's a good thing that he did this , too , because one of the things that made his tremendous amount of early short films remain interesting was that he mixed things around like that . And The Bank is among the best of those early films .
Portrait of an American Family ?	For about the first three quarters of Little Miss Sunshine I expected that it was going to be another highly overrated sleeper like Almost Famous or The Royal Tenenbaums , but by the time the movie ended I was about ready to stand up and cheer . Steve Carell has a highly subdued role as a suicidal intellectual , and Greg Kinnear and Toni Collette take on roles of a highly dysfunctional married couple with a couple of kooky kids . ( spoilers ahead ) Kinnear's character is struggling to sell a 9-step self help book , which may have failed partly because he can't even help himself , let alone his family , and at the last minute their daughter is granted a place in the Little Miss Sunshine competition in beautiful Hermosa Beach , California . It's clear that she could never win such a superfluous and superficial competition , but her excitement is infectious so the family drops everything and piles into their old , beat-up VW bus ( really , is there any other kind of VW bus other than old and beat up ? ) to drive in close quarters across a few states together . The ultimate dysfunctional road trip . Along the way they suffer every hardship imaginable , some hilarious and some just disturbing ( although even those ultimately hilarious ) , but the movie really gets going once the family gets to the beauty competition . I am reminded of David Guest's outstanding film Best in Show , which brilliantly lampoons dog grooming competitions , or whatever they're called , and the nutty people that participate in them . Remember Shirley Temple in her 1934 short film War Babies ? Well , probably not since you haven't seen it , but it is a parody of the stereotypical romantic war film , in which 4-year-old Shirley plays a bar girl of some sort , cavorting around the bar set in a diaper and shaking her hips in ways that would make the grandpa in Little Miss Sunshine blush . Most of the girls participating in the beauty competition in this movie give performances that are at least as disturbingly sexual as Shirley did 70 years earlier , and it is no less sad now that their parents are sitting in the crowd cheering them on , and those are exactly the people that are so brilliantly lambasted by the film . I have to admit that I have never been to any kind of beauty competition , human or otherwise , but I do know that there are people that completely devote themselves to these high-superficiality contests , putting external appearance on a pedestal and either unaware or completely indifferent to the very existence of personality or intellect , so I really think it's great to see such a cleverly made film whose main purpose is to point out how nutty these people are ! Whether you are interested in beauty contests at all , I should think that this movie should make you feel that they should be made illegal , at least the ones for kids , and will keep you entertained all along as well .
Every once in a long while a truly inspiring film comes along that is a must see for virtually everyone . The Shawshank Redemption is one of these films .	Every single scene in The Shawshank Redemption , every bit of dialogue , everything that happens all beautifully serves the purpose of intensifying the impact of the story itself . The muted colors and the relaxed cinematography do a spectacular job of taking us back in time , and the message of the film is inspiring , to say the least . What you have in the Shawshank Redemption is a film that is extremely well thought-out and put together in such a way that it is able to hold your attention even for well over two hours . The movie is about holding on to hope in even the worst circumstances , even under tremendous stress , and even when you are in that situation unjustly . However , even though Andy Dufresne is clearly the protagonist , Red is actually a more important person as far as the message of the film . He seems to embody the lessons learned in the film , and this is shown in the way that his life is transformed by his friendship with Andy . However , there were a few things about this film that I didn't like that I think took a lot away from it . For example , even though I admit that it didn't reduce the potency of the film itself , everything worked out a little too perfectly for Andy in prison . Sure , he got beaten up and sexually assaulted , but look at the aftermath of those attacks . When the " Sisters " beat him within an inch of his life , did he get his nose broken ? Was he left with any scars ? Were any of his limbs casted ? Did he even develop a limp ? No , what happened was he spent a month in the infirmary and got out with his hair messed up . That's a pretty small price to pay for almost being beaten to death . I also find it hard to believe that every single guard in the prison , including the warden , would allow a prisoner to do their taxes . Sure , he's got expertise in the banking field , but he's also been convicted of murder . I would think that the warden in particular , with all of his , ahem , activities , would want to kind of keep to himself as far as his finances . Another problem was the timeline . We see events that take place over long periods of time , but we are largely left to speculate about what goes on in the years that are skipped over . The film comes together as a great story , but you have to keep in mind that in between scenes that seem to run together , YEARS have gone by . The aging process wasn't done very well either . All of the characters involved looked almost exactly the same at the beginning of the movie as they did at the end . When that many years have passed , something needs to be done to try to make the actors look at least a little bit older . Aside from these minor deficiencies , as well as a confusing title , The Shawshank Redemption is an absolutely incredible film . The setbacks can be overlooked because of the fact that the film as a whole communicates such an important and powerful message , and the film is not boring even for a second . It's intense , it's beautifully made , and it will not soon be forgotten .
A modern day film noir .	Michelle Pfeiffer , Mel Gibson , and Kurt Russell are the three corners of the love triangle that makes up a significant part of the plot in this tense thriller . Gibson plays Mac , a legendary drug dealer who is trying to get out of the drug business but finds that no one wants him to leave , not even the police . Russell plays the part of the detective who is hot on Mac's trail but is reluctant to capture and charge him because the two men were childhood friends , and Pfeiffer is the beautiful restaurant owner who is torn by her feelings for the two men . The thing that really causes this otherwise unoriginal story to keep up a brisk pace is the question of what everyone's individual intentions are , who knows what , and who told what to whom . Tequila Sunrise is full of effective plot twists that sometimes twist right back to the way they were , even at the strangest times ( such as in the boat near the end of the film ) . ( spoilers ) Jerry Bruckheimer and Company could take a serious lesson in making romantic subplots work in action films from Tequila Sunrise , in which Gibson and Pfeiffer eventually develop a very effective relationship with each other . The most moving scene involving this element of the film takes place when Mac is telling her about his reasons for teaching his lawyer ( who is also her lawyer ) to sell drugs . This has a lot to do with both of their skills as actors , because I've already seen Mel do this several times in the hardcore action Lethal Weapon series , and Michelle is so beautiful that she can do anything she wants . Tequila Sunrise is a heavily atmospheric film reminiscent of other modern classic films noir , such as the stiflingly atmospheric Body Heat , and much of the effect is the same . Kurt Russell is the stereotypical male in a film noir , with the slicked back hair , the nice suit , and the ever-present cigarette . Michelle Pfeiffer would fulfill the traditional femme fatale role very nicely , especially given her attractiveness as well as her overall physical fit of the description of the femme fatale , except that she doesn't really drag anyone down . Films noir usually end in death , for the femme fatale as well as the male victim , but Tequila Sunrise doesn't do that . This is one of the ways that the story was made to work so well , because even though you pretty much know that Mac will get the girl ( if only because he's Mel Gibson ) , it twists many other expectations around . This is a thinking person's action film , and it's a shame that these are so uncommon .
Election is an excellent movie that amazingly avoids being just another stupid high school comedy .	( spoilers ) While it was definitely a shame to see that Ferris Bueller has grown to be exactly the kind of person that he hated back in the good old days when he decided to take the day off , it was still good to see a refreshing version of the much-depreciated teen comedy . Matthew Broderick is strikingly effective as the unattractive high school teacher Jim McAllister , a man who is unsatisfied with his work , drives a ridiculous car , and can't seem to get his wife pregnant . The film as a whole follows Jim most of all , and his descent to the lowest point possible , which he reaches through nearly constant bad choices . Reese Witherspoon is especially noteworthy in this film , because she fulfills her role so well . She plays the part of Tracy Flick , the aggravatingly perky overachiever who is originally the sole candidate in the race for class president , but whose evil and manipulative side is revealed when the infinitely good-natured Paul Metzler ( Chris Klein ) enters the race , thanks in no small part to the persuasion of Jim . The reason that Witherspoon pulls this role off so well is because she's such an annoying actress . Her high pitched , nerve shattering voice gives this movie an entirely new level of realism , and makes her eventual ( although temporary ) demise very satisfying . I probably got the greatest of many laughs when she stood up confidently as the winner of the election was announced , only to realize that her name was not called . It was also good to see Chris Klein in a role that wasn't as dumb as his roles in such bonehead films as American Pie and Here On Earth ? he was definitely one of the better actors in this movie . One of the many things that really caused Election to move along at a fast pace was the subtle rivalry between Jim and Tracy , which is what really keeps you entertained . She's such an aggravating person that you just love to see Jim pull out those two votes and throw them into the trash , thus erasing Tracy's victory , although nothing in the film even remotely parallels the sheer , unfiltered stupidity of leaving those ballots in that trash can for the janitor to find . That one dumbass move alone made it possible to sincerely enjoy this otherwise enjoyable character's eventual downfall . Besides that , there can be no mistake about how this film predicted the heavily flawed Presidential Election of 2000 ? the election that was screwed up so badly that we eventually watched the inauguration of the candidate with less votes . If only there was a trash can somewhere in Florida where a janitor found some kind of concrete proof that the wrong guy is in the White House right now . The main message that Election delivers has to do with making bad choices . From the beginning to the end of the movie , Jim McAllister makes every bad choice imaginable . He cheats on his wife , he recklessly alters the outcome of the election , etc . And as a result , everything imaginable goes wrong . The woman that he cheated with tells his wife about it and then says she was just lonely and that Jim ' took advantage ' ( which is crap , of course . We , as the all-seeing audience , know how badly she really wanted it ) , it is quickly discovered that he threw away Tracy's two critical votes , he loses his wife , his job , everything . He even gets a freakin ' bee sting on his EYE ! What the hell else could possibly go wrong ? ( That was the point of the bee sting , by the way , in case you missed it ) Well , he should feel pretty dumb because one of his former colleagues lost everything because he was having sex with Tracy . This guy had sex with a student and lost everything , Jim had sex with some other woman and manipulated the future of a student and lost everything . However , it's ironic that Jim is the character that the audience initially identifies with the most , but he is also the one who eventually suffers the most , and yet the film as a whole is still so satisfying , especially since it seemed that that damn Tracy Flick would go on to eventually become the nation's first female president . Election twists stuff around like that , and results in an excellent comedy . Don't miss it .
Very simple , obviously , but definitely one of Chaplin's more endearing short comedies .	By The Sea is one of Charlie Chaplin's very early short comedy skits , and while the plot is necessarily simple , the comedy is effective and the message is clear and fairly heartwarming . The film concerns some guy on the beach who gets into a hilarious scuffle with another guy on the beach ( Chaplin ) , because they both drop their hats ( which , for some reason , are tied to themselves with pieces of string ) and subsequently become entangled with one another as they try to get their hats back . Needless to say , they very soon start fighting , in the traditionally comical brawls that are commonplace in nearly all of Chaplin's films . The plot actually thickens when a woman walks by and Charlie tries to act like he hasn't been fighting , holding his unconscious adversary up while he amusingly tips his hat ( like no one else can ) by pressing it against the pole that he is leaning on . This type of childishly charming acting is what Chaplin is most famous for and what he is best at , and it works very well here , too . Chaplin has come to be known for his presentations of different class levels in his films , but in By The Sea , one of the themes that is more prevalent is his dislike of authority figures ( a standpoint that is shared by Alfred Hitchcock , who had a deathly fear of police officers ) . When he is fighting with the man on the beach , an officer comes up to break up the fight , accidentally gets knocked unconscious , and Charlie steps on him as he and the other man walk away , soon to agree to a truce . Eventually , Charlie and the other guy become friends with each other , going out for ice cream . But it seems all the while that they are on the verge of breaking out into another fight ? it is clear that they don't trust each other . Even while they are eating their ice cream ( which , it turns out , neither is able to pay for ) , they are knocking each other down and exchanging blows . Throughout the film , there is a subplot involving Charlie's amorous advances toward two different girls . One is involved with a huge brute of a man that we see in a quick shot early in the film , and one is involved with the man with whom Charlie spends the majority of the film fighting with . The film ends with all five of them sitting on a bench on the beach as Charlie woos one of them after another , not knowing that the two men are right beside him , and they all begin to fight , causing all of them to fall over backward on the bench . While it's true that Charlie encountered numerous hardships during this film , and that the ending wasn't necessarily happy for him , it is still an amusing comedy that serves the purpose that it was meant to serve . Films that are barely nine minutes long can only do so much , and By The Sea really accomplishes a lot .
A wonderful Disney adaptation of Lewis Carroll's classic novels .	I was a little worried when I went to watch the film version of Alice In Wonderland , because I just read the novel and Disney has a tendency to dumb down the material that they make into their films with goofball romantic nonsense and cutesy talking animals . While I did get more than the traditional share of talking animals with this film ( as well as a variety of other inanimate objects ) , the film stayed more faithful to the original story than is generally expected from a Disney film . On the other hand , this WAS made in 1951 , which makes me wonder what a more modern adaptation would look like . I read Alice In Wonderland and Through The Looking Glass for English 180 ( Children's Literature ) at the University of California , Davis , so needless to say , I read it with more of a literary appreciation than is generally applied to children's books . I was pleased to see so many of the characters from the second novel in this version of Alice In Wonderland ( such as the Cheshire Cat , the talking flowers in the garden , and Tweedle-Dee and Tweedle-Dum ) , although I must admit that I was slightly disappointed to see that Through The Looking Glass has been assimilated into this version of Alice In Wonderland rather than adapted into its own film , which I think is an honor that it certainly deserves . As far as being a full length feature ( although rather short at roughly 75 minutes ) , however , I think that this movie does justice to both stories , converting them into a single story rather smoothly , and only leaving out things that will only really be missed by people who know the novels enough to be disappointed that certain things were not included . I , for example , would have loved to see the whole chess story in Through The Looking Glass included in the film ( there certainly was time for it ) , where Alice travels through Wonderland on her quest to become a Queen herself , but I am more than happy with how this film turned out . One of the only things that I noticed about this film that did not match up to the quality of the novels is that the books have so much more in them for adults than the movie does . There are so many tricks with language pulled in the books , such as in the conversations with Tweedle-Dee and Tweedle-Dum as well as several other characters , that it really makes you think about the English language as a game with which an endless variety of tricks can be played . In the film , this is hugely downplayed , even if only because it is done visually and the language tricks pass by so fast that kids are almost certain to miss them and even the most attentive of adults will have a hard time keeping up with them . As a whole , however , Alice In Wonderland is so wildly entertaining that the loss of some of the literary substance does not detract from it as a terrific tale of adventure and discovery , certain to be enjoyed by people of all ages . I have heard plenty of rumors that Lewis Carroll was on any of a variety of drugs while he wrote the novels ( and plenty of rumors that he wasn't on any drugs at all ) , but there are certainly some things in the books and in the movie that could have only been conjured up by the most , um , eccentric of imaginations . We may never know for sure , but at least we have some wonderful entertainment . Read the books to your kids .
A unique crime thriller interspersed with a woman's delusional fantasy come to life .	Renee Zellweger plays the part of Betty , a woman who lives an unexciting life stuck with a dirtbag husband , stuck in a monotonous day-to-day existence and with nothing really to look forward to or up to . When Charlie ( Morgan Freeman ) and Wesley ( Chris Rock ) show up to collect from her bonehead husband on a bad drug deal , they wind up killing him and throwing Betty's life into complete turmoil . Just as Ellen Burstyn's Sara Goldfarb was sickeningly obsessed with being on television in the stomach turning but surprisingly impressive Requiem For A Dream , Betty is obsessed with soap operas , particularly ' A Reason To Love , ' starring her hero , Dr . David Ravell , played by Greg Kinnear . It seems that Betty has been tottering on the edge of reality for some time , and her husband's death ( or , more likely , the fact that she actually witnessed it ) is the event that really sent her over the edge of reality , and made her believe that she had once had a romantic relationship with Dr . Ravell , and now that her husband is dead , she is free to seek him out to start that relationship up again . Charlie and Wesley pursue her as she travels to Los Angeles to find Dr . Ravell , at first seeking only the drugs that she unknowingly has in her car , and Charlie gradually begins to identify with her and fancy her on entirely different levels . It's not immediately clear what we are to think of Charlie after he kills Betty's husband , Del , because Del is the kind of person that we're not exactly sad to see dead , and also because his murder was , I guess , a mercy killing of sorts , since Wesley had already scalped him . This presents Wesley as the more brutal of the two , which is probably why the comical Chris Rock was not exactly the best person to play the role . The guy's just too well known as a comedian to satisfactorily play someone so vicious , and he just doesn't have the caliber that a great actor like Joe Pesci has . Pesci can easily go back and forth between comedy and violence , Rock can't . At any rate , Wesley and Charlie are clearly meant to be something of an odd couple . There is obviously meant to be more than a little bit of comedy to be taken from their adventures , but it's a strange combination to see someone like Charlie undergo the fantastic change that he experiences throughout the film . It is , on the other hand , rather interesting to see two people who differ strongly in their violent content , clearly a very important personality trait in their line of work , as one of them transforms and their mutual goals begin to blur and change . There are several plots going on in this film , and the thing that really makes it strong is that they never get confused and none ever really overshadows any of the others . Wesley and Charlie are chasing Betty because she has their drugs and she has witnessed their crime , Charlie is becoming more interested in Betty than in the drugs or in her knowledge as a witness , Betty is pursuing this soap opera celebrity who she can't even distinguish from the character that he plays on the show , and Betty and Charlie and each in similar situations , in that they are both fantasizing about people that they can't have . There are spectacular performances left and right in the film ( Morgan Freeman , obviously , Renee Zellweger , Greg Kinnear , etc . ) , and the story is one of those rare gems that entertains without really revealing how you should feel about what goes on in the film . Nurse Betty is a movie that manages to be hugely entertaining while at the same time leaving the vast majority of the response up to individual interpretation , which is exactly what makes a movie like this so smart and sets it apart from other black comedies . This movie is not easy to figure out right away , but it is definitely easy to enjoy .
Chaplin in a movie about punching people . What else do you need ?	It seems natural that at the very start of Chaplin's career he should make a movie in which he plays a grossly unqualified boxer who succeeds by sneaking horse shoes into his gloves . I only wonder why it didn't happen even earlier . He passes a sign saying that sparring partners are wanted , people who know how to take a punch , and heads in . We see him grow increasingly concerned as one guy after another , all bigger and stronger than him , get up to fight and return in a state of dazed semi-consciousness . A lot of times when I watch these early comedies from Chaplin , I get the feeling that he is often trying to create at least a mildly engaging story throughout which he can throw in a lot of kicking and punching scenes , but in this movie it's the kicking and punching the drives the plot , giving the film an unusually honest feel . High-energy physical slap-stick is what Chaplin did best at that time , and smacking around a huge mountain of a man while he dances carelessly around as only he can is certainly a treat to watch . And the climactic battle between Charlie and the meaty Bob Uppercut ( or Young Hippo , depending on which cannibalized version you may see ) is well-acted and fun . Mack Sennett like his comedies to be fast paced and high energy , without too much time wasted on things like characterization or even story . But in The Champion , Chaplin proves that we can have well-developed characters , an easily discernible story , and still have enough action and solid slap-stick to keep the shorter attention spanned audience members entertained . This is definitely one of the best short comedies that Chaplin had made up to that point .
The most unique Bond film of the entire series .	Why was George Lazenby only in one Bond film ? Sure , Lazenby is no Sean Connery ( yeah , but NONE of them are , remember ? ) , but he still did an excellent job in his only effort as the great James Bond . Of course , probably the main thing that made Lazenby so effective in the role is that he resembled Connery in so many ways . They were built the same , they had the same hair , the same eyes , they even talked a lot alike . And there can be no doubt , by the way , that this had a significant role in securing the part for Lazenby . One of the things that is unique about On Her Majesty's Secret Service , besides being the only installment that starred the man who was only in one of the films , is the excellent editing . In the opening sequence , for example , during the spectacular fight scene on the beach , there is some of the fastest and most effective editing that is seen in the entire series . And it's a good thing , too , because the opening sequence was otherwise over dramatized . For example , Bond saves a woman from drowning herself in the ocean , and after grabbing her as she waded slowly and calmly into the water , he carries her back to the beach and lays her down on the sand , inexplicably unconscious . What happened there , did she hit her head on Bond's shoulder and knock herself out ? Luckily , this pathetic discrepancy is quickly forgotten as the remainder of the scene secures itself as probably the best opening scene so far . There are dozens of unique qualities of On Her Majesty's Secret Service that really set it apart from the other Bond films . For one thing , there are no words in the theme song , which is unusual because most of them are written specifically for the respective films ( and most are absolutely awful , as well ) . And thank God , too , those theme songs are killing me . The endless flirting with Moneypenny actually proceeds to the point of a kiss here , which I believe takes place just after James resigns from the secret service , another peculiarity of this film . I could go on and on about these things that are totally uncharacteristic of a James Bond movie . There are about ten Bond girls , instead of the usual one . After having resigned , James goes through his old gadgets , some of which are recognizable from previous films , and also note the song that plays during this scene ? ' Underneath the Mango Tree , ' the same song that was playing when we were first introduced to the Beautiful Honey Ryder in Dr . No . James Bond utters the words ' I love you ' as well as ' Will you marry me . ' There are dozens of things that are different from the rest of the series . The skiing scene was actually done well , as was the car chase on the racetrack . And at one point in the film , Bond actually impersonates a man who doesn't like women ! ( spoilers ) And yes , you heard right , Bond got MARRIED ! While this may have been the one step too far in coming up with original material ( a married Bond would spell disaster for later films ) , the almost immediate death of his new bride not only creates pretty impressive emotion ( when did that ever happen in a Bond film ? ! ) , but it also begins to legitimize the promiscuity that Bond has always displayed . It made his womanizing behavior seem less adolescent and exploitive . The story of On Her Majesty's Secret Service is also fairly unique to a certain extent , but it's really still the same old thing about some super villain holding the world hostage and it's all up to Bond to save the day . But in this case , rather than the usual nuclear weapons hijack , the villain is threatening the world with bacterial warfare , or an outbreak of foot and mouth disease , to be exact . While this is indirectly destructive toward humans ( it threatens the economy rather than directly endangers peoples ' lives ) , it is still good to see something a little bit different once in a while . As this essentially normal Bond plot unfolds , we see lots of impressive stuff . Notice that the main Bond girl ( after the one-after-the-other romp with lots of them early in the film ) strangely resembles Shirley Manson , the singer for Garbage and the performer of the excellent theme song for The World Is Not Enough 30 years later , and that movie's title originates in THIS film . Weird , huh ? On Her Majesty's Secret Service is clearly one of the Bond films that really has a lot of stuff to look for , particularly if you are familiar with the other Bond films . The story itself is not exactly a point of interest by this point in the series , but the action is still very impressive and it is made even better by the amazingly well done editing . The fast paced luge scene at the end of the film is a good action sequence , as is the very convincing avalanche , but when Bond crash lands at the end of the luge scene , a big slobbery dog immediately runs up and starts licking his face , which is just entirely too convenient . They may as well have had him land in a big easy chair . Luckily , the film did not end here , but rather with the tragic death of Bond's new wife which , rather than hamper interest in Bond films to follow ( which would be the case , had he remained married ) , makes you want to rush out and watch the next one to see the killers brought to justice , Bond style ! There can be no mistake about On Her Majesty's Secret Service . This is definitely one of the best Bond films , regardless of who played the starring role . Any fan of James Bond or just quality action films is sure to love this one .
" Ain't love grand ? "	One of Chaplin's longest films up to that point , Burlesque on Carmen is a clever and surprisingly complex parody of what was then " Prosper Merimee's " well-known story about " Carmen . " I was a little confused about the difference between the IMDb's listing of the 1915 Burlesque on Carmen and the 1916 version . Based on the running time I assume that it was the 1915 version that I saw , since the 1916 one is a good 20 minutes longer , and from what I've read , those are 20 unnecessary and unimpressive minutes . From the very beginning , it's clear that Burlesque on Carmen is one of Chaplin's most complex and ambitious efforts to date , starting off with a long back story , told through inter-titles , about the tragic love story of Carmen . Carmen is sent by a band of gypsies ( " A band who put the GYP in gypsy . " ) , to seduce a Spanish officer so they can pull off their smuggling operation . It's a clever , Chaplinesque band of criminals , the leader of whom , Lillas Pastia , has " spent 50 years learning to steal , thinking he might be offered a job in politics . " On a side note , I've seen some almost misogynistic messages and jokes in some of Chaplin's earlier work , but probably none quite as overt as in this one . Near the beginning of the movie , as the band of gypsies are traveling , there is a scene where the mules and women are loading , and an inter-title explains that " the mules are the ones with long ears . " In case you couldn't tell , I guess . Chaplin plays the part of Don Jose , the hapless officer who is to be seduced by Carmen . He is described as " a brave soldier and lover of women . " Not exactly a stretch for Chaplin who removed any doubt about his ability to play a convincing comic soldier a few years later in the brilliant Shoulder Arms . And of course , he didn't have to act about being a lover of women . What is different here , of course , is his polished military uniform and straight-backed disciplinary manner , interspersed , of course , with some of his traditional slap-stick moves . He strikes me as a little guy in a position of authority , struggling to maintain the respect of his subordinates by exerting a gruff , stolid exterior . Soon Carmen enters ( " Loved by all men under the age of 96 ? " ) , and she immediately begins flirting with Charlie . I should mention that for a good majority of the movie , it is surprisingly faithful to the original story , which was full of jealousy and tragedy . Chaplin is strangely convincing as a jealous lover , able to evoke a jealous passion that I've never seen from him . There's at least one scene where he is genuinely a little scary . Chaplin has some great sight gags in the movie , like a hilarious table dance and some classic sword fighting near the end . And his boyish charm and the role of a soldier is also definitely a winning combination , although there is another peculiar stunt involving a group of men pushing a huge door back and forth that wasn't very effective to begin with but just kept going on and on and on , probably about five times longer than it was worth . Although it was interesting that when it finally fell over it clearly was revealed as a movie prop . I always appreciate such glimpses at the old movie sets . The end of the film is it's strongest part . It bears striking resemblance to Romeo and Juliet , but just when you think that Chaplin is going to conduct a major thematic experiment by diverging distantly from his traditional style , there is a hilarious twist that is as vintage Chaplin as anything I've ever seen . Nice work !
Seagal's best film ever !	I just watched Out For Justice again for the first time in more than 15 years , and it's surprisingly different from how I remember it . I've seen a lot of Seagal's other work since then , mostly his more recent and more disappointing stuff , but mostly I'm struck by how much more abrasive and violent his character is . I mostly just remember that last fight scene with Richie and the part where he rescues the puppy that some guy dropped out of his car . But contrary to his normal fashion , Seagal's character is rough and violent and doesn't care a bit about the rules . Granted , Seagal has a tendency to play guys who don't care about rules , " go it alone cops " and whatnot , but in this movie he spends a lot of time throwing the first punches in situations where all he has to go on are suspicions . By now , Seagal has discovered that the revenge theme is something of a cash cow for a guy like him , and it shows in Out For Justice . He plays Gino Felino , a Brooklyn cop whose best friend gets shot to death in the opening minutes of the movie in broad daylight in front of his wife and kids . Complicating matters is that Bobby , his friend , was shot by Richie Madano , a brutal gangster with whom Bobby and Gino have been enemies since childhood . Gino sets out on a mission to find him and avenge his death . During his search for Bobby , he interrogates all of Bobby's crew on their own turf . Waltzing right into bars and smacking people around . Highly satisfying Seagal fare , I have to say , but a little out of character in the way he punches first and asks questions later . Or asks questions while punching , that's pretty effective too . At any rate , it doesn't help that Gino had a tough childhood , his father struggled to provide a knife and scissor sharpening service in a time when more and more people were switching to disposable knives and scissors ( although I guess those never really caught on ) , leaving Gino and his family pretty broke until a local friend of the family , Mr . Madano , gave Richie money so he could go to the amusement park with the other kids . Now , he is hunting for Mr . Madano's son and plans to kill him . Oh , what a tangled web we weave . Richie , by the way , is a brilliantly vicious and heartless performance by William Forsythe , and is arguably the best villain in any Steven Seagal film ever made . He's brutally violent and completely unhinged ( no doubt because of a tremendous crack habit ) , and clearly doesn't care if he lives or dies , making him all the more dangerous . Forsythe's performance almost overshadows even Seagal's , and that's saying a lot , given that this might be Seagal's best film ever . Out For Justice pulls no punches . It is tremendously violent ( there is a scene involving a bad guy getting shot in the leg near the end of the movie that's one of the most graphic and disturbing images I've ever seen in an action movie ) ad yet has character development and an interesting story . Seagal in his prime ! Enjoy !
Yeah , Pierce ! !	With the excellent performance that Pierce Brosnan puts into this excellent , excellent Bond film , it comes as a shock that he followed it up with two consecutive 007 crapfests . GoldenEye starts off with one of the best opening sequences of the entire Bond series . Who cares that the plane that he skydived after was way beyond saving , or that there was no possible way that he could have held himself at the bottom of that bungee cord ? This impossibility is standard with James Bond , and in my opinion , it always makes the movies impossible to take seriously at all , but there was something about all of GoldenEye that made it more fun than usual and also much better than many of the other Bond films . The opening theme song is just awful ( as usual ) , but it's probably one of the best bad ones of the series ( I'm not sure if the excellent theme song for The World Is Not Enough will ever be surpassed , by the way ) . GoldenEye also has some great action , particularly the chases . We almost immediately get a great car chase on mountain roads , although every red-blooded male ( the film's target audience ) who sees this film will groan in almost physical pain when he sees how they mistreated a Ferrari Testarossa in that chase . I almost couldn't watch . And then later there is a spectacular chase through the streets in which Bond pilots a TANK ! HELL yeah . This chase , by the way , was just awesome , although there was a dubious portion of it in which Bond drives the tank through some sort of parking garage beneath a building , literally tearing out the first floor , and not only does the poor building not collapse , but he is followed by a squadron of jeeps that are magically able to climb right over all of the huge chunks of fallen concrete left by the destruction of the tank . And I won't even mention the way that this chase was almost rendered completely ineffective by the way completely moronic things were thrown in , like this tank's unique ability to spin its tracks like a race car . Have you ever seen the skid marks left by a tank as it accelerates too fast for the tracks to grip the road ? You haven't ? You know why , right ? Oh yeah , the GoldenEye . That's some weapon located on an orbiting satellite that is able to shoot a laser to the surface of the earth and disable every electronic device within a radius of like , 30 miles or something . So there's the traditional super villain threat ( evidently operated by the Russians ) , now back to the interesting stuff . Judi Dench gives the Bond series probably more of a boost than Brosnan's excellent performance as the latest Bond ( at least in comparison to the sorry performances from Timothy Dalton and Roger Moore ) . She is the new M , and her scene in which she calls Bond a ' sexist misogynist dinosaur ' is some of the best stuff ever uttered in a Bond film . Q's traditional scene where he introduces all of Bond's newest gadgets has made a tremendous leap from License To Kill , even though the vast majority of those gadgets were hardly , if ever , used in the film , and that includes the BMW ( which effectively turned this and the next two Bond films into two-hour BMW commercials ) . ( spoilers ) And how about those villains ? Not only do we get to actually meet another double-O , but it turns out that he becomes the main villain in this installment in the 007 series . His reasons for rebelling against her majesty's secret service were not exactly very creative , though . They should have just had him say , ' Who ever heard of 006 ? ! ' That would have been funnier AND better . And then there was the laughable female villain , Xenia Onatopp ( nyuk nyuk ) , who is into some seriously rough sex and also seems to have orgasmic episodes when cutting dozens of people in half with a machine gun . Oh yeah , she likes to get people into scissor locks and squeeze them to death after sex , although I didn't even have any sympathy when she did that to Bond , because in my opinion , even the most rib-shattering scissor lock is nothing that a good punch in the head couldn't solve right quick . She did have a pretty good death scene , though , followed by Bond's usual one-liner ( ' She always did enjoy a good squeeze ? ' ) . Speaking of one-liners , they went a little overboard with them in GoldenEye , even more than usual . Even the villains had these goofy one-liners , and I still can't figure out why they keep putting them in these movies , because maybe every fifteenth one is anything but ridiculous . And , of course , how could I leave out the usual easily escapable near death-scenes for our hero 007 ? The scene where he is tied and unconscious in a helicopter in which the missiles are programmed to fire and then return to blow it up was actually a pretty good scene , but the intelligence of the villains is effectively illustrated by the fact that they didn't bother to disable the ejection seat . If they were REALLY smart , they would have disabled the parachutes and then purposely tied Bond so that he could just reach the ejection button . Evidently those boneheads don't realize that that would be an almost funny way to kill Bond . At any rate , even though the villains were a little overly obnoxious and unintelligent in this installment , the movie comes off way above average for a 007 film . The ending is excellent ( despite the ridiculous notion that 006 could have survived a fall like that ) , and that gigantic underwater satellite was a cool idea , too . The Bond girl is definitely one of the most beautiful of the entire series , and there is even a hint of meaningful direction ( which is unheard of in a Bond film ) , after the plane crash . Despite many of the usual weaknesses , GoldenEye is definitely one of the top Bond films .
An excellent anti-war film laced with Apple computer commercials . We can only hope for sequels !	Whatever your personal views are about the recent military actions taken by the United States , Hulk makes a strong comment on them , even if only indirectly ( and not very indirectly , at that ) . It's been years since I've seen the original TV show ( and I was a kid when I saw it , too ) , so I don't remember too much about the show beyond the basic appearance of the Hulk in it , which was actually the source of one of my strongest reservations about the new movie . From the previews , I was a little dismayed to see that the Hulk was made so big that he was cartoonish and completely unreal , as though he had been so distorted by modern capabilities of computer effects that his original appeal as the angry side of Bruce Banner was turned into a focus on the technique rather than the result . Needless to say , Hulk is a film that entails massive amounts of special effects , the majority of them fairly impressive , although they still remove any sense of realism from the movie . While it's true that this results in more focus on the technique throughout the entire film on how it was made rather than the results , it is still highly entertaining and it delivers an extremely valuable message , especially in modern American society . As we have seen in countless other films ( such as great films like E . T . , The Iron Giant , etc . ) , the first response of the military ( and , by extension , adults ) to something out of the ordinary is to destroy it as potentially dangerous . In this case , as in the case of The Iron Giant , this is exactly what makes everything worse , and in both films , even direct advice and evidence is completely ignored . As was recently the case with Curious George , our fearless leader , military action is strengthened even when it is seen to be both futile and the fuel of the problem . I love how they attack the Hulk relentlessly even though they are making no progress and simply making everything worse . I love movies that reflect real life , even though they physically resemble it almost not at all . One of my favorite things about the movie is that it is able to deliver such a strong message while being so campy at many times . The movie is peppered with over-acting and cheesy special effects , but in a movie like this , things like that only add to the entertainment value . I had very low expectations for Hulk , but after having seen it I am anxious to add it to my collection when it is released on DVD . There are things , for example , that the Hulk is capable of doing that , when done onscreen , are so unexpected and hilarious that they make you laugh out loud , but it is a testament to the meaning of the movie that you can laugh at something like that Hulk running something like 100 mph and then literally leaping into the atmosphere and landing miles and miles away . He is literally able to RUN away from helicopters so fast that , even though they're airborne , they're unable to keep track of him . Ang Lee's 2003 version of the Hulk is probably 8-10 times the size of a human man , he is capable of grabbing a full-sized military tank by it's gun barrel and swinging and tossing it like a sack of marbles , and he is all but able to defy gravity , but the movie itself is massively entertaining and delivers a great message about the need to understand the adversary before blindly seeking to blow it up . It is extremely rare for movies these days to be bold enough to make statements like this , and even more rare for these messages to be delivered in such creative and clever packages ( Bruce Almighty is also a recent example of a film like this ) . Lee may have stepped down in seriousness from Crouching Tiger , Hidden Dragon , but definitely not in quality . I can't say that I would rank Hulk with Crouching Tiger , but it is definitely a movie that contains more than you might expect . Watch it , enjoy it and appreciate it , decipher the message and take it for what you will , try to resist the urge to run out and buy an iMac , and with all the special effects and CGI , can we please get someone from make-up over here to do something about Sam Elliott's mustache ? ?
Interesting story of a guy who became an accidental rock star .	I remember listening to Rodney Bingenheimer's radio show on KROQ when I was in high school . I knew nothing of him at the time and only know what I know now because of what I learned from this movie , but regardless of how popular Rodney became with the rock stars and celebrities and regardless of how well his show ever did , the guy just does not have a voice for radio . I think that in his case it is vital that you know him personally or that you know about his history in the music business , because listening to him as a radio talk show host is intolerably boring . It is not a surprise , to say the least , that his radio show never strayed far from the midnight to 3am shift on Sundays , although I would rather listen to him than Jed the Fish any day of the week . Jed the Fish irritates the hell out of me . Speaking of which , one of the more interesting things that I learned from this documentary was actually just proof of something that I had always suspected , that Jed the Fish has always been faking that ridiculous accent that he always talks with on the air . In his brief interviews in the movie he makes the mistake of talking in his regular voice , revealing how much of a fake he really is . On the other hand , he is , in fact , an entertainer , so I don't want to give the impression that he is some kind of fraud because he talks with a fake accent on the air . He's been on KROQ for some ridiculous number of years , so he must be doing something right . Not my thing , I guess . I think I may have just developed this contempt for KROQ for ruining great songs and popularizing bad songs in the ten years or so since I first moved to Irvine and started listening to them . The thing that I really liked about this documentary is that it really gives good insight into the life of Rodney Bingenheimer , who seems like some geeky guy who made his way into rock stardom by a simple love of music and what must have been a very disarming and unusually charming demeanor . For some reason he reminds me of this 1978 Honda Civic that I had in high school , it was the crappiest car in the parking lot but everyone loved it . I remember lots all the hot Flygirls used to always want to drive it , it was like a toy . Interpret that as you will , I still haven't figured it out . There are moments in the film when I almost felt bad for being so bored by Rodney's radio program , because despite having been experienced far more than every high school kid's dreams of the , ah , fleshy pearls of rock and roll decadence , Rodney has been through a lot of pain in his life . He had some truly heartbreaking experiences in his life growing up , which are kind of manifested in scenes like the one where he goes to visit his parents , with whom he had something of a falling out , and finds that they don't have any pictures of him in the front room . The saddest thing is that he brings the camera crew into a back room and points to a picture of himself , framed on hung on the wall but almost hidden in a corner where no one would ever see it . And he acted like it was perfectly normal . Rodney's demeanor that thing that really leaves the film open to interpretation . Despite having just watched a documentary about the guy , I feel like I know less about him than I knew before , just because he is such a closed off kind of person . There are scenes when he genuinely loses his temper , and there are scenes where he is clearly uncomfortable and comes right out and says that he doesn't want to talk about certain things , but at the same time he discloses information about himself that almost anyone else would probably find embarrassing . This is one of the rare instances in documentary film-making where you can learn so much about a person but come away from it amazed at how little you really know about him . It's like the old saying , the more I learn , the more I realize I don't know . Rodney is a truly unique person with a truly unique personality , and while I can't claim to have been entertained by his radio show even for a minute , he is certainly a fascinating person to learn about . Especially since I went to high school listening to the kind of music that he introduced to the world and I now live in the area that is portrayed in the movie . All music fans should watch this .
Never go full-retard !	Like many movies these days , Tropic Thunder starts with a few previews . One is an advertisement for an energy drink called " Booty Sweat , " another is for a belligerent action movie called Scorcher ( so good that it commanded five sequels ) , then there's a low-brow comedy about hugely fat people that communicate entirely through flatulence ( lampooning those intolerable and endless endurance tests where Eddie Murphy or Martin Lawrence star as every character in the movie ) , and finally a religious drama involving homosexual priests . The soundtrack , of course , is by Enigma . Tropic Thunder is so overflowing with farcical ideas that they had to include a few theatrical trailers just to get the ideas in there , and what follows is exactly the kind of movie that you would expect to exist in a world that featured such previews . The story is about three Hollywood movie stars making a dramatic Vietnam film together . Jack Black is the drug addicted Jeff Portnoy , Robert Downey Jr . plays Kirk Lazarus , the token blackface guy , and Ben Stiller plays the curiously named Tugg Speedman , an overrated actor hoping to save his suffering career with this latest cheesy war movie . The movie starts with a scene on the set of the movie within the movie , including one of the movie's two spoofs of Willem Dafoe's frightening death in Platoon ( a tasteless joke that is one of Tropic Thunder's few blunders ) . Mortally wounded , Tugg is given the obligatory dying words speech where he gets to finally tell Lazarus his true feelings . Unable to get the words out , he calls for a cut . The director wants to keep rolling , Lazarus is getting irritated , and in the ensuing confusion , the pyrotechnics guy ( Danny McBride , stealing the show again ) accidentally wastes a $4 million explosion . Given that the Director , the also curiously named Damien Cockburn , managed to fall a full month behind schedule within the first five days of shooting , his producer is unimpressed . Enter Tom Cruise . Oh . My . God . YES . Cruise plays Les Grossman , a big shot Hollywood producer with no fuse . Lately I have been of the opinion that Cruise's acting career was in genuinely dire straits , given his bizarre behavior in his personal life , but this movie restored my faith in him 100 % , he is absolutely brilliant in this movie . He is one of the most watchable characters in the film , even though he is meant to be such an unsightly presence . Someone should win a make-up award just for what they did to his hands ! But , strangely for an action / spoof / comedy , Tropic Thunder is an actor's movie and a writer's movie . The script is loaded with gems and homages that manage to generate laughs without being belligerently perverse and tasteless like the Scary Movies etc . Ben Stiller deserves enormous credit for his part in the writing and directing , although his performance is one of the only real let-downs in the film . He goes through the motions of his limited repertoire , giving us essentially the exact performance he has played so many times before . It's Zoolander in Vietnam . Thankfully , Jack Black goes to town with his role . It's clear that he was having a blast making the movie , and it's hard not to join him . But the real show-stopper is Robert Downey Jr , who is so brilliant as the white Australian actor in blackface ( the movie's most famous Hollywood jab ) that I found myself hoping for a spin off sequel for his character . More than once , and in true Zoolander fashion , Speedman gets into a deep conversation about how to most efficiently perfect his acting style . Robert Downey Jr . steals every scene it is CLASSIC . Once in the jungle , the cast gradually realize the reality of their situation , as they become inadvertently involved with a deadly drug ring . We don't learn much about them and they are a confusing bunch , since they are located in Vietnam but look Korean and speak Chinese , and they're headed by a little kid . And what a little kid , man . Holy crap . This kid is like a cross between that child emperor from Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom and , say , a Tazmanian devil . Oh , and he has lots of guns and a war face that would make Stonewall Jackson cringe . You may find yourself wondering where they found this prodigal psycho - killer . A quick glance at his miniscule filmography will solve that little puzzle . Sesame Street ! ! Matthew McConaughey , proud owner of the most difficult last name in Hollywood , has a meaningless bit part as Speedman's airy agent . I don't expect brilliant character depth in a movie like this , but his character is just too obviously thrown in as shock value , which the movie surely doesn't need . He is unconcerned , for example , when Speedman calls him afraid for his life , but flies into an uncontrollable rage when he learns that his client is without access to a working Tivo machine . What the hell ? Then again , Tivo plays a pivotal role in the final act of the film , and not just as product placement , of which Tropic Thunder has prodigious amounts , and which it also lambasts along with a whole slew of other b-movie clichés . Tropic Thunder has the funniest beginning to any movie that I've seen in recent memory , and also the funniest ending . I wanted to cheer as the movie opened , and I left the same way . It's a comedy the likes of which rarely comes along . Pineapple Express is another similarly outstanding comedy currently in theaters , I recommend that you don't miss either of them !
They must have made a lot of improvements !	I've noticed that a lot of the negative reviews of the ride seem to be justified but mostly were written years ago . I rode the ride for the first time around early 2007 and I LOVED it . I was at Universal Studios with my girlfriend at the time , and she's terrified of roller coasters and water rides but somehow I was able to convince her to go on this one . The first half of the ride is a nice relaxing ride through what is made to look like a dinosaur infested watery meadow , and if you can ignore things like the parking garage visible over the brontosaurus , it's just a fun , relaxing ride , I loved it . I love to look around at this stuff and think of the creativity and work that went into making it , and then soon you find yourself being pulled uphill and into the dark , and the ride takes a decidedly sinister turn . Some have complained about the dinosaurs and some sound effects being obviously fake , but I had a great time . Of course you can tell the dinosaurs aren't real , but they were more than convincing enough to me . The drop at the end is the inevitable climax of any water ride , and with the t-rex roaring at you on the way down it was the perfect burst of excitement at the end of a great ride . Highly recommended !
That mailbox is classic !	As always , Bean gets into some situations that are unimaginable in real life but absolutely hilarious on screen . His deadpan delivery of the funniest moments reminds me of the great emotionless comedy of Buster Keaton . Two of Bean's funniest times are when he is trying to act casual and when he is truly frightened , like when the man at the bus stop has a heart attack . His frantic pacing and running back and forth reminds me of the similar display of sheer terror when he accidentally erases the face from the Whistler's Mother painting in the Bean movie . Love the movie or hate it , it definitely had plenty of classic moments ! The jumper cables are vintage Bean , as is his effort to manually gather air into his hands and waft it into the unconscious man's mouth , and the cables also lead to the hilarious end of that scene . My favorite is definitely when he gets stuck in the mailbox , specifically the moment when the dog releases his tie and Bean falls back and smacks his head on the back of the mailbox . You can't even see it and it's still a riot ! Most of these Bean episodes have one or two skits that are not quite as funny to me , but this one is pretty consistent throughout . His suitcase packing scene is a classic , the train scene is great even though it went on for just a little too long , and the sick passenger on the airplane had probably one of the funniest endings of all of the Bean skits I've seen . Excellent work !
One of only a few consistently outstanding sitcoms I've ever seen !	Two and a Half Men is definitely a surprise because it is such a simple and formulaic premise ? two polarly opposite brothers are stuck living together with one of their sons , while one tries to be a good father and mentor while the other tries to be a good womanizer ? and mentor . The amazing thing is that even though the formula is so simple it just works so well . Charlie Sheer stars as himself , basically , with the curious addition that he writes jingles for commercials and opening songs for TV shows and whatnot , a career that affords him a surprisingly comfortable lifestyle with a home on the Malibu beach that , because he works at home , he rarely has to leave unless he wants to . Add to the mix his brother Alan ( played with precise perfection by Jon Cryer ) and his son Jake , who might be the highlight of the whole series . There are some odd moments , such as the woman who is obsessed with Charlie and routinely climbs over his back fence and knocks on his back door , your typical stalker , except she just happens to have a PhD in the psychology of Human Behavior . What ? Does she never notice her own behavior ? At any rate , although she rarely adds to the humor of the show , the rest of the cast are wonderful , and for a show in which Charlie's sexual escapades so routinely share an environment with a 12-year-old boy , the show is just great fun .
One of the best thrillers released in years ?	15 Minutes has the interesting distinction of poking fun at it's own medium , while not necessarily doing it in a fun way . The old 15 minutes of fame adage is taken to a rather disturbing extent in this film , in which a couple of men , Emil and Oleg ( who sound like characters from some sort of prehistoric Far Side cartoon ) , from Russia and Czechoslovakia , respectively , come to America in search of easy riches , and they choose to use our own media against us in order to get it . Literally minutes off the plane , Oleg steals a high priced digital video camera from an electronics store , playfully documenting his and Emil's activities before later deciding ( after accidentally videotaping Emil's first murder ) that his video will be the huge reality documentary that will make him rich and famous . There is a point in the movie where Emil and Oleg sit in a Planet Hollywood while the tape that they shot of the murder is played for the public to see , and they sit there loudly arguing and not seeming to notice or care as people left and right begin to recognize them as the men on the tape , which seems to be a point where the movie digresses a little too far from reality , but their intentions must be considered before any conclusions are formed about how realistic it really is . These guys are planning to sell their video to Hollywood so that it can generate massive amounts of money from what will surely be the public's wild desire to see it simply because it's sick and twisted , meanwhile they'll plead insanity and get off with a short stay in a mental hospital after which they will be free to enjoy the riches that they acquired through theft and murder . In this case , it's not so hard to believe that they would sit in the middle of a crowded Planet Hollywood and watch the tape of the murder , which clearly shows both of their faces . Hey , they're insane , remember ? ( spoilers ) There are a lot of things that this movie has to say about the entertainment industry , particularly that involved with showing the public ' what they want to see . ' Kelsey Grammer plays the unenviable role of the reality television host who claims to want nothing more than to give the public what they want , but is clearly after nothing other than massive ratings . There is genuine surprise in this film , and while this particular plot event is undeniably unforeseen , it's not exactly a pleasant surprise . Robert DeNiro , no doubt the main reason that at least half of the film's viewing audience decided to watch the film at all , plays the role of Eddie Fleming , a New York detective who works with the younger and presumably less experienced Jody Warsaw ( played expertly by Edward Burns ) , and has also managed to get himself well known around New York through the very avenues of public broadcast that ultimately televise his murder . Fleming has attained a small level of fame through his work as a detective , and he occasionally uses this to his benefit during investigations . The surprising twist is not the irony involved with his murder being broadcast on the very cable show that has worked to his benefit ( and , I remind you , there are spoilers ahead ! ) , but rather in the fact that DeNiro's character was killed at all . Indeed , he suffered a brutal murder , and it's harder to watch DeNiro go through that than it is to imagine the actual death that is meant to be portrayed . The only thing that I didn't like about Training Day ( and , by the way , I'm about to spoil that movie too ! ) , is the ultimate fate of Denzel Washington's character . Granted , it was an entertaining film ( although a little too preoccupied with violence ) , but there are just some things that simply can't be done to an actor like Denzel Washington . The man's LOVED . In 15 Minutes , we get a film that is shamelessly concentrated on violence and murder , so at least it's not as much of a shock when one of our film heroes gets killed , and at least he didn't turn out to be a bad guy , but it still remains a questionably justified death . 15 Minutes as a whole is a wildly entertaining and fast paced thriller , with a couple of brilliant performances from the relatively unknown ( in America , at least ) Oleg Taktarov as the charming but vicious filmmaker Oleg , and Karel Roden as the wonderfully hate-able Emil , bent on becoming violently rich and never being spoken to in Russian . The very end of the film is really the only place where it sinks almost to the level of the cheesy action b-movie , with the hero delivering a swift punch in the nose to the person who has been a thorn in everyone's side for the whole movie , and then walking off dramatically into the distance as the authorities who would in real life bust him for assault throw him an approving nod . It's too bad that they decided to end an otherwise smartly written , if at times almost disturbingly violent , film with a childish conclusion like this , because the rest of the movie is so entertaining and well-presented that it's just a shame to be left with a bad taste at the very end . But despite any amount of childishness at the conclusion of the film , 15 Minutes is definitely a well-made thriller that presents a rather far-fetched story that , when you really think about it , may not really be that far-fetched at all , which makes it all the more effective . Watch it for the acting , the action , and the story , try to ignore that ending , and you'll love it .
Terrible date movie , as it should be . . .	I saw Pineapple Express the same day that I saw Step Brothers and The Mummy 3 and it's better than both of those movies combined . It is a genuine stoner movie in every way , there is so much weed in the movie that you might start feeling stoned just watching it , but it soon becomes a strange combination of an action comedy adventure crime movie with a much more developed and brilliant script than you could possibly expect , given what the wardrobe department was coming up with . It starts out with a black and white scene in an underground bunker back in the late 1940s , I believe , where the government is conducting experiments on the effects of marijuana on the human mind . A lucky volunteer is locked in a room where he smokes weed constantly , periodically helped along by a guy in a foil suit , in case he needs a light . During simple psychological questioning , he doesn't give the answers that the scientists and the government guys in suits want to hear , so they promptly illegalize it . Jump ahead to today , where we meet our protagonist , a regular guy with a regular job who just wants to get a regular high . Seth Rogen plays Dale Denton , who works as a process server . If you don't know what that is , you're in good shape , because process servers are those people that approach you out of nowhere and say your first and last name to you with a question mark at the end , and when you say yes , they hand you a piece of paper full of bad news and walk away saying " You've been served . " Needless to say , it's a pretty thankless job , so he needs to spend most of his time stoned . James Franco is probably best known from the Spiderman movies ( although I did see him in Flyboys a couple years ago and was wildly disappointed ) , but he inhabits his role in this movie so well and so completely that I sometimes thought it was a bit of a glimpse of Franco's personal life . I hope not , but it's pretty convincing . Remember Eddie Furlong in that staggeringly bad movie Jimmy & Judy ? There's a little of that going on here . One evening while about to deliver one of his notices , Dale Denton ( Rogen ) witnesses a murder involving a corrupt police officer , so he tosses his joint out the window and speeds away in a panic , only to find himself pursued because the joint was some super high-quality stuff that Saul ( Franco ) sold him , and so would be easy for the corrupt cop ( Rosie Perez ) and the criminal kingpin to trace back to him . Soon they find themselves fleeing for their lives in a full scale gang war . Like all the best stoner movies , Pineapple Express is packed full of hilarious , classic moments , and will surely be quoted for years to come . There tons of over-the-top scenes and situations , some of which may make you a little uncomfortable , but even though they go a little too far sometimes , nothing seems out of place . There is one scene that really stood out to me , in which three friends are fighting with each other , throwing each other around an apartment and essentially destroying the place and none of them really knows why , and alternately threatening and apologizing to each other . Strangely , it's a very difficult movie to describe without ruining plot points or failing to do justice to it . The script is truly brilliant , and the performances are so good that it often looks like they just photographed the lives of the characters and put it right up on screen . It's hard to really describe why a truly hilarious movie is so funny , so let's just say that , aside from the audience drowning out the movie at many points , there was ( and this is absolutely a true story ) a point when I was watching that everyone was laughing , and then there was this loud noise that turned out to be a kid kicking the chair in front of him in a panic because he was choking on an ice cube . It was actually a little scary , he was doubled over , not breathing , and people were starting to stand up and say oh my god oh my god , but finally he coughed it up . So be careful eating while watching the movie !
An excellent and inspiring symbolic film .	Tango deals with the different ways that people deal with the ending of romantic relationships . It shows that there is always something worth living for and that life goes on even though it may seem at times that there is nothing left to live for . ( spoilers ) This film was all one man's story of how he dealt with having a broken heart , and how he recovered . It is an autobiography by Mario , the main character , who tells the story himself , which is made clear in the first few minutes of the film . Mario returns to find Laura , his ex , getting the last of her things , and he begs her to come back to him but she is happy living with another man . The dancing scenes in the film seem to show a way that Mario tries to escape from his emotions , but it backfires because he sees Laura there dancing with the man that she left him for . Whenever he sees her , everything else that is going on in the movie stops abruptly . There is nothing but the music , the dancing , and Mario's mesmerized stare . He seems to be in a trance every time he sees her , and he even has murderous visions . His mind seems to be so choked with emotional turmoil that he cannot function when he is in her presence , he is absolutely captivated by her . When Mario finally meets another woman , it is a result of her dancing ability . In fact , the first thing that is spoken of her in the film is about her exceptional dancing skill . This is very effective because from this point on , she is seen as being superior to all of the other women , and she is focused on when she is in a large group , which makes Mario's romance with her more moving . She represents a new beginning for Mario , and she makes him forget about Laura , which is all he seems to want up to this point in the film . There was one very quick scene worth noting because it is an exact example of what the film is about . Mario is at a dancing school where there is a classroom of young students learning to tango , and he is speaking with an elderly man . The man tells him that his wife recently passed away , and his life no longer has any meaning , he has nothing left . As soon as he finishes saying this , he looks across the room and his face breaks into a wide grin as he points his granddaughter out to Mario , claiming her to be the ' best in the class . ' This is a perfect example of the meaning of this movie ! The moment after this man tells Mario that his life is meaningless because his wife passed away , he lovingly boasts the dancing skill of his granddaughter . His life obviously still has meaning because , even though his wife is gone , he can still watch this girl grow as both a person as well as a dancer . I hope Mario noticed this man's glaring miscalculation of the importance of his own being . The surprisingly ironic ending of the film represented the fact that life goes on , and also that sometimes it is really necessary to end some relationships in order to be happy , even if it seems like the end of the world . Mario is very happy with this woman that he met , but in order for her to be with him , she had to break a man's heart just the same way as Laura had broken his . That man's heart was broken the very same way that Mario's was broken at the beginning of the film , which is very ironic because this man is in the exact same position that Mario was in after Laura left him earlier in the movie . The title of this film refers not to a particular style of dancing , but to the emotional tango that people can dance with each other . Even though dancing is abundant throughout the film , it's not actually ABOUT dancing . However , the dancing did tie everything in the film together . Another element that is particularly interesting is the way the camera is used . This is the first film I have ever seen that actually seemed to give the camera itself a bit of personality . In the second half of the film , the director did not seem to make the slightest effort to avoid filming the camera's reflection . There was even one scene where the camera was looking directly at itself in a mirror , which for some reason I find fascinating . I think that this was supposed to suggest that all of the dancing that went on in the film was all rehearsal for a play or some sort of live presentation , rather than people acting for the movie itself . This gives you a whole different perspective and , ironically enough , it makes the film seem even more realistic .
One of Hitchcock's best early films .	I sometimes grow weary of reading reviews of some of Hitchcock's lesser known films , because almost every single one starts out with someone saying this film is grossly overlooked or this is a hidden Hitchcock gem or a true Hitchcock great or some other generic if - only - people - would - watch - this - they - would - see - that - this - is - a - great - Hitchcock - film - just - as - much - as - Vertigo - North - by - Northwest - Psycho - Rear - Window - etc . So , that being said , I would just like to say that if - only - people - would - watch - this - they - would - see - that - this - is - a - great - Hitchcock - film - just - as - much - as - Vertigo - North - by - Northwest - Psycho - Rear - Window - etc . Now , that may be overshooting a little bit , The Ring is not by any stretch of the imagination even in the same league as any of those films mentioned twice above , but compared to the other films that Hitchcock made in the late 1920s and early 1930s , I really think that The Ring is one of the best photographed and performed films of mostly all of them . As an almost brand new director , there are some astonishing dream sequences and brilliant segments of editing which show why Hitchcock was generating so much attention early in his career . Granted , the film does start with , among other things , the highly disturbing spectacle of an idiot black circus performer ( and I use idiot in the definitive manner , the way Stephen King so often does ) having eggs and fruit thrown at him by a crowd of not the classiest looking white people . I suppose this only illustrates how incredibly different such circuses and people were back then , but I think it is one of the most off-putting sequences in any Hitchcock film I've seen . The main attraction at the circus is a fighter who claims to be able to knock any man down in one round , but when he meets his match , it is against a man that challenges his authority not only in the boxing ring but also in the ring around his wife's finger . So begins an entertaining if not very tense challenge for the love of one woman , who seems to sway from one man to the other effortlessly and thoughtlessly . ( spoilers ) There is , for example , a scene where her husband watches her from above as she is dropped off at home late at night and , just before going into the building , she is coaxed back to the car for a kiss . This kiss is never explained , and there is also the fact that , even at the end when she proves faithful to her husband , or at least ultimately chooses him , they look into each other's eyes but do not actually kiss . The film is certainly beautifully photographed , even more so than several films that Hitch released in subsequent years . There is also a performance by Gordon Harker as One Round Jack's trainer who , in his stone faced expressionism , reminds me quite often of the brilliant Buster Keaton . Hitch leaves it a bit ambiguous , but this is a great sample of his early work .
Unbelievable .	First of all , I had no idea there was this kind of obsession with Rubik's cubes . I knew that there was sort of a whole sub-culture revolving around this peculiar little toy , but I thought that was back in the 80s and maybe early 90s . What is amazing to me is not that the Rubik's obsession is alive and well or even that there continue to be people trying to come up with new and exciting ( bizarre ) ways to solve it , what is amazing to me is that there are actually people , two of which are featured in this short video , whose job title is " Rubik's Cube Documentarian . " I really had no idea that there was enough history to the Rubik's cube to necessitate people to have careers documenting and studying it . What do these people do on a daily / weekly basis ? Head on in to the office and see if anyone has shaved a few hundredths of a second off of the standing record ? I feel like I know about 75 % of all I need to know about the thing from watching this six minute video ! On the other hand , there is definitely a lot of fascinating information here . There are some statistics given about the toy , such as that it has 43 " quintillion " different possible positions , and that if you were to move one piece every second , it would take 1 , 400 million million years to create all of the different combinations . Now , if I have my zeroes and commas calculated correctly , that's 1 , 400 , 000 , 000 , 000 , 000 years . Unbelievable ! ! This will be why so many people have developed the obsessions that they have , some of which last years and years and years and have even spawned medical conditions and support groups . I always thought that the Rubik's cube was just a fad that I missed out on , since I was never any more than passively interested . Maybe because I could never figure the thing out and would lose interest before I made much progress . This video makes me glad that I never got very seriously into it ! One thing that is hugely interesting to me is that because of the Hungarian architecture professor who invented the puzzle , Hungary was able to rise out of Communism in the 1980s . This is quite an interesting statement to me because at the moment I am living in the heart of China , and the current government is intensely Communist and fiercely perpetuates the mythology of Mao Tse-tung , who is quite literally revered like a God here despite being personally responsible for more deaths ( more than 70 million ) than any single person in the history of mankind . Communism is mentioned in this video as sort of something that Hungary escaped from , which is quite a statement in the environment in which I find myself . Also interesting , and a little disturbing , is the idea of solving the Rubik's cube blindfolded . A kid named Leyan Lo is the current world record holder for the fastest blindfold solve . When I heard that , the first thing I thought is that the kid really needs to get a life , but it is definitely pretty interesting to watch these people's hands working so fast that you can hardly see the fingers move , it's incredible . Also , go to Youtube and look up " cup stacking world record . " This is another " super-geeky " fad , as it's described in the video , that is pretty amazing . So whether or not these people need to get a life is not really anyone's business , I guess . Whatever blows your hair back , as they say . But one thing is definitely certain , these people have WAY too much time on their lightning - fast hands .
This one was something of a shock to me .	Every time I take a film class , I see five or six films that I would otherwise probably never have watched , and Saturday Night Fever was one of the films that I saw for a class I'm taking about Italian Cinema , and I was surprised at how good it is ! To me , this movie never evoked any interest because I don't find anything interesting about disco dancing and I don't think John Travolta is the most fetching actor in the world . Clearly , he hasn't exactly had the most enviable career . But Saturday Night Fever is not about dancing , there is just so much more to it . There can be no doubt about the irony of Travolta starring in a film in which he is the best dancer in town while he is at the height of his awkward youth , but like I said , the movie is not just about dancing . The dancing is a backdrop for a much deeper meaning . The movie has violence , blood , death , crime , sex , nudity , everything that you would almost automatically expect to be absent from a film like this . I thought it was going to be some goofy romance ( made goofy by Travolta , of course . Can you even imagine him in a romantic comedy ? ) , I mean , it has romance , but the movie is so much more . Saturday Night Fever is a very realist film about a young Italian kid who lives in a run-down neighborhood in Brooklyn and who is trying to find meaning in his life , which is virtually meaningless when he is off the dance floor . He has a crappy job , no education beyond high school , an unhappy life at home , and no prospects for the future . His concept of the future is what he's going to wear to the dance hall ( charmingly named 2001 Odyssey ) on Saturday night . Clearly , outside the dance hall , he is not the hero that he is on the dance floor . Early in the film , Tony ( Travolta ) is walking down the street and he runs back to talk to a girl that he walked past , and she blows him off , seeming to be annoyed by him ( which is weird , because who could resist a disco stud carrying a paint can ! ) . Yet when he is at the dance hall , the crowd parts for him , girls ask if they can wipe the sweat off his forehead , he is the king . The costumes are excellent , from the first frames of the film that show Tony walking down the street in his hilariously disco outfit and all throughout the film . I remember one scene where one of Tony's geeky friends , Bobby , lets Tony borrow his car , and then as Bobby walks away , you can see that he has on what have to be the most ludicrous disco shoes ever created . Tony's meticulous care about his outfit is made clear when he wears a sheet wrapped around himself to the dinner table , and then gets upset not that his father hit him , but that he hit his HAIR . ' I spend a lot of time on my hair , and you hit it . ' However , no matter how hard he tries , he does NOT look like Al Pacino . ( spoilers ) But on a deeper level , Saturday Night Fever has to do with everything from doing what you want to do with your own life to loyalty among friends to religious persecution and hypocrisy . There is also some substantial symbolism in that bridge that Tony knows so much about and which Bobby doesn't seem to have been mature enough to cross late in the film . ' It's a dog eat dog world , ' and Saturday Night Fever uses dancing as only one among many techniques to deliver that message . The film is dated in many ways , but it remains a landmark film , especially concerning the Italian experience in America in the 70s , and is definitely worth a look .
It's becoming harder and harder to think of things that Will Smith can't do ?	To see Will Smith , one of America's most famous and most highly paid Hollywood movie stars , give such a convincing portrayal of a desperately poor black man struggling to achieve a professional career is a memorable experience indeed . But something comes out of Smith when he really believes in a role he's playing , and you can tell that he really believes in the Chris Gardner story . The movie will always be known as being about the single father in San Francisco who pulled himself up by his bootstraps , as they say , barely surviving after tottering on the brink of poverty . It's about the lowest point in a man's life , and the highest . It is , however , a story as much about desperation as about determination and heart . I think it might not be very politically correct to say this , but the desperation that gripped Gardner as he watched his life fall apart strikes me as just as much of a determining factor in Gardner's perseverance as his will to succeed . But what we remember is not the desperation or the suffering , it's his determination to provide for his son . Gardner watches his world falling apart , but the way he tries to shield his son from that is some of the best stuff in the film . At the time we see him , Gardner is a self-employed salesman who has made the dubious decision to invest his family's savings in some bulky and expensive bone-density scanners , which provide only a slightly better picture than a traditional x-ray but are far more expensive . Needless to say , he has trouble unloading them , and things become increasingly difficult for him and his family . Thandie Newton plays his wife in a thoroughly unmemorable role , unlike Smith's real life son Jayden , who is astonishingly well-cast as his on screen son . Jayden nearly steals the show from Will a lot of the time ! I am surprised at how badly the story of Gardner's wife is handled . Maybe the real Gardner didn't want her to be much of the story , since she is not the most uplifting thing . Or maybe he wanted them to present in as real a way as possible what really happened . When Gardner tells her about his unpaid internship at Dean Whitter , she criticizes this as a step backwards and tells him she wants to move to Chicago . He tells her that he's keeping their son and , amazingly , she agrees . At this point her crippling shortcomings as a mother become clear and it's easier for the audience to let her go as she disappears from the movie and her husband's and son's life . Too bad . I can easily relate to Gardner's troubles in San Francisco . I experienced something similar when I first moved to Los Angeles a few years ago , although not nearly as bad as his experience and with no son . It's difficult to make it in a big American city , especially when you are struggling just to get by , you're constantly behind on all of your bills , and you're surrounded by people driving Porsches and Ferraris . The cars alone in LA are enough to depress you if you're stuck in a dead-end job editing together promotional reels for a product placement company for $10 an hour , trying to work enough to get by while at the same time trying to find a job doing something real . Ouch . I think the movie's biggest success is that it presents the day to day struggles of Gardner's life , as he smiles and charms his way through his increasingly hectic days at Dean Whitter and then wrestles with desperation at night as he picks up his son from day care and tries to find food and shelter for them when they're evicted from a dingy hotel room of an apartment . The movie approaches the dangerous ground of becoming a tearjerker , but the Smiths save it , both of them nailing their roles with a complex precision that only a real life father and son could . I've decided to show this movie to my students ? I teach at a University in central China , and I'm hoping that if more college students see Gardner's story , it might make them realize that the continuing tension between China and Tibet ( which is a separate country in every imaginable way except borders ) and the emerging desire to gain Taiwan through war is exactly like Gardner getting that job at Dean Whitter by pulling a gun on the CEO and demanding to be hired . And by the way , this frightening hope in China to forcibly take Taiwan is no doubt a result of that infamous quote from the murderous and ego-maniacal Mao Tse-tung , " Power comes out of the barrel of a gun . " That's probably true , and the Chinese definitely believe it . But peace NEVER comes out of the barrel of a gun . Gardner had to improve himself to become desirable , and I hope that China realizes that they must do the same if there is ever to be peace in Asia ? Note : At one point in the movie Smith runs tiredly up a hill chasing a bus while his son trails behind him . Smith claims that he bases that tired , worn-out run on his father , and that it was one of the biggest stretches in the film for him as an actor , because he has always prided himself on how he looks running in his films .
" I got a plan , and it's just as good as God's ? "	I have to admit that after about 20 minutes of this movie I was this close to just turning it off and moving on to The Grudge , which I watched right afterwards . Man , I'm glad I didn't , though , because this movie goes from pretty boring to not so bad to pretty good to VERY good . It's odd that this film has been so completely overlooked by critics and denounced by IMDb reviewers , who either understood how well-made this movie is ( especially the script , which is brilliant ) or it went completely over their heads and they couldn't wait to log on and berate the film as a total failure . One reviewer calls the movie " the dregs , " but then again this genius also gave Memento ( probably one of the three best films released in 2000 ) a vote of , so utter cluelessness coming from this person is hardly lightning out of a clear sky for unexpectedness . Another user gave it a lukewarm response , but also called Lost In Translation a real yawner , American History X " waaaaaaaay overrated , " A . I . " the most boring movie I've ever slept through , " and the absolutely ridiculous 2003 Texas Chainsaw remake " one of the better slasher flicks " ( ! ! ) . Now , I hesitate to call this last user clueless , because he really seems like a nice guy ( I'm sure he's a good father as well ) , but his list of reviews betrays the fact that he may be wired completely backwards when it comes to movies . The Texas Chainsaw remake better than A . I . , Lost in Translation , and American History X ? ? PLEASE . Now , I normally don't go on this much about what other people have to say about any given movie . Notice that I'm not getting into the two external reviews posted for the film ( Scott Weinberg and Movie House Commentary , at the time of this writing ) , which is amazing because they are both so completely wrong that it's difficult not to elaborate on my incredulous disbelief . It's sad that when a movie comes along that is actually well-written , so many people can't resist comparing it to a similar film that came out previously , completely ignoring the new film's good qualities and simply writing it off as a rip-off . This happened a lot with the wonderful comedy Runaway Bride , about which so many people immediately said things like " You know , I've seen this movie before . . . When it was called Pretty Woman " like it just absolutely must make them the cleverest person on earth . Personally , when I see a movie that looks stupid but turns out to be a very well-made thriller ( like Wild Things ) , I don't generally complain when a similar movie comes along , as long as it is also well-made and stands on its own , and Employee of the Month certainly does that . There are scenes in the movie that I thoroughly disliked , such as some stupid sex jokes , too much profanity , and anything involving dead people and jewelry , but Steve Zahn is great in his role , Matt Dillon gives a wonderful performance in a well-written character , and the plot twists start small and then get faster and faster and by the time they're done you're halfway through the end credits . People are really quick to criticize the twists in this movie . The twists are either too predictable or too unpredictable or there are too many of them or they're dumb or some other such nonsense . When the twists first started I was impressed by where the movie was going , because I thought it was going to be something completely different , but by the last one the movie had made very clear that many of the twists were done with tongue firmly in cheek , that you were meant to have a good time . This movie is all in good fun , and while it slips up by getting a little too vulgar for its own good from time to time , it most definitely deserves to be compared to Office Space , because it is certainly one of the great dark comedies .
An excellent post-war film , Three Kings has great performances from everyone involved , a great story , unique photography , and a solid message about humanity .	It's almost impossible to go wrong with George Clooney , and he proves himself yet again with his spectacular performance in Three Kings . Clooney , Mark Wahlberg , and Ice Cube are three soldiers in the Middle East just after the end of the 1991 Gulf War . Clooney leads them as they make an attempt to steal a huge amount of Kuwaiti gold bullion that has been taken away from Kuwait by Saddam Hussein . The job that the United States was trying to do was to confiscate everything that Hussein had taken and give it back to Kuwait , and Clooney saw a get rich quick opportunity and decided to go for it . However , Three Kings is not just a film about a bunch of greedy military personnel . During the course of their efforts to obtain the gold , the three guys , with an increasing number of sidekicks , come across several disturbing events , and they eventually set aside their financial goals for the immediate chance to help a lot of people who are being brutalized by Saddam's army . This is a very humane thing to do , and it is very uplifting to watch , but it also has numerous potentially damaging side effects . For example , eight years after the war has ended , it once again makes many of the people in the Middle East look barbaric . Besides that , it seems to be saying something about the role that the United States plays in the global society . In Three Kings , it almost seems that the rest of the world is in turmoil , and it is up to the U . S . to get out there are straighten everyone else out . However , regardless of this , Three Kings is still a very entertaining and thought provoking film that nonetheless gets a good message across . But I still think that it's way past time for Ice Cube to start using his real name , and the same goes for other rap-stars-turned-actors , such as Ice T and countless others . Do you think Mark Wahlberg would command any respect whatsoever if he still called himself Marky Mark ? Both of these guys , by the way , delivered some of the best acting of their careers in Three Kings , and this combined with the good story and unique photography made for a very good war film .
Hoodoo voodoo we do ! !	VGS fans will get that , but for everyone else I recommend just checking out this movie . I rented The Skeleton Key mostly because for the last few months I have been trying to watch every movie that comes out . Netflix has provided me with the opportunity of just adding all the new movies to my queue and not having to try and remember all of the movies that I've missed , which I always did before , given the constant barrage of new releases . I know I'll never catch up ( my Netflix queue is approaching the 300 mark ) , but it's at times like this that I'm glad that I try to watch all of the movies that come out ( Hellraiser 8 left me with a different sentiment entirely ) . One of the first things that struck me about The Skeleton Key was that it is a great horror movie to take a date to see . It focuses on creating a solid story and building tension rather than blood and gore , which with rare exceptions is how the best horror films are made anyway . Kate Hudson plays Caroline , an aspiring nurse who quits her job at a hospital because of their intolerable lack of concern over deaths , she doesn't feel right about working at a hospital that sees their patients as so much of a business and has little humane interest in them . When a patient passes away and is whisked away with the trash she decides she's had enough and starts combing the classifieds for something a little more personal . She finds a job as a live-in caregiver for a woman and her husband , who has suffered a massive stroke that affected both sides of his body , and it's not long before we learn that Caroline herself lost her father , so suddenly , in fact , that she was unable to help care for him at the end of his life , hence her overwhelming determination to provide the best care possible . Caroline is given a skeleton key that will open every door in the house , but when she finds one door hidden in the attic that the key doesn't open , obviously it takes on the most intrigue of all of the rooms in the house . There is a lot of stuff about voodoo and cults in the movie , and while it is really the backbone of the film it is not what makes it good . The movie is good because it has history behind it . It takes its time in getting started , but that's important because it takes the time necessary to tell the story behind what goes on in the movie . And probably most importantly , in my opinion , is that the movie was filmed on an old plantation house in Louisiana that actually housed well over a hundred slaves , which not only adds intrigue but relevance as well . There's a point about three quarters of the way through the movie that it seems that it's going to pan out in a pretty predictable way , but there's a great twist near the end that , while it is certainly a turn away from what may have been expected , it also has the enviable quality of giving the impression that the movie had to go that way all along , which is one of the first lessons I learned about storytelling back in college , that a good story cannot be predictable , yet the ending has to seem perfectly natural , that it could only have ended the way it did . And while this movie could certainly have ended in other ways , it wouldn't have been as good as it is if it had ended any other way . Also make sure to check out the surprising number of extra features on the DVD , particularly John Hurt's story and the story of the house in which the movie was filmed .
The first escalator ever used in a film ?	So evidently the floorwalker is the guy that walks around the store making sure no one is shoplifting , which provides a wonderful situation for a little mixed identity . Chaplin plays an obnoxious browser , testing all of the products in the store and generally making a big mess without buying anything ( this may be one of the few times in his career when he displayed a little understanding of the plight of the store owners dealing with pesky shoppers who don't buy anything ) . Soon , however , he is back to sticking up for the people . The floorwalker begins harassing Charlie while a real thief robs the place blind right behind him . There are two new and interesting things in this film . One is the escalator , which I have a feeling is the first escalator ever to appear in a motion picture ( if you know of an earlier one , I'd be curious to hear about it ) , and the other is a Chaplin look-a-like . He's much bigger than the diminutive Chaplin , of course , but it's the first time I've seen his double appear with him in one of his movies . The escalator is well used here , as well . The humor surrounding it goes a long way , and Chaplin speed walking down it is one of the more memorable moments of his early career . Soon , the double , in his efforts to make off with a suitcase full of cash , pays Charlie to trade clothes with him ( I am always suspicious of someone who wants me to wear their clothes out of a store ) , which Charlie foolishly accepts . The set up for the physical comedy is unusually clever in this film . The real bad guy gets caught and Charlie is congratulated for helping to capture him , then later an oafish guard wakes up ( he had fallen victim to that silent film curiosity where someone gets knocked out and then later wakes up as though well-rested from a deep sleep ) , and comes after Charlie , unaware of his new hero status . He gives Charlie a hilarious thrashing . My favorite moment in the film is Charlie's brief farewell dance before he attempts to dive into that handbag . It reminds me of the prestidigitonious ( something like that ) scene in Sword in the Stone , one of my all time favorite animated films . There is a great scene near the end where Charlie does a hilarious little dance . It's hard to pinpoint it , but there is something definitely charming about the way he dances . I feel like I've seen a thousand other people do the same thing , and yet it still looks totally unique when he does it . The ending of this film is a little abrupt , but this is probably some of his best physical comedy yet .
Fascinating documentary about a milestone film .	The only thing I didn't like about this documentary was that I wish there was more of it . It starts out telling us a lot of things we already know just from watching the movie , such as that Forrest retains some of his childhood innocence into adulthood because he's not very smart , how we are able to watch a tapestry of American history through his experiences , etc . We already know all of this , but the documentary expands into the themes and interests of the movie , giving wonderful insight into the intentions that went into its production . Besides , I'm always the first to jump at any chance to see behind the scenes of making a movie , especially one that I loved as much as Forrest Gump . There are things explained about the movie , such as the fact that Forrest only believes in three things ? God , his Momma , and Jenny , and everything else in the world that he experiences has to be filtered through those three things . It explains how the movie is not about anything that happens in American history that we see in the movie ( from the racism that he encounters in his early college days to the Vietnam war ) . There's no bad guy , there's no overarching quest , it's simply about the spirit of Forrest Gump . There is also some excellent coverage of the filming of specific scenes , such as the Dr . Pepper scene ( which had Tom hanks drinking a massive amount of Dr . Pepper ? it reminded me of how Charlie Chaplin ate so many licorice boots in the famous scene in The Gold Rush that he had to have his stomach pumped ) , as well as the scene where Forrest shakes John F . Kennedy's hand . I loved seeing how they managed to do that , although I wish they would have expanded it a little , at least enough to show how they managed to get JFK to say , " I believe he said he has to go pee ! " I tend to doubt that they actually found historical stock footage of Kennedy saying that ! Another thing that I felt should have been in this documentary was how they managed to portray Gary Sinise without legs , because it is one of the more memorable digital effects that were achieved for the film , although this is explained elsewhere on the DVD , and is probably why it was not included in this documentary , which I believe was made after the release of the original DVD . Much time is spent on how they did the feather at the beginning of the movie , although that is pretty important since the feather embodies the theme of the entire film . There is some great explanations of characterization in the movie , like how Forrest and Bubba became close friends because Forrest was the only person who would listen to Bubba talking endlessly about shrimp . Forrest accepted Bubba unconditionally , just like Jenny did for him . Also interesting is the commentary made about Vietnam being in the movie . Just like the theme of the movie being about Forrest and not about the world in which he lives , there is no comment made about Vietnam , how bad it was , etc , it just is . It's simply another experience that Forrest goes through , and it is there to enhance what we know about Forrest , not to make any comment about the meaning of the war itself . This is also why it is shown only through the eyes of Forrest Gump , we see only what he sees . That this theme permeates the rest of the movie is not surprising . It may have had something to do with the title of this documentary . There were other interesting things shown about making the movie , such as the fact that they did the storm scene late in the film using an actual jet engine , which I don't think had ever been done on a movie set before . But they used a real boat in real water and had people on each side pulling on huge poles that stuck off the sides of the boat like wings so that it would rock realistically , while water cannons and a jet engine were trained on it to create the effect of a terrible storm . So while this documentary doesn't explain how a few things were done , it does explain a tremendous amount of things , and delivers what it promises . Very good .
Excellent movie , especially for a movie that revolves around golf , the most boring sport on the planet ( followed closely by fishing , which is barely a sport but at least is fun while you're doing it , however	Kevin Costner plays Roy McAvoy , and ex-golf pro who runs a driving range in the middle of nowhere ( 520 miles from anything , to be exact ) . The film opens with a horrible song , which is followed by a goofy country soundtrack that was , unfortunately , written for the movie . Why is it that music that was written specifically for a movie is never any good ? There are exceptions , of course , but none of them can be found in Tin Cup . However , despite the sub-par soundtrack ( no pun intended ) , this is a surprisingly satisfying film . ( spoilers ) It's not about the game in Tin Cup , which is good , because that would have ruined the movie . There is a delightfully rich relationship between Roy and Molly Griswold ( Renee Russo ) , who is in an unhappy relationship and becomes the love interest for Roy in the film . Molly has problems of her own that parallel Roy's own struggle with his life as well as his golf swing . She is a psychologist , but she gets hurt a lot . She can always tell when people are lying to themselves , but can't seem to tell when people are lying to her . Roy spends the majority of the film trying to get her to leave an unworthy boyfriend who , of course , turns out to be a total dick , and continually makes awkward advances of his own . Many of his amorous advances resemble something confused and totally wrong that you might expect from someone like Travis Bickle from Taxi Driver . Roy just doesn't understand women , and Molly doesn't seem to know what she wants in a man . Cheech Marin rounds out the cast in a fairly serious role that strongly contradicts his traditional roles , and he pulls it off surprisingly well . He is Roy's close friend and ultimately his caddy in the U . S . Open , in which Roy plays as sort of the thinking man's Happy Gilmore . It seems that his infatuation with Molly has caused him to lose much of his skill ( ' the shanks , ' I believe it was called ) , and he tries just about everything to get his swing back . He uses all of those ridiculous infomercial devices that he made fun of Molly for using earlier in the film , and even attempts some witch doctor-like stuff , like getting drunk and playing hung over . Oops . There is very heavy emphasis on the meaning of the golf in the movie , rather than the golf itself . It is made clear in many different scenes that winning or losing or even playing golf are not the things that should be focused on when watching this movie . It is the way that golf is used as a metaphor for life that is important . There is a part in the movie where Roy breaks a golf record , but he still gets no respect afterward , because he had yet to change as a person . Merely beating a record because you took less shots is meaningless ? what's important is what you learn or how you change as a result . Even more importantly , near then end of the film , Roy takes shot after shot at the final hole , dropping all after ball into the lake , but he keeps taking the shot , rather than attempting to make it to the green safely with more than one shot . When he keeps telling Cheech to give him another ball , it becomes very clear that winning the tournament has become secondary to him . He has set a goal for himself , and even though he knows that it will cost him the tournament , he still seeks that goal . Notice how when he finally does make that shot , he is way above par , but he still gets a huge response from the crowd . Tin Cup has a sort of Rocky-style ending , in which Roy loses the tournament , but he still wins his conflict with himself . Besides that , the movie doesn't leave us with the feeling that we are seeing a temporary high point that will likely be followed someday with the same troubles that were overcome in the film , which is something that even great movies like As Good As It Gets are guilty of . Roy has not made the most tremendous achievement possible , because he did lose the tournament , but he has also managed to qualify for the U . S . Open tournament for the following year . He lost the golf game , but he has made a significant accomplishment in his life that is especially clear when you compare his character from the beginning of the film to that at the end of the film . Character development is one of the most important things about meaningful film , and it is one of the strong points in Tin Cup . Don't watch it for the golf , watch it for the well-written script , the great acting , and most importantly , for the valuable lesson that can be learned from it as a perspective on life .
" When a man's got money in his pocket he begins to appreciate peace . "	I can't even count how many years I have been wandering the videos stores and repeatedly pausing at the old Clint Eastwood classics before reluctantly moving on . But now that I live in China and can openly buy the entire Man with No Name trilogy for the equivalent of about $1 . 20 , I decided to finally check them out . The first thing that struck me about the original film is how simple it is . Granted , it's 1964 and a western , but due to the massive iconography this character has , I guess I expected a few more badass scenes . As I'm writing this , there is a curious review on the home page of Fistful of Dollars by a reviewer who calls himself dtucker86 who strangely mentions that " Clint Eastwood was as best known to American audiences for his role as Rowdy Yates in the series Rawhide . " Strange to me because , first of all Clint Eastwood is still alive even today , a full four years after that review was written ( and thus really shouldn't be referred to as " WAS best known " ) , but I happen to be a member of American audiences and I've never seen or heard of the TV show Rawhide . Of course , that's going to be attributed to my personal lack of familiarity with mid-20th century TV shows . Indeed , I've never seen a single episode of The Sopranos , so my ignorance of past TV shows should come as no surprise . A Fistful of Dollars is a very storied film , directed by Italian film-making giant Sergio Leone , a man who can't speak more than a couple words of English , and filmed in Italy . Eastwood apparently cut out pages of dialogue for his character ( pretty unusual , given that he was only really known from one TV show , Rawhide , and was essentially brand-new to major films ) , which had the immensely important effect of making his character more mysterious . He squints his way through the film , creating a toughness and grittiness that earned him such huge recognition . The movie is very bare bones , no extravagances , and Eastwood's character ( who really shouldn't be called The Man With No Name , but rather The Man With Three Names ) is not made into a movie superman . He makes mistakes , gets beaten up , and ultimately wins his respect and victory through smarts , not special effects . Eastwood makes an astonishingly charismatic and interesting western figure , which helped this movie to really launch his career . He plays the one independent role between the battling American and Mexican factions , an unattached rebel with no needs or cares other than to provide for himself , which allows us to relate detachedly to the two sides of good and evil without really associating with either of them . Outstanding . . .
I had heard a lot of bad things about Kate & Leopold , but I must say that I was impressed .	I can understand why people would be put off by a movie like Kate & Leopold , even if only because it's a little TOO cute . Consider , for example , the scene early in the film , just after Stuart ( Liev Schreiber ) has accidentally brought Leopold ( in a wonderful performance by Hugh Jackman ) to the present day , and Kate ( Meg Ryan ) sticks her head in the window to see what's going on . When Meg Ryan is kneeling down and looking in the window in this scene , she is probably more adorable than I've ever seen her in any other movie , and she is without a doubt one of the most adorable actors working in Hollywood today . ( spoilers ) I can see that some people might be put off just by the sheer cuteness of things like this ( of which the movie is full to the brim ) , as well as other things like the cheesiness of the conflict resolution , in which Kate literally takes a leap of faith off of the Brooklyn Bridge , with her ex-boyfriend as well as her brother urging her on even though each is fully aware that this will mean they will never see her again . For my own part , I think that minor quibbles like these are easy to overlook just because of the sheer entertainment value of the movie and the fact that the time travel element ( something that almost never fails to enthrall me ) is so intriguing and well done . I love the part at the end when they see Kate in one of the pictures that Stuart took in 1873 , meaning that the resolution includes her being sent back to that time to be with Leopold . Stuart tries in vain to explain this to Charlie ( Breckin Meyer ) , Kate's younger brother , telling him that since in THEIR future they send Kate back to the past , then the future of that past includes Kate being their and searching for Leopold . Well , I can't really explain it any better than Stuart did . There was one other thing about the time travel element that I thought was really interesting but wasn't explored as well as it could have been . There is a part of the movie where Leopold discovers , to all sorts of astonished amazement , that his uncle's house ( his own residence in 1873 ) still stands even in the futuristic New York in which he finds himself . This is also , by the way , the point where Kate begins to realize that this whole thing might not be an act after all . Leopold runs upstairs and finds a secret hiding place where he kept all of his most treasured possessions , which still remain as dusty relics . Something like this is usually a signpost that it is going to come back into play at some later point in the film , but I guess here it is only meant to show Kate that Leopold is for real after all . Later in the film , when Leopold is sent back to his own time , I was expecting Kate to run up to that room in his house and open the cupboard and find some sort of note or something that Leopold left for her to find there , but no such luck . Ah well . As a romantic comedy , Kate & Leopold certainly has its shortcomings given it's conveniently packaged ending , the fact that so many things are ignored just to get to that happy ending ( such as how Charlie's date REALLY went and what ever happened with him and his acting career and his love life , etc , and the same goes for Stuart ) , but as a film it is enormously entertaining , well-written , and thought-provoking , which is exceedingly uncommon for a romantic comedy . While it's true that the movie takes place mainly in society that can produce digital cameras the size of matchboxes but can't get toasters to work properly , this is the kind of movie that spawns discussion , which is what great movies do . If nothing else , it is most certainly an in-depth look at the descent of chauvinism between the 19th Century and today , and provides a host of immensely valuable lessons for how men should act around women . I would certainly like to see a lot of these behaviors return to our modern society , so that we can remember that life is not composed solely of tasks , but tastes as well . Kate & Leopold holds that rare distinction of being a romantic comedy that is more beneficial for men than women . Pay attention to this one , guys .
" Once you're in hell , only the devil can help you out . "	I came into Saw II with pretty low expectations , since the first film was so good , but only on the first viewing , and movies these days tend to go precipitously downhill with every sequel , especially horror films . The opening sequence in Saw II is some of the most brutal stuff I have seen in a horror film in years , and it just gets more and more painful from there . Other than the first film , I don't think I have seen a true horror film , in the classic sense of the word , since Rob Zombie's House of 1000 Corpses , which as far as completely ignoring all modern , accepted forms of aesthetics , even has something on the Saw films . I was immediately impressed by the opening sequence , but then even more a few minutes later when the police busted into Jigsaw's crazy house and found him sitting there calmly , offering them to sit down and chat with him . It reminded me of the scene in Seven when Kevin Spacey's John Doe walks into the police station covered in blood while Mills and Somerset were in the heat of their search for him . When something like that happens , you have no idea what to expect , and finding yourself with no idea what to expect is something of a treat when it comes to watching a horror film . Here you have this decrepit old man , dying of cancer and unable to stand under his own power ( again , I had no idea what to expect when he apologized for not being able to come to them to talk , since he couldn't get up ? I was sure he was sitting on a timer or a detonator or something ) , constantly having to breathe through a respirator , and he is surrounded by able - bodied police officers and investigators who are completely powerless to do anything to force him to tell them where the house is where the people are dying on television screens before there eyes . This is how you set up a horror film that people cannot take their eyes away from , no matter how cringe-inducing it is . Despite a massive overuse of wild clichés like " Shut the eff up " and " I'll rip your effing head off " and other such nonsense , as well as something of a cheesy twist at the end of the movie , Saw II not only compares but quickly and decisively passes up its predecessor . I remember watching the extra features on the DVD of the original film , and I was really surprised to see that it was just a couple of guys , about my age even , who had sat down and written the movie , which had become so successful . With the release of the first of what I imagine will be at least two sequels , it has become clear that there is some serious new talent making horror movies in America , which is a good sign that I haven't seen in years . By the way , just before I started writing this review I realized that in my review of the first Saw I mentioned that it reminded me of some of Wes Craven's earlier films , like The Hills Have Eyes and Last House on the Left , which is strange because in Saw II , when Jigsaw gives directions to the house where the mayhem is taking place , he gives the last piece of directions as " It's the last house on the left . " I have come to think that one of the marks of a good horror film is when it can be effective on its own and still pay homage to the classics without stealing their conventions , even though thematically the films are remarkably similar .
The world meets Mr . Bean !	My understanding is that this is the first Bean material , and he really started off strong . One of the most charming things about his character is his childishness , such as his fear of authority , as in one of the scenes in this episode where he is trying to cheat on an exam off the person next to him . First he has a hilarious competition about who brought the most school supplies , and of course , as always , there is one more great laugh at the end of the scene . He then heads to the beach and is distraught to find someone already there , so decides to try to change into his bathing suit without taking any of his clothes off , with hilarious results ! My favorite , however , has to be the church scene . I'm not a big churchgoer myself , although not necessarily just because I find it intolerably boring , but it is so nice to see someone so brilliantly agree with me on screen . And then candy in the pocket is classic ! The getting ready for a royal visit at the end is also vintage Bean , as he shows off to the indifferent and vaguely irritated people around him , only to have everything go wrong at just the wrong moment . This is clearly very early and very simple Bean , but it has to be some of his best . Bravo !
Just Be Yourself and such ?	I hesitate to summarize Boundin ' with the massive cliché that is Just Be Yourself , so I'll try to throw a little spin on it and say that it is more about being confident in who you are rather than your appearance . Clearly , since the short film starts with the story of a sheep that is so happy and content that it constantly bounces around singing , and thus doesn't give the impression of being insecure until suddenly it is Unceremoniously Plucked From Its World and sheared naked of its wool , it is more about self-confidence than just being yourself . On the other hand , maybe that's just two ways of saying the same thing . At any rate , the movie received something of a lukewarm reception from viewers , who either loved it or hated it or wanted to love it but thought that the sheep wasn't cute enough or something . I appreciated the fact that Pixar was able to tell the story using such simple means . The entire film takes place on the same 10 square feet or so of setting , and there are only two characters ( unless you count the little animals that laugh at or cheer the sheep , depending on his level of security ) . I also liked that the movie did something original with the dialogue . Many of Pixar's charming short films are silent , and I really thought the singing worked great because it had such a good Dr . Seuss-like ring to it . The moral is simple , but the emotions created are real . We pretty much know where the plot is going , but we still sympathize with the sheep after it is originally shorn , because in truth it really does look ridiculous . Where Pixar should be especially commended , however , is that later in the film the sheep is shorn again , plopped back down on its rock , but no longer looks ridiculous , simply because of the sheep's casual behavior . He doesn't look ridiculous because he no longer cares so much how he looks . And if you think the sheep or the jackalope were just not cute enough , maybe you should write a whiny little song about it ?
" Only the best people fight against all obstacles in the pursuit of happiness . "	Besides being , to me , a fascinating although eccentric look at an example of every day life in 1950s New Zealand ( one of only two or three places in the world that I have wanted to visit all my life ) , Heavenly Creatures is also the first movie that really shows that talent of Peter Jackson , which may have been overshadowed in his previous career by the sheer quantity of blood and guts that he packed into his earliest films . I have read that a lot of people were initially put off by the premise of an intense loving relationship between two teenage girls , but it should be noted that their relationship , if sexual at all , is sexual in a purely symbolic way . If nothing else , Jackson has made a stupendous achievement of making a film about this relationship and completely preventing any sense of eroticism from creeping up . The movie tells the shocking true story of two teenage girls who crushed the skull of one of their mothers with a rock , and what led them to commit such a heinous crime . My understanding is that the story is told with a great deal of creative liberties , but the focus is on a kind of friendship that few people ever find . Two girls with strengths and weaknesses that perfectly complement each other , who run through the world at full speed giggling with glee as if unable to understand the pure happiness that they feel when they are together . Soon , various events come in the way of their friendship . Melanie Lynskey plays Pauline , and Kate Winslet , in her first film role , plays Juliet , who is noticeably horrified when her parents bring up the prospect of leaving the country for a mere three weeks . While separated , they write each other elaborate letters , describing events that take place in an imaginary world that they have created together . When the separations become longer ( and more obviously because of parents ' misguided ( ? ) concerns about a homosexual relationship ) , their efforts to remain together become more and more desperate . As they say , never underestimate the power of stupid people in large numbers , or even the power and danger of a couple of teenage girls bent on maintaining their friendship . People are dangerous in groups , even groups of two ( I realize , just this second , that tomorrow morning I have three classes of university students preparing to give final exam presentations in groups of two and three . I hope I haven't made a horrible mistake ! ! ) . Complicating matters for Pauline and Juliet are four wildly unhelpful parents . Juliet's mother is distracted by her disintegrating marriage and futile affairs while her professional father is benevolent and professional but both hapless and helpless , while Pauline's mother is over - controlling and militant about her discipline , and her father seems to just want the whole thing to go away . The parents and the children are pulling in opposite directions , and they pull harder and harder and harder until finally the rope snaps , as it must . There are a number of truly impressive and memorable sections of the film , such as the presentation of the imaginary world that Pauline and Juliet have created together , particularly the clay characters that populate it . These things make it a movie that is difficult to categorize but easy to remember , and they show a sense of visual style that Jackson later went on to develop even further in the Lord of the Rings films and King Kong . Some say that he will never be able to top the Lord of the Rings movies , but personally I think he still has a few things up his sleeve . We can hope , anyway . Note ? it's well known that the real life Juliet has been revealed to be the successful murder mystery novelist Anne Perry , which is a perfect ending to her story ( although I would have expected Pauline to become the writer ) . Also , Melanie Lynksey has had a surprisingly successful acting career , appearing in many successful films , including a periodic role as the slightly crazy but immensely attractive Rose on 2 ½ Men .
Funniest combination of bananas and tail pipes in cinematic history . . . !	Beverly Hills Cop is by far Eddie Murphy's most popular role , and the movie that officially launched his career as a genuine movie star . It was one of those movies that my dad would let my brother and I watch on weekends , after my mom made him promise not to show us any rated R movies , and over the years it's easy to forget the level of violence and profanity in it that earned it that forbidding rating . Of course , as a kid I was just excited that I was getting to see something that I shouldn't , but in retrospect I tend to think that it was this combination of clever comedy and the ingredients from harder action thrillers that ensured Beverly Hills Cop's status as a cop comedy classic . You see , Foley has a bit of a criminal past of his own , but he is clearly much more at home on the right side of the law , and he uses his experiences in crime to his advantage in working his way into the criminal underworld , where he routinely attempts to bring down major crime ring kingpins . One day an old friend comes to visit him after having been released from prison and spending some time relaxing in the California sun . The two have a great time at the bar recounting their old criminal days together , until we learn that this guy , who once took the fall for one of Axel's crimes and served prison time for him without ever mentioning his name , now has stolen bearer bonds with him worth millions . Before long the owner of the bonds shows up and is not in a reminiscent mood . Axel is knocked out as they're staggering back to his apartment for the night , and he wakes up to find his friend murdered . The movie follows one of the biggest 1980s action movie clichés to the letter . Every single line is here , ' take some time off , ' ' stay away from this case , ' ' if you go after this guy don't bother calling in on Monday , ' etc . My eyes tend to glaze over whenever I hear this situation in a movie , probably because I work so much and in such situations can only think of how great it would be if my bosses told me to take some time off , go on vacation , don't let them catch me working or they'll fire me . But Foley's trip to Beverly Hills to perform his own investigation yields results so promising that it keeps the movie moving along at a pretty fast pace . Of course we realize the real life odds of a police officer traveling to the other side of the country and immediately stumbling across the major crime organization that he's looking for , but Murphy's quick-talking wit and street-wise charm makes it pretty easy to root for him . The movie has the perfect premise to combine with Murphy's personality ? he's an urban cop from Detroit named Axel Foley who is always driving his boss insane because he doesn't wait for piddly things like authorization when he wants to do major undercover work . The movie opens with one of these undercover and under the radar missions , which culminates in the police being called and then a major car chase through city and residential streets that must have caused millions of dollars in damage . Of course , when the cops have Axel at gunpoint , he gives them a grin and they shake their heads and lower their guns . Aw shucks , it's that crazy Foley again ! Judge Reinhold and John Ashton play Detectives Rosewood and Taggart , two of Beverly Hillss finest who are assigned to keep an eye on Foley and make sure he doesn't start doing police work while a dozen states or so outside his jurisdiction , from which he's suspended anyway . So Foley moves around among the Ferraris and BMWs and Mercedeses of Beverly Hills in his ancient , beat up Chevy Nova , cheerfully laughing at Taggart's and Rosewood's bumbling efforts to tail him and doing his investigation right under their noses . In the standard buddy cop movie sitcom , you have two wildly different people thrown together in a police partnership situation and forced to work together . This was a staple of the 1980s and has remained popular to this day , with classic movies like Lethal Weapon , Tango & Cash , 48 hours ( one of Murphy's own earlier comedies ) , Red Heat , Rush Hour ( could two cops ever be more different than Chris Tucker and Jackie Chan ? ) , and possibly my favorite , Hot Fuzz . And of course I shouldn't forget Bad Boys , which may very well have so much in common with Beverly Hills Cop as to warrant suspicion of plagiarism . I'll let it go though . I'm sure Eddie Murphy doesn't mind . Anyway , Beverly Hills Cop does follow all of the basic rules of your standard buddy cop movie , but somehow manages to avoid feeling like a formula film . The combination of Axel's determination to avenge his friend's murder is juxtaposed with hilarious situations involving Taggart and Rosewood trying in vain to keep an eye on him , as well as various police organizations tearing their hair out trying to keep him under control . Picture the police chief in Last Action Hero , a bad movie for which I maintain a certain affection , and make him intelligible and add a lot of profanity and you'll get some idea of what's going on here . I don't know that Beverly Hills Cop can quite be called a comedy classic , but it is definitely an action comedy classic . Also keep your eye out for the hilarious cameo from Bronson Pinchot , who you may remember as Balki from Perfect Strangers ! Eleventh best TV show ever !
' The Wrestler ' - A Wrestling Movie That's Totally About Wrestling	Oddly enough , when I think of professional wrestling , I think of the old slapstick comedies of Charlie Chaplin and Buster Keaton . A lot of their earliest comedies were hilarious but remarkably violent . But like pro wrestling , it's all staged , right ? In the extra features on the DVD of Benny & Joon , in which Johnny Depp does remarkable impersonations of Chaplin , Depp mentions that studying the moves of Chaplin was like going to " jump school . " The moves they do are not real , the violence isn't real , but the actual physical activity of it all is as real as anything else . Whenever I watch the old Chaplin movies , I always imagine what the rehearsals were like , and that is one of the things about professional wrestling that we see in The Wrestler . Mickey Rourke gives a powerful and personal performance as the washed up wrestler Randy " The Ram " Robinson . Rourke has a turbulent past himself , including a brief stint as a professional boxer and his own fall from stardom and eventual comeback because , like Randy The Ram , this is just what he does . And in Randy's case , it's clear how badly he needs wrestling because he really doesn't know anything else . The movie opens with a weary Randy resting after a match receiving a disappointing pay from a tiny show . His wrestling superstar past is revealed during the opening credits , and then we meet him as an older man playing small wrestling shows and just trying to make ends meet . He understands that he's nothing like what he used to be , but he also knows that he needs to survive and this is the only way he knows how to do it . He's no longer a tough guy in his 20's or 30's , he's an old guy just going to work , and his body is starting to get tired . But unlike most sports movies , the wrestling scenes are not meant to serve the purpose of creating excitement or illustrating the sport that the movie is centered around , they are meant to illustrate the reality of the sport that defines the main character's life . We see the nuts and bolts of how an aging wrestler keeps himself in shape enough to get in the ring and make a spectacle of himself . He goes to the hair salon to keep his hair bleached and flowing , he makes complicated transactions with a muscle-bound meathead to get the drugs he needs to stay in what is undeniably incredible physical shape , but he also wears a hearing aid and thick reading glasses . But his struggles with his aging body and his gradual descent from any kind of wrestling stardom is given meaning by its juxtaposition with his personal life , which involves an estranged daughter and a curious relationship with an exotic dancer at a local strip club , in whom he clearly has a unique interest . Randy discovers that he has lived the life of a wrestling superstar and has finished without so much as a significant other or a daughter who wants anything to do with him . He has lived a lifetime of mistakes and the physical toll that his profession takes on him makes him finally realize that he needs to reexamine his life and re-prioritize . The performance by Evan Rachel Wood , I have to say , is remarkably bad . She has an emotional scene late in the film that reminds me of something I would expect to see in a high school play , but the relationship between Cassidy ( the stripper played remarkably by Marisa Tomei ) and Randy and the parallel nature of their lives give the film a depth that it would not otherwise have reached . Essentially they play exactly the same role in life . He is an aging wrestler who's income depends on the peakness of his physique , and she is a stripper who's income also depends on the peakness of her physique . Both of them are reaching a point in their lives where they have to do something totally different , and neither of them has any idea where to begin . But the best thing that the movie does is that it humanizes those towering masses of raging muscle that we see in the ring in professional wrestling shows . Personally I am absolutely mystified as to the attraction of such nonsense , but like anyone in show business , from strippers to wrestlers to actors , when the show stops they become people like the rest of us . Evan Rachel Wood , who plays Randy's daughter in the movie , is also dating Marilyn Manson , who has to be one of the freakiest guys ever to get in front of a camera or microphone , although he defined one of the central messages of the movie when he once said , " You know , it you take away all the costumes and scary make-up , we're just a bunch of regular guys . "
Proof of what short films can become .	I thought that the original 6 minute short film was the story we saw in the feature film told in six minutes , so I was surprised when we were still aboard the Hindenburg III almost halfway through the film . Interestingly , almost every shot in the short film is in the feature film , almost identically , and this short film draws on both anime and classic pulp comic book animation . The result is lovely , and it is great to see something that is so clearly put together independently and not intended for wide release ( although still incredibly well made ) , especially when you consider what the film eventually became . It's interesting to me because I remember going to Cal Arts in Valencia , where director Kerry Conran went to film school , to tour their campus after I was accepted into film school there , and the short films that they showed us were of a very obscure , artsy variety , many of them literally abrasive and unpleasant to watch , and it's odd to consider that this film may have been shown to prospective students at some point as well . Maybe if this had been one of the ones shown when I toured the campus I would have accepted the invitation to attend ! While it seems that the film ends right about when it seems to be beginning , it is a clearly competent film with an interesting story , almost like it's a pitch for a feature film . Well , in my experience in script analysis working for film production companies , I can tell you that I wish we had more things like this to choose from , because the vast majority of the scripts that I read are unbelievably bad . And when talent like this comes along , it's nice to see that someone is doing something about it .
Excellent political thriller that goes to amazing efforts to stay true to reality .	One of the most important things about movies that deal with true historical events is that they take as few liberties as possible with the facts , and Thirteen Days stays amazingly close to what really happened . The 1960s are re-created with almost the same skill and precision as we saw in the great Apollo 13 , and the tension created by the Cuban Missile Crisis , the event upon which the movie is based , is very successfully captured in the film . This is one of the best parts of the movie , because that tension is something that the government at the time tried very hard to keep the public from finding out about . The film is basically a behind the scenes look at how the government under the Kennedy administration operated with the Russians and with the press in handling the problem of offensive missiles seen in Cuba , within firing range of the U . S . The conflict is much more significant than just getting the Russians to remove the missiles , because the U . S military is doing everything possible to get authorization to fire upon Cuba and go to war . This is understandable to a certain degree , because the military spends so much time training for something like this so of course they're going to want to move on it , but it also makes the chief of staff in the film come off as a hot-headed redneck who just wants to blast the Cubans out of the water . John F . Kennedy was brilliantly portrayed by Bruce Greenwood , which is surprising because of his less than enviable iconography ( yeah , he was that jerk in Rules of Engagement and that jerk in Double Jeopardy and , if my memory serves me , he was also that jerk in Disturbing Behavior ) . Kevin Costner stumbles over every line in the film , delivering one of the most badly mangled fake accents in film history . I personally think that Costner is a very good actor ( I even liked Waterworld ) , but he was entirely the wrong person for the part of Kenny O'Donnell - his horrific accent overshadowed every other element of his performance . But as a political and historical thriller , Thirteen Days scores big . The Cuban Missile Crisis and the reactions of the government and the press and the public are re-created with stunning detail , and the results are outstanding . Even younger generations who were not born when the crisis happened can enjoy it because of its brisk pace and well-written script . Thirteen Days manages to avoid being a boring semi-documentary , yet retains its historical accuracy and achieves maximum effect .
The best reason for a sequel so far ?	One of my biggest pet peeves ( besides that phrase ) is when sequels come out and do nothing but plod through the same crappy plots as their predecessors or simply cash in on the success of an earlier film . Wes Craven's New Nightmare is a complete overhaul of the Nightmare on Elm Street formula , transferring it from the fictional Elm Street and into the real world . It would seem like a cheesy premise , Freddy is such a bad guy that he's even coming to life on the movie sets , but the idea makes it work . Wes Craven has been having nightmares again , and since his nightmares tend to be where he gets his best ideas ( much like many other horror writers , directors , etc , not the least of which is Stephen King ) , he decides that this must mean it's time to make another Elm Street movie . Heather Langenkamp , who played the terrorized Nancy Thompson in Nightmares 1 and 3 , takes on the role of herself . She's now 30 years old and has a child , but is gradually coming to realize that the strange things that have been happening and nightmares of Freddy that she has been having are way too similar to what happened in her movies , and she gradually comes to realize that it's all real . Some of the best moments are when she goes to talk to Wes Craven about it , to tell her what has been happening , and it is all stuff that he has already written into his new but unfinished script . Craven explains that the evil inside Freddy Kruger is actually an ancient evil that has merely been temporarily trapped inside the character of Freddy and the stories of the Nightmare on Elm Street movies , that as long as the story is kept active , the evil can be contained . Now that the movies have ended , he explains , the evil force within Freddy has been set free . There's a great scene where he tells Heather that the reason the story has died is because that's what happens when people water it down to make it an easier sell . This is a strikingly insightful comment to be made within a horror film , but it strikes me as strange since it's so obvious that he's referring to the load of bad sequels in the Nightmare on Elm Street series , only two of which he directed ( the original and this one ) but almost all of which he either produced or wrote . So anyway , Freddy has managed to separate himself from both Robert Englund , the actor that played him in the movies , and the Nightmare movies as well , and have entered our world . This is a hell of a lot better than Freddy Takes Manhattan ! The movie takes place in an interesting parallel reality , it's not the reality in the movies and it's not the real world , but somewhere in between . All of the actors from the movies all play themselves and there is much talk of ' our world ' and ' the real world , ' but only the actors from previous movies play themselves , all the other people in the movie are characters played by actors , not the least of which is Heather's son , Dylan , who turns out to be the most powerful person in the movie . Dylan starts having nightmares and reacts as any kid his age would , not wanting to go to sleep and wanting mom to spend the night with him . Why she refuses for most of the movie is never really explains . She of all people must understand what he's going through ! Ultimately , Freddy is able to come through and kill people when Dylan sleeps , and it seems that Freddy capitalizes on this , using the kid both as leverage and as a means to get into his world . There is a scene where Dylan runs across a freeway at night during heavy traffic , and Freddy appears in the sky and lifts him up , helping him across the freeway unharmed . This leaves the question of whether Freddy did this to protect his path into this world or just to taunt his mother , Heather , who is following closely behind and ready to run into traffic herself to save her son . ( spoilers ) There is also an homage scene involving Dylan's surprisingly dedicated babysitter in the hospital , she tries to prevent the nurses from putting him to sleep and ends up in a scene reminiscent of a classic scene from the first film . One of my favorite parts of the movie is how the actors near the end of the film relapse back into their roles , doing things like dressing as their characters and calling Heather Nancy and things like that , further blurring the line between the fiction from the previous films , our reality , and the reality presented in the movie . This is great stuff , but the movie really starts to slip near the end . Needless to say , there is a climactic scene in a horrific dungeon setting , with Heather and Dylan trying to escape and kill Freddy at the same time . Freddy gets his tongue forked , an interesting scene at a time when tongue piercings were simply the cool things to have , but then what ? Freddy gets killed by fire ? That's it ? ? Has Wes Craven ever seen a horror movie ? Fire never kills the slashers ! And to make matters worse , after Heather and Dylan finally ' kill ' Freddy , we fast forward a bit and they're at home and Heather gets a copy of the script from Craven , and what does she do ? She picks it up and starts reading it to Dylan ! Is she MAD ? ? ? I think that New Nightmare stands as one of the best of the entire series , along with the original film , and despite these weak shortcomings , it is a tremendously well-made horror movie . It's thought out where most horror films aren't , it has a premise that's fascinating in the same way that things like time travel are fascinating , and it will surely please Nightmare fans eager to get a look at the Nightmare on Elm Street sets as well as the cavernous mansion that Craven has managed to afford from being royalty in the horror movie production world . I definitely recommend this one .
Illegal Immigrants Coming In From The North , Too ? ' Frozen River ' Review ?	Frozen River has all the makings of a sleeper hit . It has an interesting location presented so clearly you can almost feel the snow leaking into the tips of your shoes , it has characters with unique and interesting personalities that are wonderfully performed and never unrealistic for a split second , and it has a story that is at once completely believable , perfectly paced , and has the feel of real life . That last is the most difficult thing to achieve in the movie , and Frozen River does it better than the vast majority of the other Oscar nominees in any category . But why is it nominated for Best Original Screenplay ? Granted , the story is good and well - presented and performed , but the screen writing itself has a few mistakes that are so childish and careless that I would more expect to see them in a junior high school book report . The movie starts with a close-up of a woman's face , and it's full of sadness and suffering and betrays a life full of long , hard years . Then the camera pulls back and reveals the movie's setting and soon the characters . It presents a portrait of the typical lower-class American family . A teenage son and a ? year-old son being raised by a mother working at the Yankee Dollar store with no father figure in the house . He's on a business trip / has abandoned them , and he's taken the money they needed to buy the double-wide . All we know about him is that he has a gambling problem and probably took off on a bus to Atlantic City . Melissa Leo gives the best and most important performance in the film . She's Ray Eddy , the " single " mother badly struggling to raise her two children essentially on her own , now that the father has recently disappeared with their savings . Her 15-year-old son is wise beyond his years . He wants to quit school and get a job , believing ? probably correctly - that he can earn enough money to help solve their desperate financial problems . But Ray refuses , insisting that he stay in school . The extent of the family's dire financial situation shows how significant it is that she never even considers allowing him to quit school to go to work . The movie takes place on the border between the U . S . and Canada , at an unknown border - crossing area near an Indian reservation that a few Mohawks have been using as a spot to bring illegals into the country . Ray one day sees her car being driven by someone she doesn't know and pursues her , ultimately getting herself tangled up in a dangerous smuggling operation . Ray is an honest woman . She's honest and hard-working and law-abiding , the kind of person that most of us can relate to pretty easily . We've all had financial troubles at some point in our lives , and when Ray gets that first few hundred dollars for bringing in some illegal immigrants , it's easier to feel her relief than it is to worry about anything that might result from illegal immigration . We are relieved almost as if the money were solving our own problems rather than someone in a movie . We don't want her to be caught for breaking the law , we want her to bring in a few more car-loads and get that trailer home for her and her son and daughter . This is a sign of outstanding characterization . Unfortunately , the script is also peppered with foolish mistakes . At one point , Ray sets down two bowls of microwave popcorn for her kids , and her son says indignantly , " I'm not eating this for dinner again . " Not a minute later , he and the young daughter are rushed out the door to catch the morning school bus . Do they eat dinner before school or do they go to school after dinner ? At another point Ray and Lila , her smuggling partner , are driving into town with a car full of incriminating evidence , and a state trooper pulls into the road behind them and turns on both his lights and his siren . The next scene shows Ray nervously asking Lila , " What if he pulls me over ? " What if ? Does she not know what lights and a siren mean ? How did this get into the final cut ? There is also the smaller but probably more significant issue of the Chinese illegals who at first refuse to get into the car because a woman is driving it . It's not a problem for the story , just a simple but clear example of ignorance about the cultures displayed as illegal immigrants in the movie . There is absolutely no problem about woman drivers here in China . There are female taxi drivers all over this place , and they are generally much better and safer drivers than men . The best thing that the movie does , however , is that it never once tells us the story , it shows us the story , which is much more difficult and much more effective . The performances by Melissa Leo and Misty Upham as Ray and Lila are so effective that nothing ever needs to be said to illustrate their relationship . Within minutes of their first screen time together , we get the feeling that we've known them each for a long time and are watching to see how they react to each other . Never once is the movie about anything but personal financial need . It is not about illegal immigration or even smuggling , it just uses those things to illuminate the real meaning , and the setting provides the perfect backdrop to the story , both of which are cold and hard and unforgiving , but equally well-presented . I'm reminded of other similarly cold but brilliant films , like Fargo and Affliction . Recommended !
The old west was a complicated time ?	I am willing to bet that the end of the movie is given away in the title in large part because the relationship between Jesse James and the coward Robert Ford is so complex , and James himself so unpredictable , that there is still tension on the way to an ending that we know is coming . Then again , it's also true that not only is the assassination not the end of the movie , and the tension created by violence that we can see coming is , in most ways , more real and more satisfying than even realistic violence , such as can be scene in one particular scene in the recent Collateral when ( note a possible spoiler here for that movie ) when Mark Ruffalo's character Fanny is so unexpectedly shot . The first thing that struck me about this film was that it is much more stylized than the westerns that I have seen . It's difficult to make wide expanses of empty frontier look anything less than beautiful in an almost mythic way , but the time lapse photography and occasional textured shots of a brooding Jesse James ( sort of like a film version of the movie's cover ) give the film an almost futuristic feel , which is an odd but pleasing sensation to have in a movie that takes place in the late 1800s . We meet the infamous James gang as they are planning to get out of the criminal world at the height of their game . It strikes me as a time when the mostly agrarian American society was so in need of a hero that they , in many ways , accepted a man who was famous for robbing the very people that deified him . He did seem to have some of the characteristics of Robin Hood , but not many . Mostly , we can identify with him because he is clearly a good father who loves his kids , and for some reason even a brutal killer can gain sympathy from modern audiences for being good to his kids . He is also shown as a loving husband , but one can only speculate on how far his loyalty to his wife goes when he is away from his family for so long . Enter Robert Ford , played with striking effectiveness by Casey Affleck , who has appeared in an impressive list of films in his relatively short career , and now is credited above Brad Pitt . Not a bad career move ! He has a fascinating story , not the least part of which is that his wife is the sister of the legendary River Phoenix and the also legendary Joaquin Phoenix . Casey has never been much of a leading man , and it is exactly that fact that makes him a perfect Robert Ford . Some have suggested a homo-erotic lust towards James from Ford , and while I wouldn't go so far as to call it lust , his hero-worship of James certainly permeates his life completely , and the assassination strikes me not as the most intimate that Ford can be with Jesse without sex , but rather , as a sort of If I can't have you , no one will . Although still , I don't see anything sexual at all in their relationship , but rather a lashing out of Ford , who so desperately wants to be accepted by Jesse that , after consistently failing , he resorts to killing him , the less painful of his two remaining options ( the other being acceptance of his inherent inferiority and subsequent expulsion from the gang or permanent subservience ) . The other way that the story presents a surprising level of complexity is after the assassination , where Ford receives the fame that he always wanted and , for some expected and some unexpected reasons , becomes truly miserable . It is a strange exploration of the media's and the public's glorification of violence , as a man who terrorized the public is seen as a fallen icon and the man who killed him is branded a murderer . It seems that Ford's mistake is in so publicly glorifying himself , reenacting the killing in front of live audiences , eventually being heckled by the crowds for being a coward . The problem that he doesn't realize is that the public doesn't understand the relationship between James and Ford , which was always uncomfortable , even as Ford tried so hard to sidle up to James and be accepted as his " sidekick . " When the assassination happens , James knows it , and so does Ford and so do we . The audiences watching the reenactment only saw Ford shoot James from behind , not really knowing that James knew it was going to happen and allowed it . Maybe even welcomed it . At just under 3 hours the movie is a bit long , but it is also a modern western epic , and there aren't very many of those . This movie will invariably be compared to other recent westerns , such as the astonishingly good 3 : 10 to Yuma , one of the best and most redeeming westerns I've seen in years . Like that movie , this one also has a spectacular cast who inhabit their roles and give us a look at the old west in a way that I didn't know was possible anymore . It seems that the western genre is coming back to life ?
This was an awesome an amazingly intense war film .	U-571 took a great story , excellent acting , and an extremely tense setting and molded it all into a great World War II film . Matthew McConaughey was perfect as the lieutenant of a group of Americans trapped aboard a crippled German submarine in hostile waters . Their efforts to get through safely , while avoiding numerous depth charges , provided the foundation of the plot . This really was an excellent war film . It may not have been quite on the same level as Saving Private Ryan , but it holds its own and is very well put together .
This is the best boxing film that's not really a boxing film since Rocky .	There is no role that Denzel Washington fits more perfectly in than the kind he played in racially charged atmosphere in The Hurricane . When he and that poor kid John Artis were pulled over and the officer said that they were looking for two negroes in a white car , no actor could have been better than Denzel when he said , " Any two will do ? " What a perfect piece of casting , and Denzel Washington was startlingly convincing as the legendary Rubin Carter throughout the entire film . Every actor performed amazingly , even Liev Schrieber , who makes a smart turn after all of his obnoxious performances in the Scream trilogy . However , I have to say that I did get a little bit tired of watching Vicellous Reon Shannon mumble through his lines as the determined Lesra Martin , but besides his slightly botched dialogue he also contributed an important element of innocence and wonder to the film . The Hurricane is a nearly flawlessly photographed film . Every scene has such perfect cinematography that you forget that you're watching a movie , you're actually THERE . This was especially important in the many prison scenes , particularly when Carter was in " the hole " for refusing to wear prison clothes , where his fall into temporary insanity was creatively and amazingly portrayed . I've seen people go insane in a huge number of movies ( Hilary and Jackie ( 1998 ) , Shine ( 1996 ) , Little Voice ( 1999 ) , and even Little Man Tate ( 1991 ) ) , but I've never seen the editing used to make a character seem that he was actually having a conversation with himself . Excellent piece of filmmaking right there . The time periods were portrayed perfectly , the costumes were designed to fit not only the time period but also each specific actor , and the dialogue was absolutely engrossing in every scene . This was an absolutely incredible film . It moves the audience just as much as even the most emotionally intense films , and it is a great film to enjoy and learn from at the same time . Unfortunately , there were a few fairly important things that were left out that just should not have been . ( spoilers ) For example , we never find out what happened to Carter's wife . Sure , it's easy to assume that she divorced him , but after the scene when she visits him and he tells her that he's going to die in prison , we never see or hear from her or about her again . Also , nothing really came of the strong threats that Terry ( John Hannah ) , Lisa ( Deborah Unger ) , Sam ( Liev Schrieber ) , and Lesra ( Vicellous Shannon ) received from Detective Vincent Pesca ( Dan Hedaya ) on the street corner that day except for one time when their brakes were evidently disabled . Sure , that's a pretty vicious thing to do , but when he approached the four of them he seemed pretty determined to stop their investigation at all costs . The last thing that I think should be noted ( as well as the most important ) , is that at the end of the film , nothing ever came of the heinous crimes that were committed against Rubin Carter . None of the people who falsely imprisoned him ( especially Det . Pesca , who had falsely imprisoned Carter for most of his life ) were ever reprimanded for their negligence to uphold the law . At the same time , however , this can be seen as a very respectable element of the film , because it suggests that the movie is about the tremendous strength of the human spirit in the face of hopeless circumstances , and that it is NOT about revenge . This is the kind of thing that you get from films that are somehow able to avoid the poisonous influences of Hollywood , and they are often not easily accepted because people don't look at the actual meaning of things like this , they just want a perfectly happy ending . The Hurricane is an example of a film in which you have to look at what the ending MEANS , not just the basic way that it happened . This same is true for other great films like Boys Don't Cry ( 1999 ) and Life Is Beautiful ( 1997 ) . The emphasis is not on happy endings , but instead on being as accurate as possible in the depiction of reality , which does not work at all like a movie does . This type of thing is especially important in true stories , such as The Hurricane . The Hurricane is among the most powerful films released in years . I think that it is just as emotionally intense as films like Schindler's List and American History X and , like both of the above mentioned films , it not only provides wonderful entertainment , but it also tackles one of the most important messages that can possibly be delivered to our society today - the destructive power of racism . From the opening scenes of the movie , you just love Rubin Carter , and the way that his life is demolished because of racism and prejudice is an extremely powerful thing to watch . Every scene is saturated with emotion and intelligence and cinematic skill , and the end result is magical .
Slow moving a creepy as hell , just like you like it .	Well , I assume you like it like that . I could be wrong . Anyway , Ju-on didn't exactly meet my expectations , but was a hugely effective thriller , especially given it's financial limitations . Clearly shot on a shoestring budget , Director Takashi Shimizu gets as much as humanly possible out of what was available to spend . The movie plods along slowly and at some points comes off as a loosely connected series of freaky occurrences inside the house in question , but gradually the story comes into clearer perspective . Normally I really enjoy movies that take a while to build up , not that plod along , but that seem to move along at a slow pace and then suddenly you realize there was a lot more going on than you realized . That's the kind of thing that makes you want to watch a movie again . Not because you didn't get it , but because now you know that there has to be something that you missed . Ju-on is kind of like that . I have to admit that I found the pace a little slow at times , but was mostly put off by things like bad make-up and too much of that cheap special effect that's supposed to be scary , where people who are ghosts or zombies or something open their eyes really wide and don't move . On the other hand , I tried to remember the budget limitations , and I really think that the movie was effective for the amount of money that they had to make it . The Ring and Ringu are two of those kind of controversial movies , like The Blair Witch Project , that everyone either loved or hated . I loved all three of them , and was mostly comparing Ju-on to Ringu when I watched it , and I have to say that I liked Ringu better . Those Japanese just know how to make horror movies . The atmosphere in Ju-on was very effective and eerie throughout the movie , but Ringu and The Ring , to me , were just terrifying . Ju-on just didn't have the same depth of plot that Ringu did . It's essentially about a curse that inhabits a house and infects anyone that comes into contact with it . You can't run away , and once it gets you you're haunted by it forever . Like the budget , there's not a lot to work with there , but they turned it into a thriller that is , as they say , more than the sum of its parts . Note : my favorite special effect you couldn't even see , it was that creepy creaking sound that was heard anytime the shadow ghost was on screen . THAT is what's going to give you nightmares ?
A startlingly good animated film that seemed to come out of nowhere . Amazingly well done .	The Iron Giant is an animated film that probably did not get the attention that it deserves because it was not made by Disney . When I saw this movie , I did not know anything about it and I didn't expect much from it , and I was surprised at how much I enjoyed it . The story involves a young boy who discovers a crash landed ( ? ) robotic giant in the woods near his home , where he lives with his single mother . Despite the predictable ending and the rather unoriginal story ( " Cool , my own Terminator ! " ) , The Iron Giant is a heartwarming tale of friendship and family that provides excellent entertainment for all ages . It is unlikely that the giant is able to learn so much about humans ( emotions , soul , acceptance , life , etc ) , but that's beside the point . I mean , they never even hinted as to where the giant came from , who made him , or why he was endowed with such jaw-dropping artillery . Is he some sort of alien Bicentennial Man ? Even though the giant's entire background is left a mystery , the film is still able to tell a wonderful story . Let's just hope they make a sequel in which the giant's home is portrayed more . The cast was also excellent . In particular I enjoyed Harry Connick Jr . ' s performance as the endlessly tolerant Dean McCoppin , and most of all , ironically enough , Christopher McDonald as the government agent Kent Mansley . Christopher McDonald almost always plays a jerk of some sort in all of his movies ( Happy Gilmore , Dirty Work , and SLC Punk , to name a few ) , and he was endlessly amusing in The Iron Giant ( " . . . no , Bob , big things happen in big places . And the sooner I fill out my report , the sooner I can get back to them . " ) . Great stuff . The Iron Giant is a movie for all tastes . I strongly believe that anyone who didn't like this movie did not give it a fair enough chance , because it was just so well done . It is one of those rare films ( especially animated ) that has an ending that virtually forces you to smile . You can't walk away from this movie unhappy , it is touching , it's fascinating , it's entertaining , and it should not be missed .
A smartly written and startlingly accurate look at the lives of dedicated punks .	First of all , I can't believe the review that I just read of SLC Punk . Wow , some people just completely missed the boat on this one . SLC Punk is one of the most accurate and unflinching documentary style films to come along in years . It's a film about the lives of anarchist punks , who most people don't know anything about beyond the freaky way that they dress . Stevo , played perfectly by Matthew Lillard , speaks directly to the camera and to the audience , and with spectacular effect . The film knows very well that it deals with the lives of hardcore punks , a kind of blocked off group because they don't want much to do with other people , and most people want little to do with them , but are fascinated with them nonetheless , whether out of sheer morbid curiosity or genuine interest . This is a film that deals with a difficult group of people but still manages to be so real and so straightforward that it can be enjoyed by younger people because of the sheer entertainment value as well as the accuracy with which they capture the lifestyle of the punks ( I've been there ) , and it can also be enjoyed by adults as a learning experience , if nothing else . SLC Punk is a remarkably versatile film , it knows its subject matter very well and is therefore able to communicate it clearly even to someone who has never had any experience with the kinds of people that it depicts . Some of the scenes are exaggerated , such as the job hunt scene , but this is a documentary style film that not only delivers a strong presentation on the subject matter that it deals with , but also contains some highly skilled cinematography . The scene where Stevo is on acid with his friend , for example , is one of the most effective drug sequences I've ever seen . SLC Punk is such an accurate film and delivers such a gigantic amount of information about the lives of the people that it focuses on that it's obvious that it was written and directed by someone with a lot of personal experience in that sort of lifestyle . In fact , click on James Merendino's name on the IMDb title page for SLC Punk , and you'll see exactly the kind of freaky picture that you would expect to see of someone who comes up with something like this . SLC Punk is an informative and hugely entertaining film , it provides plenty of opportunities for the cast to deliver some excellent comic relief ( especially through Stevo , Matthew Lillard's character ) , and it presents a fun and enjoyable tour through the lives of hardcore punks , specifically those who live in an environment that completely alienates them ? the Mormon atmosphere of Salt Lake City . ( spoilers ) One of the things that makes this film so effective is that it presents the destructive things that these punks do as learning experiences rather than just a complete and reckless waste of life . Stevo , at least , is the one punk who seems to have his head on at least partially straight , growing up to ultimately become exactly what he always hated but knowing all the while that it's a better life than the one he had been living . It seems that the most significant message that's delivered in this film is that it's fun to screw around when you're young , but you can't live your whole life like that . So to Christian Sarnes , who wrote the review that's on the IMDb's title page , if you think that other than a ' very few situational laughs there's not much to speak about , ' you have obviously missed quite a bit .
One of Hitchcock's talkiest murder mysteries .	Hitchcock tries out his hand at comedy , one of his least traveled paths . The Trouble With Harry will at first glance appear to be Hitchcock kind of taking a break from " serious " films , the thrillers and suspense films that he is best known for , and relaxing a bit with a light comedy , but there is much more going on in this film than that . First of all , only Hitchcock would come out with something that could be termed a " light comedy " when the central figure in the film from beginning to end is a dead body , but a lot of Hitchcock's standard themes are very prevalent in the film , even though it differs so much from his traditional style . First and foremost , of course , is Hitch's real life , almost crippling fear of the police , whom he portrays so often in films as bumbling , incompetent blockheads . The film is almost entirely dialogue driven , the crisp exchanges are almost nonstop from beginning to end and never get boring . Shirley MacLaine makes a brilliant film debut as Harry's new widow , displaying the perfect amount of charm and sweetness that allows us to immediately forgive her gladness at her husband's sudden death , no matter how mysterious or how many times the supposed responsibility for his death changes hands . As the blame is circulated among the diverse and likable group of main characters , the procession of guilt and responsibility leads to Harry being dug up and re-buried several times , until Jennifer ( MacLaine ) is asked what she thinks they should do , to which she replies , " I don't care what you do with his so long as you don't bring him back to life . " There is a recurring set device of a closet that just won't stay closed which seems to have caused some confusion as to its meaning , and I have a feeling that , since there is never anything actually hidden in it , it is a metaphorical thing that points to one of the underlying themes of the film , that of guilt . Skeletons in the closet , that kind of thing . Purely speculation , of course , but it makes sense to me . John Forsythe gives a brilliant , perfectly cool and laid back performance as the hugely likable Sam Marlowe , and his exchanges with Arnie , played by Jerry Mathers in his pre-Beaver days , are some of the best moments in the film , and this is also the first of a great many tremendously successful collaborations between Hitchcock and composer Bernard Herrman . Also keep your eye out for Hitch's cameo , which goes by much quicker than usual , you can miss it in a split second .
Definitely one of the best thrillers in years , Arlington Road grabs at the opening scene and whips the audience through a continuous montage of high speed action until the spectacular and morbidly satisfying	Arlington Road has the rare quality of being a thriller with no slow moments at all . Even the thorough character development does not take time away from the mind-blowing action that flows seamlessly from beginning to end . The opening scene , in which Michael Faraday ( Jeff Bridges ) comes upon a bleeding boy in the middle of Arlington Road and takes him to a nearby hospital is a brilliantly thought out piece of character development ( in regards to the rest of that boy's family ) that is not realized until a little bit later in the film , but once it is realized , it is incredible . Tim Robbins delivers one of the most satisfactory performances of his career as Oliver Lang , in a sharp but flawlessly executed turn from his recent efforts in such films as Nothing To Lose and the great Shawshank Redemption . When Lang moves into a new house , he becomes the neighbor of Michael Faraday ( Bridges ) , and they strike up a good friendship , seeming to be perfect neighbors . However , Faraday begins to notice suspicious things in Lang's house , and soon suspects that he is a terrorist . As a professor of a terrorism course himself , Faraday is clearly very determined to get to the bottom of his suspicions , especially since he lost his wife in a botched FBI excursion . Tim Robbins and Joan Cusack , as his wife , are so convincing as the lovable but questionable couple across the street that they almost attain spiv status . Although this film is recent , and noir is virtually extinct , it is almost like a film noir because of the likeable characteristics of the villains . There is also wonderful camera work that is worthy of being noted specifically . One scene that comes to mind is the scene in which Lang confronts Faraday in his backyard . The way that that scene was photographed makes such clever use of the angles and the surrounding setting that the camera work is able to tell a bit of the story by itself . This is something that is extremely useful in films , and modern films rarely take advantage of these possibilities . Arlington Road never lets up . You don't get a break throughout the entire film , and the jaw-dropping ending is comparable to the stunning and original endings of other films like The Sixth Sense and Fight Club . You're not going to walk away from this film feeling all warm and fuzzy inside , you may actually feel discomfort , but you won't feel CHEATED . That's important , because they could easily have slapped on a cute little Hollywood ending and thus lost the film in the endless cavern of run-of-the-mill thrillers , but instead they ended the film in an attention-getting and completely unpredictable way . Excellent show .
Fascinating short film .	It is easy to see Neill Blomkamp's directorial skills in this short film , which runs kind of like a news broadcast documentary that gives a peek into the frightening situation in a South African town after some not so pleasant aliens have set up permanent residence there . It is a kind of journalistically objective look at how the lives of the local townspeople have been altered , mostly for the worse , by the arrival of the aliens . Visually , it is a stunningly effective film , especially with the mother ships floating just over the skyline , and the film is packed with one unsettling image after another . Having been signed on by Peter Jackson to film the highly anticipated screen adaptation of the wildly popular video game Halo , it is easy to see from this film why he was chosen despite having almost no directing experience at all to take on what will surely be a hugely popular film .
" You'll drip rubies . . . . "	I have a definite problem with musicals . I have always had a hard time accepting characters suddenly bursting into song in movies , particularly in sad or glum situations which are not exactly very conducive to singing . Tim Burton achieved astonishing success in this area , even with non-musical fans like myself , with the brilliant Nightmare Before Christmas which , interestingly enough , is generally called " Tim Burton's . . . " despite the fact that he produced but didn't direct . But clearly , the movie exists in Tim Burton's unique and distinctive imagination . Tim Burton's latest started off a little disappointing to me . I've been living in China for a year and am now home for the holidays , and this was one of the first movies I saw in the theater in the last 11 months , so I actually knew nothing at all about the movie as I walked in . All I knew was that Johnny Depp was in it and Burton directed , and that was enough for me . I was a little put off when I learned that it was a musical , indeed the first few musical numbers were a little tiring for me , but that was soon to change . During the first 30 minutes , I was sure that Burton was trying to recreate his past success of setting musical films in his dark but charming worlds . After an hour , I started to think that he had really lost touch with his audience . At least I hoped so , as Depp sang his way through one throat-slitting after another . After an hour and a half , the charm of the story began to really set in , and by the closing scene , I was sure that this is yet another Burton / Depp classic . I was humming the songs to myself as I left the theater . That all being said , the film is a technical masterpiece . Victorian London is re-created in stunning realism , although I like to think that even during the worst times of the industrial revolution London was never THAT dark and dirty . There are times when the plot is a bit confusing , but it's never unclear that the story covers a significant period of time and skillfully weaves several story lines together . There will more than likely be a time during the movie when you will think that the copious amounts of spraying blood out of slit throats is just a little too much , as I did - - - well , I don't really know where to go with that . It's easy to say that the rest of the movies justifies the violence , or that this is typical of Tim Burton's style in this context , but something different happens here . I spent almost the entire film in a state of disappointment and almost waiting for the end , but by the time the film ended everything had changed for me . It's unusual that a film doesn't become entirely appealing to me until literally the last show of the movie , but something like that happens here . Give this one a chance . Die hard fans are sure to be delighted no matter what , but the rest of you may need to have a little more of an open mind , even more than usual with Tim Burton films . I have a feeling that Burton earned a whole new breed of fans with Big Fish , and those are the people I'm talking to . This one might be best enjoyed more than once .
Smart war thriller from an international action veteran ?	OK , so anytime I hear the name Paul Verhoeven I always immediately think of Robocop , which I saw for the first time when I was about ten years old and I never quite recovered from that scene where Murphy gets all shot up by the bad guys . It was a movie moment at a formative point in my life where I really learned the extent to which people can go in doing terrible things to each other ( years later , I saw things like Texas Chainsaw and Wes Craven's Last House on the Left and The Hills Have Eyes and realized that I hadn't seen anything yet ) . Verhoeven began his American film-making career with Robocop , an enormously violent and hugely popular success , and began a career spanning nearly two decades of working on a lot of big budget Hollywood movies like Basic Instinct , Total Recall and the disappointing Hollow Man . I wouldn't expect a respectable World War II film to come from someone with such a filmography , but Black Book is sort of a return back to Verhoeven's days as a filmmaker in the Netherlands , where he had a successful career before coming to Hollywood . It's becoming more and more difficult for people to come up with unique and interesting stories involving the widespread struggles against the Nazis in WWII . I would even suggest that it's becoming safe to say that a WWII film can be made or broken solely by the performances , which are becoming more and more the most memorable things about these movies because so much of the stories are already known . In Black Book , however , Verhoeven's European film-making sensibilities mix nicely with his Hollywood experience to bring together a fascinating and even fresh , albeit fictional , story of a small group of people fighting back against the Nazis as the war slowly begins to go wrong for them . The title of the movie refers to a book that lists the names of wealthy Jews who pay handsome fees to be transported to safety , only the be killed and robbed be the Nazis . The movie takes place in Holland in 1944 . Carice von Houten plays Rachel Stein , a young Jewish singer living in hiding . She and her family come into contact with a man who claims to know a way to transport them all safely out of Nazi territory and into a neutral zone . During their night escape , however , they are gunned down and Rachel is the only survivor . She eventually joins a group of Dutch resistance fighters where she works menial jobs for a while before finally being promoted to a job of much higher importance and danger . Her task ? infiltrate the Nazi hierarchy and seduce a high-ranking officer , Ludwig Muntz and bug Nazi headquarters so the resistance can listen in on the Nazis war planning . Muntze is attracted to her and the seduction is easy , but Rachel fails to hide the fact that she's Jewish and , even worse , she ultimately falls in love with him . This all starts to sound a little cheesy , but it's actually one of the movie's strong points . I've read that the movie has been shrouded in some controversy , particularly in America , for having the audacity to portray a high - ranking Nazi official as anything other than pure evil , although I tend to doubt very much that any lack of deserved recognition that the movie found is probably a result of being filmed all in original languages . This was an artistic decision , not an economic one , and it was a smart one . Had they made the movie in English , a huge element of authenticity would have been lost . Indeed , portraying a Nazi official in a respectable light is a lofty goal but the movie pulls it off amazingly well . And the authenticity of the movie is astonishing . It has all the polish of a Jerry Bruckheimer production but none of the stupid plot devices or cheap romantic subplots generated to drive the weak story . This is a stunning story of betrayal and total sacrifice in the face of insurmountable odds and adversity , and a brilliant cast arranges themselves behind Carice von Houten , who delivers a spectacular performance as a woman forced to bury intense emotions even while she strips herself of her dignity for the benefit of her oafish enemies . The plot is too thick to explain in its entirety in a review , and it would also subtract from the fun of watching it all develop yourself . But there is real betrayal on the Nazi side and suspected betrayal on the side of the resistance that leaves Rachel and Muntze on the run from their lives , both of them fleeing from the very people that have been providing them with their safety . There is also a powerful statement on the endlessness of war as the movie shows us that the killing doesn't always stop when the radio announces a victory for either side . It reminds us that after countless thousands of years or wars , human beings are no closer to world peace now than we've ever been . Paul Verhoeven has done something noticeably different with Black Book than we have become used to seeing from him over the last few years , but he has definitely turned around a worrisome direction that his movies started taking with Showgirls and bottomed out with Hollow Man . It's nice to see that Verhoeven has gotten his magic back !
Bare bones Hitchcock .	I think pretty much every lesser known Hitchcock film has a whole society of people who call it " one of Hitchcock's great unsung masterpieces , " and The Wrong Man is no different . The wrong man theme is one of Hitchcock's favorites and he has used it a great many times to create some of his most suspenseful films , and he uses that and almost nothing else to create the considerable suspense in this film . Hitchcock had a genuine fear of the police , and you can see it in many of his films , this one more than most . Henry Fonda delivers a wonderful performance as a regular man who just wants to be a good man and a good husband , but suddenly finds himself embroiled in this case of mistaken identity . The film is structured differently from a lot of his other films , which often showed a man forced into isolation by misplaced accusations , only to slowly reveal himself to be a hero and gradually get the girl , who paid him no attention at the beginning of the film . ( spoilers ) In this film , Christopher Balestrero ( Henry Fonda ) is never a hero nor does he try to be , and his wife not only does not gradually grow more and more fond of him despite the accusations against him , but she grows more and more distant due to the accusations . Hitchcock personally introduces the film in his only speaking role in any of his movies ( he introduced his television series episodes , but mostly as comic relief ) , and warns that the movie is completely true and absolutely frightening . It is a successful adaptation of a true story , although clearly highly polished to satisfy the studio . Definitely one of Hitchcock's more notable efforts .
Boy , Interrupted ? ' Changeling ' Review ?	During John Malkovich's first speech as Reverend Gustav Briegleb near the beginning of Changeling , his vicious indictment of the Los Angeles Police Department in front of his church congregation made me feel that the movie was going to be something of a scathing criticism of the LAPD , which is not exactly what I expected . I like to go into Clint Eastwood films knowing as little as possible about them , because the element of surprise has added a great deal to my experience of brilliant films like Million Dollar Baby , Mystic River , and True Crime , to which Changeling bears undeniable resemblance . Angelina Jolie stars in the true story about Christine Collins , whose 9-year-old son went mysteriously missing without the slightest trace in March 1928 . Five months later , she received a visit from a police investigator giving her the news that she had been praying for all this time , her son was alive and well and on his way back to her . Upon being reunited , however , she insists immediately that the boy they bring is not hers , even though he bears close resemblance to her son and , most importantly , he says his name is Walter Collins and yes , she is his mother . He runs into her arms in front of the newspaper photographers ' cameras , and her life takes a bizarre and frightening turn . What follows is a brilliantly paced battle between Christine , who insists the boy is not hers , the LAPD , who have maneuvered the case as an example of their good work amidst public accusations of corruption and violence , and the Reverend Briegleb , a Presbyterian pastor determined to use his radio broadcasts to reveal the extensive criminal underworld operating within the LAPD . The movie tells the story not only of a time when violence and corruption flowed unchecked within a major metropolitan police force , but also of a time when women enjoyed a level in society distantly below the early 21st century . You know , I live in China and the Chinese like to cover up embarrassing moments in their history ( it's illegal to print or buy books detailing the events of the Tiananmen Square Massacre anywhere in mainland China , as one tiny example ) , thinking that those moments make the government look bad . They have convinced the people that they " don't need to know what happened , " in order to maintain public approval of the government's workings . But when I hear stories like the one told in Changeling , or when I see films or read books or learn about the history of slavery of the violence that was inflicted upon the Native Americans when the first Americans arrived from Europe , it makes me so proud that America was so brutal and so dangerous and so barbaric because I look around me now and see how far we've come . In 1928 , it was possible for the Los Angeles Police to tell a woman to her face , and all over the newspapers , that she couldn't even recognize her own son . People believed the police instead of a mother , which is an astonishing example of how different American society was . Initially , the deepest part of the mystery is where this new boy came from . He is given darkly mysterious origins . We see a scene where a boy and a sweaty farmer are eating lunch in a dingy country café . The farmer says he's forgotten his wallet and will return home to get it , and the man working in the café threatens to call the police if he's not back within ten minutes . The farmer leaves his son as collateral , and the man waits nearly an hour before giving in and finally calling the police . Soon , the boy is given to Christine Collins as her son . The answer to this mystery is , however , one of the film's few weak spots . Events spiral out of control with the LAPD gradually pulling out all the stops in ending Christine's protests until she is briskly locked away in a mental institution , where she discovers that the place is populated with other women who somehow publicly annoyed the police . The movie has no mercy on the embarrassing past of the LAPD . As Christine languishes amidst the screams and forced medication in the mental hospital , a determined detective , LAPD detective , by disobeying orders , discovers the horrific series of murders of young boys at a chicken ranch outside Winesville , California . Changeling is based on a true story , although the story of the murders committed by Gordon Northcott definitely seem to awful to be true , especially given the involvement of another young boy , who helped him attract and then imprison and even kill kids his own age so that he could stay in America . Is Canada really that bad ? In the story of Northcott's pursuit and ultimate fate , it's impossible not to remember Eastwood's stunning crime drama True Crime , which also dealt with themes of police fallibility and the power of one man's determination . Jason Butler Harner's performance as Northcott is the most powerful and important performance in the story . If he had gotten one tic , one single detail not perfectly right , the whole character would have fallen apart into a cartoonish caricature of your standard serial killer . But he's real and he gets under your skin . We never learn much about his childhood or what made him what he is , but it's good that we don't because Eastwood understands that that would have been a waste of screen time . The story is , after all , not about him . The movie spectacularly re-creates late 1920s Los Angeles , and never for one second loses its authentic feel and sense of character and style . The Best Art Direction and Best Cinematography Oscar nominations are richly deserved . 2008 has been a year of profoundly important and well-made docudramas and crime thrillers about American politics and history , and Changeling ranks up there just below Frost / Nixon and Milk .
" What do you think of the Second Amendment now ? "	I think there are two ways that a movie with a title and cover box like Shoot Em Up has . It could try to be a hard boiled , gritty action movie and come off as something horribly clichéd and trite , like a cheesy Van Damme or Seagal b-movie ( which have their own style of charm because of the actors involved ) , or it could overblow everything and come off as a fun action romp with little logic and even less need for it . Shoot Em Up goes for the second one , and it swings for the fences . It's like Baby's Day Out . With guns . Clive Owen stars as the Good Guy and Paul Giamatti stars as the Bad Guy , and there's really not a lot of characterization beyond that , despite the fact that a clear attempt is made at making him a three dimensional character as we occasionally see during exasperated calls from his nagging wife that , despite all his movie-villain tendencies , he's still just a normal guy . And of course , he gets some classic lines ( " Violence is one of the most fun things to watch ! " ) . Owen's character , interestingly named Smith ( what else do we need ? ) , is also pretty thin . All we ever learn about him is that he knows a hell of a lot about guns and can't stand it when people litter , don't use turn signals , or spank their kids . This is the perfect man for a movie like this . He's like a fountain of retribution when he needs to be , but because he hates all the right things ( and even has a soft spot for dogs , like all normal people ) , he can effectively deliver clever pearls of advice ( " Eggs have no business dancing with stones . " ) . The plot is tenuous to the point of meaninglessness . Smith is sitting on a bus stop bench casually eating a carrot by himself one night when a hysterical pregnant woman stumbles past , soon followed by a raving lunatic screaming that he's going to kill her . With an annoyed sigh , Smith gets up and marches after the man , as though once again having to reprimand a misbehaving child . Before long , he's holding a baby and cuts the umbilical cord by shooting it with his gun , and by now it's unmistakable what kind of movie this is . If you're not having fun by this point , you're probably not going to enjoy the movie . Everything in it is so overblown that it literally is hilarious , but Owen and Giamatti make the material work so well that it's one of the most watchable movies I've seen in quite a while . It also features what is possibly the most active role that a vegetable has ever played in an action film . Skydiving is one of the things that is almost never done right in the movies ( hear that , Wesley Snipes ? ) , but because it fits so well with the rest of the movie , the skydiving scene at the end of Shoot Em Up is outstanding , and doesn't look out of place at all . The movie is funny and exciting , and is brutally violent without being disturbing , because it's comic book violence . The movie will not be well received by much of the audience , for a myriad of reasons . It does , for example , have a pretty clear mistrust for politicians , especially ones involved in war . In today's political climate in America , I can see a lot of the supporters of Bush and the war in Iraq being unimpressed with a film that so cleverly criticizes such foreign policy ? " Never trust the people who stand to profit , plain and simple . They're the bad guys . " The rest of us , however , are going to love it ?
An interesting film about America's latest success story .	Even people who are not familiar with Eminem and his music ( and , quite possibly , people who can't stand either of them ) can enjoy 8 Mile because even though it is obviously a film based closely on his own life , it does not require any previous knowledge about him or his life or his music in order to understand and enjoy the film . Eminem plays Jimmy Smith , Jr . , a young white kid living in a trailer park in Detroit with his trashy mother and who aspires to succeed in the rap music industry . The thing to consider here is that it's already known that Smith is going to succeed , which is the only theory that I can come up with as to why they left out that last act , where he actually does succeed . Rap music is unfortunately associated almost entirely with people who are psed off at the world , hence the fact that every rap star in the world is frowning with all his might on the cover of every CD . Given that , it may not have been a good idea to see Smith succeed and get a reason to smile at the end of the film , because a happy ending would cancel out the need for angry rap music . On the other hand , it is more than a little disappointing to see the movie build up for the whole time to the scene where Smith is finally successful in the underground battle , only to skulk out of there with the same mopy attitude that he had throughout the entire film . Eminem is very successful in his role , even generating some early Oscar buzz ( I was pretty impressed , but I'm not sure I'd go THAT far . ) because he understands the material so well . He is basically playing himself , telling his own story , so he's had his whole life to think about this and he knows exactly what he wants his audience to see . He also avoids the fate of being yet another musician who turns to acting , only to release a film that often is catastrophic to the rest of their career . Britney Spears has recently made this mistake by performing in the hideous crapfest Crossroads . I think that the reason Eminem succeeds so well in his role is because he is not pretending to be someone else which , given the content of his music , is not something that he would probably be good at . Instead of a flailing musician trying out acting , 8 Mile instead comes across sort of like a film version of an autobiography . Kim Basinger adds wonderfully to the film as Smith's mother , who's dating a guy the same age as her son and who reveals shocking sexual details to him , somehow hoping that he can give her advice . I loved Roger Ebert's counterargument to people who say that she's just too beautiful to play such a poor woman , saying in his review of 8 Mile that , given the amount of ugly people who live in huge houses , there should be no reason that a poor woman couldn't be beautiful . Brittany Murphy provides an interesting romantic interest , perfectly capturing the skanky nature that you would expect from the kind of person that her character is , but she is the second biggest loose end in the film , right after the fate of the main character . It is clear that she was sleeping with whoever she met that she felt would be the most successful , so obviously she and Jimmy can't make up and get back together at the end , although they exchange a look just after his victory at the battle that suggests that he either forgives her for what she did , or she has just changed her mind about who has the brightest future and is ready to come back and start having sex with him again . Regardless , however , of these weaknesses , 8 Mile is an inspiring film that comes along at a time when an inspiring film is very much needed , among all the goofy action and cheesy junior high school crap that's pumped out in record quantities these days . It doesn't show how Eminem came to be the phenomenally successful rapper that he is today , but instead portrays a young kid from a poor neighborhood who focuses on a goal and achieves it , even in an area in which he is clearly an outsider . As he says at the end of the title song , ' You can do anything you set your mind to , man . '
Follows the formula , but at least does it with style and creativity .	Contains spoiler The first thing I heard about The Italian Job was that it had a car chase in it that was supposed to be better than the one in The Matrix Reloaded . I'm not sure I would go that far , but there is no denying that there is some great action in this movie . It is , admittedly , an hour and forty minute Mini Cooper commercial , and it definitely follows the typical formula of a heist movie , but there are subtle differences that make it more than worth watching . Seth Green plays the part of Lyle , who I'll just describe as exactly the same character that he played in Enemy of the State to save time , but he provides some of the most entertaining scenes in the film . The creation of the ' Los Angeles ' largest traffic jam ever ' ( although I'm SURE I've been stuck in worse than that in that place ) is the movies main attraction , and Lyle creates it with suck geeky style that he makes it cool to be a computer nerd again . ( spoilers ) Charlize Theron plays Stella Bridger , the daughter of John Bridger ( Donald Sutherland ) , whose vicious murder provides much of the drive for the conflict of the entire film . Stella plays the beautiful blonde with a whole world of possibilities open to her because she's so intelligent and strong , and then she is sent into an emotional turmoil for most of the film . So basically exactly the same character she played in The Devil's Advocate , Reindeer Games , The Astronaut's Wife , Mighty Joe Young , The Legend of Bagger Vance , Men of Honor , 15 Minutes , etc . Donald Sutherland is , of course , his usual badass self , with a calm and collected cool that is rivaled only by such greats as Jack Nicholson and Clint Eastwood . He is an actor who naturally portrays characters who have plans that go just a little beyond what is spoken aloud ( except , of course , for the character he played in Backdraft ) . In a movie that's populated almost entirely by stereotyped characters , it's nice that at least one of the caricatures is not routine and boring . Mark Wahlberg is another caricature , but he is also not boring just because it's so much fun to watch him be ped off and seeking revenge . I've always thought that he had a tiny bit of a hard time playing anything other than a former-musician-turned-actor , but he definitely has his own style which fits perfectly with his role in The Italian Job . And then there is Edward Norton , one of today's few young actors who promises to ultimately obtain as much skill in portraying diverse characters as people like Tom Hanks and Dustin Hoffman , who are so good at what they do that they can literally play any role in the world should the need arise . One of the only things that I was a little apprehensive about when I went to see The Italian Job was that I knew Norton was going to play the bad guy , and I have always been so staggered by his performances in movies like Primal Fear and American History X that I was a little bummed that I would have to watch him caught and probably killed in this movie ( thankfully I was spared the latter , which is more than can be said of movies in similar situations , like Training Day ) . Despite my opinion that Edward Norton's role as the bad guy was initially a little disappointing to me , it also turned out to be one of the best parts of the movie , and not only because Norton is such a spectacularly talented actor , some credit also goes to the writers in this category . As a whole , The Italian Job doesn't stray too far from the typical heist movie formula , but the thing that really makes it interesting as we're led to the ending that we always knew we would see is that the villain , Norton , is not a complete moron , as villains quite often are . When the rest of the team finds him , a year after he betrayed them to steal the $35 million worth of gold that they stole together ( in an opening sequence that rivals any one in any James Bond movie ever made ) , we get some pleasant surprises in a movie that never really promised to have many . Stella goes to his house as the cable-repair technician and ends up on a date with him , and when they're out to dinner , she doesn't easily deceive him with her beauty as long as she needs to , giving him wildly revealing death looks all the while as you would see in the typical heist movie , but he has caught on to her and tricks her into revealing her identity as well . Norton plays a villain that is aware of his surroundings , he's not reckless and ignorant and protected only by the mistakes of his pursuers , as would normally be the case . This intelligence goes on into the thrilling final action sequence , where he places his gold in one of three armored trucks in order to confuse his pursuers , who he knows are watching every move he makes . I was a little disappointed that the movie took the nosedive at the end where it is explained that every character took his share of the gold and went and bought exactly what they wanted ( they did everything here but include the phrase Happily Ever After ) , but I guess that's the price you pay for getting to have an interesting and entertaining ride to the ending that you already knew you would see . As a whole the movie is about as predictable as they come , but at least they came up with some new things along the way . Given the amount of movies of all genres these days that don't even bother to do that much , this one is a breath of fresh air .
Predictable but hugely entertaining .	I use the term predictable above , as you'll soon see , in the most respectable and positive way , of course . Seabiscuit is a film based on a novel and is a true story . You know pretty much how the movie is going to end , if only simply because of the fact that it is a story about which a book was published AND a major motion picture was made . That being said , it's not too hard to hypothesize about what the ending will be like , but along the way the film takes you on a wonderful journey through the hardships suffered by a particular family and especially a particular boy during the Great Depression . ( spoilers ) I also have to admit that there were times during the last quarter of the film that I was not sure that my initial theory of a happy , underdog ending was in store for me , especially having seen and been immensely impressed by films like Rocky and Mystery , Alaska . In a film like Seabiscuit , a huge success is not necessary in the final race for the film to succeed . In some ways I actually think it might have been better had Seabiscuit lost the final battle . And by the way , I don't even know for sure that I should be required to mention ' spoilers ' above , given that the very tagline of the film gives away the ending . But just so you know , there are much more substantial spoilers to follow , so if you haven't seen the movie you might want to stop reading my review now ( but make sure to come back and read the rest after you see the whole movie ! ) . Seabiscuit is obviously the underdog from the beginning . He's too small , he has completely the wrong temperament , he would rather lounge for hours in the sun in the afternoon than run around a track , and probably the worst of all , his jockey ( although pretty much a lifelong jockey ) is too tall , too heavy , and in a lot of ways , also has completely the wrong temperament . But these things , as the movie progresses , are the things that I think the film should be more concerned with correcting , instead of having such a heavy emphasis on winning that last rematch . Having Seabiscuit win the final race is certainly one of those big jump - out - of - your - seat - cheering events , but consider how the film's message would have been different had he lost . Seabiscuit had already lost to War Admiral and his arrogant owner once , which only served to intensify the desire to beat him . Much publicity is made of their desire for a rematch , which is ultimately granted , although entirely on the conditions and to the advantage of War Admiral and his jerk of an owner . Seabiscuit and the rest of the team arrive , and there are thousands upon thousands of people there to watch the race , plus countless more listening to this immense race over the radio , even though Seabiscuit and War Admiral are the only two horses racing . The tension is increased by the fact that Red Pollard ( played by Tobey Maguire with charming red hair ) has a leg that was broken in 11 or 12 places and is barely holding together ( although aided with a home-made leather brace , which must have provided plenty of support ! ) . It is the reason that he is barely able to get permission from his manager ( intent on canceling the race because a fall could mean he would never walk again ) and his doctor ( visibly impressed by the home-made brace ) to ride Seabiscuit in the race . Seabiscuit wins , of course . You know that , otherwise the tagline wouldn't be talking about a long shot becoming a legend . So it's a true story , which provides the main reason for not ending with a loss , I just think it's interesting to consider how the film would have been different had it not ended with a huge victory . First of all , the reason that Seabiscuit was so immensely popular and managed to completely fill up the stadiums was because the movie takes place during the Depression and symbolizes the working man , beaten down but , as Seabiscuit symbolically states , not defeated . Millions look to Seabiscuit for inspiration and hope , so his victory / loss has a huge effect on the will of all of these people , many of whom have lost everything because of the Depression , to go out there and actively seek to get back their lives and livelihood . But to me , Seabiscuit winning the last race is not pivotal as to whether people would have derived hope from his success story , which I suppose is a testament to the meaning of the Seabiscuit story itself . The most important thing is that Seabiscuit and his team put themselves out there at great risk in order to make an achievement , and winning or losing that last race is , ironically enough , not the determining factor as to whether or not they achieved what they set out for . It actually runs the risk of having the opposite effect should someone strive for success and fail . On the other hand , given the ultimate success in the final race , Seabiscuit encourages people not to give up . As Charles Howard ( Jeff Bridges ) says , you don't just lay down because of a defeat , you have to keep fighting . But like I mentioned earlier , I think that the main goal for them all was to overcome the adversities operating against Seabiscuit and Red , and they did that with huge success . I obviously have never had an experience even close to what people suffered during the Great Depression , but I think that Seabiscuit and his team setting out to overcome their own challenges would be enough to inspire people to do the same about their own lives . But I digress . This is , after all a true story . So Seabiscuit is a huge success , but there were certain things about the victory that I think were contrived and overdone . I could have done without the conversations out there on the track , for example , I just think that riding a horse going that fast and that close to other horses would simply not be an atmosphere conducive to conversation , both because of noise and the demand on the jockeys ' concentration . The final ' See you later ' was a little too cocky and cheesy , too , illustrating that all of the tension that the audience had been experiencing through this whole race was fake because Seabiscuit was only going at maybe 60 % until that last corner . And I don't like false tension . But Seabiscuit as a whole is a fantastic film , historically accurate and with a definite purpose , whose success and meaningful application to modern society as well as that of the 1930s is a testament to the relevance of the story . Jeff Bridges delivers yet another wonderful performance ( illustrating his adaptability , since he was also fantastic in his performance of The Dude ) , as does Chris Cooper ( who , I think , is one of the finest actors working today ) as Seabiscuit's trainer . Tobey Maguire captures the heart of Red Pollard , and William H . Macy , another of the finest actors working today , provides wonderfully appropriate comic relief as the breathless Tick Tock McGlaughlin , a radio host who shouts his commentary along with a startling array of strange sound effects , the occasional meaninglessness of which suggest their main purpose of gleeful effect rather than to further illustrate the meaning of anything he's talking about at any particular time . Set against the background of one of the milestones in American history , Seabiscuit is a smashing presentation of a true story that inspired the downtrodden of the time and also has the capacity of inspiring the downtrodden of today , as well as the affluent , who might be able to stand to display a little bit less heartlessness and arrogance . But rather than speaking against mean-spirited and self-righteous people like War Admiral's wealthy owner , the movie speaks positively to people looking for not only some great entertainment , but some inspiration as well , whatever their founding needs for it might be .
" Those to whom evil is done do evil in return . "	Body of Lies is a fast-paced action thriller laced with a healthy dose of some of the more dangerous of modern political and military realities . It is , however , also laced with over-the - top action sequences and just a little too much Rambo-style superhuman stunts , although not exactly of the action variety . It has a dense and realistic narrative , although one that moves along at such a fast pace that you're almost afraid to take your eyes and ears off of it even for a second for fear of missing something . I found myself rewinding the DVD at least once every ten minutes or so to make sure I got everything right . This does , however , make for a very engaging action movie with a strong appeal to the more mature viewers , who are sure to appreciate a break from the standard Hollywood trash . It requires constant thought about and re-analysis of our political beliefs , but it doesn't ever overtly support or condemn either side ( if , in fact , the collective whole were to be reduced to two sides ) . For a movie to so directly approach the tense political atmosphere and the controversial situation of the American wars in the Middle East and not come off as pushing a political agenda of its own is a feat in itself , and it's only one of the many that Body of Lies successfully pulls off . Leonardo DiCaprio stars as Roger Ferris the CIA's man on the ground in the Middle East , who keeps in amazingly close contact with Ed Hoffman ( Russell Crowe ) via what must be a satellite phone , and a miraculously reliable one . Ferris shuttles easily between Iraq , Jordan , Syria , and other locations , speaking sufficiently fluent Arabic that he is not only able to pass himself off as a local but can also recognize his nurse's hometown by her accent . This guy has studied well . Hoffman is the bureaucrat back in Washington , an overweight white guy with a Texan accent and such a swagger in his attitude that it would not be at all surprising to see him wearing cowboy boots and smoking an enormous cigar . The comparisons to the real players in America's presidency ( at the time of the movie ) are as obvious as possible , and Ferris represents the movie's political statement , which thankfully is not for or against the war but for reminding us that what we see in TV is not the reality on the ground over there . Ferris and Hoffman are seeking out a terrorist kingpin , an obvious Osama bin Laden clone , which forces them to form a shaky allegiance with the head of the Jordanian Intelligence Agency , a deadly serious man named Hani Salaam . His one , simple request , " Do not lie to me , " seems simple enough and Ferris believes himself when he agrees to it , but deteriorating matters on the ground and conflicting orders from Hoffman start to make his promise more and more difficult to keep . The story takes us all over the world , but concentrates mostly on events taking place in Washington and the Middle East . The leap-frogging that Hoffman does between the U . S . and Iraq ( and the effortless leap-frogging that Ferris does all over the Middle East ) seem like something that belongs in a 007 movie , but the exaggerations of their tactical abilities are all designed to make a very important point . In fact , if the movie weren't grounded in reality by the message that it's passing on , it would easily have come off as little more than a tense political thriller with little bearing on real life other than passing on the political points of view of the film-making team behind it . The movie is about the American war in Iraq , there is no point beating around that little bush . It's about the Bush administration having brought us there and it's about the fact that now we're there and there is no end in sight . But it doesn't criticize the war or the war effort , it's about the harsh reality that there is no all-good side and no all-bad side . Hoffman repeats several times in the movie that no one is innocent in all of this as he tries to convince Ferris of the fact that in order to save lives , some innocent lives have to be lost . Ferris can't accept this , especially when it becomes personal , but he understands that it's true . In order to defeat this kind of enemy , we have to become like them in more ways than most people are willing to accept . The other problem is that , in the war against terrorism , the terrorists are invisible , and it's the well-prepared , trained , armed , and uniformed soldiers who are the easy targets , and for every one of them that we kill or capture , not only do two more spring up where they were , but an unknown number of innocent lives are all too often lost . This does not speak well for our chances of success . Ridley Scott builds here on his work in his outstanding film Black Hawk Down , and DiCaprio is also picking up where he left off in Blood Diamond , as an American with an incredible ability to blend into very different cultures and as a man that simply looks great yelling into a cell phone . Russell Crowe captures the all-American swagger ( and arrogance ? ) that got us into trouble in the first place , and for all of its excesses , it isn't until the final scene that the movie really reveals the real differences between Hoffman and Ferris which illustrate the meaning of the movie . In a heated exchange , when Ferris approaches the idea of no longer working for the CIA , Hoffman is understandably unhappy . " You walk out that door , " he says , " and you're walking out on America . " " Be careful , " Ferris says , " about calling yourself America ? "
I don't wanna hear another word about The Lord of the Rings !	Seemingly endless repetition can make things grow rather tiresome , like when you hear a great song on the radio a few hundred times , you start to hate it . I still love all of the Lord of the Rings movies and remain immensely impressed by them , but I have to admit that by the end of the 76th Academy Awards , I was getting a little tired of hearing about it . I'm sure it has something to do with the fact that the last movie to sweep the Oscars like that was the ridiculous Titanic , which certainly deserved some of the awards that it won but it is absolutely ludicrous to call it the Best Picture of 1997 . The second sequel in the Lord of the Rings trilogy is the third in an absolutely spectacular trilogy , I guess it just takes away a lot of the appeal of the awards when you hear the nominees and know immediately which one would win just because of the simple fact that it was nominated . The only thing more repetitive by the end of the night were those incessant Cadillac commercials ooh yeah , ooh ooh yeah . That being said , I was highly impressed with this year's ceremony . The opening sequence wasn't quite as side-splitting as Jack Black's Lord of the Piercing from last year , although I loved Michael Moore's good-natured appearance during the battle scene from Return of the King , in which he rants on and on about the fictitiousness of that war before being stomped on by a gigantic beast . Billy Crystal , one of the best hosts of the Academy Awards , returns for the evening , making lots of jokes about how long it's been since he's hosted ? by far my favorite of which was that , the last time he was the host , George Bush was the president , the economy was tanking and we had just finished a war with Iraq . But overall , my favorite thing about the Academy Awards this year were things like the In Memoriam sequence and the lifetime achievement montage for Bob Hope , because they showed all those clips from all those classic films , and it really reminded me how little I know about movies . It has inspired me to start going back and watching the classics , especially since lately I've been on this weird kick where I've been watching all of the new horror movies that come out , arguably the worst of all movies released . What a waste of time . The presenters , although mostly Academy Award winners themselves , came on stage and , as always , delivered a few wooden lines of speech before naming their respective nominees . I'll never understand why the ceremony that awards the best of the year's films and film-making is incessantly peppered with dumb jokes and stiff delivery like that , and strangely the one exception was from one of the more controversial winners last year , Adrien Brody ( no , not Michael Moore ) . Last year he gave a teary speech about the sadness of the war in Iraq ( a violation of the sort of unwritten agreement to leave your feelings about the war on the back burner during the ceremony ) , but even more , he planted a not-so-welcome kiss on Halle Berry on stage last year , about which he joked this year . He comes on stage , telling people not to worry because of a restraining order that has been served to him , and then sprays breath freshener into his mouth just before announcing the winner in the Best Female Actor category . I love it when people can poke fun at themselves like that . As for the winners , Sean Penn was finally awarded the elusive Oscar for his performance in Mystic River , as did Tim Robbins for Supporting Actor in the same movie , Charlize Theron won Best Actress for Monster ( silencing cynical critics who credited her performance more to make-up than acting ) , Renee Zellwegger received a much-deserved Supporting Female Actor for Cold Mountain , and I'm pretty sure The Lord of the Rings won just about everything else . Sophia Coppola , in fact , would surely have been snubbed had the Return of the King been an original screenplay . And then , of course , there are the awards like Best Documentary Short Subject , Best Animated Short Film and Best Live Action Short Film , but I won't get into those because no one's seen them anyway . Where do you go to see these movies ? I don't even know where they come from . Steven Spielberg announced a clean sweep as he opened the envelope for Best Picture and gave the Oscar for Best Picture to The Lord of the Rings , the movie's 11th Oscar of the night . I saw all of the Lord of the Rings movies , and I've been saying since 2002 when The Fellowship of the Ring was nominated but didn't win that if The Two Towers was also nominated and didn't win , The Return of the King would certainly win . I based my prediction on the idea that it was simply too far-fetched for all three films in a trilogy to be nominated and none of them win . I don't think that's ever happened before , but I had no idea how right I would be . I definitely didn't see 11 Oscars headed to The Return of the King , but at least they were granted to a worthy film . I'm still bummed that Big Fish was so tremendously overlooked though . It may have earned itself the unfortunate distinction of being one of the most underrated films of the last decade or so ?
Excellent thriller . One of Rebecca DeMornay's best roles .	This is the kind of film that you usually expect to have some goofy premise that leads to one person or family being terrorized and ultimately have some wholly predictable ending . But thanks to some excellent performances and a very interesting and original story , The Hand That Rocks The Cradle definitely stands apart from the average thriller . ( spoilers ) Clearly , Rebecca DeMornay gives the best performance in the film as Peyton , the newly widowed wife who takes it upon herself to manipulate her way into a family , having suffered tremendous losses herself . It seems that Peyton's husband , Victor Mott , is a gynecologist and has a bad habit of molesting his patients . Claire , played very well by Annabella Sciorra , suspects that she has been molested in a visit with Dr . Mott , although from the events that occurred during that visit , it is ridiculous that Claire had even the slightest doubt in her mind about it . Once Dr . Mott's scandalous behavior is reported on the news , having been reported by several different women , he shoots himself , and then to make matters worse , Peyton loses her own child , with whom she was pregnant at the time of her husband's suicide . Clearly , this is not your average bonehead thriller plot ? there is actually some substance to this one . Peyton's flailing maternal instincts as well as her rage directed toward Claire for being the first woman to report her husband lead her to seek a nanny position with Claire's family , with two motives . First , she obviously wants revenge for Claire opening the floodgates of women pressing charges against her husband , but she also plans to make Claire'e young daughter as well as her newborn baby replace her own baby , that she lost after her husband's suicide . The thing that makes this premise work so well is that it is so BELIEVABLE . Sure , some of things that Peyton manages to pull off are pretty far-fetched ( like the way she rigged the green house , somehow knowing that Marlene would be the next one to come over , having just discovered her secret ) , but if something happened to someone like what happened to Peyton , her whole life being basically destroyed , it's not hard to imagine that that person would want to do something like what Peyton set out to do . The difference , of course , is that in real life , things would not likely go as far as they did in this film . Julianne Moore is perfectly cast in her role , and this is made most clear when she discovers Peyton's secret and her rough , intimidating side is put to good use . This role , by the way , probably played a significant role in winning her the part of Clarice Starling in Hannibal several years later , a role which she also fulfilled very nicely . Matt McCoy also makes a very believable husband , and Ernie Hudson , who is probably most remembered as one of the Ghostbusters , delivers a strangely adorable performance as Solomon , the mentally challenged man assigned by the Better Days Foundation to work on the Bartel's ( Claire and Michael ) yard . Not only does he win the audience's heart with his first spoken dialogue , but he also earns a significant place in the family . All of this forms the foundation of the story for The Hand That Rocks The Cradle , and not only is it notable because it opens up so many opportunities for the film , but virtually all of those opportunities are explored throughout the film . It is a terrible thing when there are countless things that could have been done in a film that just aren't realized or are ignored ( see Hollow Man ) , and it's good to see that this wasn't the case in this movie . The Hand That Rocks The Cradle is an aptly titled suspense thriller that really delivers like very few films in its genre do , and is a must see not only for the involving story and excellent performances , but also for the skilled direction from Curtis Hanson . Don't miss this one .
I'll be back . I always come back !	In the world of horror movie sequels , movie monsters having children is one of the biggest clichés in the book . But movie monsters having brides ? THAT'S never been done before ! ! Oh , wait . Yes it has . Luckily , the Child's Play films reside on this odd plane of existence that separates them from other horror movies while still allowing horrible things to happen in them . It's that world between comedy and horror where the movies can be a little bit of both and , most paradoxically , the expectations for quality are low but , for fun , very high indeed . At the end of Child's Play 3 , my least favorite in the entire series , Chucky suffers a fate that lands him in a police evidence locker in what is most accurately described as an extensive state of disrepair . But coming to the rescue is Tiffany , his true love in the human form and something of a knee-weakening sexpot . She bribes a cop at the beginning of the movie to steal Chucky from police lockup since , being a true romantic , she is still in love with her Charles , even if he is dead and plastic . This is one of my favorite scenes in the movie , because inside the evidence locker are items from various other unexplained multiple murders ? Michael Meyers ' and Jason's masks , Freddy's claws , and Texas ' chainsaw . Being the first film in the series that heads in a genuinely misogynistic direction , it's not long after Tiff brings Chucky back to life that he kills her , although he still doesn't manage to get her to stop loving him . The love of the abused dies hard , I suppose . This does , however , lead to some of the best scenes in the movie , as Chucky transforms from the one-dimensional murderous doll that we know and love from the previous three films and into a murderous plastic husband . One of the movie's many highlights is when Jesse and Jade use stereotypical domestic expectations to turn Chucky and Tiff against each other and get them to fight . ( ' She's not much in the housecleaning department , is she Chucky ? ' ' You cooked , the least he could do is wash the dishes , right ? ' ) . I love how the movie starts off . Jesse and Jade are high school sweethearts conspiring to run away together , but matters are complicated by her uncle , who happens to be chief of police and no big fan of boys sniffing around his daughter . Chucky and Tiff , as seems to be common in horror movies that contain the number 4 or higher in their title , have a scene in which they discuss the originality of their methods of distributing death . John Ritter has a great scene where they lined up nails on the dashboard and then somehow set off the air bag , filling his face with nails . Chucky looks at him and says , ' Why does that look so familiar ? ' Looks like he wasn't so original after all ! Charles Lee Ray's body was buried with an amulet around his neck that they now need in order to escape these wretched bodies . Tiff hires Jesse to bring them to her friend in New Jersey ( over the phone he can't tell she's a doll ) , so they can get to his grave . Thus you have two murderous dolls being transported by two teenagers who themselves don't even know they're alive , and now the police are in hot pursuit because of the trail of bodies and missing police chiefs being left in their wake . As if Jade's nosy uncle wasn't enough ? ( spoilers ) At the end of the film we are left , as is generally the case , with an ending the leaves the door open for a sequel . That requires one , really . It is strange that a single detective ultimately catches up with Jesse and Jade once they finally get to Charles Lee Ray's grave in New Jersey , and stranger still that , as we learn in Part 5 , a trashy British ventriloquist wanders onto the scene to remove the slimy , bloody baby before any more officers arrive , but the movie is so much fun that it's easy to overlook that . Bride of Chucky barely even sets out to be a horror movie as much as a curious , bloody comedy , so I think a little lapse of judgment is allowed here and there . Bride of Chucky is something of a deviation from the movies that came before it . The same main themes are there , but they have transcended the storyline that allows for all sorts of homages to be paid . Scariness is sacrificed , but quality and fun are not .
Early thriller foreshadows many of the things that would later become trademarks of Hitchcock's films .	The Man Who Knew Too Much is the first in a string of six thrillers released by Alfred Hitchcock in the 1930s that would go on to associate him with the thriller genre for the rest of his career , whether he liked it or not , in many cases . We see the origins of many Hitchcock staples such as his fascination with trains , his fear and contempt for the police , the wrong man theme and , not necessarily one that made it into many of his later films , a rather disappointingly simple and routine storyline . We get the clichéd cops and robbers type storyline , but in this film , rather than bringing it down , the simple plot adds to the film as a whole because it complements Hitchcock's skills as a director in that he was able to construct such a lively and interesting film using only a mediocre plot . Bob and Jill Lawrence are on a family vacation when they stumble into a circle of crime that leaves them fighting for the life of their daughter , unable to go to the police for help because it would risk her life even more . They become deeply involved in this criminal scheme before they even realize it , leaving them to the task of getting their daughter back from the criminals entirely on their own . The risk to their daughter's life is contrary to the constant humor that permeates the film from beginning to end . Even in the most tense and serious moments , Hitchcock inserts incongruous humor ( ' When Louie was killed there was a paper in this brush . ' ' How terribly thrilling ? ' ) that strangely is able to lighten the tone of the film without taking away from the tension created by the kidnapping . The script itself is brilliantly simple , and the performances are mostly first rate . Peter Lorre in particular , who had to learn his lines phonetically because he did not speak much English , is highly effective , but sadly Edna Best does not leave much of an impression . Her reaction to the news that her daughter has been kidnapped is some of the weakest acting I've ever seen in a Hitchcock film . The film has a spectacular climax scene , which takes place in a crowded theater and is probably one of the single scenes that really showed Hitchcock and the viewing audience what he was best at in film-making . In considering this and other films that followed the recent and disappointing Rich and Strange , Hitch's films seem to have become more focused on what he is best at , and the climactic scene in this movie I think was one of the main catalysts for that shift . This one should not be missed .
Funniest movie of the year ? Quite possibly . Funniest movie ever ? Not even close .	I had heard countless glowing reviews of the Borat movie in newspapers and on TV and on the radio for weeks before I saw it , and almost every single review I heard or saw or read praised the sheer comedic genius of the movie , claiming that it was not only the best movie of the year , but the best movie ever made . Needless to say , this brought my expectations to nearly astronomical proportions , and by the time I saw it I was nearly vibrating with anticipation . I suppose the problem may have been that my expectations had been raised so high , combined with the fact that I stupidly brought my girlfriend with me to see it , but while I did find many parts of the movie side-splittingly hilarious , there were too many others that just fell completely flat or that once again trudged through standard scenes that I had hoped to never again see in any movie ever again at any time for any reason anywhere ever . As one giant , hideously obese , and bestially hairy example , I had hoped that the Jackass movie was the first and last time that I would see a hairy , naked fat man in a film for comedic purposes , but Borat shattered my dreams . Now , I can handle nudity in the movies , even male nudity , even unattractive male nudity , but I just have no desire or reason to watch a naked fat man wrestling a naked skinny man in a movie , especially in a fight that involves the two men inadvertently getting into , and then gyrating in , numerous sexual positions . In fact , until they finally make Stephen King's Dark Tower series into movies , I don't ever want to see naked men fighting in a movie until The Drawing of the Three . That being said , I suppose I should not waste too much time complaining about specific scenes that I yawned through , because the movie really does have a tremendous amount of comic genius in it . Borat's discovery that women in America are able to choose who they will or will not have sex with is one of the funniest things I've seen in a movie in years , as is his rendition of the Kazakhstan national anthem , sung to the tune of the American national anthem . This scene , incidentally , perfectly illustrates the technique that Sacha Baron Cohen uses for the surprisingly prevalent social commentary in the movie . The script and the character of Borat will obviously attract dozens of interest groups interested in lawsuits because they don't see the comedy in the movie or because they just can't overlook the slurs that Borat makes ( and he makes a LOT , even in giving interviews to reporters about the movie . I heard an interview of him with Theresa Strosser for the Adam Carolla morning show in which , after telling her that in his country , having women journalists is " like to give a monkey a gun , " he fled in blind fear when he found out she was Jewish ) , so it comes to my mind that it is really sad that so many people will take the literal meaning and ignore the obvious comment on such things that really exist in society . Consider this , Borat and his friend run in sheer terror in the middle of the night out of the house of a sweet , elderly Jewish couple who have taken them in for the night , petrified with fear for their lives . So here's my question - Who looks ridiculous because of this , Jewish people , or the people that are afraid of them ? I found the national anthem scene to be one of the more interesting scenes , because Borat is making a very clear comment on the political beliefs of people in middle America ( and maybe all of America ) , although I think that this message was lost on a lot of American audiences , just like it was on his live audience that day . When Borat exclaims , " I support your war of terror ! " not only is there no pause or awkward looks about his Freudian slip , I suppose you could say , but the audience immediately bursts into applause . I'm not sure if this is meant to be a comment on the general intelligence levels of Bush supporters or on their immediate , thoughtless adherence to people and things and ideas that are familiar and agree with tradition , but the scene illustrates that there is a lot more going on here than some Jewish guy making Jew jokes with a heavy Kazakhstani accent . At any rate , what you have here is not necessarily a movie that you will either love or hate , but that you will understand the people who feel exactly the opposite way you do , regardless of how much you disagree with them . Like every terrible , unsolvable controversy , there is no easy solution to Borat because both sides have a pretty strong argument , and there is no definitive answer to solve the debate . Yes , it is a brilliant comedy that will more than likely make you just about fall out of your chair laughing several times , but yes , it can also be highly offensive . The real question is , can you watch a movie like this and walk away knowing there exist in the real world things that need to be changed , or is your first thought that we ought to fly over and take out the evildoer ( s ) ?
Not for all tastes , but for anyone who is into classic horror films , or filmmaking in general , this is a must see .	( spoilers ) John Malkovich delivers an excellent performance as F . W . Murnau , the director of the classic vampire film Nosferatu . The most impressive thing about this film , in my opinion , is the way that that vampire was brought back to life . Willem Dafoe played , with nearly flawless accuracy , Max Schreck , the actor who played the part of the vampire in 1922 when Nosferatu was filmed . This is an amazing performance because it is so complex , although at times Dafoe overacted a bit . I'm always impressed when people play roles in which they portray someone else who is also playing a role . Jim Carrey , for example , did this in Man on the Moon , as well as on an episode of the Conan O'Brien show , in which he played O'Brien playing Carrey . In that show , Carrey played a comedian impersonating a comedian impersonating a comedian ( himself ) . In Shadow of the Vampire , Dafoe does this as well ; he plays the part of a vampire impersonating a person impersonating a vampire . Shadow of the Vampire is about the making of Nosferatu , except that there is the small addition that Max Schreck is a vampire in real life , and the reason that he would only ever appear on the set in full make-up is because that's what he really looked like , he really was Nosferatu . It's not hard to see how this story was realized , because not only is it true that Schreck would only appear in full make-up , but this was also the only film that he ever appeared in . I think that this is one of the things that makes this such an interesting film , because it is filmed and presented in a way that relates directly to real life , making the supernatural element of it much more effective . Malkovich and Dafoe have excellent chemistry on screen as the director and the star of Nosferatu , and this relationship is made even more interesting when it becomes clear that Schreck really is Nosferatu , that it's not just an act , and that Murnau knows about it . The way that Murnau tries to keep this a secret , even at the cost of the lives of members of his crew , suggests a tremendous dedication to the making of the film , which is now hailed as a milestone in cinematic history . People who are not interested in the history of film or filmmaking or horror classics are likely to be bored and ultimately disappointed by Shadow of the Vampire . But if it is viewed with an open mind , this is a really good movie . It not only presents an interesting story - that of the making of a vampire film in which the vampire is portrayed by a real vampire ? but it also has strong ties to reality , a quality that is extremely rare among horror films . With the right state of mind , I think that almost anyone could enjoy this film .
Not bad for animation ?	I'd like to start off by saying that I am not a fan of anime , I actually only watched this movie because a friend recommended it to me and I remember it being really popular with computer geeks when I was in high school . The reason I never really got into anime was mainly because I was never able to take seriously something that featured a character screaming at the top of his lungs , and the only thing moving on the entire screen was his or her mouth . Just doesn't look right to me and doesn't strike me as very high quality entertainment or even very skilled animation . Ninja Scroll , however , while there are definitely plenty of examples of that , has a lot to offer beyond just an animated action / violence cartoon . There is some serious violence here , but I think that a lot of the novelty is not just to see killing and blood but to marvel at the extent of what can be accomplished in an animated movie that can't be done in a live action film . The story is interesting ( although a little difficult to follow at times , what with all of the different names of clans and warlords and ninjas and whatnot ) , and it pulls you along through the conflict in a world that is far removed from reality but more than able to entertain . There is a variety of sinister and creative villains for our hero to face , and the important thing here is that they are not just a lot of mean guys with big guns . These guys have every weapon from gigantic boomerang / axes to immunity to death to wispy threads not unlike that one that Irene's grandmother gave her as a guide in The Princess and the Goblin ( how's THAT for an obscure reference ! ) except that they entail startlingly accurate deadliness . I am certainly not an expert in the field of anime , but I can definitely say that the anime world has held no interest whatsoever for me , but Ninja Scroll has increased my interest in seeing more .
An excellent period film .	Ridicule deals with the consequences of a monarch or ruler running his empire according to his own personal interests , rather than concern for the greater good of the people . There were also a couple of underlying themes , such as the distribution of social classes overall and the ignorance of the upper classes , as well as the human suffering that comes as a result of arrogance , ego , and social status . A romantic conflict was a significant part of the story , dealing with the pain and guilt that someone may feel from seducing one person for manipulative purposes and actually being in love with a different person . The story is of a man named Ponceludon de Malavoy who needs to drain a mosquito and disease infested swamp , but he needs King Louis XVI's help to do it . He travels to Versailles , but finds that he needs to have the sharpest of all wits in order for the king to recognize his problem at all . He finds himself in a society driven almost exclusively by the measure of each person's wit ( or ' hew-mah , ' as they heard it was called in English ) , and the seriousness of Ponceludon's plight was second to this point , if it is noticed at all . It was more important to King Louis XVI to be entertained than it was to drain a swamp that was causing sickness and death even among children . One scene in particular was very effective in demonstrating the ignorance of the upper class . There was a boy named Paul who was a deaf-mute , and seen as a ' half-wit ' by the upper class people . Obviously , in this society this is the last thing that anyone wants to be . He is exiled from the kingdom , sent to live with other ? half-wits , ' only to return later with several other deaf-mutes after having learned to communicate using sign language . They are introduced to the upper class members , who are skeptical about the worth of the half-wits ' lives . When they see that these kids are able to communicate , they are noticeably impressed . They even give them a standing applaud when one of them manages to make a ' play on signs . ' They see that these kids are not only intelligent enough to communicate , but can even be witty using sign language , and this completely changes their view . They had always seen people like Paul as less important , simply because they are not able to speak or hear , which is clearly a symptom of classical ignorance . Ridicule is a period film , and it was very effective in illustrating the differences between elements of society today and of the society of 1793 . Obviously , honesty is very highly valued today . A recent survey showed that honesty is the third thing that women truly desire in a relationship ( preceded by affection at No . 1 and conversation at No . 2 ) . The same survey showed sex to be Number one on men's importance list , and this completes one of the sharpest contrasts seen in Ridicule . Ponceludon de Malavoy , the man seeking to have his swamp drained , is engaging in a sexual relationship with Marquis de Bellegarde , an attractive older woman of much higher social status ( ! ! ) . When he informs her of his lack of emotional feelings for her , she responds in a way that , in my opinion , is exactly the opposite of the way a woman today would respond , by literally telling him to lie to her . She tells him , ' Learn to hide your insincerity so that I can yield without dishonor . ' Aside from the fact that this shows that she would rather be bedded than loved , at least by Ponceludon , it also enhances the drama caused by his love for someone else , and his obvious feelings of guilt about sleeping with another woman . Ponceludon does not love her , but knows that she is capable of improving his chances of getting help from the king . Ponceludon , despite having sexual relations with Marquis de Bellegarde , the older upper class woman , is in love with a simpler , poorer woman named Mathilde . She develops very strong feelings for him as well , but she is engaged to a very old , very rich man . She is determined to remain engaged to him , even though he is currently married to another woman , so that he may finance her scuba diving interests . The fact that Ponceludon and Mathilde are both engaged in strikingly similar manipulative relationships makes their love for each other even more effective . There were dancing scenes later in the film where everyone wears masks and huge elaborate wigs , which demonstrated a dire need to be accepted . The fact that all of the wigs and masks worn in this scene were strikingly similar suggested that these people desired to be as much like everyone else as possible , and that individuality is discouraged . The men wore white powder on their faces , blush on their cheeks , and even distinct amounts of lipstick . Aside from being another way of illustrating conformity , it also poses a huge difference between then and now . In today's society , men who wear that much make-up are most often the ones who are actually trying NOT to fit in with the general population . One other thing that is worth mentioning is the fact that the exact words or topics spoken in the film are far less important than the way that they are said . Body language as well as things like costuming and make-up are far more important than the exact subjects that were spoken of . This was most effectively communicated to the audience by the fact that there were a few scenes where the French conversation was not subtitled . This forced the audience , particularly the English speaking audience , to focus more on the way the characters were speaking to each other rather than what exactly they were saying . This is very unusual , but is also noteworthy because it successfully furthers the meaning delivered by the film .
A Stephen King drama before he was really writing dramas .	It was so many years ago that I read Dolores Claiborne that I don't remember how closely the movie follows the book , but I've found that Stephen King movies in general are pretty faithful to the original material , and I'm sure that this one is no exception . Released at a time when a drama , even a dramatic thriller , coming from Stephen King would be known more for being a drama from the master of horror than anything else , Dolores Claiborne is still a surprisingly capable legal thriller with a remarkably intricate story . Dolores Claiborne is an unskilled housewife living in Maine with her abusive husband and abused daughter , and things get progressively worse until she finds herself with an sexually abused daughter and a dead husband on her hands . The indictment for the murder of her husband doesn't stand in court , and years later she is again faced with the capital charge as the woman that she has been working for as a maid for so many years falls or is thrown down the stairs of her house to her death , and it's up to the town's Detective , played brilliantly by Christopher Plummer , to prove that it was not an accident . Oh no , not an accident at all . Detective Mackey ( Plummer ) , let Dolores get away once and damned if that nonsense was going to happen again . Unfortunately , Jennifer Jason Leigh , a genuinely gifted actor , is saddled with a part that forces her to play within the confines of a tortured soul , making her performance come off as forced and unconvincing , meanwhile Kathy Bates once again fills the screen with her powerful presence , delivering what has to be one of her best performances . The story takes place in cold Maine weather that is so effective that it almost makes you want to put a jacket on , and in a house that is so gray and lifeless and empty that after watching the movie I had to go to the supermarket and buy a steak . That may not make sense , but here's something that does , the characters in this movie are so well rounded that it almost seems like a documentary . Definitely worth checking out , even if you're living so far in the past that you still rent from Hollywood Video and pay their late fees . Don't miss this one !
Fascinating .	Traudl Junge , one of Hitler's personal secretaries , finally decides to come out and tell the story of working for Hitler during one of the most catastrophic and studied times in German history . You sort of have to get past the fact that the movie is literally nothing more than a camera pointed at her while she tells these stories , it's certainly not what I had expected when I rented the film , but with subject matter like this it really doesn't matter . In a sense , if they had dramatized her story with photos , archive footage or , god forbid , reenactments , I think it would really have diluted the potency and immediacy of what she had to say . This is a woman who , at the time , was in her late teens and , like countless other people , she was intoxicated with the unnerving charm and determination and grand view for the future of the world . Yes , it's all told simply through the dialogue of this elderly woman talking to an interviewer , but this is a woman who met with Hitler face to face during his most powerful time , who watched him evolve from the dangerously charismatic leader with a master plan for the human race and into the darkly depressed visionary , fallen from power and overcome with defeat , faced with the crashing of his enormous ideals . She even tells the story literally of the last minutes of Hitler's life , during which he actually bid her farewell just before ending his own life . One of the things that really struck me was the amazing detail of Junge's memory . Here she is in her 80s , and she remembers word-for-word conversations that happened decades earlier , as well as remarkable details of situations and events . The looks on people's faces , who was where and at what time , as well as what was happening at those times , smells , emotions , sounds , etc . These are all of the things that good novelists use to convey a compelling sense of atmosphere which is , I think , one of the most important things to be created for a novel to be effective . I don't think at all that Junge's memory should be called into question , even though she remembers such striking details of things that happened so many years ago ( and I don't think that her age should be a factor in deciding how accurate her memory is , either ) . This is a time in this woman's life that she has surely been going over and over in her head for decades , wondering how she could have been so fooled into thinking that she was working for a powerful , benevolent leader , and how she could not have seen what was really going on . She learns late in her life about a woman about her own who had been executed for opposing Hitler the same year that she herself came to work for him . It seems to me that a period in someone's life that has such a resonating effect of the rest of it is something that is remembered even more vividly than anything that happens later . The stories about Hitler himself are probably the most compelling element of the entire film . Junge tells stories about him that I would never have imagined , since like many people ( to which this film is mainly aimed , I think ) know little about Hitler beyond the public speeches that he made about his grand vision , where he displayed his amazing speaking abilities and his shockingly effective ability to make his vision , while always destructive to the people that he viewed as inferior , sound appealing to so many people . Obviously , a person would have to have some earth-shaking motivational speaking abilities to make people on a large scale accept and support something so murderous and destructive to humanity in general . Some of the things about Hitler that I was most surprised by were things like his pet dog , Blondie , and his affection for her puppies , the way he is described as soft-spoken and polite when speaking to the young women working for him as his secretaries , the total transformation in appearance that he evidently underwent whenever he stepped before the cameras and microphones in public , the fact that he didn't ever want flowers kept in his office because he ' hated dead things , ' etc . Junge expresses her own shock at that last point , which surely mirrors that of anyone else watching the film . Can you imagine someone like Hitler , who engineered millions of human deaths , uncomfortable with flowers in his office because he hated dead things ? It boggles the mind , and is also reflected by other revelations in the film such as his total detachment from everything that was going on in Germany as a result of his leadership . He even traveled in a train with the blinds drawn and was taxied through the streets to his destinations by drivers who would take the routes with the least amount of war damage so that he wouldn't be made uncomfortable . This is certainly not a traditional documentary , but the documentary genre is , I think , one of the most flexible genres in film . The subject matter is literally endless , and as this movie shows , even the simplest forms of the documentary can be enormously effective and moving . I think that the main purpose of a documentary is to provide information , not entertainment , and as long as it can do that I don't think that it really matters how intricate or complexly made the film itself is . Blind Spot provides plenty of information , and while the presentation is not exactly thrilling , it reminded me throughout of reading a book . One of the main reasons that I love to read ( and , I think , also one of the reasons that people are so often disappointed with film adaptations of novels ) is because it is always an individual experience . You create in your head the world that is described in the book , and film adaptations are someone else's vision of that world , which is pretty much invariably not the same as your own . This is why movies that are as closely faithful to the original material are so often the most critically and popularly successful ones . In Blind Spot , Junge tells her story in her own words without any kind of cinematic enhancement of them , allowing the viewer to create what it must have been like in his or her own head which , I think , makes the world and the events that she describes that much more vivid and immediate .
Hillary and Jackie deals with the negative affects of fame and stardom , especially when you have been driven relentlessly to that stardom .	The movie starts off with a few shots of Hillary and Jackie , the two sisters after whom the film has been named , playing on the beach as young girls , which demonstrates the closeness that was felt between the two sisters . This is also a myth that is demonstrated throughout the film ; that siblings are extremely loving and caring towards each other . Obviously , this is ideal , but it is rarely ever true , especially to the extent that Hillary and Jackie are . The negative affects of stardom are hinted at early in the film when the girls first enter into competitions , and Jackie , the younger sister , is shown driving herself constantly to be as good as her older sister so that she can compete with her . Later in the film , Hillary puts her musical talents on the proverbial ' back burner , ' and settles down with a husband , planning on a family life . Jackie , on the other hand , continues playing her cello for larger and larger audiences , becoming a more and more successful musician . Unfortunately , before too long she is confined to a wheelchair which , if I remember correctly , is the result of a stroke . I think that this misfortune was meant to be seen as a possible and maybe even probable consequence of a relatively typical young girl who drove herself too hard . This is an example of the theme that , unfortunately , genius is often associated with madness . There was a lot of emphasis on the sky and the water in the first few scenes . The audience's attention is called to the beautiful sunset , as well as the calm ocean , conveying a sense of peacefulness and freedom . Later in the film , after Jackie has begun her descent into madness , there was a lot of rain and overcast skies . This kind of weather usually gets a rather gloomy , depressing reaction . Another element of cinematics that I noticed in this film was the way that Jackie's descent into madness was presented . The film's audience would see her playing beautiful music on her cello for a large on-screen audience , and then there would be a close-up of her head , and almost all of the sound would be cut out , except for a few deep , under-water sounding hums and gurgles . This showed that Jackie , although playing her cello outstandingly , was drifting in and out of reality . It was a method of foreshadowing that something was about to go very wrong with Jackie , and the moment that this is known for sure is when she finishes a concert and is unable to stand up on her own , needing to be carried out . This cinematic technique is very similar to that used in the movie ' Shine , ' with Geoffrey Rush , one of my personal favorites . Hilary and Jackie is an excellent character study that is presented as part of an engaging drama filled with beautiful scenery as stunningly convincing performances . It is a very realist film , and it's effects are very well achieved through the quality direction , story , and cinematography . Don't miss this one .
One of the best science fiction comedies in years .	Tommy Lee Jones and Will Smith are the two most aptly named actors ( Mr . Jones and Mr . Smith ) to play the intensely secretive secret agents J and K , of the Men In Black , a secret organization that protects humankind from the threat of aliens , which are a lot closer to us than we realize . The premise of the film leaves open enormous opportunities for comic relief , and they wisely make use of this , not only with Smith's seemingly endless talents ( ' It just be rainin ' black people in New York . ' ) but also with the ironic humor that Jones is so good at . He has developed one of the most rigid iconographies in Hollywood , but still manages to take on a wide variety of roles in more serious movies like The Fugitive and entertaining comedies like Men In Black with equal effectiveness . As is most often the case with fantastic movies like this , the thing that makes it the most interesting and believable is that it makes itself so compatible with reality . The reason that The Matrix was so good is because it left open a lot of questions that were not immediately dismissible , which is often something that brings down even the best science fiction movies . Who is to say that what The Matrix suggests , that we are all a lot of lifepods supports by machines for their own nutrition , is not true , and that we are not really only living in a reality created and implanted into our heads ? Sure , it's not very likely , but it's definitely possible , which is certainly refreshing for the science fiction genre itself , which is mostly populated with laughable tales of aliens and space ships and lazer guns and whatnot . Similar to The Matrix , Men In Black suggests that the human population is heavily infiltrated with aliens that disguise themselves as humans and have a relationship with the Men In Black not too different from that that we so often see in gang movies between the police and regular criminals . Almost a teacher / pupil relationship , the aliens treat the Men In Black as obvious authority figures despite quite often being enormously superior in size . Will Smith is able to milk his part for all it's worth as the New York police officer who is a little too good for his own good , as he rushes into the Men In Black outfit , thinking that he is such a good cop that he has seen it all and can handle anything that comes his way . There are several delightful scenes that make up his introduction to the truly weird world of the Men In Black and their duties , and it comes around full circle ( as usual ) with Smith taking Jones's role and inserting Jones back into the normal human race with a quick flash of the deneuralyzer . Anytime civilians are exposed to the aliens or the Men In Black in the performance of their duties , they are flashed with a deneuralyzer and new memories are inserted into their heads , keeping them safely ignorant to the things that go on around them , which seems to be the way most people in this country prefer it anyway . The gadgets in the movie are some of the most interesting things in the movie , much like just about any James Bond film . The Men In Black of course have access to some truly space-age weaponry and the cars they drive are not that special looking but have some serious accessories , making them able to handle just about any alien-emergency . This is a classy , stylish science fiction movie that sets itself apart from other science fiction movies by being believable enough so that the audience doesn't sit there and try to count the times that it parts from reality . It presents some creative aliens , plenty of amusing and exciting situations , and a variety of one-liners that makes you believe that the James Bond series has miraculously not been able to pound this precious screenwriting trick into ridiculous oblivion . Entertainment for all ages . Don't miss this one .
A powerful anti-war film .	This movie reminds me in a lot of ways of a few other films that I've seen that have similar content and similar messages . For the first half , after little Moncho becomes friends with his wonderful teacher , Don Gregorio , who takes him out into the wilderness and shows him a new amazing thing about nature every time they go out . It reminds me of The Secret Garden , the way this young boy goes out and marvels to no end about the wonders that can be found in the natural world , and even the healing powers that these things can have . Moncho is shown going to his first day of school , the first time he has ever been away from home , and he is absolutely terrified and has a terrible first day . I can certainly identify with this experience , since I have been the new kid at school more than my share of times . Don Gregorio has sort of a rough introduction , at first giving the impression that he is going to be a hard and uncaring teacher , but soon turns around and shows his nurturing side , which is to help deliver the immense impact of the film . ( spoilers ) The overall war content of the film reminds me a lot of Life Is Beautiful , although the comedy as well as the tragedy are both slightly diluted , although neither by very much . Moncho develops this friendship with Don Gregorio , a character that the audience grows to like very deeply and very quickly , and the film ends with an intense scene which illustrates the extent to which Moncho is ignorant to what is going on in the larger world of his country , as well as the extent to which he simply does what his parents tell him . The end of the film is left open to interpretation , but seems to make a strong comment about the tendency of people to simply follow the crowd in war situations . Moncho and his mother and father are personal friends with Don Gregorio , who they see being boarded onto the truck at the end of the film , yet they still scream politically harsh names at him and throw rocks and things at him . It is a powerful scene when Don Gregorio first walks out and we see that he is one of the political prisoners , and this emotional intensity is then immediately mixed with the powerful political message , increasing the effectiveness of this excellent film .
Outstanding addition to the film	One of the things that I really love about the topic of time travel is the possibilities that it entails for stories . The 1960 version of the Time Machine ended with the suggestion that George traveled back into the distant future to continue to try to help the Eloi escape the oppression of the Morlocks . In this documentary , Rod Taylor and Alan Young , who played George and Filby , respectively , are reunited after not having seen each other for more than 30 years , and they reprise their characters in a wonderful new scene . George has traveled into the future , lived there for 30 years , and then returned to 30 years after the original story took place to meet up with his old friend and tell him about where he has been . Too bad he didn't just go back to 1899 so Filby wouldn't have had to wonder all those years . There is a lot of time spent in the documentary talking about the design of the original time machine , as well as various thing that happened to it after post production , which are pretty interesting . At one point it was lost for several years , only to turn up badly damaged at a thrift store in southern California . The film details the restoration of the time machine , and talks about how it appeared in later films like World Without End and The Wizard of Speed and Time , neither of which I can find anywhere . Rod Taylor hosts the documentary , and tells some wonderful stories about making the movie as well as cast and crew reunions years later , and pays his respects to the late George Pal . This is not just a documentary about a movie , it's a celebration of science fiction and the sub-genre as a whole , as well as the deep friendships that are often formed during and after their production .
Quick and to the point .	At a mere 17 minutes , it's obvious that this short making-of documentary doesn't go into great detail about the making of Halloween IV , but it does have some excellent interviews , such as the one with George Wilbur , who played Michael Meyers in the film . I wasn't that impressed with Wilbur's performance , he just didn't have the right body style and didn't move the way Michael Meyers does ( especially in scenes like the shooting at the very end ) , but it was the first time I had ever even seen the face of someone who had played Meyers in one of the movies , so I found that very interesting . More time is spent talking about pre-production than any behind-the-scenes , probably because the movie was made before DVDs and no one thought to do any shooting behind the scenes . There is , however , a great interview with Moustapha Akkad where he talks about many aspects of pre-production , such as who agreed to sign on and who didn't and who then signed on instead , etc . Danielle Harris also gives an interesting interview about working on a horror movie set as a little girl , and how Wilbur would always take off his mask between takes to remind her that he wasn't really the boogeyman , he was her friend . Another interesting interview was with Ellie Cornell , who played Rachel in the movie and talked about the film's release , telling an interesting story about how she and some other cast members went to see the movie in LA to see if people would recognize them . They didn't . Harris did , however , dress up in her clown outfit after the movie was released to freak out her family . I think that this documentary was so short because they really didn't have a lot to work with , since all of the interviews were done more than a decade after the movie was released , but it works out at this length . This is a sequel that's pretty hidden within a huge number of other Halloween films , so there is really no reason to make a lengthy documentary , since not many people are likely to see it , which means that even less people are likely to read what I'm writing right now . But if you do find yourself reading this , make sure to let the credits play at the end , where there is a great performance of the Halloween theme song on the piano .
Watch that last shot again ?	I awaited Cloverfield with almost wild anticipation . Sadly , it was released in theaters about two days before I had to go back to China ( I was home in California visiting family for the winter holidays ) , and I didn't have time to see it before I had to leave . It would have been nice to see it on the big screen ( this alleged " motion sickness " has never affected me in the least , either here or in the similarly photographed Blair Witch Project ) , but even on pirated Chinese DVDs the movie looks pretty good . Given that so much of the monster portion of the movie passes without us ever really learning much about the monster , it's odd that the beginning of the movie , which is just a personal home video taken by some friends to congratulate someone on getting married , seems like it goes on about five times longer than it should . Maybe that's because for much of that part of the movie , there seems to be developing a very involved romantic drama which will become meaningless within a few minutes . Of course , it doesn't become entirely meaningless , only about half of it does . In fact , I should mention that , for a romantic subplot squeezed into a monster movie , this one actually works quite well . I hope Bruckheimer is taking notes . At any rate , it is well known that the Statue of Liberty does not fare well in the movie . One of the original teaser trailers famously showed the statue's head being thrown down a New York City street , and they really should have left it at that . In the movie , they don't know how to have people react to such an occurrence . As soon as the head comes to rest , a lot of people gather around it like mindless zombies , snapping photos of it with their cell phones . Evidently these people are so brainwashed by technology that they are more concerned about e-mailing these amazing photos to all their buddies than they are in what exactly threw that head . Personally , I like to think that I'd be amazed if such a thing happened , but for at least the following few seconds , I would be more concerned about where the head came from ! Once the movie gets going , however , it never lets up . The monster is a brilliant creation of digital effects , which detract from movies far more often than they add . Th CGI is spectacular in this movie , and that is not a comment that I make often ! In the extra features on the DVD , there is a lot of talk about presenting the monster not as an angry beast bent on destroying , but as something like a frightened infant fighting for it's survival . A scared baby monster ( one as massive and frightening as this one ) being injured and not knowing why is definitely a force to be reckoned with , although there is nothing in the movie to let us know any of that . For all we can see , it's just an angry beast bent on destroying . The only major drawback of the movie is the bonehead holding the camera . Another idea mentioned in the extra features on the DVD is that the movie originally came about as an effort to create America's own movie monster , given that Godzilla , so many decades after its debut , is still a major part of Japanese pop culture . Sadly , this guy " Hud " ( which stands for Heads-Up Display , not Humanoid Underground Dwellers , but good guess ? ) strikes me as the results of an effort to create the most idiotic , dumbed-down American caricature possible . Here's a bit of sample dialogue : Hud : " What time does the chopper take off ? " Rob : " 0600 . " Hud : " Uh , what time is that ? " Rob : " 6am ! " Hud : " Oh , yeah . I knew that . " Good thinking , moron . Way to represent the homeland . I live in the heart of Communist China , and I feel I should tell you that , especially with all of the controversy about American protests about Tibet and the Beijing Olympics , many people in the world have much difficulty differentiating between the American people and , say , their government , or their movies . One of the main difficulties that the movie has to overcome , however , is why this Hud would go on holding a video camera while his whole world was being destroyed around him . He was reluctant to take on the job of filming at the beginning of the movie , so it's strange sometimes that he always holds on to it and always points it at what needs to be seen . But surprisingly , this never really seems like a problem to me . Sometimes we have to wonder why he's holding it , like when he climbs onto the roof of a high-rise apartment building which is leaning precariously on the building across the street , but they make excellent use of broken clips , and cuts back to what was originally on the tape , to show times when Hud stopped filming and then started again later . I think many people will be put off by the fact that so little is actually learned about the monster , but I think this might be the film's strongest point . First of all , the movie is left wide open for a sequel , not the least reason for which is because the entire movie consists of a single DV tape that the government found at the " former location of Central Park . " Think of how many other tapes might be found and made into more movies ! But most of all , pay special attention to the right side of the screen in the very last shot of the movie , which looks out over the ocean . In my opinion , that's all we really need to know ?
Similar to his film from the year before , Una Mujer sin Amor , Luis Bunuel presents a story not about a woman who gets into a relationship with a man who doesn't respect her , but a woman who gets into a relat	The film starts off with a rich landlord's attempt to evict a lot of poor people from a low-income apartment building that he owns , and they rebel against him , threatening him with violence should he go through with the eviction . There is a great scene where we see the landlord's wife showing him that in order to calm down all those people , all that he has to do is get rid of the strong ones that keep starting the trouble . There's a great bit of symbolism here as she cuts the heads off the tallest of the flowers in her flowerpot , leaving only the crowd of smaller , weaker ones . Take out the strong ones , and the rest will subordinate . Thus the movie does not set out dealing very directly with the unenviable role in relationships that women played in the 1950s , not under Franco in Spain , but in the Mexican society in which Bunuel lived at this point in his career . Instead , the movie makes a more specific comment on the state of the union as a whole , as is suggested in the line to Don Andres ( the rich landlord who is throwing all of his poor tenants into the street ) , ' Thank you , Don Andres . You're the pride of a country without people . ' At this point in the movie , one begins to try to make ties between Don Andres and Franco , Spain's oppressive dictator at the time the film was made ( and also the reason that the movie could not have been made in Spain in 1952 ) . Franco is something of a rich and oppressive landlord himself , although the movie does not spend much time on the idea of an all-powerful and enormously wealthy landowner . As was the case in A Woman Without Love , the Brute very soon goes into the story of a woman who is constantly brought suffering by the men in her life , even if only indirectly . The movie starts off making a strong comment about the suffering of many at the hands of a small elite , and then it quickly explores an individual situation within the population . These are a typical group of poor people , and their efforts to prevent themselves from being thrown on the street and , more importantly , the efforts of their landlord to evict them , provide the conflict focused on in the rest of the film . Don Andres hires a huge man from the slaughterhouse , a man who adores him since he has been a mentor for his entire life , and the man he hires is determined to strike fear into the hearts of anyone who would dare to stand against this wonderful man . There is a lot going on here that deals with superficial impressions , since Pedro , the Brute ( played by Pedro Armendáriz , who , as an unfortunate side note , committed suicide in 1963 ) , is completely determined to help Don Andres but then changes his mind entirely once he gets close to the people that he is sent out to scare into submission . Pedro is a brute of a man , hence the title of the movie , but he faces the reality of what he is doing when he becomes close to the daughter of the man that he accidentally killed under his assignment from Don Andres . This bit of irony is the confliction of the martial law enforced by the powerful elite as it conflicts with the larger population , the humanity of which is too often overlooked . He was determined at the beginning to set the troublemakers straight , but it is not until he is forced to take shelter among them that he realizes who the real troublemakers are ( ' I may have done something wrong but I didn't know you then . ' ) . It would seem that this portion of the film presents the harshness of an authoritarian regime as misdirected and even naïve rather than inherently evil , although it is equally likely ( and , indeed , probably more so ) that it is a message to those very regimes ( specifically that of Franco ) of the reality of their form of government . Brute is a strongman for the rich elite and then ends up getting help from them and even falling in love with one of them , at which point he changes his mind , no longer wanting Don Andres to have his way and for all of these people to be evicted . He has , in effect , been separated from his brutish side by his intermingling with the very people that he was sent out to oppress . There is a great scene during the chase , by the way , that I just have to mention . At one point , when Pedro is running through the alleyways , there is a shot of him running in one direction , and his shadow , through trick lighting , clearly runs in a completely different direction , going down a different alleyway . At this point in the movie , Pedro separates from his darker side , turning toward helping the poor people that are being evicted . Just a little bit of trick lighting ( a VERY common technique in black and white filmmaking ) that really stood out to me .
Yes , Steven Seagal actually came out with an action movie worth watching .	Sure , Seagal played the typical role that he always plays ? a cook on a marine vessel , in this case . Evidently the job requirements to hold his position on the ship were things like advanced culinary degrees in cooking and food preparation , as well as minors in knife-throwing , martial arts , and general ass-kicking . Luckily , we find out later that he was previously a Navy Seal of some sort who was forced into the position he now holds because he was wrongly accused and prosecuted long ago , but wanted to stay with the Navy . Erika Eleniak co-stars as Jordan Tate , the dancer hired to jump out of the cake topless for the captain's birthday party . She also delivers one of the very few half-decent performances by a Playboy model ( ever see Anna Nicole Smith in any of her films ? ) . However , in Under Siege , it is Tommy Lee Jones and Gary Busey who collectively steal the show . These two guys work together nearly as well as Riggs and Murtaugh in the great Lethal Weapon series , except that now they're bad guys . It's a little bit odd now to see Tommy Lee Jones playing a bad guy , but he's such a skilled actor that he can pull it off perfectly . They also provide some of the best comic relief seen in recent years . I particularly liked the scene where Jones and Busey break into the captain's office , and Busey reads a memo written by the captain , saying that Busey may need a psychological evaluation . Keep in mind that Busey was dressed as a woman in this scene ( for reasons which you'll just have to watch the movie to find out ) , which makes it hilarious as he furiously asks Jones , ' Do I look like I need a psychological evaluation ? ! ' The story deals with a nuclear weapons heist , which is a pretty tired premise by now , but it is made entertaining by the good performances , stunts , direction , and script . The fairly brutal violence in this film is balanced by just the right amount of comic relief , which could come at seemingly any moment , such as when Rieback ( Seagal ) was locked in the meat locker and was trying to get the naïve soldier to let him out ( ' Take my pies out of the oven ! ' ) . ( spoilers ) However , the movie did contain its share of action movie clichés . There were plenty of goofy one-liners , some of which were funny , and some of which just should not have been left in the movie , such as Rieback's final line in the film ( ' Here's one move ? ' ) , which nearly ruined the movie on its own . And , of course , there could never be an action film with a big-breasted blonde like Eleniak without the hero getting the girl ( in the cheesiest way possible , in this case ) . But before you label Under Siege as " yet another Seagal film , " compare it to the mind-numbing crap that he usually comes out with . Despite tasteless things like this that were thrown carelessly into the film , Under Siege still succeeded on many more levels ( a Seagal movie worth watching ! ! ) , making it a worthwhile action film .
Moody blues ? .	I had a hard time motivating myself to watch Bleu , which I have only ever heard glowing reviews about . People have been recommending the movie to me literally for several years , and I never got around to watching it until last night , after I recently purchased the trilogy for a whopping 30 yuan ( about $4 . 25 ) , thanks to China's total indifference to copyright laws . The movie is suitably depressing and highly artistic , and although some of the technical experiments didn't really work for me , the story itself is outstanding . Early in the movie there is a clumsy use of a flashing blue screen that might remind some Hitchcock fans of the psychological use of color in Vertigo , but it's one of the examples of the overuse of blue in the movie that came to me to be a little redundant . The movie is called Blue and it's an emotional color , I don't think we really need to be hit over the head with it so many times . Juliette Binoche stars as Julie Vignon , the wife of a famous composer who dies in a car crash , along with their daughter , throwing her entire life into total emotional chaos . She responds by trying to erase her memories of her lost past . She sells all of her possessions , moves to a new place , and goes back to her maiden name . Throughout this time , she immerses herself in her sadness , just like that astonishingly blue swimming pool . Obviously , music is an extremely important part of the film , it takes us on an entirely separate journey through Julie's sadness and emotional development . The movie illustrates her loss of feeling , her inability to form meaningful connections with other people after her catastrophic loss , and through the thoroughly unexpected turns of events that take place throughout the movie to allow her life to continue , in completely unexpected directions . There is a lot of focus on minute details in the film , long shots that focus on seemingly trivial objects but that create a surreal environment that is almost impossible to create in any other way , similar to the effect that Binoche gets with her particular style of under-acting . There are a few moments in the film when the screen fades to black for a few seconds and then fades back in to exactly the same shot . I imagine Kieslowski was going for some kind of temporary mental blackout , triggered by an emotion or a sudden painful memory , but it just came across as campy to me . Nevertheless , the movie has such a powerful and involving story that it's easy to overlook things like this , although this is certainly not the feel good movie of the year . By far the film's best feature is the story , which is brilliantly written and takes us on a fascinating journey , followed by the stupendous performances . Kieslowski is not one of our most accessible directors , but certainly one of the most enduring .
Don't let her turn you into one of them !	Drop Dead Fred is a difficult film to review . I saw it for the first time when I was 13 years old or something , and I absolutely loved it because I was right in the middle of the age group at which the film is directed . I watched it again recently , and while the film's slapstick comedy did not hold quite the same massive appeal ( although I was still hugely entertained ) as it did when I was younger , I regretted to discover that I had grown out of a lot of the goofy antics that went on in the movie . However , I was reading through some of the reviews written on the IMDb by other users , and was amazed at how offended a couple of people were by this film , revealing in their reviews a total detachment from their own inner selves and a complete misunderstanding for the little people that we call kids . No , for example , I would NOT recommend a seven year old girl to psychiatric help for making a mess . This is arguably one of the most ludicrous ideas that I have ever read on the Internet Movie Database in my entire life , and believe me , I have read some jaw-droppingly moronic comments on this beloved site . If you read through the user comments for this movie , you can so clearly see the difference in the people who liked it and the ones who hate it that it almost makes you laugh out loud that these people can't see that they are exactly the kinds of people that the movie rebels against . Drop Dead Fred begs Elizabeth not to let her mother turn her into one of them because he doesn't want her to turn into the kind of person who is so uptight and frigid and barren that she would be incapable of enjoying exactly the kind of entertainment and fun that Drop Dead Fred is . This is a movie that was made for people who are still in touch with their inner child , people who realize that a little girl with a mother who has absolutely no understanding of the mind of a child has every right to escape into the world of an imaginary friend if it will help her escape the grayness and responsibility imposed on her by her mother , who demands absolute perfection and hasn't the first clue about how to raise a child . Very similar things can be said about various IMDb users , such as ones who refer to Fred as a product of a deranged mind or say anything about psychos or brutality or insanity . Drop Dead Fred is not a film about an insane little girl . Indeed , I like to think that the world is populated mostly with people who understand that the minds of young children operate slightly differently than their parents'and our own , and that they can be forgiven for getting into a little mischief . I am generally against grouping together people who did not like a certain film , but in this case it seems overly obvious that the people who wrote negative reviews of this fun comedy are simply the people who resent being pointed out as the kinds of people that they are . Drop Dead Fred is a movie that was made for fun , to be enjoyed , laughed at , and respected for reminding us that we need to lighten up occasionally and , while not necessarily flinging spaghetti in a nice restaurant , act like children every once in a while to prevent ourselves from being driven insane by the fast-paced society that we live in . And if you can't do that , if you hated Drop Dead Fred because you simply can't understand that concept , if , indeed , you think that Elizabeth is in dire need of psychiatric care , you may want to step back and look closely at your life and your views . YOU may be the one in need of therapy .
It's too bad the sequel sucked ?	Mission : Impossible is a great action film . Tom Cruise delivers a great performance as the famous Ethan Hunt , and the technological toys that he has in this film rival many of the toys seen in the James Bond films , very few of which are as good as this film . The story is very interesting , but is also hard to follow at some points . However , the end of the film actually goes back to recap what has happened , pointing out some things that you were almost guaranteed to have missed on the first viewing , and this retelling is flawlessly worked into the movie , so it's not like being told all over again what you have already seen . What makes this movie so good is that the mystery is so well presented , and all of the performances are very good . It's true that a lot of the situations were fairly unrealistic ( I don't think I even need to mention the fact that it is physically impossible to fly a helicopter in a tunnel ) , but the quality of the rest of the film more than makes up for these shortcomings . At least the movie wasn't manipulative . It's not excessively gory , there isn't unnecessary violence , there's no goofball romance , and the twists and turns are unexpected and very effective . And , most importantly , there is a brilliantly written script , with endlessly amusing lines like , ' I want him manning a radar tower in Alaska by the end of the day , just mail him his clothes . ' Why can't there be more movies with cool lines like that ? James Bond sure as hell never uttered anything that clever . Some of the action sequences in Mission : Impossible have become famous , such as the nail-biting break-in scene where Hunt is hanging over the glowing floor in the room protected by the world's greatest alarm system , as well as the less effective helicopter tunnel scene . As a whole , this is a very high quality action film . It does have a few problems , but the rest of the film is so good that you are able to easily overlook them .
" Equilibrium " is really hard to type .	I bought Equilibrium just because Christian Bale is in it . To tell you the truth I was certain that it was going to be a goofy , direct-to-video sci-fi fiasco that most involved would just as soon forget . The cover box reminded me of Universal Soldier . As it turns out however , it's not a movie that those involved want to forget , it's an overlooked gem , no doubt because it came at the height of the Matrix craze , which it may resemble in too many ways . Unfortunately , too many people will callously write it off as a Matrix rip-off , and it's a shame because this is one of the best science fiction films to have come along in quite some time . It takes place in the far off 21st century , but it's not about the future ( given that it exists in a future that can't ever exist ) , it's about the disturbing reality that war is a part of human nature , and in order to eradicate it from the modern world we would have to become a homogenized society of emotionless , drug-controlled zombies . No jokes about that already being a reality . The movie's biggest assertion is that it assigns blame for man's inhumanity to man to his ability to feel ( ignoring the real causes , such as religion , political power , and less dogmatic things like national pride and human rights ) . The current government is based on enforcing the mass removal of emotion from the masses using a drug called Prozium , and is the source of the movie's main irony , that in order to eradicate war , it has waged war on all of it's own citizens , who constantly live under close surveillance . The government employs Grammaton Clerics to handle that surveillance . They are highly trained officers authorized to kill anyone they deem to be " sense offenders " on the spot ( " I trust you'll be more vigilant in the future ? " ) . There is , in fact , a staggering amount of irony in the film , given that all emotion or feeling is strictly forbidden under penalty of death , and yet anger , suspicion and fear are all alive and well , and even flaunted . It's also interesting to consider that in real life it is the dogmatic , Cleric-like believers who aspire for war , and the normal people who just want to live their lives . For the most part the movie ignores the fact that it is governments that wage war , not citizens ( even emotionally sensitive ones ) , but no matter . The important thing that you need to know about the movie is that it goes way , way too far , and because of that , it's fun . I cheered out loud several times during the film because the gun fights , which are so unrealistic it's almost funny , are genuinely well-choreographed and exciting . If I may say so , this is what gun fights in hard core science fiction movies should look like . Many people criticize the movie for being unrealistic or too extreme , altogether forgetting what kind of movie they're watching in the first place . The movie is not about moral dilemmas , even though the main character suffers a tremendous one , it's a fast , gritty science fiction movie that makes no apologies , and owes none . The characterization may be just a little heavy ( Bale's character going from not understanding a question about what he felt when his wife was incinerated to having a soft spot for puppies , etc . ) , but like another outstanding and equally over-the-top film , Shoot ' Em Up , nothing is out of place . All of the excesses look right at home . It is interesting to consider the real-world implications of the content of the movie though , regardless of how unrealistic it is . The totalitarian regime , for example , resembles Mao Tse - tung's manner of oppression with startling closeness , even down to the children spying on and reporting their parents . Under Mao , children who reported their parents engaging in " counter'-revolutionary activities " were publicly hailed as national heroes while their parents were generally tortured and executed . Whether the crimes were real or not was unimportant , what mattered is that , as you can imagine , in a society where people were so easily made to desperately fear their own children , you can imagine the level of control the government ( Mao ) had over the people . Something similar happens in this movie . The similarities to The Matrix films are obvious , but limited mostly to superficial things like the fight scenes and some costumes . Thematically , the movies are totally different , and even with all of the similarities , this movie is more than able to stand on its own , and any similarities are more just an unfortunate bit of timing , as this is probably what caused the movie to be so overlooked . If you can't handle a little excess in the movies , definitely stay away from this one . But if you can watch a movie just for a good time , you could do a lot worse than this . Note : Keep your eye out for Dominic Purcell , Prison Break's Lincoln Burrows , in the opening scene . He should have had a bigger role in the movie . . .
Stop The Presses ! Van Damme Is An Actor !	There's nothing worse than starting out a film review with a massive cliché like " Van Damme like we've never seen him before , " but that's exactly what happens in JCVD , his startlingly autobiographical new film in which he plays himself . With well-known movie stars ( or characters ) , one of the most interesting things that they can do is level with us so we can relate to them on a realistic level , when they approach the reality of who or what they are and we see them looking at themselves through our eyes . If this weren't true , celebrity interviews would never be interesting . In JCVD , Van Damme plays himself in his hometown . He is routinely stopped by excited fans who asks for pictures and autographs , but we also learn of a bitter legal battle in which he is losing custody of his daughter , major financial problems and the emotional effects of the downward spiral of his career . Last night I watched Steven Seagal's newest film Against the Dark , and I can tell you , it would have been a much better career move for Seagal to have made a film about his own spiraling career rather than star in another movie that is speeding up the freefall . The movie opens with a preposterously long action sequence in which Van Damme is hurtling through an elaborate action set like your typical action b-movie hero , but all of the moves are a little bit off . The timing isn't quite right , punches miss , and he's not exactly on his marks . It doesn't look well for the movie , until a set wall tumbles over and a panting Van Damme complains to the director ( a childish snob more interested in throwing darts at a picture of Hollywood than he is in the movie he is supposed to be making - this tiny character is one of the movie's only real weak spots ) that he's 47 years old and it's really hard for him to do everything in one take . He leaves the set and we follow him into some version of his real life . There is a scene where he is negotiating with his agent , and he explains that he doesn't want to work in bad movies anymore where the majority of the entire budget is taken up by his own salary . " I'll work for scale , " he says , " just get me into a studio . " We also learn of a rivalry between himself and Seagal where any excessive negotiating will just result in roles going to Seagal , who has " promised to cut off his ponytail for the first time . " One day while trying to secure legal fees , he goes to the bank and walks right into the middle of a robbery , and the robbers seize the opportunity to make it seem as though Van Damme were the criminal , leading to a tense stand-off involving the media , the entire town , and his mother . Van Damme has made a career out of being a tough guy , so it takes a particular style of bravery to make a movie about him as a real man in a situation where he is helpless to stop the violence that's taking place around him . He's not a superhuman , he's just a guy , and when he gets hit in the side of the head with a handgun it will lay him out just like anyone else . But this is a totally different tact than he has ever taken before , it's a totally different idea , in fact , than I can ever remember seeing in any movie . He has one scene that is an artsy monologue given directly to the camera that a lot of critics have complained about , but it is one of the best shots of the year , one of the most unflinchingly honest performances I've ever seen from an action movie star , and by far the single best piece of acting that Van Damme has ever done in his career . I don't know how much of this is real about Van Damme's real life , but I love the way he pokes fun at himself and his genre , particularly his relationship with Seagal . But it's important to realize that not all of this is poking fun . It is a scathingly honest admittance of the realities of Van Damme's life and the realities of the kinds of movies that he makes , and even what they all add up to . In a way , JCVD attacks not only the limitations of Van Damme's own career , but the shallowness and meaninglessness of so much of Hollywood at large . From that dart board at the beginning of the movie to Van Damme's movie-star fantasy near the very end of the film , it shows us how much more effective and meaningful real life can be than movie magic . There is a place for both , but when one is forgotten completely , something important is lost .
Moulin Rouge is a shockingly creative and fascinating film about an original love story .	A film like this could VERY easily have been great , or at least much greater than it was . Consider what would have happened had they put in the time to come up with an original score that fit with the astronomical level of creativity and imagination that saturates every other element of the film - it may very well have been something as memorable as The Wizard of Oz or some of the truly great scores from film history , such as the Indiana Jones music or the Star Wars theme or any number of other great film soundtracks . But unfortunately , they decided instead to punctuate this incredible and beautiful film with covers of modern popular songs which have no business being in the movie in the first place . First of all , before I begin to complain , I should mention that it is a testament to the quality of the film when something like this is unfortunately thrown in , yet the film as a whole manages to remain a wonderful cinematic experience , it's just too bad that there was so little effort put into such a pivotal thing as the score ( especially in a musical romance like this ) , which could have put the movie over the threshold into the realm of the truly great films . Again , I would like to point out that the performances of the songs were beautiful and wonderfully entertaining , as well as brilliantly choreographed , but even this amazing presentation does not make up for the almost complete lack of any original musical content . There are a few original songs in the movie , but it's the modern ones that are not only unoriginal , but completely disruptive to the rest of the movie . The story deals with an out of work writer in the year 1900 who goes to Paris to write his masterpiece and find true love . Once there , he finds himself stalled by writer's block , but soon finds himself whirled through a dizzying sequence of events that inadvertently send him on the way to accomplish the very goal that he set out for , although not in exactly the way that he had anticipated . This is where the originality comes in , as we are presented with a fascinating although initially superficial romantic plot which is enormously exaggerated but not beyond belief even for a moment . The Parisian night life that we are presented with is huge and glittery and rich and loud , and we are so enraptured by it that we don't doubt for a minute that this is exactly what the night life was like at the Moulin Rouge in 1900 . However , this brilliant story is also exactly where the movie begins to falter . True , this is almost surely a vastly exaggerated account of what nights were really like at the Moulin Rouge during this time , but it's so well presented that it is remarkably easy to believe . Unfortunately , we are periodically confused by performances of popular modern songs . Now , I can't say that I was altogether disappointed with all of these performances . Indeed , many of them were genuinely entertaining and well done ( although I almost had to leave the room when The Police's ' Roxanne ' was belligerently performed ) , but they feel like speed bumps in the film . This is such an enjoyable and convincing film that it's horribly disappointing that they decided to throw songs like ' Smells Like Teen Spirit ' and that Whitney Houston song into the mix , almost mocking the audience for trying to enjoy the turn-of-the-century world that's presented . Moulin Rouge is something of a strange phenomenon , then , because it is a truly great film that was brought down by the childish addition of modern music . There is no fathomable reason that a film that takes place in 1900 should contain these songs , even though they were quite often well done . It was interesting to learn that both Nicole Kidman and Ewan McGregor have wonderful singing voices , but the presentation of modern music does nothing but remove the audience from the world that we have been drawn into and remind us that we are watching a movie , and a movie that's trying to make a bad joke , at that . There is no mystery as to why Moulin Rouge was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Picture of 2001 , but there is also no mystery as to why it didn't win that Oscar ( and there is even LESS mystery on that subject when you've seen the other nominees , particularly A Beautiful Mind , the earth-quakingly good winner ) . Moulin Rouge in inarguably one of the best films released in 2001 , but it was sadly held down by its soundtrack . It should be noted , however , that the music in the film was beautifully done and that the performances were for the most part nearly as good as the rest of the film , but they are so incongruous with the content of the film that they can only count against it . A musical romance is so centered on the music in the film that if the music doesn't work for it , the film as a whole suffers , and it's too bad because Moulin Rouge could easily have fit in as one of cinematic history's truly groundbreaking and memorable films .
Nicholas Cage proves himself yet again .	I know that Cage's last film , Adaptation , was not as warmly accepted by everyone as it was by me , but I feel that it was one of the most intelligent and creative films to be released in a long time , and with Matchstick Men , he assumes a role in another extremely well-made and well thought-out film . I remember seeing the preview , in which Cage's character learns that he has a teenage daughter from a long dead relationship and , being a con-man , ends up being convinced by her to teach her something of his trade . At the time , I expected his character to be something more similar to his character in Snake Eyes than Adaptation - a smooth talking , fast paced kind of guy who knows what he wants and how to get it . Needless to say , it came as a surprise to see his character in Matchstick Men literally incapacitated by something as simple as someone leaving a sliding glass door open . I can kind of relate to that little quirk , in a way , because in movies , for example , when someone jumps out of a car and leaves the door open or doesn't answer a ringing phone it drives me nuts . ( spoilers ) About midway through the film , I was simply waiting for it to end . I was completely convinced that Cage was going to do one last score , his daughter would get taken hostage or something , he would have to give up his biggest payoff ever to save the life of this little girl that he just met , and he would suddenly find it within himself to give up his life of crime and start being a legitimate and loving father . Maybe he and his wife would even get back together , I was just waiting for it . Thankfully , the movie takes a completely different direction and , while I still find some of the details of the conclusion slightly hard to believe , it was great to see something so fresh and original and entertaining . There were spectacular performances in this film , the comic relief was abundant and effective , and the film never once panders to exactly what the audience wants to see . So here are the problems that I can see people having with this film . It might be seen as one of those movies that deliberately leads the audience in the wrong direction and then pops this twist on them at the end , and while that may not be completely untrue , it doesn't do it in a way that leaves you feeling cheated . Every movie with a successful twist has to lead you in the wrong direction to a certain extent , but it is whether or not it was obvious or at least cleverly crafted that makes the difference , and Matchstick Men is VERY cleverly crafted . Perhaps more pressing than the concern of leading the audience in the wrong direction , Matchstick Men does , in fact , have a problem with being a little bit too convenient . It is a very complex story , which makes it extremely entertaining , but this also gives it the feeling ( especially when the girl happens to walk into her father's work at the carpet store at the end of the film ) that everything just worked out too perfectly . Sure , deciding to buy carpet with her loser boyfriend at just the wrong carpet store is perfectly plausible , it may seem strange that she did it exactly six months after ripping him off . But of course , as always , Nicholas Cage delivers a great performance as the slightly disturbed but highly amusing Roy Waller , and Sam Rockwell draws on some of his best performances , especially his performance as Billy the Kid in The Green Mile , and takes the best parts while still adding new dimensions to his iconography . Outstanding .
Despite obvious and almost crippling weaknesses , Message In A Bottle comes out on top .	Message In A Bottle is the interesting but extremely unlikely story of a woman who tries to find the author of a romantic message she found in a bottle that had washed up on a beach . Robin Wright plays the part of Theresa Osborne , who works for the Chicago Tribune . She is touched by the beautifully written note , and upon her return to Chicago , she manages to get it printed in the newspaper . Needless to say , the paper is flooded with responses , someone reports having found a similar note , and the search begins . This is where the real problems come along , because some of the clues that come along and the way that they are followed are just too unlikely , and this is made even worse by the quickness with which Theresa finds Garrett ( Costner ) . Think about the possibilities of finding a note in a bottle on a beach somewhere that been floating for who knows how long , conducting some kind of search ( however thorough ) , and then finding the person who wrote it . ( spoilers ) On the other hand , this is a romance , and the premise is nothing if it's not romantic . Because of that , Message In A Bottle makes a great date movie , but in that case , the ending was probably too much . It's cool to go out and watch a tear jerker every once in a while , but you don't want your date to be crying her eyes out all night . That's not cool . It's actually kind of hard to form a quick opinion of Message In A Bottle , because the way that Garrett was searched for and eventually found , although it was probably the most efficient method , was extremely unlikely . But on the other hand , it makes for some quality romance . Then you find that the ending was almost too painful for it to be effective as a romance film , but on the other hand , at least they didn't slap on a cutesy happy Hollywood ending to make all the saps happy . I have to admit that that impressed me , because it makes this a unique film . While I was actually watching the movie , I noticed a lot of things that really bothered me , but when I looked back after it was over , I could see that it was really a good film . The ending doesn't satisfy as a romance , but it's good to see something different once in a while .
Bad luck sub . . .	I have of late been digesting massive amounts of books and documentaries concerning the German submarines in World War II , due to having recently read an astounding book called Shadow Divers , in which a group of deep shipwreck divers on the east coast discover a sunken U-boat off the coast of New Jersey that no government or military history expert in the world can explain . This documentary is about the U-505 , the first ( and only , I think ) German submarine which was not destroyed , but was captured , and now sits on display in a museum in Chicago , and from which the New Jersey divers obtained some crucial information as to how to identify the U-boat wreck that they had discovered . The documentary goes to great lengths to give an in-depth history lesson as to what was happening in the war at the time the U-505 sailed , including the lengthy list of troubles that she suffered before finally making it out to sea . It is an incredible story , the life of U-505 , not the least reason for which is that the ship's captain has since visited the U-boat on display , alongside the captain of the American ship which captured her . The two men are friends now , which just makes me feel good about human nature . Any thoughts on whether anyone from opposite sides of America's war today will be shaking hands in a few short decades ? One can only wonder . . .
Ridley Scott seems to have done it again .	What a great show this was . Gladiator was intense , and extremely well made . The casting was perfect , particularly on the parts of Russel Crowe and Joaquin Phoenix . Both were startlingly convincing in their roles , and the fighting scenes were absolutely jaw-dropping . There's nothing like brutal violence to make your day complete , right ? The only complaint that I have about Gladiator was that I think it was a little too long , but then again , the best movies are generally a bit longer than average . Even more than that , though , were the special effects . In my opinion , if something looks even the tiniest bit fake , then it becomes immediately obvious that the audience is being manipulated , and that takes so much away from the movie . This happened most clearly with the lions toward the end of Gladiator . As a whole , Gladiator was a spectacular film . It should not be missed by anyone ( unless you have problems with seeing decapitations ) and it will surely be added to Ridley Scott's respectable list of classics . The camera work , the striking use of color , the amazing acting , and the panoramic settings give this film truly epic proportions . Way to go , Ridley .
The meaning of supernatural thriller is completely re-written by M . Night Shyamalan with the stunningly encompassing Sixth Sense .	M . Night Shyamalan returns to directing for his second effort after the disappointing Wide Awake , which he directed for release in 1998 . His second film , The Sixth Sense , was a staggering success that rocketed Shyamalan to the very top of the filmmaking world . Bruce Willis plays Malcolm Crowe , a child psychologist who takes on the excessively challenging task of helping young Cole Sear ( played with amazing skill by Haley Joel Osment ) , a boy who is cursed with the ability to see dead people . Complicating the plot is the fact that Malcolm once had a young boy as a patient with the same problem , and he was unable to help him , and he is now afraid that the same thing will happen with Cole . Every individual scene in The Sixth Sense is saturated with cinematic trickery , giving even the liveliest settings , a birthday party for example , a strikingly eerie feel . Because of that , even though the film is not non-stop relentless thrills and scares , it never lets the audience relax , which is one of the main things that make it such a good movie . Besides that , not only does the film avoid excessive gore and tasteless violence , it also provides the perfect premise for presenting the small amount of gore that it does contain . Cole is able to see people who are dead , and naturally he sees them as they look when they died . This provides for some seriously scary moments , such as when he is using the bathroom in the middle of the night and the woman walks by the doorway . Very simple , but coupled with the startling sound effects at that moment , this is one of the scariest scenes seen in movies in recent years . The Sixth Sense had a incredibly imaginative and original story , and it was presented with great skill . It has a certain quality that very few movies of this type have . Most movies try to keep the audience guessing ( Wild Things ) , but in The Sixth Sense , the audience doesn't even know that something is amiss . Before the breathtaking plot twist , the ending is not even considered as a possibility . However , once the ending is realized , a number of questions begin to arise . ( spoiler ) How could Malcolm have lived for so long as a dead person without noticing anything strange ? Wouldn't it seem strange to him that no one was able to see him since that one night when he got shot by his former patient ? He couldn't possibly interact with anyone in the world of the living . And even if he could , why didn't his fiancee acknowledge him at the restaurant ? I mean , assuming that he doesn't know he's dead . Questions like this are usually inevitable with a movie like The Sixth Sense , and I think that they could have been answered if the film would have gone into how it's possible for these people not to know that they are dead , even though the back of their head is blown out , or half of the skin on their face has been burned off . Do they just perceive everything as being normal ? I don't know , but either way , despite trivial shortcomings like this , The Sixth Sense is a groundbreaking supernatural thriller , and you see something new in it every time you watch it . That's a rare quality that not many movies have . Don't miss this one .
One of the most curious of curiosity pieces . . .	It's always fascinating to watch movies that are this old because it's like looking a hundred years into the past . You get to see a glimpse of what the world was like a century ago , even though in this particular film all we see is three guys hammering on an anvil . Blacksmith Scene was the first film ever to be shown to a large audience , I think it was something like 200 people who watched it one at a time on a kinetoscope after a lecture by the Edison Company , the creators of the film . Actual projection of movies didn't start until about a year or so later . There are a lot of interesting things about this film , especially since it's the first one that was made to be shown to a large audience . These are actors in the film , not actual blacksmiths , so it's not even a documentary but it's interesting that the first thing portrayed is actual work . A perfect way to introduce a new medium . Another thing that is pretty interesting is the way they pass around that bottle of beer - even in this earliest of early films , they are striving to entertain . This is not just a moving photograph , but a primitive film that seeks to do exactly what every film made thereafter strives to do - hold the audience's attention . Obviously , it was a lot easier for a moving picture to hold the audience's attention in 1893 than it is today , but in this primitive film all of the major requirements of a film can be found . Except a plot , of course . . .
A window into another time .	The appeal of ancient films like this one is that you get to see an actual moving image of life over 100 years ago . Here are a lot of people leaving a factory , all of them dead by now and none of them even remotely aware of the magnitude of the invention that they are walking before . I was shocked to read one reviewer call this film as boring as home videos today , and at least one other mistakenly identified it as the first film ever made ( it was the first film made at the rate of 16 frames per second , rather than the then-normal 46 frames per second ) . Sure , all you see is a lot of people filing out of a building and passing before the cinematograph on their way home from work , but this is a curiosity piece for dozens of reasons , not the least of which is that it was the first film made by the Lumiére brothers , who probably had a stronger impact on the development of the cinema than any other individual or group of individuals in history .
The other kind of terrorism ?	In a time when the world is so focused on the conflict unfolding in Iraq , the thing that is most clear to me after watching this movie is the old saying that after thousands of years of wars fought in the name of religion , we are not a second closer to peace than we ever were . Osama looks at one of the many religious struggles in the world by focusing on the plight of women under the iron fist of the Taliban , one of the sickest and most debase groups on earth . The story focuses on a young girl living in an all female family , and since they live in an area ruled by the Taliban , they are not allowed to leave the house , because women walking around unaccompanied by a male are promptly arrested and subjected to inhuman punishments . With no way to feed themselves , since women are not even allowed to leave the house , much less work , their only choice is to dress up their youngest member of the family as a boy and have her go out and find work to feed everyone else . The most important thing that the film does is that it calls attention to the atrocities that are being committed by religious groups beyond hijacking planes or planting roadside bombs or kidnapping and beheading people . In addition to all of those horrible atrocities , there are women in Afghanistan that are literally treated not just like property , but like animals . At one point in the movie , one character , a woman , wishes that God had never created women . The fact that she wishes that God had never created women , rather than wishing something a little more logical , like that God had never created the Taliban , serves to bring into sharp focus the extent to which the Taliban have perverted these women's minds . The film opens with a surreal scene of a large group of women in ghostly blue burkhas in a demonstration in which they chant their desire for the right to work , for some reason seeming to have forgotten that they do not even have the right to assemble . The local Taliban , however , remembers this little detail very clearly , and starts by hosing the women down with high-pressure hoses before opening fire on them . That such madness is committed in the name of some god is an illustration of how humans can take the concept of religion and twist it so horribly wrong that they can justify doing whatever on earth they feel like . The movie is a study not only of the atrocious practices that are carried out against women by the Taliban , but also an illustration of the elasticity of the concept of religion . Especially in America , we have this conception of religion as this benevolent force that transcends the suffering that we endure on earth and promises justification through a higher medium . Osama shows us that it is the very concept of religion that is used in some practices to justify that suffering for which we look above for reasoning and comfort . The Taliban have succeeded in amassing all of the worst possible appropriations associated with religion , turning it from a benevolent force and into a tool with which to justify their massive destruction of human rights , which are not an American concept but a religious one . Aristotle once said , ' I do not feel obliged to believe that the same God that has endowed us with sense , reason , and intellect has intended us to forego their use . ' Similarly , I personally do not feel obliged to believe that any God in existence , presiding over any religious sect , could possibly approve of the wholesale torture , abuse , and destruction of women , a divine creation if there is a single one on earth .
This is what you get when you mix Charlie Chaplin , the Tramp , and a healthy dose of Hitler inspired Nazism .	Charlie Chaplin was still making silent films as late as 1936 because he began his career as a silent filmmaker and therefore that is where most of his talent seemed to lie . His tramp remains one of the most recognizable figures in cinematic history even almost 100 years after his introduction , but Chaplin knew at the time that it would probably be fatal to the character and possibly to his career if he were to give the tramp a voice . People just wouldn't be able to accept it , or at least it would just not sound right . However , in The Great Dictator , he seems to pull off this seemingly impossible feat very successfully . Sure , it's true that he wasn't exactly the tramp in The Great Dictator , but the costume and the behavior was similar enough for them to be considered the same character . In this film , the tramp is a Jewish barber who lost his memory during battle in World War I , and therefore doesn't understand what's happening when he is later discriminated against by the Nazis . He later becomes confused with Hynkel , the Nazi leader who looks exactly like him . This misidentification does not happen until pretty late in the film , so it is the events that lead up to it that make up most of the comedy here . It's pretty obvious that Hynkel is a thinly disguised parody of Adolf Hitler , which is fitting because Hitler copied the tramp's mustache as his own . Chaplin was always very sympathetic to the poor and underprivileged in his films , and he took the oppression of the Nazis as another chance to do that . He makes a hilarious mockery of Hitler while preserving just the right amount of respectability and authority in his character so that he remains credible . Hynkel is clearly a bumbler in the film , and it's great to see that Chaplin had the nerve to give Hitler a good slap back in 1940 . The Great Dictator has been criticized for the fairly extensive speech that ends the film , if only because it is so uncharacteristic of a Chaplin film , but that is unquestionably one of the most powerful scenes in the film . Chaplin spends the entire two hours making you laugh at the tragedy that is going on in Europe at the time , but at the end he gets serious and really makes sure that his message is felt powerfully . As was the case almost 50 years later in Life Is Beautiful , a story about the Nazi Holocaust is told in an entertaining and amusing way , but the powerful message does not lose any of its effectiveness because of that . Chaplin made dozens of hilarious films about uncomfortable subjects and topics , and The Great Dictator remains one of the best and most memorable , as well as one of the most important .
John Ford's stark portrayal of a poor family in the depression remains one of the most moving films in history .	The Grapes of Wrath is the story of the Joad family , who are run off of their land in Oklahoma because of drought and poverty . I think that one of the most striking elements of this movie is the black and white cinematography . Obviously , there wasn't a lot of variation on this particular subject in 1940 , but especially today , the lack of color enhances the feelings of poverty and desperation and emptiness due to the family's loss of their home . In this way , because it would not be nearly as noticeable in 1940 as it is today , this time-enhanced effect of the black and white film stock has allowed for the film's impact to actually grow with time . Henry Fonda plays the part of Tom Joad , a young member of the family who is released from prison at the beginning of the film , only to find that his family has been driven from their home and is staying at his uncle's house until they can figure out what to do about their sudden homelessness . It is by pure coincidence that Tom was released early on good behavior , otherwise he may very well never have seen his family again . He finds them in a state of near desperation , as they begin more and more to realize the predicament that they are in . Their trek across half of the country , on their way to California to assume jobs that they've heard about , provides for a substantial portion of the plot and is extremely well-structured . The family encounters every hardship imaginable on this journey , from family members dying to their struggle to feed themselves to their rickety old truck constantly breaking down . They run into disillusioned people who claim that they've been to California and there are really no jobs there , at least not nearly as many as there are people going to look for them . They are periodically and derogatorily referred to as ' Okies , ' a term which places them in a broad category of poor folks driven from there homes in middle America who are traveling to the coast to get jobs that aren't there . There is so much doubt and hardship presented that it is never really certain whether they really will find jobs . The audience is never able to assume a happy ending , because there is so much contrary foreshadowing throughout the film . The struggles do not abate once the family reaches California and takes up shaky residence in residential areas that would be more accurately referred to as shanty towns , and the rest of the film is dominated by the family's efforts to survive in a new and unfamiliar place , while working for wages that are barely sufficient to prevent starvation . Ma Joad spends the majority of the film stressing the importance of keeping the family together , seeing it as the only thing that they really had left , but this is eventually set aside in favor of each member of the family not only surviving but also flourishing , which provides for one of the many powerful messages that the film delivers . The Grapes of Wrath is not exactly an edge of your seat film , but it is a shockingly realistic portrayal of the suffering that so many people and families experienced during the Great Depression . The performances are flawless , and the experience is not only powerful and moving but also educational . It's no secret that most people do not watch movies to learn , but there comes a point , at least once in a great while , when a person should watch a film that requires a little mental thought processing , and in such cases , The Grapes of Wrath is an excellent choice .
The original spoof classic !	Unfortunately , Airplane ! has been , for me , one of those comedies that I have seen so many times in the video store that its appeal has gradually worn down to almost nothing , resulting in a total absence of interest in renting it . I eventually watched it one day because I worked at the video store and could rent movies for free , and was continuing on my desperate attempt to watch every movie in the store ( a goal which continues to this day , although by now I've come to realize that it's never going to happen ) . During my quest , by the way , I also saw the old 1970 film Airport , probably ten years after having seen parts of Airplane ! , and realized that this is one of the many movies that inspired Airplane ! In general , I'm a little cautious about movies that have exclamation points in the titles , but Airplane ! is without a doubt one of the funniest movies ever made . Consider , for example , those little montages that studios sometimes put together and put at the beginning of movies when they come out on videotape , honoring the great movies that the studio has made in the past . They show lots of memorable clips from their old movies ( and I always write all of these titles down , determined to watch them all , and then promptly lose the list that I made ) to remind you how great they are . I had a good time watching Airplane ! and picking out how many scenes are in the movie that can and do go into those memorable montages . Airplane ! is made up of a series of hilarious scenes that string together a thin shoestring plot , which ironically speaks in the movie's defense . In general , movies with weak stories that are driven along by comedic stunts and pranks and whatnot tend to be pretty weak , but Airplane ! is not driven by stunts to cover a weak story as much as the quality of the stunts and the slapstick comedy is so good that they overshadow everything else . It's interesting to watch someone like Robert Stack so many years ago and see that he looked and talked exactly like he did in Unsolved Mysteries so many years later , a show the seriousness of which boggles the mind , given that it's hosted by someone who did so well in a movie like this one . My favorite thing about this movie is , obviously , the huge amount of sound bytes that comes from it , just the cleverness of the way it was written and put together . You have the main character's ' drinking problem , ' the airport announcers ( ' Listen , Betty , don't start up with your white zone sht again ? ' ) , the stress of the people investigating the situation on the plane ( ' Looks like I picked the wrong week to quit smoking / drinking / amphetamines . ' ) , the plays on words ( ' There's a problem at the control tower ! ' ' What is it ? ' ' It's the big tower where the air traffic controllers talk to the planes . ' ) , that one airport employee who was suspiciously bubbly and excited throughout the entire movie ( while providing some of its best comedy ) , and then of course were the situational gags , such as Robert Stack pulling off his sunglasses to reveal another pair underneath ( arguably the most famous scene in the entire film ) . This is a movie where a list like this could go on and on , and I'm sure if you go to the memorable quotes page on the IMDb you'll find a gigantic list of hilarious quotes from the movie there . It is no secret that this is something of a childish and immature comedy , but it is smartly written and has so many great scenes and bits of dialogue that it's one of those rare movies that makes you want to take notes so you won't forget a lot of the lines . It is one of the earlier versions of Leslie Nielsen's spoofs , a genre in itself which went on to tremendous success with lots of great ( and some not so great ) spoofs to follow .
Vintage Twilight Zone . . .	The Invaders is certainly the most classic and exemplar twilight zone episode that I've seen so far . It combines the paranormal with the unexplained and the mysterious in that fascinating way that only the twilight zone can , and gives us one of Serling's beloved and wonderful twists at the end , turning the entire story on its head and really giving you something to think about . I can't help but notice that there are remarkably few shows on TV anymore that provide any opportunity or suggestion for the audience to use their heads . The show makes unusually strong social commentary regarding things like our expectations and perception , but most significantly , about the American peoples ' tendencies and behaviors while in a foreign and threatening environment . I don't think I can say much more than that without giving the entire episode away , but this is certainly one that should not be missed . It should be noted , also , that even though their is not a syllable of dialogue , the one performance in the movie is mediocre at best ( the screaming in terror scene strikes me as a rehearsal that was accidentally filmed and then accidentally put into the final cut ) , the props and set are simple in the extreme ( it's hard to stifle a laugh whenever the tiny space aliens creep around corners . . . ) but it takes all of those things and turns them into one of the series ' best episodes . Bravo !
D . W . Griffith revolutionizes the filmmaking industry ( an industry for filmmaking did , in fact , exist by this time ) with a simple but groundbreaking film about a girl trying to protect herself and her money .	The Girl and Her Trust , like all films made in the early 1900s , is very simple and very short , but Griffith introduces a number of filmmaking techniques that remain widely in use to this day . Earlier films generally played like a stage play , with minimal cutting or editing , and each scene taking place in the same location and generally in the same shot . The Girl and Her Trust was one of the first films to suggest that editing could create artificial environments by linking sets together , and it also gave a better idea of what exactly was going on ( the close-up of the girl as she places the bullet in the keyhole is a great example ) . Besides that , this film also had a very well-made chase at the end , in which the good guys are in a locomotive chasing the bad guys ( the guys who stole the $2000 from the girl - her ' trust ' ) who are pumping furiously on a railroad handcart . Although technically crude by today's standards , this scene had every necessary element of a good chase sequence , and it works very well . The film also introduced the idea of cross-cutting in filmmaking , as well as the idea of filming outdoors ( a technique barely and clumsily employed by Edwin Porter in The Great Train Robbery ) . The Girl and Her Trust is a historic film , but as with all films that were made in the early 1900s , you need to keep its age in mind . It's not going to blow you away with visuals or sound , but if you keep in mind the time period in which it was made , you can begin to really appreciate its innovation .
Just as incredible as the first two , Back To The Future III provides two hours of great fun .	Doc Brown and Marty McFly are back for another time travel adventure , and once again their exploits are great to watch . The film is well-written and directed , and all of the actors involved delivered spectacular performances once again . There could not have been a sharper contrast between the last Back To The Future and this one ( we go from the neon colored future of flying cars and 3D movies to the old dirty west with its overflowing spittoons and gunfighting ) , yet the story holds together strongly and keeps the attention of the audience from start to finish . The old west was portrayed beautifully , although maybe a bit crudely and stereotypically , and the way that the town of Hill Valley was transformed for all three films is one of the biggest highlights of the series as a whole . In Back To The Future III , the challenges that face Doc and Marty are ingenius , and a solution to their problems is extremely difficult to think of , which makes it that much more fun to watch the film . Back To The Future III is an excellent way to have ended the trilogy , which as a whole is among the best trilogies ever made . What other group of movies follows the same characters through their adventures which take place in three different centuries ? Clearly , Back To The Future III deserves a lot of respect , as do the previous two films . They are all a huge amount of fun to watch , and the films can be enjoyed by people of all ages , which is a quality that few films possess . If you haven't seen these films , go out and get them , and if you have seen them , you may want to go out and watch them again .
Spectacular comic book fun !	It is well known that Peter Parker is probably most well liked because of his human weaknesses than for his superpowers . He's a comic book superhero who is presented as just a normal guy who suddenly finds himself in possession of amazing powers that he doesn't quite understand or know how best to use , just like any of us would probably react . A lot of people were dissatisfied with the original film for a whole list of superficial reasons , but even those minor shortcomings seem to have been fixed for this sequel , which is one of the best comic book movies I've ever seen . Peter Parker is in college now and remains hopelessly in love with Mary Jane , but also remains a hopeless romantic , to say nothing of his unwillingness to get close to her for fear of endangering her . Superheroes , you see , tend to make enemies easily . And speaking of enemies , the villains in Spiderman 2 are a much welcome step up from Willem Dafoe's too - clownish Green Goblin with the plastic mask . There is a complicated history between Parker and Harry Osborn ( James Franco ) , who is both in love with Mary Jane and the son of Norman Osborn , the alter-ego of the Green Goblin in the first film . As revelations are made about who Parker really is , their best friend relationship of course becomes increasingly prickly . Alfred Molina is also brilliant as the perfectly named Dr . Otto Octavius , the main villain , a benevolent scientist whose desire to create a means for harnessing cold fusion turns him into a madman , which is complicated by the fact that he has developed a way to connect some massive and enormously destructive metal tentacles to his body , enabling him to climb buildings like a spider and crush and toss humans around with equal ease . There is a scene involving a group of doctors that really reminds you who the director is . " Doc Ock " has a laboratory on the bank of the East River in which he has created a device which will either prove that he can use cold fusion or , if he fails , will destroy all of Manhattan . Parker doesn't think it's worth the risk , and the grand climax of the movie culminates in the final fulfillment of Octavius ' experiment while Spiderman tries to stop it and save Mary Jane at the same time . It seems that Spiderman 2 is the result of a production team that openly discussed what might be weaknesses in the still fun and exciting original film , and how to fix them and make them better in the sequel . Superhero movies are often hit or miss , and usually it's pretty obvious what the misses are ( hear that , Punisher ? ) . The original Spiderman was a hit , and the first sequel is a bigger hit . People who don't know the comic books can still have a great time , and genre fans are sure to love it !
Sometimes , given sufficient objectives , even the people who are closer to you than anyone else can turn against you .	In another lengthy samurai epic , Akira Kurosawa approaches the boundaries between family members and the damaging affects of one of his rather common themes - reckless ambition . This is very clearly a Kurosawa film , a respectable trait that is most clear in the cinematography , in which Kurosawa uses many extensive shots with little to no camera movement , as well as the common natural setting , characterized by the far-reaching landscapes of sweeping hillsides . Ran has a fascinating plot about an aging King who considers passing on his empire to his three sons . Lord Hidetora is well into his 70s ( maybe Kurosawa saw part of himself in this character ? ) , and he addresses the fact that he cannot go on ruling forever , despite the fact that he fought for his empire for over 50 years . His youngest son disagrees with his proposition of passing on leadership yet maintaining much of his control , yet Hidetora nonetheless divides his kingdom into three parts to his sons , hoping that they will remain allies . As an incentive , he demonstrates with arrows that a single one can be broken easily , but three arrows together cannot be broken as easily . The three sons , Taro , Jiro , and Saburo do not agree with Hidetora's philosophy and , as new leaders of their respective portions of Lord Hidetora's kingdom , they soon begin to fight each other for full leadership . Hidetora is attacked by his own sons and cast out of the kingdom , left to wander hopelessly from castle to castle with no one but his goofy jester at his side , who stays with the Lord entirely out of duty to him . One of Hidetora's three sons eventually returns and tries to patch up their damaged relationship , but before they can do that , he gets killed and Hidetora is left alone again , and the empire that he worked for during most of his life is left in ruins . As is also common in Kurosawa's films , there are a lot of interesting and significant characters in the film that play a substantial role in the story . When we first meet Lady Kaede , the woman who was married to Taro but then forced her way into marriage with his younger brother Jiro ( the new Lord ) upon Taro's death , she is holding a knife to Lord Jiro , threatening him with blackmail if he does not accept her as his wife . The first thing that makes her interesting is that her objective in marrying Jiro is to ensure herself a comfortable life , and so she can avoid fading into obscurity as the widow of a past Lord . Her blackmail threat has a lot of damaging potential for Jiro , and he accepts her as his wife . From the very start of her role in the film , her ultimate goal was to bring about the downfall of the kingdom in order to avenge her family who had been killed when Lord Hidetora was in power . This is not expected or even hinted at previously in the film , and it gives her character much more depth . There is some great irony in Ran that occurs after Lord Hidetora is banished and is left wandering the endless plains . He and his jester come across a run-down wooden shack at the foot of a hillside , and they approach it , asking for help and shelter . The occupant , after explaining that his home is too poor to offer any shelter , turns out to be a man who , as a boy , had had his eyes gouged out under the orders of Lord Hidetora in exchange for sparing his life . Once the jester and Hidetora are inside , the man explains that he will offer hospitality in the only way that Hidetora left him able , he will play them music on his flute . In this scene , Hidetora is confronted with the terrible suffering which he once imposed , and it is horribly ironic that he is forced to take shelter from someone that he once devastatingly mutilated without a second thought . In Ran , as was also the case in Kagemusha , which is a very similar film in time period and content , Kurosawa again employs a subtler style of directing . Again , he focuses more on the story than on cinematic trickery , and with spectacular results . The extensive use of the motionless camera is stunningly effective , but he also uses it in a different way here . Ran opens with a series of stationary shots of a group of horses standing majestically with their riders on the top of a flowing hillside . Virtually the exact same image is shown from a fairly wide variety of different angles and distances , indicating the vastness of the plains and the power that these characters hold ( or will soon hold ) over them . Again , a musical score is entirely absent throughout the vast majority of the film , and the same lengthy scenes are employed to a large extent to communicate the story of the film . An example of one of these exceedingly long takes can be seen early in the film when Lord Hidetora first announces his what he intends to do with the leadership of his kingdom . The ending of Ran is definitely realistic , for many reasons . There are no myths perpetuated by it ; close family members do not always stand together , even the noblest intentions are not always realized , and no one lives happily ever after . Ran is the story of a man in a position of power who makes a trusting decision that backfires devastatingly , and the ensuing madness is not altered to make way for a happy ending . It seems that Kurosawa was trying to capture the militarily charged atmosphere that is present in times of war , and the things mentioned above are some of the many efforts he made to make it all as real as possible , even at the expense of the audience's emotions .
A stylistic masterpiece !	I remember being blown away when Natural Born Killers was first released , not because it was so good ( I was in high school at the time and didn't really have a good grasp on what " good " really was in a movie ) , but just by how COOL it was . As I mentioned , I was in high school at the time , so anything that glorified violence was just cool and fun to me . As I went through college I heard more and more people talk about how terrible it is , because it's all about killing and murder and bloodshed and who wants to respect a movie about those things ? But after more than ten years it has become clear that Natural Born Killers was never about violence , it is about the culture of broadcasting violence in America , about the American peoples fascination with crime , as exemplified by things like the seemingly endless O . J . Simpson trial and the L . A . riots , both of which received astonishing amounts of media coverage . Especially O . J . Simpson . My God man , I swear people at home watching TV knew more about that case than the jury . Woody Harrelson and Juliette Lewis are perfectly cast as Mickey and Mallory Knox , America's favorite serial killers . They travel across the country on their killing spree , but after a while you begin to notice that very little time is spent showing the killings - much more is spent on the media's and , by extension , the public's reaction . Consider , for example , Robert Downey Jr . ' s character , a journalist , jumps for joy as the killings continue , because it's such a big story . Even the law enforcement involved is clearly brimming with glee at the publicity . More than anything else , Natural Born Killers is a satire about the American appetite for violence . And when I say appetite , I don't just mean how much we can swallow , I mean how much we demand . It's all an extension of things like the O . J . Simpson trial , or even shows like Cops , which is one of my favorites , where we can all sit back in the comfort of our own homes and watch someone else on TV having their lives screwed up , whether they are innocent or guilty . It doesn't matter , as long as it's someone else ! I freely admit that I enjoy watching shows like Cops for exactly that reason . I got in trouble with the police a lot in high school so I know what a gigantic pain it is to have to deal with what comes next , and it is fun to watch it happen to other people because it reminds me of my own freedom . But Director Oliver Stone goes a step further in Natural Born Killers . The movie doesn't satirize America's acceptance of punishing criminals , we accept and glorify the actual violence , symbolized by Mickey and Mallory themselves . It turns our stomachs , but we love it . . .
Citizen Kane in black and white !	In one of the best episodes of the entire series , Barbara Nichols plays Liz Powell , a stripper hospitalized because of nervous fatigue , and now suffering from a horrific recurring nightmare . She is having trouble differentiating between dream and reality and , worst of all , getting anyone to believe her . A lot has been said about how this is one of the few episodes of the show filmed on videotape , although I have to say that in this case it doesn't really detract from the experience of the episode at all . One IMDb reviewer claims that it was filmed on video for budgetary reasons , which may or may not be true but either way it makes no sense at all , given that the show was enormously popular in its second season and is not exactly famous for extravagance . Where would all the money have been going ? At any rate , the show is well-written , to a certain extent , although also has its share of script blunders . At one point early in the episode , Liz's doctor ( a wonderfully subdued performance by Jonathan Harris of Lost in Space fame ) is explaining the dream to her dirtbag agent , describing how she " believes the nurse in her dream is one of our night nurses here at the hospital . " " How should I know what any of your nurses look like ? " she replies indignantly . Why does she argue ? He's only repeating her own words . It's like she's arguing with herself . On the other hand , this could just be a reflection of her fragile state of mind . The majority of the episode is purely brilliant and genuinely frightening . I developed an intense fear of hallways from watching The Shining when I was a kid , and that fear was brought back as Liz wanders down the hall , turning a corner just in time to see the elevator doors closing on a weirdly stolid nurse , standing rigid with her head in shadow , bringing to mind those two twins in the Shining . Unbelievably creepy in both cases . The way the elevator is followed using the dial on the wall is a brilliant device for creating real tension , and Arlene Martel is almost bizarrely effective as the nightmare nurse , creating truly chilling moments despite the filming format and obviously cheap sets ( seriously , did anyone believe that hallway behind her ? ) . But what I really love about the episode is the sense of powerlessness that Liz suffers from as we are taken through the dream for the second time . Her doctor suggested not reaching for the water glass , thus breaking the chain of events in the dream and hopefully changing the rest of it . The line between reality and dreamland is blurred with amazing effectiveness as we watch Liz wake up in her dream , still clearly remembering the conversation from reality and bringing it into play in her dream by resisting the glass of water and reaching for a cigarette instead . And by the way , notice that when we see a shot of the night nurse just before the beginning of the second dream sequence , the clock on the wall reads 12 : 10 . Get it ? Get it ? It's always interesting to consider the films that appear to have been inspired by twilight zone episodes , in this case possibly the disappointing Jim Carrey thriller 23 , and definitely the outstanding teen thriller Final Destination ( not necessarily the two disappointing sequels ) . One IMDb user mentions that this episode has one of the worst special effects in recent memory . I'm hoping they are referring to the bad backdrop ( which itself is clearly nothing more than a painted hallway a few feet behind the actor , but still adds to the surrealism of the dream sequences ) and not the plane exploding near the end of the episode , which was a remarkably impressive effect , given the time period . Another interesting blunder is the badly botched dubbed correction of Serling's introduction of next week's story , clearly added in years later and not even remotely matching the rest of the monologue . A bigger problem I had with the sequence was the lack of thought put into how people behave . I imagine in an effort to hasten toward ending the episode , when Liz bumps into the woman and causes her to drop her vase , which shatters across the floor , the woman turns without a word and walks away . Maybe she wasn't getting paid much and wanted to get out of there . It reminds me of movies where cars come within inches of a catastrophic collision , and immediately after slamming on their brakes , they hit the gas and continue on like nothing happened . Nevertheless , this is an exemplary episode of the show , and works on more levels than can be described in a single review . I love how it ends without really concluding the whole problem of reality vs . dreamland , making you think over the episode and what happened , that's one of the reasons that this episode will really stay with you . Bravo ! Oh , and I realize that Citizen Kane was also in black and white . Thanks for reading all the way to the end of my review !
One of Gallagher's best .	Gallagher starts off this video talking about the differences between the 60s and the 80s , and it is some of the funniest comedy in any of his videos . He talks about how it seems that in the 70s they were trying to ' re-do the 60s but it just ain't comin ' out right , is it ? ' ' The 60s were so exciting , what's happenin ' now ? Nothin ' ! I am so bored I'm flashin ' back ! ' There is also a hilarious segment about pointing out stupidity . Like the one about the buffet ( ' I should have known something was wrong , you don't have a matre'd at a buffet , it's like a hubcap on a tractor ! ' ) or , even better , the one about having to tell the judge he was stupid ( ' ' I want to go to traffic school . ' ? Okay , but don't be late ! ' ? Judge , that's the same sht got me here ! ' ) . This kind of comedy doesn't translate into words very well , so it doesn't do it justice to give examples here . You just have to see this stuff for yourself . He comes out with his interesting inventions , his urge to point out stupidity in the world and to exercise your mind . This is intellectual comedy , which is one of the biggest values of Gallagher's comedy . He knows how to put on a good show and manages to be entertaining to a wide variety of audiences of nearly all ages . He's got to be one of the greatest stand-up comedians ever .
Another ambitious film from Akira Kurosawa .	Throne of Blood is , in fact , ambitious as a film as well as in its meaning . It suggests that ambition , when based on whimsical motivation , can sometimes lead to the destruction of very close relationships , and even one's own ruination . Throne of Blood begins with a series of messengers bringing news to their daimyo about an invasion of North Castle by the Fujimaki , which is led by an enemy samurai named Inui . The invasion is broken and then bravely retaliated against by two armies which are led by two samurai , Washizu and Miki . As they are returning to the daimyo , they come across a ghostly spirit in the woods , who predicts leadership positions to be attained by each of them that very day . These predictions come true to the last detail , which sets off a destructive chain of events . Miki becomes the leader of Fort One , as predicted , and Washizu becomes the leader of the North Castle , as predicted , but it is also predicted that Miki's son will rule North Castle after Washizu , which causes problems later in the film . Despite their good fortune , Miki and especially Washizu must keep their encounter with the fortune-telling spirit in the woods a secret because , if word gets out , Washizu is likely to become endangered because people will want him dead out of suspicion that he will try to kill Yoshiteru , Miki's son , to keep him from taking over Washizu's position . In an effort to prevent any of this , Washizu decides to name Yoshiteru as his heir , but Asaji , his wife , forbids this , saying that she is pregnant . It is Asaji who pressures Washizu into having Miki killed so that he can be the sole ruler of all of the provinces , but when this happens , the other castles turn against him and seek to avenge the leaders who have been killed under his orders . In the end , he is killed by his own army , which has lost all faith in him and has also turned against him . There was a very interesting use of symbolism in Throne of Blood that is worth pointing out here . From literally the beginning to the end of the film , the setting is covered in thick fog . One scene that comes to mind that quite clearly communicates the meaning of this fog is early in the film , just after Washizu and Miki saw the spirit in the woods , and had their futures revealed to them . As they are riding out of the woods and back to the castle , they begin to cross large , flat plains that are covered in this stiflingly thick fog . There is literally a couple of minutes of footage of them riding their horses into the fog , then back toward the camera , then into the fog in another direction , and then back toward the camera , and so on . This fog seems to symbolize a natural inability to see ahead , or to see the future , as it were . This technique is especially effective this early in the film because much of the two men's decisions later in the film are founded on what the spirit told them , yet the fog symbolizes a type of foreshadowing that suggests that this premonition cannot be correct . Throne of Blood is also structured in a very unique way . The film starts off showing a desolated castle , as well as its surroundings , in which there is a sizeable gravestone marking a burial site . While this is being shown , there is a song being sung by an unseen choir about a brave warrior who once ruled this now-deserted castle , but who was ' murdered by ambition . ' At the end of the film , we see this same montage , and the same song is heard , and this is where we learn that the gravestone marks Washizu's burial site . Kurosawa used different camera techniques to communicate parts of the story or to emphasize it in various ways much more than he did in other films , like Ran , Kagemusha , and High and Low . One particularly noteworthy example occurred late in the film , as Washizu is standing over his army . Washizu stands on an elevated walkway , and his army is crowded on the ground below , looking up at him . There is a low angle shot from amidst the men , and while Washizu is small in the shot itself , he is high above the other men , looking down at them , and they are all looking up at him in unison . However , it would seem that , rather than use this shot to convey a sense of superiority or of dominance , Kurosawa probably meant to emphasize his position of power , because this is the scene in which his army turns against him and he is shot with dozens of their arrows . The low angle shot would contradict Washizu's descent into madness if it was meant to show superiority , but to emphasize his position of power at this point in the film , it makes his downfall much more dramatic . This is usually not the case with Akira Kurosawa , but Throne of Blood reflects more of a formalistic style of direction . For example , his use of high and low angle shots , as well as the extensive symbolic use of the fog , suggest more formalism here than realism . Besides that , and probably more obviously , is the way that the strange spirit in the woods was presented . She was in a radiantly lit hut in the middle of the dark woods , and Washizu's encounter with several other spirits later in the film was presented among an extensive use of cutting and editing . The extensive use of very long takes and slow action seen in Ran and Kagemusha is definitely seen here , but not nearly as much . There are scenes in which these long takes are seen , but in addition to them there can be found many more short takes and highly edited sequences , which were largely absent from the previous films . But having done this with the same skill , Kurosawa has fashioned another samurai masterpiece .
One of the most moving films I've ever seen .	I am writing this review on the afternoon of February 27th , a couple hours before the Academy Awards begin , and I really think that the Best Picture category is going to be mostly a contest between The Aviator and Million Dollar Baby , both of which are spectacular films , as are the rest of the nominees ( Finding Neverland , Ray , and Sideways , in my order of preference ) . I caught this movie about a week ago at a theater a block from my house . The one thing that I really like about living in LA is that , especially at Oscar time , just about any movie nominated in any category is bound to still be playing somewhere , regardless of how long ago it was released . Except Best Animated Short Film , of course . I still think those never play anywhere . I have a feeling that Mystic River was passed over for the Best Picture award because of too much similarity to Clint Eastwood's outstanding 1999 film True Crime , and I had anticipated something in that general vein with Million Dollar Baby , if only because the appearance of the film is so similar . Eastwood has gone from making westerns to making one exceedingly dark film after another , and in this film he has succeeded like he never has in his storied career . Eastwood plays Frankie Dunn , the owner of a pretty run-down boxing gym where hopefuls come to work out and get some training from him . It's the kind of gym from which you don't really expect to see many people rise to boxing stardom , so Frankie concentrates hard on one man that he's training , who has a chance at a title bout . It is during this time that Maggie ( Hillary Swank ) walks into the gym and starts calling him Boss , which he does not appreciate because , as he flatly tells her , " I don't train girls . " Up to this point in the film the plot has not really revealed itself . We know we are watching a movie about boxing that's not really about boxing ( a sports movie cliché that Million Dollar Baby brilliantly sidesteps ) and that Maggie is more than likely going to turn into the brilliant boxer that Frankie has been looking for . But beyond that the movie could go in a hundred different directions , and it promptly goes exactly where you didn't think it was going to go . This could very easily have become a quickly forgettable sports film that disappeared into video store obscurity like even the good sports films like Miracle and Mystery , Alaska seem to have done , but by the end of the movie it has gone in such an original direction and given the audience such an emotional workout that , on my way out of the theater I saw people leaning against the handrail . This movie is so powerful that you have to rest after you see it . Frankly , given how violent some of these sports movies are , especially ones like this , it amazes me that no other ones have gone as far as Million Dollar Baby does . The boxing scenes are thrilling to watch , even providing good comic relief as Maggie consistently knocks girls out in the first round and then looks sheepishly over at Frankie in her corner , who has instructed her not to knock them out so fast because it's getting so no one wants to put their boxer in the ring with her . He ends up having to bribe managers . The conflict comes from the fact that Maggie is desperate for a title fight . She has come from a trailer in middle America where she worked as a waitress for something like 17 years , and she knew that she would never do anything else until she got herself out of there on her own . Her family certainly was not going to help . My God man , I could not believe those people . She was uneducated and unskilled , she didn't even know how to box but she had the determination and the motivation to learn , and learn she certainly did . The problem is that one of Frankie's past trainees who managed to get a title fight was Eddie " Scrap-Iron " Dupris ( played in the movie by Morgan Freeman ) , who not only lost the fight but also was knocked blind in one eye . By the end of the movie , by the way , I like to think that Eddie may have considered changing his nickname to Eddie " 110 " Dupris . Frankie blames himself and he doesn't want to have another fighter injured . An honorable feeling , but it clashes with Maggie's goals , for whom not getting a chance to a title fight means she'll have to go back to being a waitress , which to her is nothing more than waiting to die . The interaction between the three characters is some of the best I've seen in years . And I've seen a lot of movies in years . I am reminded of Friday Night Lights , which came out in late 2004 and was hailed as the best sports movie ever made , a bold statement that inspired me to eventually watch it . Fairly entertaining movie , but the ludicrous statement that it's the greatest sports movie ever made becomes even more ludicrous if you consider Million Dollar Baby to be a sports movie . This is one of the great films in all of film history . Do NOT miss it . And with that , it's almost 4 o'clock . I'm going to go up to Hollywood Blvd . and see if I can catch a glimpse of Clint Eastwood .
Better than Pulp Fiction ?	Okay , Snatch may not be better than Pulp Fiction , that's like saying ' bigger than Jesus . ' But Snatch was a pretty big surprise that kind of came out of nowhere . Besides the first rate performances , this film had some incredibly innovative photography ( second only to The Matrix ? ) , as well as some brilliant editing techniques . Some of the editing was so fast and so surprising that it's actually funny ( the plane-flight sequences , for example ) . I normally don't like it when well known actors take on roles involving false accents , and I was actually slightly disappointed when I realized that Brad Pitt's would be this type of role . But as the movie progressed , the fake accent oddly became less and less noticeable , and by the end it had actually become one of the better parts of Pitt's performance in this film . The character that he played ( ' One Punch ' Mickey ) possessed some distinct similarities to Tyler , the character that he played in Fight Club , but was a bit more redneck and less into associating with the outside world . This was a great character , too , especially coming right from Fight Club . That first fight scene was awesome , and as soon as he throws that first punch , you just want to see more . Maybe the fight scenes were a little exaggerated occasionally , but they were just so much fun to watch . ( spoilers ) Unfortunately , I have to admit that I was and am still deeply disappointed by the quick departure of Franky Four Fingers , because Benecio Del Toro stood a good chance of being one of the best actors in the film ( he definitely achieved that status in The Way of the Gun ) . Luckily , the rest of this film was so good that it overshadowed this bad choice of characterization . The presentation of the film ( of several different story lines all finally converging at the end ) is not exactly original , but at least it is utilized very effectively here . Besides that , the movie is full of the obligatory one-liners , but strangely enough , they were able to come up with one after another of these and they were all good , none of that crap that you see coming from Arnie or Van Damme or Seagal . Snatch is a British action comedy in the tradition of Trainspotting ( sort of ) and Lock , Stock , and Two Smoking Barrels , and it is a very well thought out and put together movie . It has countless respectable characteristics , such as the different but very good performances , the excellent directing and editing , as well as a charming title ( ! ! ) . Don't be put off by the fact that the charming title makes it sound like a low budget porno , this is just an excellent action / crime film .
This is not revenge . it's punishment ! !	Spoiler Alert ! Sorry , wrong movie . Anyway , after watching Kill Bill Volume I , Quentin Tarantino's latest smashing entrance into the otherwise relatively boring modern cineplexes , I've decided on a new paint job for my truck . And by that , of course , I mean I don't own a car OR a truck , but if I did I would certainly paint it every hideous color imaginable , including a phrase on the tailgate which would quickly and efficiently negate even the slightest possibility of ever obtaining exactly that which it describes . The Shaggin ' Wagon , as I'll refer to it for the benefit of all of you under-17 IMDb readers , is one of the first of almost two full hours of similarly hilarious images , words , scenes , characters , etc , brought to us by Quentin Tarantino , one of the most effectively humorous yet characteristically violent filmmakers working today . Tarantino has a surprisingly deep understanding of the gravity of violence but he combines that with the equal depth of his understanding of his audience . Hence , the violence in the movie is nothing like violence in real life ( I'll explain this theoretical connection in a minute ) . People know this , especially his audience , which renders his films so effective . Tarantino's understanding of his audience is one of the things that has allowed him to develop such a dedicated following , which I think transcends cult-status by its sheer size , if nothing else . Kill Bill has the curious distinction of being brutally and pretty much endlessly violent , and yet you can't really say that it's too violent , given that so much of the violence is so cartoonish ( sometimes literally ) . I've heard that there was something like 100 gallons of fake blood used to make the movie . I can't remember if this refers to the total amount of blood used during filming or only that which ended up in the final cut , but animated blood , of which there are substantial amounts , are surely not included . And either way , despite the massive amounts of violence in the movie , Tarantino's unique style of direction , his various cinematic experiments ( such as flipping from color to black and white and back again , playing with lighting and color as in the fight scene on an entirely blue background where only the fighters ' silhouettes were visible , and of course , the music ) , and probably mostly of all , his sense of humor tower above the film from beginning to end . One of my favorite tricks that he pulls with the music is in the fight scene between The Bride and O-Ren Ishii . It takes place in an exquisite Japanese garden , and just as the fighting begins the flamenco music kicks in , strikingly out of place but strangely effective . Tarantino's influence is so prevalent throughout the whole movie that not only can you sense his presence in just about every scene in the movie , you can almost see the look on his face . It's important to keep in mind , however , that despite knowing how effective an unexpected mixture of violence and humor can be , Tarantino also realizes how effective real violence can be , and he knows how to make his violence effective , disturbing , even stomach-turning ( see Reservoir Dogs ) . The part of the movie where The Bride wakes up in the hospital , for example , and realizes that she has lost her baby , is not funny at all . This is not meant to be amusing or funny , this is the scene where The Bride develops a large part of the rage that drives her for the rest of the film . If it was made a joke ( and I can't really see how ever Tarantino could have made something like that even slightly amusing ) the rest of the movie would have fallen flat . The movie itself , when you think about it , is really little more than a set-up of deception and subsequent revenge . It's a pretty unusual set-up , in that the seeker of the revenge has a distinct advantage of the element of surprise , given that the people sought out for revenge shot her or saw her shot in the head , and so haven't even the slightest inclination that she might be alive , but the movie boils down to a decidedly simple and linear revenge plot . Tarantino knows this , too . You might have noticed that , first of all , The Bride carried with her a list in a little notebook of the people she means to kill ( which reminded me , in a slightly different way , of the list that Steve Buscemi's character kept in his small part in Billy Madison ) , but also that , in keeping with his style , Tarantino plays with the chronology of his plot . He's known for this , but a movie that boils down to something as simple as this one does really can't do with a plot told in chronological order . In her previous life ( the one that contained something other than blinding rage and absolute determination for revenge ) , The Bride was a member of what is curiously called The Deadly Viper Assassination Squad , the exact activities of which will not be clearly explained until Part II . Her code name was Black Mamba ( although at one point I wondered why it wasn't Yellow-Haired Warrior ) , and her real name evidently entails something so secretive that it would be bleeped out when spoken in the movie . Like most of Tarantino's movies , Kill Bill plays like a compilation of all of the things that he loves about a huge array of different kinds of movies , not the least of which , in this case , are martial arts movies and classic 70s exploitation films . The extensive homage to martial arts films plays no small part in the preceding storyline that results in The Bride being an expert with a sword . The weapons are , in fact , one of the more interesting parts of the movie , especially in a scene late in the film where she fights the teenage bodyguard of O-Ren Ishii ( Lucy Liu ) , who fights her with a medieval mace and chain . I thought this was one of the best scenes in the movie , where this young girl - by using everything from her feet to her hands to her very neck to propel that mace at The Bride - proves that she is just about as good with that mace as The Bride is with the sword , if not better . Keep your eye out for sneaky cinematic tricks that Tarantino pulls in his movies . Not necessarily things like animating a sequence that involves a little girl witnessing his parents ' murders and then a pedophilia scene involving that same girl at the age of 11 ( both of which would have earned the film an even harsher rating than the well-deserved R ) , but things like the fact that the outfit that The Bride wears is identical to the outfit that Bruce Lee wore in his last film . Or even better , Roger Ebert points out that that tune that Hannah was whistling as she walked through the halls of the hospital to provide her own bit of nursing to The Bride while she's stuck in a coma is the theme from the 1968 film Twisted Nerve . Clearly Tarantino once again placing an homage to an old favorite in one of his movies , but Ebert curiously notes that it is not meant to simply pay an homage , but to suggest that there are leaks between parallel universes in which movies reside . Pretty clever idea , if not entirely founded . On the other hand , Ebert also suggested that after Hattori Hanso made The Bride her sword ( breaking an almost 30 year old pact he had made to never again create an instrument of death ) his statement ' This my finest sword . If in your journey you should encounter God , God will be cut ' was not exactly his most modest hour , so he could also be completely off about the movie universes thing . Hanso was not bragging about how badass his sword was . He feared that God would be cut by Hanso's breaking his word . I was surprised Roger missed that one . God doesn't strike me as the kind of person to worry about getting cut by an angry woman with a sword . That's stuff for mere mortals to concern themselves with .
It's not quite the same earthquaking cinematic experience of the original Lord of the Rings film , but The Two Towers still comes across as one of the most powerful and entertaining fantasy action films this	The Fellowship of the Ring is one of the greatest adventure films ever made , so it's really no surprise that its successor , The Two Towers , falls just slightly short of achieving the same powerful cinematic experience , but it is certainly a worthy installment in what is growing to be a tremendously well-made trilogy . The film starts off a little bit slowly , as it picks up where the last film left on in true sequel form , following Frodo and Sam as they continue their journey that was interrupted so suddenly by the end credits of the last film . This fabulously written film , which only takes artistic liberties in clarifying points that may have grown vague from the last film ( the way the best adaptation films do ) , may go a little too deep into the amazingly intricate storyline to keep the attention of some of the younger viewers or some of those not familiar with the novels , but the experience remains just as intense and entertaining . The war for Middle Earth is officially underway , and the battle scenes are some of the most impressive that I've ever seen in a film . Generally , I think that a film with as many computer generated special effects as can be seen in The Two Towers is destined to suffer at least slightly from them , but they are so seamless and impressive here that they really do not take away from the quality of the film . The majority of the battle scenes are done almost entirely on computer , but are still incredibly entertaining and convincing . There are walking talking trees in the film , which was a little off-putting at first , but are successful adaptations from the novel and are amazingly convincing on screen . ( spoilers ) Pippin and Merry , the two characters from the original film with the insatiable appetites and the endless sources of comic relief , are back in the second film playing the same characters with very little change other than that they seem to have matured quite a bit from their original roles , quite possibly because of their increasing experience in the war for Middle Earth . They spend the majority of their screen time in the film with the walking trees , trying to get them to take them to the battle but having little success . But once they finally make it there , they make a surprisingly effective and creative contribution to their side's participation in the battle . Clearly , a black and white movie review written by some guy you've never seen or heard of ( me ) cannot do justice to the breathtaking things that happen in this film , you just have to see it for yourself . Brad Dourif , who is most famous for his role as the voice of the lovable Chucky , the doll from the Child's Play films , and for , I might add , his excellent contribution as the gas station attendant at the beginning of Urban Legend , takes on a role in The Two Towers that fits his iconography perfectly . This capable actor who has been acting mainly in B-movies for the majority of his career has made a seamless jump to a part in one of the greatest trilogies of all time . Now all we need is a part for Bruce Campbell and all of the underrated B-movie actors will be back in the spotlight ! The comic relief in this movie is one of its best features ( aside from the startlingly brutal and convincing battle scenes , of course ) , and none of it is cheesy or just thrown in to get a cheap laugh . There is a delightful scene where Aragorn ( once again played spectacularly by Viggo Mortensen , in another of the best performances of his career ) and Gimli ( the lovable but amazingly powerful dwarf played by John Rhys-Davies ) sneak around to the outside of the castle as it is being bombarded during the battle , and Gimli timidly asks Aragorn to toss him to the bridge because he can't jump over the gap himself , stopping Aragorn to ask him shyly not to tell the dwarf ( Legolas , played by Orlando Bloom ) . This is a powerful adventure film that knows when to be funny , when to be romantic , when to make you cringe , cheer , cry , and gape . It entertains even through the slow parts , even going so far as to throw in a little schizophrenia scene with the little goblin that Frodo and Sam enlist as a reluctant guide . This scene is reminiscent of Geri's Game , Pixar's exceedingly amusing animated short film that precedes A Bug's Life , but like the rest of the comic relief , it does not dampen the effect of the rest of the movie by making it laughable , but rather allows us to relax between scenes of breathtaking scenery and cringe inducing battles . For the second year in a row , The Lord of the Rings is sure to be an enormous contender in the Oscar race .
Everything my father tells me about Colombia seems to be true .	I spent some time in Spain last summer , making a documentary for the University of California , and my father came and traveled with me for part of the time . I told him he owed it to me for never teaching me to speak Spanish . While we were there I asked him if he ever thought about going back to Colombia to visit the old neighborhoods where he grew up . He came to American with his nine brothers and sisters and his parents more than 35 years ago and has never been back , so I figured that he must have missed it at some point since 1969 . I was genuinely surprised when he told me that he doesn't ever want to go back . He still has family living there , and they always tell him stories about the crime and the poverty and how difficult everything there is , even just in daily life . Colombia is a mess . Maria Full of Grace is a story about exactly the things that my father was talking about . I think the thing that makes the movie so powerful is that by the time Maria gets involved with the drug smugglers we have gotten to know her almost like she is family . Although that might just be because I have so many cousins who look like her . She works hard at a menial , low paying job , above which she can never hope to raise very far in her life , earning money to help support the rest of her family , including her demanding older sister who doesn't work at all because she is on maternity leave . Maria is entirely unimpressed with the life that her sister is living , which seems to have had an impact on the affect that her own pregnancy has on her life . She is very matter of fact and straight forward with her boyfriend about the pregnancy , and her responds in exactly the kind of way that girls are taught to fear during junior high and high school . She's desperate for a way out , and ultimately she meets a charming man who turns out to be interested in her only for her digestive system . Maria and her best friend Blanca see this as an opportunity to get out of their dreary lives and find something better in America , the land of opportunity . It is truly a disturbing spectacle to see Maria forcing all of those pellets down , but what really gives the movie meaning is how believable all of the events are that occurred throughout the movie . There is no glorification of any of the characters or any of the violence that occurs throughout the film , nor does anything happen for the convenience of the plot . Maria tries drug smuggling as a way to get out of her life and find something better in America , and the problem that she runs into is that she is in real life , not in a movie . She and Blanca traveled with another girl named Lucy who had acted as a mule before as a way to visit her sister in New York . The three of them are picked up by some guys in New York whose job it is to keep an eye on them while they wait for the drugs to pass through their system . One of the pellets breaks in Lucy's stomach , killing her , and they quickly cut her open to get everything useful out . Maria and Blanca escape and the only place they have to go is to Lucy's sister , who she had come to visit . Maria Full of Grace is an incredibly powerful film whether you have family from Colombia or not . It's an incredible look at the poverty in Colombia and the lengths that healthy young women will go to in order to escape it . The movie smartly avoids all of the drug movie clichés , anything that would make this a Hollywood movie and thus ruin it . This is an incredible and enlightening experience .
What in God's holy name are you blathering about ? !	There's really only one good part of The Big Lebowski , but it's a REALLY good part . It's one of those scenes that you see in a movie and you tell your friends about it for years , you constantly spout off hilarious quotes from that scene that you remember laughing so hard about , you develop inside jokes about the scene with the friends who were lucky enough to be there to watch it with you , and you may even begin to regularly consume certain types of alcoholic beverages that you saw enjoyed by the main characters in that scene . The earth-quakingly memorable scene ( indeed , as I said before , the only good scene in the entire film ) is the one that begins immediately after the opening credits and ends approximately 117 minute later just before the screen fades and the end credits roll . Not laughing ? To hell with you , that's funny ! And the movie's even funnier ! Every character in The Big Lebowski is developed perfectly to serve the purpose of the story . These characters truly have personality , especially The Dude ( ' Who the fk IS this guy ? ! ' ) , Walter ( ' Donny , you're out of your league ! ' ) , and even Mr . Lebowski's geeky assistant , Brandt . They may occasionally be stereotypical characters , but they fit perfectly with the story , augmenting it even though it's already complex and interesting . This movie has an excellent plot line that is punctuated with endlessly hilarious dialogue ( ' Donny , you're outta your element ! ' ) , and peppered with well-developed and interesting characters . Jeff Bridges delivers a spectacular performance as the Dude , flawlessly capturing the slacker attitude and lazy lifestyle that that character lives . His love for White Russians has made that drink a staple at my house , and is now among my favorite alcoholic drinks . Yeah , big accomplishment , but that's the kind of thing that makes a movie like this even better . As a college student , I can see the difference between the slacker life that I lived in high school , and the extremely busy one that I live now . The Dude has chosen to perpetuate that lifestyle , living his life on the couch and at the bowling alley , constantly dirt-poor but obviously perfectly content with himself . The only time he is even the slightest bit upset is when something disrupts that lifestyle and his rug gets ruined . Clearly , a nice rug is not something that a person in The Dude's line of work ( i . e . unemployment ) can easily replace . He is even almost completely calm when the guys break into his apartment at the beginning of the movie , and doesn't really seem to be too upset until one of them ps on his rug . The interactions between The Dude , Walter ( John Goodman ) , Donny ( Steve Buscemi ) , and , eventually , the Jesus combine to make some of the most amusing moments of the film , but it is enormously entertaining from beginning to end . There cannot possibly be enough praise given to this movie to do it justice . Watch this movie , you are sure to love it . And if you don't , watch it again , because you must have missed something . A true contemporary classic of modern comedy .
HELL YEAH ! !	I normally don't like Ryan Philippe . I hated I Know What You Did Last Summer , he struck me as totally pretentious in the otherwise entertaining Cruel Intentions , and I have yet to watch Little Boy Blue , but needless to say , my expectations are fairly low . I decided to take the time to watch The Way of the Gun mainly because I thought the preview looked good ( thanks , in no small part , to Benecio Del Toro ) , and I loved every second of it . I've heard some slightly negative things about it , but on the other hand , I've also seen professional film critics give Fight Club the lowest rating possible , proving that some critics just can't be trusted . The Way of the Gun is just about as good as a crime thriller can get . There wasn't a whole lot of competition , but Benecio Del Toro stole the show , hands down . He delivered one of the most entertaining and quality performances that I've seen in years . Juliette Lewis also did a great job in this film . Who would have expected that the woman who was Mallory Knox could so effectively portray a scared pregnant woman ? Luckily , she was able to let her wild side a little loose near the end during the birthing process , when she reminded us of the size of her mouth and the sheer strength of her voice ! James Caan seemed to have been a bit exploited in his role as a ' bag man , ' but he still filled the role very effectively . The beginning of the film , where we are introduced to Mr . Longbaugh ( Del Toro ) and Parker ( Philippe ) , is probably one of the best parts of the film . Not only the hilarious fight scene at the nightclub , but also the next few scenes , particularly the interviews for the semen donations ( ' No one's ever mentioned sex with dead people ! ' ' Did you ever ask ? ' ' No ! ' ' You should ? ' ) . ( spoilers ) One of the main things that made The Way of the Gun such a great movie was that there was just so much going on . The plot is so complex and the presentation of the film is so entertaining that it invites and almost requires more than one viewing . Besides that , the movie also contains what is , in my opinion , one of the best car chases ever filmed . Sure it's slow at times , but there was actually TECHNIQUE . There was little to no destruction done in that particular scene ( something that is generally mandatory for a car chase to be effective ) , but it was so well executed that none was needed . The vast majority of high-speed chases seen in movies are pretty much the same ? reckless , fast , destructive , and generally thoughtless . Look , for example , at the stereotypical car chases in The Rock , Gone In 60 Seconds , and , in an extreme case , Blues Brothers 2000 . In The Way of the Gun , one of the things that Mr . Longbaugh and Parker did was they stopped their truck and got out , letting it roll , so that their pursuers would get out of their car and follow . As the truck rolled along , they all followed , engaging in a very effective gun fight , and then when some distance had been covered , Longbaugh and Parker would jump back into the truck and take off , gaining a significant lead as their pursuers run back to their own car , which had been left behind during the gunfight . This may not have the destructive satisfaction of many other chases , but it was by far more realistic , which is another quality that this film possesses . Immediately following that chase , Longbaugh goes to steal another car so that they can ditch the truck , and he hits the window ( painfully , from the looks of it ) with his elbow three times before it breaks . There's no reason to do something like that in a movie other than to make it more realistic , and the more realistic a movie is , the better , particularly when it is unnecessary for it to be unrealistic . The kidnap plot that drives the film is also very unique and well presented . Juliette Lewis plays a woman who has been hired by a wealthy couple as a surrogate mother . Therefore , the child that she is carrying is extremely valuable , so Longbaugh and Parker kidnap her ( and the child ) in hopes of getting their hands on the money . This story is done very well , and it just gets better and more complicated from there . There are so many things about this movie that are totally original , too , right down to the sound of the gunshots . Also , there are interesting and unique scenes . For example , there is one scene where Longbaugh walks into a convenience store and proceeds to help himself to various items , making little effort to keep the female clerk from noticing . After a cut away to Parker in the van with Robin ( Juliette Lewis ) , we go back inside , and Longbaugh and this girl behind the counter are smoking cigarettes and watching the ultrasound tape of the kidnapped baby . Did he just charm this girl into letting him smoke in the store while he used her VCR ? Did she not care that he had been stealing from the store ? As far as the rest of the film , this particular scene did not require any explanation , and therefore none was given . Normally , this would be a problem , but the rest of the movie works so well that these things don't really matter . The Way of the Gun is what you get when you take an overblown action crime thriller and add a bit of realism to it . The final gunfight sequence is extremely well done , and it ends the film very ambiguously but also in a very entertaining way . The Way of the Gun is a great film , with good acting and directing , as well as a brilliant script . See it .
One of the best thrillers in years .	( spoilers ) A Simple Plan , while the foundation of the plot seemed rather unoriginal , was surprisingly realistic and convincing . The overall meaning of this movie deals with the consequences of a few regular people running into a very large amount of money , especially when they have to bend the law in order to keep it . I think it also deals with the importance of obeying the law , because throughout the movie , the three guys , Hank , Doug , and Lou , seemed to be a bit like a rolling snowball as far as what they had to do to keep the money a secret . It demonstrates the startling ease with which the common man can be driven to commit unspeakable atrocities , such as shooting his own brother despite the utter absence of any direct conflict between them , just to keep his hands on a large sum of illegally obtained cash . I think that there is also an underlying theme dealing with the closeness between brothers , much like the closeness felt between sisters in other films like Hillary and Jackie . I think that the relationship of Hank and Doug , the two brothers in A Simple Plan , is much more realistic than Hillary and Jackie's . Although they do get along , they have what appeared to me to be a common occurrence of disagreements . For example , they disagreed on chasing the animal into the woods at the very beginning of the movie , as well as whether or not they should keep the money they found . The fact that neither of them were the ? beautiful people ' usually found in Hollywood films ( particularly Billy Bob Thornton's character ! ) made their roles even more convincing . I think that cinematics played an unusually important role in A Simple Plan . The very first thing that really stands out is in the very beginning of the movie . When the three men finally reached the decision to keep the money , there was a very high angle shot of the three of them , as if the camera was sitting in the trees above them , and in the foreground was a black crow . Black crows are often associated with bad luck , and just by showing this crow in the foreground the audience knows that the three men have just made a bad mistake , almost as if it was said out loud . I think that the snow was also very important to the presentation of the film . The fact that the three men were bundled up in coats pretty heavily seemed to give them a look of vulnerability . It made them look helpless against the cold , calling attention to their mortality , and thus subconsciously enhancing the suspense later in the film . Also , the snow provides a kind of a muted atmosphere . It is very overwhelming of everything so it creates a great sense of isolation for the town where the story takes place , and I think that this adds to the theme about three regular guys . I don't think this film would have been nearly as effective if it had happened to three guys in New York City . There is also a lot of foreshadowing in this film . One example is when Hank is in the sheriff's office with the sheriff and the pseudo-FBI agent . The sheriff keys into his gun cabinet , and then there is a quick cut to Hank's face as he watches where the key is placed , and then a close shot of the sheriff's hand placing the key under his memo pin on his desk . I think that by showing Hank's face looking at the key being hidden on the desk hints that he is going to try to get into the gun cabinet soon and , sure enough , he did . I also think that this knowledge adds to the suspense because the viewer knows that guns are soon going to be involved . A Simple Plan is a very original and very effective thriller that is very inviting but surprises you because it turns out to be much more intense and much more moving that you would expect . It's about ordinary people dealing with extraordinary circumstances , and the resulting message is powerful and unmistakable . The skill in this film is not only heavily present in the acting and directing , but also in the cinematography and editing departments as well . Don't miss this one .
The Harry Potter series returns with a powerful sequel that adds to the depth of the story introduced in the original film and even throws in a few new characters , all of whom fit perfectly into the Harry Po	The second installment in what is proposed to be the seven-part Harry Potter series delivers the same intensely imaginative and visually stunning wonders of the original , and is widely considered to be much darker , literally and figuratively , than the original . It is refreshing to see that this sequel did not take the treacherous path of trying to cash in on the success of the original ( an unfortunate tendency that is occasionally successful , as in the case of Ace Ventura and Blade , but almost always results in a bitterly disappointing sequel , as was the case with sequels to Austin Powers , Men In Black , Halloween , Mission Impossible , The Exorcist , etc . ) , and the film is wisely just as faithful to the novel as the first film . I have heard and read many complaints suggesting that director Chris Columbus was not creative enough to add in his own vision to the film , changing it enough here and there to make it his , but this is completely unnecessary . Books are only adapted to film if they are at least moderately successful in their literary versions , and the more successful the book is , the less reason there should be to change anything in it . The Harry Potter novels from J . K . Rowling have been justifiably described as ' publishing phenomenons , ' in which case I can't see any reason why anything should be changed in the film version . The books have developed a tremendous fan base , and what these people want to see in a film version of the books is a cinematic experience that is as imaginative and fantastic as the one that runs through their heads as they read the novel . I read both of the first two Harry Potter novels after having seen the films , and both times was amazed at how faithful the films are to the source material , a little detail which has led to tremendously satisfying adaptation films in the past , such as The Green Mile , The Shawshank Redemption , Stand By Me , and Great Expectations , which was a great film despite the fact that it falters slightly in the last act . The Chamber of Secrets is an adaptation film that follows closely on the heels of a tremendously successful predecessor , and still manages to hold its own . The younger audience is sure to delight to no end in the way that our three heroes , Harry Potter , Ron Weasley , and Hermione Granger , take on the task of solving the mystery of the Chamber of Secrets ( I'm surprised that this was never used by Franklin Dixon ( whose real name escapes me at the moment ) as one of the titles of one of his thousands and thousands of Hardy Boys novels ) , entirely on their own . This is an adventure tale of the highest order , which pits these three pre-adolescent wizardry students against an ancient mystery that the rest of their schoolmates and even the most seasoned staff at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry are rather apprehensive about looking into . As the Harry Potter series continues , it becomes more and more apparent that J . K . Rowling had the entire series in mind when she began writing , as much of the action and the story in The Chamber of Secrets involves and expands on material from the first film . The lovable Hagrid , for example , was mysteriously expelled from Hogwarts fifty years earlier , for reasons that he never liked to discuss , and through a story told by probably the most innovative diary in fantasy / adventure movie history , Potter is taken back in time to see exactly why he was expelled , which reveals Hagrid as the prime suspect in the film's mystery and helps to keep the audience guessing until the very end . Aside from bringing back all of the original characters , the movie also sets up the third installment by giving us a detached but fairly clear introduction to the wizard prison Azkaban , in that we hear a lot about it and see Hagrid taken off to spend some time there , which only wets our appetites to see it more clearly , which is sure to happen in the third film . One of the more interesting extensions on the original story is the introduction of Draco Malfoy's equally antagonistic father , played with precision by Jason Isaacs , who adds perfectly to the rivalry between Draco and Ron ( whose families famously have remarkably opposite financial situations ) by pitting Ron's father almost head to head against Draco's father . The good vs . evil plots in the Harry Potter films have so far been just about as ultimately shallow as the ones in the Star Wars films , but as was also the case with those , The Harry Potters are so imaginative and come across as such stunning visual experiences that it makes up for the basic storytelling technique . Even more than in the first film , Harry and his friends are faced with solving a tremendous mystery without any outside help , which usually comes from the lovable Hagrid , who has unfortunately been wrongfully accused and thrown into prison , leaving them entirely on their own even among a variety of helpful professors , particularly Albus Dumbledore , who also runs into some serious hardships that it's up to our heroes to fix . The plot revolves around a mysterious creature that seems to have escaped from the Chamber of Secrets ( which does or does not exist , depending on who you ask and what they're too afraid to admit ) which is running around the school occasionally petrifying students , crimes for which Harry Potter himself is gradually blamed . The rivalry between Potter and the vicious Draco Malfoy is just as fresh and appealing as ever , with Malfoy never seeming to let go of his hatred for Potter , a hatred which he holds for good reason and which expands upon his character's personal history , as well as Potter's . The mystery escalates to a point where the entire school is on lockdown , and the very future of Hogwarts is considered doomed , even by the head masters , McGonagall and Dumbledore . Harry Potter and his friends embark on a wonderful and tense adventure in this powerful adventure film . My only complaint about the Harry Potter films so far is that the endings tend to be a little bit too clean and tidy , almost to the point of being Scooby-Doo type endings , but the adventure is so genuine and so exciting that it more than makes up for polished endings . The Harry Potter saga is off to a powerful start , and the success of the novels certainly suggests that this will continue .
" Caught bang to rights , you were ! "	You can't really go wrong with Wallace and Gromit , and A Close Shave is no exception . The hilariously traditional Yorkshire duo are running a window-washing business that one day leads them to a wool shop run by a bizarre-looking British woman who immediately wins Wallace's heart , despite a deep sadness behind her eyes and a vicious-looking dog . It should be noted , by the way , that the makers of this short movie have succeeded in giving a claymation character deeply sad eyes . This alone might have been reason enough for why it won an Oscar for Best Animated Short Film . While Wallace follows his helplessly stolen heart , Gromit finds himself framed for a mysterious sheep-stealing and killing scheme and is thrown in prison . An adventure follows that could only exist in a Wallace and Gromit film and includes , among other things , a hilarious truck / motorcycle chase with the help of an incredibly coordinated flock of helpful sheep . Enjoy !
Life is but a memory .	One of the things that has really surprised me about the movies that are coming out at the time of this writing is which ones are turning out to be good and which ones are turning out to be not so great . I haven't seen all of them yet , but it's pretty odd to me that the latest movie starring Jim Carrey - an actor who not long ago seemed doomed to never rise above rubber-faced , low-brow slapstick comedy - is one of the best movies in theaters , and if that weren't enough , the latest remake of a classic horror film , Dawn of the Dead , is getting better reviews than the newest Tom Hanks movie . Luckily , the 2004 Dawn of the Dead is spectacular , so getting better reviews than The Ladykillers doesn't speak badly of Tom Hanks ' latest effort . In Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind , Carrey once again raises the bar of his own performance . This is probably the most evolved actor working today , having gone from the late-night television crap of In Living Color ( bad ) to Ace Ventura ( goofy but funny ) to The Cable Guy ( which fell flat because the script was dumb , and Carrey's iconography was just not ready for such a dramatic character ) to The Truman Show ( good ) to Man on the Moon ( very good ) to The Majestic ( VERY good ) to Bruce Almighty ( goofy but also very good ) and finally to Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind , arguably the most in depth and developed character he has ever played and by far his greatest film so far . Jim Carrey plays Joel Barish , a man with difficulty not only in his relationships , but also in his overall interaction with other people . He lives such a lonely life that , by his own admission , he has a tendency to fall in love with any woman who shows him even the slightest bit of attention . Strangely enough , he happens to stumble into some sort of relationship with Clementine Kruczyinski ( Kate Winslet ) , a woman who fits with someone like Joel about as well as Kate Winslet fits with a last name like Kruczyinski . Actually , I probably shouldn't say that , since there is something of a discrepancy between my own last name and my appearance . But the point is that Joel and Clementine could not really be more opposite . Joel is introverted and shy , while Clementine is outgoing enough to pursue a friendship with him despite his behavior , which initially shows something of a fear of even talking to her . ( spoilers ) While it's true that they do not fit together in almost any way , it's a lot of what makes their relationship endearing ( and it also provides a lot of what makes the early souring of that relationship more believable ) . The first downturn of their relationship is first suggested as Joel goes to visit Clementine and she ' acts ' like she had never even met him , and then it turns out that she has had him erased from her mind by this strange company that specializes in erasing painful or unwanted memories . Sure , this is not exactly the most jarring twist ( you already knew what the movie was about , right ? ) , but it's pretty clever how effective the twist is , at least in its simplicity and smallness , as well as the way it is first introduced in the plot . She has had him erased from her mind before the audience is told anything about this memory erasing company . Really the only thing turned upside down ( besides Joel's and Clementine's respective grasps on reality ) is that she wasn't ACTING like she didn't know him . She wasn't acting at all . When Joel figures out what's going on , he decides to have Clementine erased from his own memory . I have a theory that he does this almost entirely for revenge against her , which may be part of the reason that he so desperately tries to call the whole thing off right in the middle of it . The larger reason being , however , that he has a better relationship with her in the cyberspace of his mind than he did in real life . Their interaction when they are physically together is much less pleasant than it is in Joel's mind , which was also more than likely true before either of them ever went to have their memories erased . Joel has fallen in love with Clementine , and the fact that they turn out to be completely incompatible does not change his dedication to her or his determination to keep her . She , on the other hand , does not fall for every person who shows her any attention . Director Michel Gondry pays extraordinary attention to detail in his movie , probably the main thing that makes the psychological aspect of it so effective . He goes to great lengths to portray the cognitive experiences of memories and dreams as closely as possible to reality in the movie . Consider having a dream where you're in the future and reading the newspaper . You may or may not have had a dream like this ( I have ) , but what would happen is very clearly reflected by events in the movie . I dreamed once that I was reading a newspaper about the presidential election results in November 2004 . There was a picture of the winner , a huge headline announcing who the American president would be for the next four years , and a lengthy story detailing the events of the election process . As I looked at the newspaper , I remember staring at it intently , unable to focus on the photographs or quite concentrate enough on the words to read the story . No matter how hard I looked , I couldn't make out a single word or photograph . This , in my theory , is my mind trying to fill in a part of my knowledge that I simply don't know yet , which is why I couldn't make out the words . People around me were also discussing the election results , but their words were a jumble because my mind doesn't know what to put there . All the information was right there in front of me in the newspaper , but my mind couldn't focus on it because , since the event has not happened yet , I simply don't know it . There are scenes in the movie that flawlessly reflect this . People's faces are blurred and distorted because they have been erased from memory , and their voices have been reduced to meaningless noises . They are right there , but Joel can't focus on them because his brain no longer has the file detailing what they look like . While I admit that this kind of mental experience may not be universal , it is extremely rare that I see a movie that so brilliantly reflects a common experience like this . Bravo . The movie twists and turns and messes with chronological time so much that it is almost impossible to describe a chronological plot , but the primary focus of the film is on the workings of the human mind , as well as the vast importance that memories , both good and bad , have in our lives . Without memories , our lives are exactly like Joel finds his journal , just blank . It is a fascinating journey to watch Joel and Clementine racing through the labyrinth of his mind trying to outrun the company that is erasing the very world surrounding him . The movie is similar to the greatest film released in 2003 , Big Fish , in that so much of it takes place inside the mind , so anything is possible . The restrictions of reality do not necessarily apply to what Director Michel Gondry can put in the movie . Joel and Clementine are both a little crazy , so anything could happen . I love it when movies are outrageous , but completely justifiably so , which doesn't happen often . As if the movie wasn't outstanding enough , check THIS out . As you may or may not know , Jim Carrey is now one of the most famous actors currently working , and several years ago was honored with a gold star engraved in the sidewalk of Hollywood Boulevard . And can you guess what he and his daughter inscribed with their own fingers in the wet cement below his name , in front of a huge crowd of fans and television cameras ? ' Merrily merrily merrily . '
With what is definitely one of Jim Carrey's best performance , The Truman Show presents a fascinating story , told from numerous perspectives .	The Truman Show is a television show about the real life of Truman Burbank , who has lived his entire life in a giant soundstage and who has no idea that his life has been broadcast to the world since his birth . Clearly , this is not a realist film , but if the production of something like The Truman Show were possible , literally and legally , this is probably about what it would look like . However , given the relatively exciting reality of everyday life ( exactly what the movies are there to help us escape from ) , I doubt that the show would be quite so widely followed , or that it would have such an obsessive fan base . This is a very challenging type of movie to make , and the effectiveness of it reflects the skill of the films creators . As was the case with the Back To The Future series , all of the obvious problems with such a concept are dealt with and the ways that they are solved are explained in the film . You have people trying to let Truman know that his whole life is televised , you have his deathly fear of water ( stemming from his father's ' drowning ' and explaining his failure to leave his happy home even once during his entire life ) , and you have things like Truman hearing people on his car radio as they follow his every move , lights falling from the ceiling of the soundstage , etc . All of the ? close calls ' that you would expect to happen when keeping someone unknowingly trapped in a confined space are presented , and when Truman starts to catch on to the whole thing , the movie really takes off and starts getting really exciting . The Truman Show allows Jim Carrey to engage in several different kinds of acting , even , although briefly , the goofy comedy that he is best known for . But here , he introduces a new kind of comedic acting ( at least new for himself ) , in which he goes along with strange things and pretends not to be weirded out , such as when his wife shows him what she bought at the supermarket , explaining all of its qualities exactly like a TV commercial ( ' Wow . That's amazing ! ' ) , which is intentional because the product placement is the only way to have any kind of commercial in The Truman Show , which runs 24 hours a day . This is tied in with his suspicions about what is really going on when it happens one time in the kitchen of his home , and his wife is talking like a commercial again . This time , Truman comes out and finally speaks what has been on his mind for so long , in a bit of hilarious dialogue that is very effective in the near-thriller story that follows ( ' What the hell are you talking about ? Who are you talking to ? ! ' ) . When Truman seems to lose it and attack his wife , she screams ' Do something ! ! ' and Truman's suspicion's are confirmed . This is a significant scene because not only is Jim Carrey not giving us goofball comedy , but he actually appears menacing , which is totally unexpected given his iconography . Laura Linney plays the role of his intolerably tolerable wife with the incessant smile , and Ed Harris fills in the role of the producer of The Truman Show , in an uncharacteristic but very effective performance . This film is a great example of how an impossible story can be made to work and be fun . Peter Weir lends his direction skills to this unique story , and with great success .
One of the best and most recognizable episodes of the series .	It was not long ago that I started watching the original Twilight Zone series on DVD . Before that I had nothing more than a basic , passing knowledge of it , but this episode must have been one that I saw when I was really young , because I recognized the characters instantly . The story , of course , is based on the subjective perception of beauty , and it plays with the audience's expectations in the most unexpected way , which is probably why it is so often selected as a representative episode of the series . This is the twilight zone at its best . There is a curious political element in the show , as a woman named Janet Tyler is undergoing what I believe was her 23rd surgery , sponsored by " the state , " to try to make her look normal , so that she can have a normal life . My expectation was that she had suffered some kind of injury , maybe a crash or something , and that the surgery was reconstructive . A good reason is never given , and for good reason . Probably the best thing that the episode manages to do is to concentrate on Tyler's covered face , without you really noticing that you never see any of the faces of the nurses or doctors . The twist at the end is so good that it is one of the few genuine jaw-dropping moments that I've ever seen in a TV show . This is the kind of quality that transcends time and stays with you forever . I don't know who designed the make-up , but the faces are brilliantly frightening , and the second you see them , it causes some wonderful introspection about modern society's expectations about beauty and normality , and also conformity . Unlike many of the twilight zone episodes , this is one that deals with a topic that will never get old . It's as fresh today as when it was released .
Rather disturbing short from director Martin Scorsese that acquires new meaning if you look closely .	There's no dialogue in The Big Shave , and the entire film takes place in a bathroom . Even short films don't get much simpler than this , but Scorsese's skillful direction is able to give this extremely simple story some meaning besides what is seen as you just watch it . Some white guy ( and this is noteworthy because of the proliferation of films about the Italian condition that Scorsese was making at the time ) walks into the bathroom , having obviously just woken up , and proceeds to give himself a disturbingly brutal shave . If you have a weak stomach , you may be bothered by the striking amount of blood in the film , but this blood does have meaning . I've made several films myself at the junior college level that were all more technically complex than The Big Shave is , but you have to take into account the film's meaning before dismissing it as just a picture of a stomach turning shave . This white guy walks into an immaculately clean bathroom and shaves , and then he puts more shaving cream on his face and shaves again , this time cutting himself up pretty badly . The things to consider here are the cleanliness of the bathroom when he walked in , as well as the fact that he didn't even really need to shave in the first place . I've even heard that The Big Shave is representative of America's reckless involvement in the Vietnam War , particularly our self-destructiveness . That may be a little bit of a stretch , or at least seem to be actually imposing meaning on the film rather than deriving meaning from it ( that is , of course , if it wasn't for that alternate title , which may clear up any misunderstanding ) , but the possibility is very distinct . Martin Scorsese made this film long before he became famous or well known , and his skill is evident in the film's simplicity , which is contrasted by the extensive meaning that it entails . Clearly , not many people have ever seen or heard of this film , and many would not care to , but as an insight into the filmmaking characteristics of Scorsese as well as a look at his early cinematic productions , it is a curiosity piece that is a must see .
Pity the weak women . . .	Chaplin once again plays a drunk , but this time the result is much better because he plays alongside Fatty Arbuckle , another , ah , giant of the silent comedy . Charlie plays a drunk guy who goes home drunk to his wife , his life's " big mistake . " At the same time , Charlie's neighbor across the hall goes home drunk to his wife , and of course , each couple gets into hilarious arguments . Charlie's wife sends him over to the room across the hall , thinking that with all the commotion , someone must be getting murdered over there . When he gets there , he finds a similar situation to his own , and after much confusion , the women wind up arguing with each other , and Charlie and the other man wind up stealing money from the other man's wife and going out to drink more . The following scene , at the restaurant where they go to drink , is one of the funnier scenes in the movie , as each man pulls off a table cloth and uses it for a blanket while he goes to sleep , " making themselves at home . " Charlie busies himself lighting matches off of a bad man's head and fighting with the restaurant's employees . Eventually , their wives find them , and they wind up fleeing for their drunken freedom , ultimately stealing a canoe and pushing off with it , falling asleep side by side in it as it slowly sinks . An uncharacteristic ending , but at least it was different , and with the speed with which they cranked out these films in 1914 , a little variety goes a long way .
Yes , yes , it's all true !	For The Birds is the side-splittingly hilarious short animated film that preceded the rather unimpressive Monsters , Inc , and all this hype that you may have read about For The Birds in the comments index here on the IMDb is pretty accurate , with the exception of the occasional grump who calls it forgettable or just amusing or some other such nonsense . Pixar is becoming more and more famous for the hilarity of their films ( especially the short ones , if only because they are virtually uniformly hilarious ) , and For The Birds is definitely no exception . What you have here is a story that is about as simple as they come - a bunch of tiny egg-shaped birds on a telephone wire who are approached by a big goofy bird , and they are all contemptuous toward her and do everything they can to get rid of her . It's the conspiracy that these little birds come up with to get rid of this ostrich-looking bird ( yes , I know it's not an ostrich , by the way ) and the fact that Pixar is able to communicate it to the audience without a single piece of dialogue other than these hilarious cheeps and grunts that the birds make that makes the film so impressive and funny and , yes , MEMORABLE . The Academy Award that For The Birds won for Best Animated Short Film for 2001 was even less of a surprise than the one that Shrek won for Best Animated feature ! It was a given ! For The Birds is not the kind of short film that you watch before a rather short animated film and serves no other purpose than to make you feel like you got your money's worth because the feature film is rather short . This is not just something to keep you in your seats for a little longer ( how much of a difference would three minutes really make in that case ? ) , this is something that Pixar throws into the mix because they're so good at what they do that they can deliver pure entertainment even with such a short film . The old Roger Rabbit short films are the kind that are mildly amusing on a more childish level and that can be forgotten rather quickly , but For The Birds is something else entirely . Like all the Pixar shorts - not the least of which is Geri's Game ( which should not be confused with Gerald's Game , which is a strikingly different story ! ) , one of my personal favorites - For The Birds is the kind of short film that you enjoy for only a few minutes but remember for years . My only hope is that Pixar will someday come out with a special DVD just for all of their short films . Bravo !
These are the days of miracle and wonder , this is the long distance call . . .	At the time of this writing there is only one other IMDb reviewer who has commented on this episode , and he makes a lot of good points about how strangely effective this episode is in approaching very deep and emotionally powerful elements of human life . The show is mostly about the relationship between a young boy and his grandmother , who is aging and knows that any day now she will pass away . She is staying with her son and his wife , and the parents attempt to shield the boy from directly acknowledging the fact that grandma is going to die soon , but the grandmother knows it will happen and , because the boy fills her with happiness and a sense of lifelong fulfillment , she wants to acknowledge her own passing before it happens so that no one in the family afterwards suffers from that awful feeling of never having been able to say goodbye . After watching this show , you may find it arguable whether it is better to never have been able to say goodbye , or to actually come right out and acknowledge impending death and say your goodbyes to a loved one who is just about to pass . This has never happened to me , but I can't imagine a more emotionally torturous situation than having to say goodbye to someone like that . I have to say that the performance of Bill Mumy as the young Billy stole the show , the kid was brilliant . The show approaches the very complex issues that married couples deal with in modern America , such as conflicting views of how to raise a child , the relationships with in-laws , and of course , death . But most of all , there is an amazingly palpable presence of the grandmother , even after she has died , and not just because Billy spends so much of the second half of the show on the phone with her . His near death experience gives a surprisingly convincing feeling of her waiting just on the other side , desperate to take her biggest source of happiness with her to the twilight zone and beyond , but ultimately deciding to leave him behind to have a full life . Serious but entertaining , this one has the pleasant effect of leaving you with an urge to really appreciate the ones you love . . .
One of the best of Hitchcock's earlier thrillers .	The Lady Vanishes is the last of a string of six thrillers that Hitchcock released in the 1930 , associating him with the thriller genre for the rest of his career . The film starts off with a panning shot of a less than convincing model of a town , portraying the avalanche that has trapped a whole train full of passengers in a remote hotel until the tracks can be cleared . We see a conglomeration of the typical types of people all thrown into the same place , eventually getting onto a train together after the audience has had a chance to get to know them and the situations that are to make up the rest of the film . Two businessmen ( you may recognize them as the ones that oddly showed up in my review of The 39 Steps ) are on the train and are entirely too concerned about a cricket match that they stand to miss if the train is delayed too much . They have been cut off from communications with London , and have been rendered virtually helpless because of it . A woman named Iris who is entirely too concerned with getting married runs into a spectacularly obnoxious musician who she can't seem to get away from from the moment she meets him . It's interesting to consider some of the messages that Hitchcock passes in this film through his traditional brand of cynical humor , such as the fact that a musician is introduced as horribly aggravating but ultimately turns out to be one of the heroes in the film , as well as such things like a man who serenades early in the film is strangled soon thereafter , as well as the fact that marriage is presented very early on as something that should only be done after everything else in life has already been done . ( spoilers ) Just before everyone boards the train in the morning , there is an important attempt on an old woman's life that results instead in the young brunette looking to get married getting hit on the head by a falling planter . This scene is important because it shows that there is someone out to get this old lady , and it also provides the excuse given to Iris ( the brunette ) later in the film as she tries to investigate the disappearance of the woman , who becomes her friend on the train . You would think that someone with such important information as this lady is carrying would not be such a social butterfly with a stranger on a train , but either way , the knock that Iris took on the head just before getting on the plane provides a perfect way to get her to believe that she imagined Froy ( the old woman ) when she disappears . One thing that I was a little bothered by during Iris's initial investigation was the fact that she never even thought to look on the window where Froy had written her name with her finger . They were going through a tunnel when they were introducing themselves , and the train became too noisy for Iris to be able to hear Froy's name , so Froy wrote it on the window with her finger . Because it would have been so much more normal to just wait a few seconds for the train to quiet down rather than writing on the windows , you would think that this little quirk of Froy's would have struck Iris as something to check for later when everyone is telling her that she imagined the old woman and that she was never there in the first place . At any rate , Iris takes a nap early in the film and wakes up to find Froy gone , and a freaky lady across from her who looks like the Bride of freaking Frankenstein says that there was never an old woman there , and the search begins . The investigation that Iris conducts in search of her friend provides the body of much of this fascinating film , and Iris's musician friend from the hotel joins her for a good portion of it , becoming the second of the two ordinary people involved in extraordinary events in this film . The two businessmen on the train ( again , you know them from my review of The 39 Steps , I watched these movies too close together ! ) provide much of the comic relief during the film as they are constantly concerned with getting back to London in time for a cricket match , despite even the most deadly conditions aboard the train , and the musician from early in the film provides a rather unwelcome partner in investigating Froy's disappearance . There are several interesting montages in this film . Editing is one of the most powerful tools that Hitchcock put to use in many of his early films , and it is used to great extent here , although not always with clear meaning . I am curious about the extensive montages that are shown of the exterior of the train as it begins moving , as well as between scenes on the moving train . But there are also montages that are very clever and very effective , such as the one in the middle of the movie in which Iris looks at all of the people sharing the cabin on the train with her and realizes that they all bear some physical resemblance to Froy , suggesting that maybe she really did imagine her as so many people have been telling her . That was , after all , a pretty nasty bump on the head . Late in the film there is the necessary addition of the blurring of the lines between the good and the bad guys . The neurologist who travels around performing miraculous brain surgery turns out to be not such a great guy , and the nun wearing suspicious high heels also turns out to be not quite as suspicious as she is initially portrayed . We are left unaware of who can be trusted and who is telling the truth , constantly questioning which side each person is on , even the musician and the two businessmen . In the shootout scene at the end of the film , we get the most tense and most amusing scene in the entire film . There is a lengthy shootout involving a shortage of ammunition and nowhere to run , during which the businessmen , who are themselves participating in the shooting , casually mention things like how they'll never make it on time for the match NOW , and when they are told what is happening , they don't believe it . They express one of the widespread public opinions that allows Hitchcock to be so successful with films about ordinary people in extraordinary situations ? ' Things like that just don't happen . ' There is also , I might mention , a curious duality in the title of the film . I read an interview of Hitchcock somewhere where he was explaining that the title refers to both the disappearance of Froy as well as the subsequent disappearance of the ' lady ' that Iris is at the start of the film and the emergence of the investigator that she becomes . This is a duality that is reflected in many other areas of the film , not the least of which is the fact that , like many other Hitchcock films , The Lady Vanishes contains an unusual but surprisingly effective juxtaposition of comedy and tension , resulting in an entertaining thriller that can make you laugh just as much as it can make you nervous .
Yeah Puff !	Wow , I never thought I'd say that . Puff Daddy should have gone straight to acting in the first place and saved himself the embarrassment of his rap career . He does a wonderful job in this wonderful movie portraying a death row inmate named Tyrell Musgrove , the husband of Leticia , played by Halle Berry . The film starts off dealing with the relationship between Hank ( Billy Bob Thornton ) and his son Sonny ( Heath Ledger ) and Sonny's learning the ropes of becoming a prison guard like his dear old dad . Tyrell is a complicated character because we automatically sympathize with the enormity of his situation , trying to explain to his son in front of a prison guard why he's not going to be around anymore , but at the same time he accepts his fate because he has brought it upon himself . It is significant that this is a man who has committed a crime and doesn't fight against the system when the punishment is imposed , because he deserves it . In one of the most potent lines in the entire film , he tells his son , ' I'm a bad man , you're the best of me . ' Hank is also a very complicated character . This is an enormously racist man who chases a couple of young black kids off his property by shooting a shotgun into the air , even when the kids only came over to play with his son . He knew that they meant no harm , and he still fired into the air to scare him away . This is the movie's protagonist , and there is soon a scene with the father of those two boys where you want nothing more than to see Hank get dragged out of his car and smacked around for a little while . But the movie amazingly develops his character enough so that we are able to look deeper into who exactly he is and what kind of past he has had , and to forgive him for who he is and accept him as the protagonist . ( spoilers ) Several of the characters are portrayed in this way , with very conflicting characteristics that challenge you to develop a straightforward opinion of any of them ( except for Hank's father , who is such a heavily racist redneck that there is no question from the very beginning that he's going to be nothing but trouble ) . The movie reminds us that the mark of an intelligent mind is the ability to hold conflicting opinions of the same thing and still be able to function , and we are able to do this because we get to know Hank so much better . His racism is a result of the way his father raised him , and even the way he handled ( and , indeed , caused ) the death of his son can be seen as having been caused by having been raised by a man who has implanted the idea that those who cannot be racist are ' weak . ' Halle Berry gives a powerful role as Leticia , whose life is spinning completely out of control . Her husband has been executed ( which is a huge shock to her even though she is obviously so emotionally detached from him ) , she has lost her job , her landlord is evicting her by force of the law , and her son is hopelessly overweight . The majority of the narrative story comes from the interaction between Hank and Leticia , who are both going against their morals and beliefs , to a varied extent , in associating with each other , and each of their eventual realizations of who the other person is . It is significant that Hank learns that Leticia is the widow of the man he had recently put to death ( and who's death indirectly lead to his own son's suicide ) and that he reacts by trying to keep her from finding out that he had helped kill her husband . Their interaction with each other provides the redemption of each of their sins up to that point , especially his . He has overcome his racism to genuinely care about this woman , and he wants to hide who he is from her for her own protection and also because he is afraid to lose her . The movie reminds me a little bit of those old Babar books . You know , the ones with the big talking elephant from the jungle . In Babar books , characters actually die . This is a rarity in children's literature . Babar's own mother was shot by a poacher , but you always turn the page and move on with the story , which is a great metaphor for life . In Monster's Ball , there are plenty of tragic events , and the execution of Tyrell and Leticia getting fired and evicted are not even the worst of them . But as is evident in the closing scene in the film ( which I didn't like at all until I stopped to think about it ) , she is moving on from her troubles , albeit with an unlikely companion , but at least one who seems more than willing to move on with her . He has defected from his racist past by putting his verbally abusive father into a retirement home , and has turned all of his efforts to Leticia in hopes of finding a better life with her . The movie ends rather suddenly , but it ends with the promise of better times to come .
You can't go wrong with Charlie Chaplin , but City Lights is even better than Chaplin's films usually are .	Chaplin takes himself a little more seriously in City Lights , and the results are spectacular . The musical score which Chaplin composed for the film was one of the many highlights , and even though Charlie's performance is much more dramatic than usual in some scenes , the hilarious comedy for which he is known and loved is still abundant . City Lights is so well made that it is one of the very few movies in which the obvious flaws can be gladly overlooked . Yes , you can clearly see the string holding Chaplin up in the sidesplittingly funny boxing scene , but who cares ? That is such classic slapstick that little things like that really don't matter . Besides , let's keep in mind that this movie was made seventy years ago . Chaplin does a phenomenal job in his traditional role of the tramp , and develops a perfectly convincing romantic relationship with the blind flower girl on the sidewalk . His friendship with the drunken rich guy is hilarious , but it also makes a significant comment about the problems of alcohol . This is truly a great film , which should not be forgotten .
Gallagher is back with yet another masterpiece of stand-up comedy .	While The Bookkeeper doesn't quite meet the standards of The Maddest ( let's face it , Gallagher's portrayal of the discovery of America in The Maddest is not likely to ever be surpassed ) , this is still a very worthy addition to Gallagher's unfortunately short list of excellent videos . In all of Gallagher's videos , he bases a good portion of his act on the title of the video ( Stuck in the 60s is an excellent example ) , but there is also a substantial portion in which he goes off on his traditional style of comedy that doesn't fit with the theme of the video but is always welcome because of it's comedic value . There is almost always , for example , a segment dealing with sex and the differences between the sexes . In The Bookkeeper , the segment dealing with the theme is a hilarious political bout of Gallagher's ideas about saving a lot of money by not paying the national debt , and an amusing way to expand the size of the United States ( ' We loaned the same amount of money to Tanzania last year as they paid in property values , it wouldn't cost us any more to own ? em ! ' ) . There is also a less amusing but as creative as always skit involving invisible elephants , but the value of the video itself is in the overall comedy appeal . Gallagher is just a funny guy , and it really comes across in these videos . The Sledge-O-Matic segment is also just as fun as always as well . This is yet another of Gallagher's intellectual and highly entertaining comedy acts that is sure to be loved by his fans and should not be missed .
Another shockingly good film from Quentin Tarantino .	SPOILERSTarantino has one of the most recognizable styles of any director working today , and Pulp Fiction is considered by many to be his greatest work yet . It is a conglomeration of Tarantino's own infatuation with the movies , as it is more about movie life than real life . One of the few little factoids that I know about Tarantino is that , like myself , he spent some time working in a video store and , like myself , spent a lot of his time watching old action films and horror films and pulp fiction films . Pulp Fiction is about the things that are in movies like that rather than real life . We have a lot of people put into extraordinary situations that do not have a lot of parallels with reality , but they are so well written and presented that we are more than willing to overlook this . One of my favorite things about Pulp Fiction is the way it presents several different storylines and mixes up the chronology of the film , which enormously increases the re-watch value . The film starts off with Tim Roth and Amanda Plummer playing a married couple who decide to rob a diner in broad daylight . The opening credits begin just as they stand up and bring out their guns , and we don't go back to this diner until more than an hour later in the film , when Vincent and Jules ( John Travolta and Samuel L . Jackson , both in possibly the greatest roles of their entire careers ) finally show up after going through some serious situations of their own . Bruce Willis stars as a boxer who was supposed to go down in a big fight but killed his opponent instead , and now the bookies are after him . His absolutely adorable girlfriend , played by Maria de Medeiros , plays the part of the significant other who just doesn't understand Butch's ( Willis ) urgent need to leave , like right this second . This leads to some interesting situations where Butch is stuck trying to hurry her out of the house and calm her down at the same time , and we as the audience are stuck wishing that she would shut up and get the hell out of the house while at the same time wishing there was some way she could be made to feel better . One of the biggest strengths of the film is the way the stories are all tied together . Vince and Jules , for example , after paying a visit to some guys who screwed their employer , take one of them hostage , only to have Vince accidentally shoot him in the face while asking him a casual question in the car . They take the bloodied car to their friend Jimmie's ( Tarantino ) house , and go through one of the more amusing scenes in the film trying to get the car clean before Jimmie's wife comes home , finds a bunch a gangsters in her house doing a bunch of gangster sht , and divorces Jimmie . Tarantino , as has become a tradition of his , plays one of the best roles ( although also one of the smallest , which is also common ) in the film , as a normal guy who just wants to live a normal life without people showing up at his house at 8 in the morning with a bloody car and a dead body . Harvey Keitel shows up playing the role of The Wolf , and does his job of cleaning up messes like the one Vince and Jules have on their hands ( and their clothes , and their car ) . Here is a guy that knows exactly what he's doing , and he works quickly and efficiently and hates to be slowed down by people who prefer politeness ( ' Pretty please , with sugar on top , clean the fkin ' car . ' ) . Eventually it gets clean , the mess is solved , and in order to clear their minds ( and so Jules can continue to contemplate the miracle that saved them from being shot by a guy who burst out of a closet and emptied his gun into the wall behind them at point blank range ) , they go to a diner to get some breakfast - the same diner that Ringo and Yolanda were robbing in the opening scene of the film . Everything that has taken place up to this point in the movie , except for the robbery itself , took place before the robbery , and now we're right back where we started . ( spoilers ) It takes a few viewings to really get this movie straight because it is so complex and intricate , but I'm pretty sure there are something like four or five different stories operating at the same time , and it becomes even harder to get straight because some of them mix in with other ones . Butch has to make a desperate trip back to his apartment to retrieve a wristwatch that has more than a little bit of sentimental value , and when he gets there , he finds Vincent there , once more taking on a job that's just a little over his head . Not only is this guy not able to travel with someone in the back seat without shooting him in the face , but he also seems to have a hard time staking out someone's apartment without using the bathroom and leaving his machine gun on the kitchen counter . Not the smartest character , but certainly one of the most likable that Travolta has ever played . In Pulp Fiction , the characters are not given dialogue that is meant only to further the plot . In many instances , it is there literally for no other reason than to show them having casual dialogue which often has absolutely nothing to do with the story . Jules and Vincent discuss at length the names of burgers at McDonalds ' in France , the definition of a miracle , and the acceptable difference between a woman's foot and her holiest of holies . Granted , at least two of these have direct meaning to the plot , but when you see how deeply into the subjects Vince and Jules go , it becomes more and more clear that they are talking just to be talking . But the thing that really brings out the quality of the script is that no matter how long anyone goes on about one subject , it never once gets boring . All of the actors involved deliver some of the best performances of their careers , and much of the reason for this is because the roles fit them perfectly and the script is written so well . It's full of drugs , violence , blood , crime , murder , sex , and guns , but never once even approaches anything gratuitous . Things like this are very often condemned by our society , and with good reason , if they are thrown into a movie just to advance a weak story , but in Pulp Fiction there is nothing thrown in without reason and nothing that is put in to make up for weakness anywhere else . But while it does have good reason to have everything in it that's there , the film is certainly not for everyone , because even the most logically placed violence and blood and killing is going to be hard for some viewers to take , so you should be forewarned . But the rest of you , as they say , are going to love it .
Wow ! It really IS the Rocky of hockey !	Mystery , Alaska is kind of like The Mighty Ducks , except that it's intended for an older , more intelligent audience . The characterization as well as the narrative structure is much more mature , and the players , thankfully , are not little kids but people with a wide range of ages that have played hockey their entire lives as a result of having always lived in such brutally cold weather . There seems to be an underlying theme about the damaging effects of sudden fame , or even the possibility of sudden and even temporary fame , as the town of Mystery goes to great lengths to build onto their town ( particularly the pond ) , so that they will be ready when the New York Rangers arrive . The biggest strength that the Mystery team had was playing on a pond as opposed to in a rink , and building this rink in their town cancelled out that advantage , making their chances of winning against the professional Rangers much smaller . ( spoilers ) Like in Rocky , the point here is not to win the game , because they lost to the Rangers , but the Mystery team went that distance and played a good game against a professional team . They played against all odds and they held their own , and literally came within inches of winning the game against a team that had tremendous advantages against them . After that last shot bounced off of the goal , barely missing , the audience is left trying to figure out a way that the game will have to continue long enough for the home team to win , but when Burt Reynolds ( in an excellent performance as the town judge as well as the father f one of the payers ) starts clapping , it is clear that the game is over and that they have lost . However , the applause that follows , especially that that came from the Rangers , bouncing their sticks on the ice as a show of respect , indicates that they succeeded despite having lost the game . Mystery , Alaska is an excellent film that gives the sports genre a much needed boost , showing an untraditional but refreshing and very effective conclusion that seems bittersweet but leaves you cheering . Russell Crowe further proves his amazing versatility as an actor , and all others involved also performed beautifully . The location is perfectly presented , almost making the audience feel cold just because the setting is so realistic , and the team really does look like a team of small town guys who have known each other and played hockey together all of their lives . You might be able to say that Mystery , Alaska pans out a little too similar to the way that Rocky did , but this is still a great film that just makes you feel good .
Kind of like 2001 : A Space Odyssey , but without the constant barrage of dialogue . . .	Koyaanisqatis is an extremely unusual film , and by far one of the most unusual I have ever seen . It takes on the daunting task of portraying the history of the world until modern times ( or the early 80s , at least ) entirely without dialogue . It is a documentary of sorts , in that it is amazingly informative , but it is filmed like a Hollywood film . Expertly framed shots and flawlessly smooth camera movement and shot composition . There is an unbelievable amount of talent behind this film , both in the fascinating images that are presented and the mesmerizing score by Philip Glass . It is a very slow moving film , but it manages to keep your attention because , in many cases , it is just so interesting to see the things that are portrayed and the way that they are shown . This is the only film , for example , where you can see a shot of a 737 approaches directly toward the camera over a hot runway in a shot that is possibly over a minute long with no movement other than the sluggish lumbering of the massive plain . Godfrey Reggio takes Glass's score and places images over it that add to the sound and create an experience that is far greater than , as they say , the sum of its parts . The shots contain camera movement or lack movement , are sped up or slowed down , and have live sound or no live sound depending on the desired effect , and the end result is absolutely hypnotic . This is a wonderful cinematic experience for people of all ages , and possibly my favorite thing about this film and it's successors is that , because they have no dialogue , they can be shown in any country in the world and not have to worry about subtitles or even altered meanings . This is a film for humanity .
A surprisingly informative and professional look at pornography as a cultural issue .	The movie's poster does absolutely nothing for it as far as presenting it as a legitimate documentary about a real part of the American culture , but Inside Deep Throat is a well-made and highly informative look at the release of Deep Throat in the early 1970s and the tremendous impact that it had on American society , which was thrown into a massive uproar over the release of a micro-budget pornographic film . Produced by legendary producer Brian Grazer , the documentary features countless television clips from the 1970s which show how well-known it was . Whether or not people were offended by the material , it seemed that Deep Throat had become a household name , and everyone from Johnny Carson and Bob Hope to Hugh Hefner and Larry Flynt provide their thoughts in this documentary . I particularly enjoyed how the term Deep Throat was worked into late night comedy shows and sitcoms back in the 70s , as well as the interview with Wes Craven , one of my favorite horror directors . Be advised that there is a graphic scene from Deep Throat included in this film , but other than that it takes itself very seriously . It is not pornography at all , it is only ABOUT pornography , and its level of insight illustrates how large the difference is between the two .
Relax ! ! It's a trilogy !	( spoilers ) I was pretty surprised to see the end credits of The Lord of the Rings start as soon as Frodo and Sam walked up on those rocks and got their first look at Mordor ( although I was still chuckling at the thought that that may have been the point when they began to wish they had brought shoes ! ) . For a second I was shocked that they would end the movie at the point where it really seems to begin , but then I remembered that I had already been watching it for three hours , and any more would probably be overkill . The thing that you have to keep in mind at the end of the film is that this is a TRUE trilogy , meaning that each succeeding film will take up where the last one left off . It is , in fact , a testament to the quality of the film that people will still be disappointed to see the end credits after three hours , even though that disappointment may come as a result of the feeling that we were left hanging after all that time . Personally , I was so impressed with the film that I think it has earned enough respect to be able to end any way it wants to , even if it seems to leave too many loose ends . Relax , people , they're releasing one every year until Christmas 2003 , and even if you're upset that they've already filmed all three movies but we still have to wait a year between each one and you just have to know what happens next now now now , go out and read the books . Harry Potter , the other fantasy juggernaut released in the latter half of 2001 , had a much neater ending , but The Lord of the Rings is the much more mature of the two films . It's so rare that a movie comes along that generates a gigantic amount of hype and then actually lives up to all of the expectations created by it . Titanic didn't do it , Pearl Harbor didn't do it , Armageddon didn't do it , and The Phantom Menace didn't even come close . The Lord of the Rings is one of the few movies that comes along that generates a huge amount of hype and then lives up to it , and this is even more impressive given the fact that the movie is not just meant to be fun entertainment , the way that movies like Harry Potter or Independence Day or Men In Black ( all of which lived up to the hype ) are . This was made from a classic novel by J . R . R . Tolkien , and the movie was miraculously able to re-create the quality of Tolkien's story . There is nothing superfluous or gratuitous in The Lord of the Rings , and the film itself is tremendously well made . There are stunningly convincing set designs and costumes , the special effects are neither excessive nor lacking , and the pace of the story provides an engaging way to enjoy the fantastic adventure . One of my favorite things about it was the way that natural settings were manipulated just to the point that you know that nothing like it could really exist in the real world . In most cases , this is done simply with accenting or muting the colors of the atmosphere or , in other cases , through the addition of such things as tremendous waterfalls and beautifully twisted trees in the mysterious woods . There are some fantastic battle scenes that are reminiscent of the battle scenes in Braveheart ( although also manipulated to attain an otherworldly effect ) , the film's score has clearly been influenced by the best parts of Schindler's List , 2001 : A Space Odyssey , and even the Back to the Future films . The film does have its shortcomings , such as the unfortunate fact that the wizard's duel was terribly clichéd ( although still well presented ) , but the rest of the movie more than makes up for things like that . The casting in the film is excellent as well , despite the problems that almost always follow with any kind of casting . I loved seeing Cate Blanchett ( who I will always remember as the greatest Queen Elizabeth ever , followed very closely Judy Dench ) , and I was amazed at how well Elijah Wood portrayed Frodo because I had serious doubts about that role , much like I do about Toby McGuire playing Spiderman . I also loved all of the relatively smaller characters , such as Hugo Weaving's character Lord Elrond ( although for the entire movie I kept waiting for him to say in his monotonous voice , ' One of these jobs has a future , Mr . Anderson , and one of them does not . ' ) . I was very impressed with Sean Astin's character and performance , although he will still never pass up his role as Mikey in The Goonies ( definitely among the most fun movies ever made ? right up there with the Back to the Future series ) . The first installment in The Lord of the Rings trilogy has proved to be a gigantic cinematic event . I guess I don't really need to mention that , seeing how you people have all voted it past The Godfather on the IMDb Top 250 ( hmm , I'm not sure if it was THAT good ! ) , but I think it's worth mentioning anyway . Peter Jackson , the director , is surely in good spirits by now , given the mediocre ( at best ) career that he has led up to the point where he signed on to direct all three Lord of the Rings films , and surely if he keeps up the same good work that he delivered with The Fellowship of the Ring , the rest of us are going to be kept pretty happy as well .
Chaplin introduces himself to the world .	There is some disagreement over whether or not this is really the first film in which Chaplin performed as the beloved Tramp , since apparently Mabel's Strange Predicament was filmed a month earlier ( although released two days later ) , but the interest of the film as the first time that audiences saw his famous character , as well as the fact that he was clearly still learning about it himself , remains clear . This was long before the times of screenplays and film scripts , and it is clear from watching the film that it is completely ad-libbed , but what is also clear is not only the talent but also the symbolism and the foreshadowing of Chaplin's later career , which Chaplin could not even have known he was doing himself . A lot of people have made the mistake of judging this film based on the quality of Chaplin's later work , which is ridiculous not only because the film was made during such an embryonic period of film history , but also because less than a half a year before it was made , Chaplin was acting on stage in England and knew absolutely nothing about film-making . Only a few years before this film was made , a film that depicted a group of people simply walking past the camera or people jumping into a lake was considered successful . The very thought of a " moving picture " had itself not lost its sense of being a novelty , so this film , if anything , was ahead of its time . What is also worth noting is that , in the world's first look at Chaplin's most famous character , we get such a clear sense of his love of the crowd and his desire to be in front of the camera . It is very important when watching these early films to keep in mind the historical context in which they were made , and not only the films made by Chaplin but from anyone else who was making them during this period . This is the very beginning of film-making in Los Angeles , a rare look at one of the cinema's biggest talents literally learning his talent on camera in a young Hollywood . To write the film off because of simple comedy or time-damaged quality is absurd . First of all , I am immediately fascinated by the film because of the fact that it was filmed in Venice , California , where I lived until about two months ago . Nothing is recognizable , since it was filmed 90 years ago and most of the setting is covered by crowds of people , but it should also be noted that Chaplin is literally trying on the costume which would soon make him one of the most famous people in the world , and in this six-minute comedy he is wandering around in a film learning his own act . That people today immediately demand high-budget quality from a film like this is ludicrous , to say the least . It's also interesting to consider the fact that , while the film is very , very simple and the improvised comedy is not complex in any way , it is also very real and fits perfectly as an introduction to Chaplin as an actor and the Tramp as an everyday character . Watch any live , on-location news broadcast today and look at what any jerk standing behind the camera is trying to do , and the realism of some guy at the auto races , the Tramp , wandering in front of the camera and mugging makes even more sense . It's also interesting to see the people in the background , curious about this new film thing , obviously staring directly at the camera and watching the filming . Chaplin , as he did in Making A Living , his first film , plays a bit of an unlikable character , but only unlikable as compared to what the Tramp would later become . He was a cheat and a swindler in Making A Living , while here he is just an annoying passer-by who won't go away . The film is book-ended by odd clippings of a note to " his best girl , " and it is unclear why he " made tracks for the track , " but for whatever reason , he was there and made it his mission to be in front of the camera of an increasingly irritated cameraman as much as possible . The cameraman that Charlie is constantly blocking is played by Henry Lehrman , who directed the first few of Chaplin's comedies and with whom Chaplin never had a very positive relationship , either on screen or off . So many people are immediately put off by the technical crudity or stylistic simplicity or physical decay of films like this , but I think that they are even more fascinating for reasons like this . Filmed more than 90 years ago , it is still a clear look at Chaplin's budding career , both on and off the screen . Only a few months later , he would begin directing his own films and his nearly unmatched career in film-making would be launched . Anyone with even a mild interest in film history or silent films should not miss this one , as it is a major landmark in cinematic history and the career of one of its biggest stars . For those of you that demand complex plots and polished film-making , maybe you should stick to watching modern film .
Quentin Tarantino begins his directing career with the first of several chronologically mixed , disturbingly violent , and incredibly powerful films .	Reservoir Dogs is a testament to the idea that " less is more . " This doesn't apply to the violence , the film is extremely violent from beginning to end , but the details of the botched diamond heist , which the entire film is based on , are conveyed only in the dialogue , except for one scene where Mr . Pink ( Steve Buscemi ) recalls his escape . The whole film takes place after the failed robbery is over , and the mystery that unfolds among the criminal participants is amazing to watch . This is not a normal crime film . The thing that really sets Reservoir Dogs apart from all of the others is that it is PURE . When you look at the screen , you're looking at reality . There are no Hollywood actors , there's no make-up to make them look pretty , there's little to no comic relief , and most important of all , there's no goofy romantic subplot clumsily thrown in , a detrimental trademark of so many action films , as well as virtually all Jerry Bruckheimer films . Instead of all of that garbage , Tarantino decided to just present the film as simply and straightforwardly as possible , and by doing that he makes it seem that you're really looking at a bunch of criminals trying to figure out what to do after a suspiciously failed robbery . Even though most of the actors were known at the time this film was made , the film was delivered in such a way that you don't see the actors at all , you only see the brutal characters that they portray . It is genuinely frightening to imagine being in the same room with any of them , and this is a quality that is rarely achieved in any kind of film . Make no mistake , Reservoir Dogs is among the most violent films ever made , and some scenes are really painful to watch , but the way that reality is captured is something that justifies the violent excesses in this film . The violence is never glorified , nor is the criminal lifestyle . When films are overly violent , they usually get branded as such , but despite the extreme violence , Reservoir Dogs still manages to deliver an important overall message about the consequences of your actions . It remains high on the growing list of Tarantino's classic films , and it will not be soon forgotten .
" So ? shall we ? "	I have a feeling that Kubrick's stunningly masterful visual exploration of human sexuality will be overshadowed by the major amount of nudity in it , and the graphic sex scenes . It seems that the movie is more well-known because Nicole Kidman is fully nude in it ( and Tom Cruise , conspicuously , is heavily covered , even his hands , throughout ) , despite the fact that she was fully nude in Billy Bathgate back in 1991 but no one cares much about that . Maybe she wasn't famous enough back then . At any rate , she is nude within literally about the first 5 seconds of the film , when we meet her and her husband Dr . Bill Harford . They have been invited to a classy dinner party which illustrates their place in society , and we meet them as they are getting ready to go out . Clearly , they live a very good life , seemingly much more than even a doctor could afford , given that they live in New York in a sizable mansion . They have been married and faithful to each other for 9 years , have a beautiful 7 - year-old daughter , and a very comfortable home . Life is secure , but even in this opening scene , there is an undercurrent of something missing , almost as though they are just going through the motions of their marriage . Alice ( Kidman ) laments that Bill blandly tells her she looks great without even looking at her , and Bill isn't too excited about the party at all . But the real problem with their marriage is presented in a way that only Kubrick could come up with . Cruise and Kidman are beautiful people , so it's easy to accept a classy older man being extremely direct with his interest in a romp with Alice ( " then and there , " as she explains later ) , and that two stunningly beautiful women will attempt to seduce Bill , all at about the same time . Neither is unfaithful , but this event sets off a chain reaction that leads them down an alarming road . Later , when Alice asks Bill if he had sex with those two women ( in much more colorful language than I am allowed here ) , he sort of laughs it off and assures her that he did not . What he doesn't notice at first is that she doesn't seem the least bit upset or worried when she asks him this , she seems blithely interested , even curious , as though part of her hopes that he did , which would allow her to form some kind of justification in her own mind about being unfaithful herself , something that she has clearly thought about . When she hears that he didn't , she's not very happy , and she lashes out at him with a story that creeps into his mind and turns his life upside down . She has always been faithful to him , but she tells him a story of something that happened that might have been even worse . A lot of people criticize the movie for how slow it is in a sad misunderstanding of one of the movie's greatest strengths . It has a strange , dream-like quality that derives from its pacing , and this is not an accident , nor is it meant just to make the movie run as long as it is . And it is not about sex , either . This should be obvious , I think . Sex happens in the movie , but it's not about sex , but sexuality . The difference is bigger than you think . It's about the fact that humans are essentially animals with very primal physical needs , but we lift ourselves above beasts by controlling those desires and channeling them into meaningful relationships . This , the movie seems to suggest , is one of the reasons why an unfaithful spouse is such a crippling blow to someone . The most moral and sacred pact of the marriage has been broken . More specifically , it seems to suggest a human desire ( amidst both males and females ) for anonymous sex , in the sequence where Bill manages to get into the mansion and witness this taking place , and the vicious threats that he receives when he is discovered . A lot of people have called this a dream sequence , which doesn't make a lot of sense to me , since it is so clearly not . It's bizarre , yes , but I didn't notice anything that would suggest very strongly that it's a dream , outside of the allowance for this possibility . It may have just been left open to that possibility to provoke discussion , but it works better as a real experience than as a dream . Later , Alice confesses a real dream , which is disturbingly close to what Bill saw at that house , and it is a tremendous blow to him . It should be noted that the movie goes to great lengths to explore the trust in a marriage , and both parties are desperately hurt by what the other has said or done , yet neither of them were ever unfaithful to the other . The performances are phenomenal throughout , and made better by an astonishingly well-written script . You may notice , as the movies nears the end , that remarkably little actually happens in it , and yet the movie says so much . It makes a striking comment about the role of sex in a relationship , and yet never exploits it . Sadly , a lot of moviegoers are too shortsighted or narrow-minded to understand the film , which is why you get people saying it's the worst thing that Kubrick has ever come out with . It is very normal for a person to condemn as ridiculous something that they can't understand , and this will happen with this movie . But make no mistake , the movie is brilliant , and more than a worthy addition to Kubrick's short but powerful iconography
The Sixth Sense could not have been made without storyboarding .	M . Night Shyamalan reveals that storyboarding is his favorite part of the film-making process because of the level of control that he has while storyboarding , which is interesting because so many directors hate it . It's one of the processes that I've always almost feared because I want to pursue a career in film-making , but I can't draw at all . But one of the things that I liked about this short documentary was that it showed how important the process is and erased a lot of my apprehension of the process because Shyamalan works with a man who specializes in storyboarding , and it is clearly an invaluable part of the film-making process . Shyamalan points out that while you're on set , you just don't have time to ponder different angles or different ways to frame each shot , because you have 250 extras standing around , the stars waiting in their trailers , etc . The money is being spent at a tremendous rate in that situation , and the more decisions you can have already made , the better . The idea is to draw out every shot in the scene , to make a shooting script that is literally the very images that will be seen in the film . This is , of course , nothing new , but the documentary starts out with a few wonderful dissolves from the storyboard to the corresponding scene in the film . It's not hard to understand the importance of storyboarding , because it allows a way to map out the entire movie before you have anyone standing around on the payroll ; it clearly makes the shooting process , the most expensive process in film-making , go a lot faster . At one point Shyamalan talks about how , during storyboarding , if they decide that a certain shot looks cool , they throw it out because they are not just going for a cool looking movie , they want more than that . Shallow focus , for example , is a beautiful thing to look at , but if they were to use it there had to be more reason to use it than just because of aesthetic appeal . When it is used in the film , it is used as what he calls a very specific human moment , which fits with their intention to make the movie as realistic as possible as far as the real world that Cole lives in . Speaking of which , while he is explaining this he mentions that he's thinking of a specific director who makes movies in a way that when you watch them , you're really just watching acrobatics . Anyone have any thoughts about who that director might be ? At any rate , this short documentary can be found on the Vista Series edition of The Sixth Sense , along with two other wonderful documentaries ( Reflections from the Set and Between Two Worlds ) , all three of which have received astoundingly low user ratings on the IMDb , which I continue to be perplexed by . At the time of this writing , voters have limited their opinions to voting numerically and not writing reviews , so no explanation is given for such low votes , but my current theory is a simple lack of reason for backing them up because , along with the other short videos found on the original Sixth Sense DVD ( with the exception of the two TV spots , which are foolishly scored by a Marilyn Manson cover of I Put A Spell On You . I'm the biggest Marilyn Manson fan you'll find , but the song was completely wrong for the movie ) , all of these documentaries give wonderful insight into the movie . If you manage to get your hands on the Vista Series , don't miss them .
Historical accuracy is one of the things that makes this such a good drama .	( spoilers ) A River Runs Through It is an excellent story of the lives of one family , from the time the two sons were young boys to the time when one of them is an old man , and everyone else has died . Brad Pitt delivers yet another great performance as the younger and wilder son Paul , and the unappealing looking Craig Sheffer stars as Paul's older brother Norman , from whose point of view the entire film is told . The early 20th century is beautifully and accurately presented , and there is even a reference to former President Calvin Coolidge . When Paul grows up , he becomes a reporter , and gets an interview with the President as he is fly fishing in Montana , the state where the film takes place . Not only is this historically accurate as far as the time period , but we also all remember Calvin Coolidge as the president who seemed to be more interested in fishing than working in the White House . Maybe he had the same opinion that George W . Bush has , that ' presidenting is hard . ' At any rate , it was never a secret that Coolidge wanted to be the ' least president possible . ' A River Runs Through It is a very thorough and meaningful drama that presents a long period of time in a thoughtful and clear way . The film as a whole is structured in a way that is very similar to the way that Saving Private Ryan is structured , by being told from the point of view of one of the characters when he is a very old man . The theme of the whole film can be summarized in one of Norman's lines near the end of the film ? ' Life is not a work of art . ' The film suggests that even though life is not perfect , even in the most beautiful surroundings , you can , and should , find something that makes you happy and do that as much as possible . For the Maclean family , that activity was fishing , and Norman continues that activity until he is an old man . It's true that the end of the film may have gotten a little too philosophical and ended up sounding a little bit like gibberish ( such as the closing line , ' I am haunted by waters . ' ) , but the film as a whole is both entertaining and heartwarming . Everyone involved delivered excellent performances that were appropriate for the subject matter , and the character development was intelligent and thorough . This is one of those rare films that , even though it doesn't have the happiest ending , it just makes you feel good .
Definitely one of Pixar's greatest short animated films .	Because I am so loathe to put one over the other , I just want to say that Geri's Game , For The Birds , and Luxo Jr . are the three greatest short animated films that have come from Pixar so far . What you have here is an extremely well made film that creates live characters without the use of dialogue or facial expressions or even bodies , and all this tremendously realistic animation was done in the 80s , before computers themselves had had much of an impact on the movies , especially as compared to today ! Luxo Jr . is an absolutely ingenius creation of animation , Pixar managed to come straight out and begin their career with a flawless animation film . There is , however , also the notable exception of any humans in the film , which should be mentioned here because that is the thing that Pixar's films have had the greatest difficulty with . The baby in Tin Toy was absolutely monstrous and hideous , and even in the full length Toy Story , the human faces were never made to look quite right . The emphasis , however , was placed on the toys in the film , which was one of the many reasons that it was such a great film . In Luxo Jr . , Pixar seems to be making a simple statement about what they can do with computer animation , and they have been tremendously successful . This film is absolutely flawless as far as characterization , simplicity , amusement , and , probably most of all , the amazingly realistic sound effects that served to help bring the hopping lamps to life . This is some of the simplest stuff that can be brought to the screen and still have meaning ( simple , that is , as far as content , not creation ) , but Pixar has managed to make this three minute film a truly memorable cinematic experience .
The Green Mile proved that Stephen King can create amazing stories beyond the graphic horror he is so well-known for .	If you are a true Stephen King fan , and read the book before you saw the movie , I feel that it is safe to say that you are one of the 44 . 4 % ( at the time of this review , anyway ) of voters who gave the Green Mile 10 stars . I have seen virtually every single one of Stephen King's films and have read roughly 30 of his novels , and I think that The Green Mile was by far the best screen adaptation of any of his books , as well as one of the most intellectual and thought provoking stories . Tom Hanks is an incredible actor , and he played a very convincing supervisory prison guard . The fact that the film was so long gave the audience an excellent opportunity to see what kinds of people the characters are . By the end of the film , you KNOW those guys , and that is one of the most important aspects of filmmaking as a whole . The audience needs to feel a connection with the characters , they need to care about them . It is heartbreaking to see Tom Hanks ' character Paul Edgecomb in such pain because of his urinary infection , and when John Coffey cures it , you feel so grateful for it that it may as well have been your own infection . That is the kind of thing that makes a film like this so great . It appealed to the King fans because of the relatively brief but satisfactory violence , but it also appealed to the kinds of people who want to see a good story unfold when they watch a movie . The Green Mile is not a film to be overlooked . Stephen King is now officially proving that although the majority of his films fit firmly in the genre of horror ( with the exception of other great films like Dolores Claiborne and The Shawshank Redemption ) , he is more than capable of creating a truly touching and entertaining movie without relying even a little bit on gratuitous sex or violence or profanity or gore or blood or monsters . . .
Inspiring .	I feel like any movie based on someone's life story should have a short video like this included on the DVD . It starts with scenes from the set where Will Smith celebrated his birthday and introduced the real Chris Gardner , the truly remarkable man on whom the film is based . It tells a lot about his involvement in the production of the movie and what it was like for him to relive his greatest suffering and some of his greatest successes . Like the movie , it's moving and inspiring , and my favorite is that it reveals something about the end of the film that I hadn't noticed but that shows hew truly impressive and wonderful it really is .
Better than most . . .	This is an unusually informative and unique documentary about the making of The Pursuit of Happiness . Most of it centers on the experiences of Italian filmmaker Gabriele Muccino as he directs one of America's biggest movie stars in a film about the American dream . There is tons of great behind the scenes footage and lots of interesting interviews with Muccino and some of the cast , although it's strange that in some of Will Smith's interview scenes he's out of the costume he's in in the movie and he's wearing this shirt and hat that makes him look exactly like the Fresh Prince . He looks like a punk kid , it's bizarre . At any rate , we also learn about the technical and location challenges in making the movie , and why Smith wanted to have Muccino , who had never directed a film in America , direct this one . It seems he made a good choice ! It was also interesting to me , as it was watching the movie , to see so many fabulously wealthy people talking about this story of a man struggling on the verge of homelessness . Because of a certain job I had in Los Angeles a couple years ago I'm lucky enough to have been to Will Smith's unbelievable mansion in Calabasas and Producer James Lassiter's slightly less astonishing but still beautiful mansion near downtown LA , and it seems hard for me to believe that they really have the necessary perspective to pull off a story like this . Nonetheless , I think the movie is incredibly moving and successful in it's intentions , maybe because , as director Muccino mentions , Americans don't really understand the American dream . You need to be a foreigner to really understand it . Whether or not that's exactly true , they have really done something special here .
The first rule of politics : The man who orders the execution NEVER DROPS THE BLADE .	Quills is the modernized story of the Marquis de Sade , whose steamy writings whipped France into a sexual fury in the late 18th Century . And by modernized I mean that it has been told through the experiences of a lot of French people who speak English and with British accents . But no matter , I'm willing to accept that everyone in France in 1800 spoke perfect British even if only because of Geoffrey Rush's brilliant performance . With every movie that he comes out with I become more and more convinced that there is nothing he can't do . In order to know virtue , as the Marquis explains , one must first understand vice . In Philip Kaufman's Quills , the focus is on the Marquis de Sade after his writing has taken him beyond the artistic freedom generally accepted in the 18th and 19th centuries , even to elite aristocracy like himself . It is a detailed exploration of the events that led from him being a social elitist to living almost three decades in prison , writing things that caused his keepers to make it so difficult for him to write that he ultimately uses his own blood and excrement for ink , and his clothing , the walls of his cell , and his own skin as parchment . Luckily for the Marquis , at first anyway , is that there is something of an understanding priest in the Abbe du Coulmier , another wonderful performance from Joaquin Phoenix . An intensely religious man , Coulmier believes that the Marquis should be allowed to write , if only to purge himself of the sadism with which his head is filled and which would later be named after him . Kate Winslet plays Madeleine , a laundry maid who smuggles the Marquis ' writing out of the asylum so that it can be published , for which many people are not happy , but many others are . The Marquis dips into the extensive world of the forbidden sexual taboos of the 18th and 19th centuries , writing extensively about them without a care in the world for propriety . One may wonder to what extent the Marquis ' writings were such a hit because they were forbidden , or because of their lewd content , which may euphemistically be described as guilty pleasures for the masses . Indeed , Larry Flynt was not working , so graphic pornography was something of a rarity . There is a curious relationship between the Marquis and a physician named Royer-Collard , played by Michael Caine , who is assigned to law down the law with the Marquis and prevent him from writing anymore . The glee with which the Marquis mocks and taunts him are some of the best parts of this outstanding film . There is a great parallel between the two characters , as well . Royer-Collard pretends to be a moral role model , at the same time taking a wife who is young enough to be his daughter , possibly even his granddaughter , and treats the Marquis with exactly the same sadistic ( if I can again use the term for the behavior for which the Marquis would later be named ) behavior that he condemns that Marquis for writing about . Both men engage in many of the same practices , it's just that the Marquis makes no attempt and has no interest in hiding his interests in the pleasures of the flesh . I think that the most important thing to remember about this movie is that it is able to deal with a person who's beliefs are , I like to think , below the moral compasses of most of the people who will watch the movie , but it's not about what he was writing , it's about the fact that he was writing at all . It's about his defiance in the face of a corrupt moral authority , his insistence on maintaining an artistic expression that was not well received but that was certainly therapeutic to him . Sure , his sanity is in question , to say the least , but as they say , genius is often associated with madness . What a great coincidence , too , because so is Geoffrey Rush .
' Whar you goin ' , city boy ! '	SPOILERS SPOILERS Packed with memorable moments ( such as the quote above , immortalized by Primus ) , Deliverance tells the story of four guys who take a trip to the wild woods to go white water rafting and get away from the big city for a while only to find that their fun soon takes a bad turn . This is not a Hollywood film . There are virtually no special effects whatsoever , the setting is extremely realistic , and nothing at all is sugarcoated or made pretty . The city boys look like city boys , and even the tough guy Louis , portrayed with precision by Burt Reynolds , is clearly at the mercy of the wild on this trip . This is a perfect example of a what-if film . What if a few friends went river rafting in an area of the woods that none of them were familiar with , and ended up desperately trying to avoid being tried and convicted for murders that they were forced to commit to save their own lives ? There is clearly a very strong element of the film that deals with societal and class structure and the relationship ( or lack thereof ) between rural and urban peoples . When the four guys arrive in the woods early in the film , they clearly do not quite know how to interact with the people who live out there , and they speak to them as though they are unsure whether they will understand or be able to communicate . This communication block is most memorably illustrated in the dueling banjoes scene , in which they are trying to gas up the car and truck and get someone to drive the vehicles downriver for them . While Drew and the obviously inbred and probably mentally deficient boy on the porch are dueling with their guitar and banjo ( one of the best scenes in the film ) , Louis is having some difficulty buying the gas , and Bobby makes a comment about genetic deficiencies and how pathetic it all is . When the boy turns away from Drew , who had offered to shake his hand after their stupendous jam session , Bobby tells him to give the kid a couple bucks , knowing that none of them are quite sure how to react . This is the kind of thing that we see in Deliverance that sets up so much of the tension that is to follow . This great scene where a lot of fun was had ( including the funniest ' redneck dancing ' scene until O Brother , Where Art Thou ? ) ended with everyone awkwardly unsure what to do around each other . These people are apples and oranges , and they live by completely different rules of life . The people that Louis , Bobby , Drew and Ed encounter in the hills grew up separated from modern society and modern laws , and live by the rules of nature , which do not include thou shalt not kill . Confused by their awkward behavior , the four friends set out on the river , hoping for the weirdness to end and for the adventure to begin . ( spoilers ) When they are briefly separated from each other and Ed and Bobby run into the hillbillies beside the river who quickly turn unpleasant , the uncertainty about the way that these people live - which was established by the scene above - comes into play to create the most tension during the scene . I think that a good sign of a quality thriller like this is that the tragic element of the film , namely the assaults and actual murders , takes up a very small amount of screen time but remain some of the most memorable parts of the film . There is no gratuitous violence here , it's all there for an obvious purpose and it achieves a startlingly powerful effect . The move is about the violent clash of two very different kinds of people , and what can happen when they inadvertently find themselves at war with each other . The trip down the rest of the river after the assault , which takes up the majority of the film , delivers some spectacularly effective tension , and keeps you on the edge of your seat while not bombarding you with so much happening that you become numb . It is surprisingly effective when we find out that Ed may very well have killed the wrong man up there on the cliff , and the tension in the film doesn't even let up when the three surviving members of the team reach the bottom of the river , because they deliver a questionable explanation to the police about what happened up there on the river and why the deputy's brother-in-law is missing . This is a very disturbing film , which is a testament to its success , because it's pretty obvious that a film like this is meant to shake people up a little bit . The hillbillies are the human ( i . e . more realistic ) version of the sub-human rednecks seen in childish but fairly similar films like Gator Bait and Gator Bait 2 , neither of which could possibly ever be compared to a timeless film like Deliverance . When we follow these four men through their fateful weekend in the woods , the natural element is so real and we get to know the men so well and in such a subtle fashion that it's almost like we , as individuals of the audience , are really a fifth member of the team . It's not often that a film is able to come across that way .
A change of pace for almost everyone involved results in spectacular success .	I recently stumbled upon the last half of one of those Top 50 Child Stars TV shows , which had a segment on Leonardo DiCaprio , showing interviews with him when he first started acting and would make jokes about how famous and rich he was , having had no way of knowing how astronomically rich and famous he would go on to be . Anyway , the show described his performance in What's Eating Gilbert Grape as one of his most charming , which turned out to be a tremendous understatement . The film takes place in the motionless town of Endora , Iowa , and concerns the world of Gilbert Grape , whose life is in a constant state of turmoil . He works for a tiny local general store that has come under the competitive strain of a massive supermarket which has opened just outside of town . Needless to say , the store is a major topic of conversation among the local townspeople , because a big store in a town like Endora is big news . I think the real charm of the movie lies in the fact that it is able to portray what you normally might consider to be a highly dysfunctional family and make them charming and , in the context of the town and world they live in , lovable . All of the problems that the family suffers on a daily basis are right at the forefront throughout the film , but no one ever really seems unhappy , except for the mother , and we get the feeling that her unhappiness is both the cause and the result of her morbid obesity . We get a brief explanation of how she came to be so heavy , but not really much more than , " I wasn't always like this . " Gilbert is about 21 and seems to be the only one mature ( and mentally and physically able ) enough to hold the family together , and the majority of the movie focuses on his struggles to do that in normal life . He is in charge of his mentally retarded brother Arnie ( DiCaprio ) , has to periodically subdue his intolerably obnoxious sister , who looks like she belongs in a different family and a different society ( and she believes that , too ) , while at the same time getting to work on time , hanging out at coffee shops with his similarly offbeat friends talking about the undertaking business . In between all of this , a local desperate housewife periodically orders groceries for delivery from the general store where he works , and she tends to be a little less desperate after he leaves . It seems that all of this normality , charming in both its daily routine and its total difference from the daily monotony that the majority of us are used to , is presented to us so that we can get to know Gilbert , his daily life , and his family , as they are before the cataclysmic arrival of Becky ( Juliette Lewis ) . Becky is on a vacation of sorts with her mother and stops in Endora long enough for her and Gilbert to develop a romantic interest in each other , and she thereby breaks the series of monotonies which the first part of the movie introduced us to . Monotonies which may have continued forever had she not arrived . There are a series of events that take place after Becky arrives as Gilbert tries to assimilate her into his well-established life , testing the waters and taking new risks that he would never have even considered before , and learning something about himself from the results , as we all do . The Grapes are a family that would very likely knock you off your feet if you were to run into almost any of them in person , but the movie is so good at treating them as humans that they are not a spectacle at all , even when Arnie is repeatedly climbing the local water tower , much to the chagrin of the local police force , who have been promised repeatedly that this is the last time . It never is , and when we see Arnie up there on the tower , we cheer for him , and the reason we cheer for him is the same reason why the movie is so effective . We don't cheer for him because we identify with his struggle against a couple of grumpy cops , but as though he has made an accomplishment , because in his mind , he has .
Hell hath no fury like relentless gossip .	Malena is a film that gives the impression that there are no innocent parties . The men are guilty of dirty , lustful thoughts ( and some of more than just thoughts ) , the women are guilty of gossip , violence and probably more than a little envy , and Malena is guilty of being a homewrecker . But in looking back at the movie it seems that what caused the problems were two things ? gossip and something like insecurity . Roger Ebert wrote probably the most idiotic review I've ever seen him come out with about this movie . He missed the point of this movie even more than he missed the point of Memento , and his review of that movie was like a blind man describing a shooting star . He describes Malena as a schoolteacher " of at least average intelligence , who must be aware of her effect on the collective local male libido , but seems blissfully oblivious . " Roger , seriously , are you joking ? BLISSFULLY ? ? Did you sleep through this movie ? She almost never speaks at all and never displays even the slightest hint of a smile . Given the extent of her depression and stifling sadness , it is astounding to me that anyone in their right mind could attach the word " blissfully " to any element of her character . I know what that's like though , because sometimes I completely miss something about a movie and I think that something else is the stupidest thing in the world because of it , at least until someone explains what I missed and then it all makes sense . Watch Malena , for example , walking through the central square in town at any point in the movie . If you think she keeps her eyes on the ground directly in front of her because she is in a state of pure , ignorant bliss , then trust me . You are missing something . I don't know if Malena was actually unaware of the effect that she had on the townspeople , but I find it nearly impossible to believe that she did . That thought actually never even occurred to me until I read Roger Ebert's gem of a review . Her behavior struck me much more like someone who had been dealing with such behavior from the men around for her whole life . I doubt very much that she doesn't understand the concepts of human physical attraction . Moving on . Set against the backdrop of World War II reminded me of Life is Beautiful , especially given the uncertain mix of comedy and tragedy . It wasn't as powerful on both sides here as in Life is Beautiful , but it was truly heartbreaking to see Malena suffering and trying to ignore the increasing tension that was being generated around her . It's hard to say that she was a victim of her own beauty , but it was really what drove all of the conflict in the story . The women at first seemed to be upset with their husbands because of their stares , and things got worse and worse because of the endless gossip which seemed to monopolize the talk of the entire town . If anyone was talking about anything , it had something to do with the latest sexual escapades of Malena . Women would not sell her good food at the town market , so she had to get it from men who expected things in return . There was a scene where an officer was at her home , but I don't think there was any indication that they had sex . It was clear that he was more interested than she was , and later it was her that wound up in court for having an amorous relationship with a married man in uniform . The courtroom performance of Malena's lawyer , by the way , is one of the highlights of the movie . I'm not really sure how to feel about the women involved in the climax of their collective hatred of Malena , because surely Malena did not sleep with the husband of every woman involved , and of those whose husbands committed no crime other than looking at a beautiful woman , what did they then think of their wives , who would do such a thing out of pure jealousy and envy ? I'm a man myself ; so I can't speak from a woman's point of view , but if your husband cheats on you , take it out on him . Don't go and beat up the subject of his affections , especially if it is nothing more than a beautiful woman that he looked at . Imagine all of the attractive women beaten up without knowing why . Weaving his way throughout all of this chaos is Renato , a 12-year-old boy who has conceptualized Malena as the ideal woman in all ways . He sees himself as her protector , desperate to save her from the tension that he sees growing around her , the unfair antagonism that is being leveled at her , for really no fault of her own . His identification of Malena as the subject of his developing sexuality reminded me of another great film , The Hairdresser's Husband . If you liked this , see that one , too . Oh and if you're Roger Ebert , maybe watch this one again . And stay awake this time .
Do not watch while under the influence of ANYTHING .	SPOILERSDrugs , alcohol , painkillers , don't even watch this if you've taken ASPIRIN within the last 24 hours . Requiem For A Dream is extremely moving and powerful and REAL and it could only bring out the worst of any type of mind-altering substance . I watched this film stone sober and in the middle of the night , and when it was over I was almost afraid that the sun wasn't going to come up in the morning . This is one of the most powerful anti-drug movies to have been released in years . And the thing that really sets this film apart is that it is not a crash course in all of the bad side effects of drugs . There are numerous characters in several different storylines that all converge and deliver a unique message . This is one of the things that made movies like American Beauty so good , there is just so much going on . The film is a spiraling downfall for all of the characters involved , but it manages to have an unusually strong impact because of its realism , which is ironic because one of the film's strong points is its striking use of editing . There is a constant use of creative and disorienting editing and cinematography , which gives the film a feeling of being a little off at all times , but it manages to remain realistic enough not to lose any impact . As far as editing , I was particularly impressed with the creative use of the split screen . The film starts off with a scene in which Harry ( Jared Leto ) borrows his mother's television set , and she is so upset that she locks herself in the other room . In the split screen , we see Harry from two different angles , and on one side , we see broken shots , while the other side shows continuous action . This is done with multiple cameras , so it's not the sheer difficulty that I noticed as much as the creativeness . And of course , being a drug film , it is full of interesting and sometimes disturbing editing and cinematography . Jared Leto is excellent as Harry Goldfarb , a junkie who wants to sell enough drugs to really support himself , his girlfriend , his partner in trafficking ( Tyrone ) , and most importantly , his mother . The relationship between Harry and his mother Sarah is the one from which the majority of the emotion in the film is derived , as well as from his girlfriend Marion's descent into drug-induced prostitution . Ellen Burstyn is stunningly effective as Sarah Goldfarb , Harry's mother , who lives exactly the existence that you spend your entire youth hoping to never have to live . She is alone , she's overweight and unattractive , and she's so obsessed with getting onto a stupid TV show just one time that she goes on such an intense crash diet that she literally drives herself insane . The antagonistic refrigerator , by the way , is one of the more interesting things about the film , and should also be noted for its originality . What was the last respectable film you saw in which an inanimate object like a refrigerator was made to have such a successfully menacing presence ? Jennifer Connelly has changed dramatically from the cute actress that we saw in older movies like Labyrinth and Career Opportunities and The Rocketeer . In Requiem For A Dream , she delivers a spectacular performance , proving her skill as an actor . But it is the performance from Marlon Wayans that is by far the most surprising and noteworthy . He plays the part of Tyrone with such amazing skill that it is almost impossible to believe that this is the same idiot that we saw in the god-awful Scary Movies . Way to go , Marlon , but stick with the movies that can be enjoyed by people with more than one brain cell in operation , like Requiem For A Dream . ( spoilers ) Another thing that this movie does on more than one occasion is give an example of How People Get Like That . Every time I see or hear about a homeless person or a mental patient ( which is not often , I admit ) or a woman so strung out on drugs that she would sell her body to get her fix , I always wonder what must have happened in that person's life for them to have wound up like that . Requiem For A Dream provides a perfectly plausible story in which a nice but rather pathetic woman becomes obsessed with her chance to appear on television and winds up getting electro-shock therapy against her will in a mental hospital , and then we see that Marion winds up engaging in lesbian shows for crowds of drunken jerk-offs , and Harry shoots up so much in the same arm that he has to have it amputated . These are the kinds of things that make you wonder how they got like that , and in this movie we see how it happened and its believable . Requiem for a Dream is not one of the most cheery movies I've ever seen , in fact , it is downright disturbing at many points , but it is powerful and effective and should be noted for that . The film is photographed and edited in creative and interesting ways , which not only makes it fascinating to watch but also enhances the drug element of the film , which was also a technique used with huge success in the must more well known film Traffic . There is a lot of difficult to watch material in this movie , but it is a very well thought out film . Not for the weak of heart , but this is an excellent piece of cinematography .
Some great sight gags that are very reminiscent of Chaplin's early works .	By the time The Blacksmith was released Chaplin was making the change from short comedies like this one to full length films , but his influence on Buster Keaton's work is unmistakable , as in this case . Keaton plays an apprentice to a blacksmith who ends up getting arrested after a fiasco involving a giant magnet placed over the door to his shop . This is some of the funniest stuff in the movie , which started being funny within seconds of beginning . Even the image of Keaton standing under a tall palm tree is a great sight gag , for some reason . After his boss has been arrested , Keaton finds himself in charge of the shop , and he runs it with lovable incompetence , inventing hilarious solutions to problems that people bring in with their horses and cars . One lady , for some reason , decides to go to a blacksmith when her horseback riding has begun hurting her back , so he gives her a horseback suspension system . Another man brings in a shiny white car , which Keaton proceeds to unwittingly destroy . By far my favorite gag is the one where Keaton manages to hold up a car with a kid's balloon , prompting the kid to shoot the balloon with a pea-shooter . It's impossible to ignore the similarities between Keaton and Chaplin's tramp ( the scene where Keaton cooks his food over the fire in the shop , only to begin pounding it with the hammer when his boss sees him is exactly the kind of thing Chaplin was famous for at the time ) , but they are both lovably and wonderful characters on their own . This film has an interesting conclusion involving a hasty ( to say the least ) marriage to one of his clients which leads to another of the film's many great sight gags ( not to mention the train , which probably created momentary but genuine tension among the film's original audiences ) , showing a certain way in which many a honeymoon quite often ended . Just when you think the movie might approach tragedy , it makes you laugh again .
The Birth of an Algerian Nation .	The Battle of Algiers is a very unique war film . It is a documentary-style depiction of an uprising in Algiers against the French , and has the rare distinction of being told partly from the point of view of the radicals who , in this case , were terrorists . The film is very informative because , unlike most war films , it is told alternately from multiple points of view . This switching back and forth between several different perspectives provides a unique experience in watching the suffering that went on in Algeria during that nation's struggle for independence . ( spoilers ) This is a startlingly realistic and often painful depiction of Algeria's struggle ; it does not make the subject matter easy to swallow , which is one of it's better points , in my opinion . I think that in films , especially war films , realism is the most important aspect of the entire picture . You could have amazing acting and spectacular directing and cinematography , but if anything is obviously falsified or exaggerated , that one thing can ruin the movie on its own . The Battle of Algiers does not go out of its way to provide a happy ending , although independence is eventually achieved by the Algerian nation . The goal of the Algerian people is reached , but the extensive cost of human lives is clearly and explicitly presented .
A Scorsese original .	One of the things that I love the most about watching the old classics is when you can so clearly see the beginnings of what later became such trademarks of a director , actor , even a genre . Martin Scorsese begins a long line of films about the gangs of New York with Mean Streets , a gritty look at the underside of New York City that foreshadowed much of the same stark realism portrayed in Taxi Driver a few years later . It reminds me of the minimalist realism of films like Spike Lee's Do The Right Thing , another urban classic . Robert DeNiro plays Johnny Boy , the fast talking kid who owes money all over town and never seems to care to pay anyone back . We meet other characters who owe people money , and their apologies at not being able to pay are genuine , they realize that they're not going to get late fees added to their debt or Last Notices , they're putting their lives on the line . There is genuine fear on their side and genuine malice on the side of the people they owe money to , but Johnny Boy just doesn't seem to care . Harvey Keitel plays Charlie Cappa , who is constantly trying to get Johnny Boy to shape up and pay off what he owes , knowing the danger that he is in and frustrated at Johnny's lack of interest or care in the fact that he owes so many people so much money . Johnny and Charlie live in the same environment but completely different worlds . Johnny holds himself in and laughs everything off , occasionally venting his frustration in quick bursts of violence , Charlie is much more contained but is tormented spiritually . While Johnny gets himself into endless debt with people that collect by any means necessary , Charlie goes to confession and holds his fingers over flames to remind himself of the dangers of the afterlife should he mess up in this one . Catholicism is a major character in this film . The movie is set in New York City in the late 1960s , where Scorsese grew up in presumably something of a similar environment . Something must have gone differently , since he ended up one of the most famous directors in the world rather than dead like so many characters in his movies do , but he creates this environment in Mean Streets that gives an incredible view into the dangers of the life that so many people lived and continue to live there . I've never even been to New York , but having seen so many of Scorsese's films I think I can understand why the environment could have had such an impact on him that it dominated most of his career as a filmmaker . There are some classic scenes in this movie that would have been much more widely quoted were it not for the even more quotable lines from Taxi Driver . Mean Streets , for example , is where you find the classic speech by Robert DeNiro , I'll call it the " I borrow money from everybody so I owe everybody money so I can't borrow money no more so I borrow money from you because you're the only jerkoff around here that I can borrow money without paying back ! " speech . I love that one , especially the expression on his face , he's having such a great time . But considering the world that he lives in , it's almost understandable the way he cares so little about placing himself in danger . In a life as bleak and unpromising as the one that is portrayed in this movie , it is to be expected that someone will display passive suicidal behavior . Johnny knows he's never going to go to college , he's never going to be a doctor or a businessman or drive a nice car , he's going to grow up working menial jobs and live an obscure and meaningless life , in his eyes , and that's what the movie's about . Charlie seems to have similar feelings , looking to the Catholic Church not only as a means of salvation and spiritual fulfillment but for meaning as well . Granted , that is a very common goal for people getting involved with religion of any kind , but even more in Charlie's case . He is certainly the level-headed one between him and Johnny , but his future is not a whole lot brighter . Regardless of how much more responsible Charlie is than Johnny or how hard he tries to get Johnny to straighten out and pay off his debts , they both live in the same world , and so do their debtors . It is a world that is described in the lyrics of one of the songs in the movie ? " Have you ever had a wish sandwich ? It's the kind where you take two pieces of bread and wish you had some meat . "
Excellent claymation .	I was really surprised by Chicken Run . I was expecting some dumb kids movie that tried in vain to be as good as other animated classics like Toy Story , but this was a really good film . The story involves a bunch of heavily accented chickens who are trying desperately to learn how to fly so that they can escape the chicken farm where they live , and therefore escape being butchered and made into chicken pot pies . One of the best things about this movie is the great laughs that it delivers , particularly from the dialogue as this diverse group of chickens communicates with each other about their predicament ( ' Chickens go in , pies come out ! ' ' Oooohh ! ! What kind ? a pies ? ' ) . Mel Gibson is great as the voice of Rocky the Rooster , who inadvertently landed himself in the pen with the other desperate chickens , therefore accidentally convincing them that he can fly . ( spoilers ) Rocky and the rest of the chickens work desperately to escape the evil Mrs . Tweedy and her pie-making machine , as well as Rocky's dishonesty with the other chickens , particularly Ginger , with whom he develops a heartwarming romance . The chickens ' eventual escape is ridiculously unrealistic , but it doesn't matter , because it doesn't have to be realistic . The main characters of the film are talking chickens , I think that a flying machine built and flown by chickens is not going too far , given the type of film that this is . The makers of Wallace and Gromit have come up with another winner , and it's good for the whole family .
Join us and live in peace or pursue your present course and face obliteration ?	It's odd to think that fifty years from now there may only be a handful of movies released in 2004 that will be remembered at all . I don't care to venture any guesses as to what they may be , but it's easy to see why The Day the Earth Stood Still is one of the ones from 1951 that remains a classic , while so many others sank into obscurity . The movie deals with a theme that was at the forefront of so many peoples ' minds in the early 1950s , in America and the rest of the world , and that is the conflicts between many different nations , and more generally the tendency for humans to fight each other . It was released at the time of the Red Scare and so soon after World War II that international tensions were still high . Also odd is that if you switch the last two words in the title , why , it's not very frightening at all ! Okay , that made no sense , but I couldn't resist . My respect for the movie dimmed sharply when I saw that the alien was not only a man , but a good looking man who spoke perfect English , but then won back my respect completely when it took the time to explain that his culture had learned about humans through intercepting radio transmissions over many years . Unlikely , but it's an explanation , which is more than most science fiction films provide . Granted , not much time should be wasted on the science of science fiction , but in this case something had to be said . The alien didn't give may details as to his physical condition , but scientists hypothesized that since he so closely resembles a human , he must have a similar environment to our own on his planet . Speaking of which , there is one thing about the science that I'm also curious about . At what stage were astronomical studies in the early 1950s ? I'm wondering how far into space scientists were looking , because Carpenter , the alien , states with some grandeur that he has traveled 250 million miles to get to earth , which in astronomical terms is a tiny , tiny distance . Considering that the sun is 93 million miles from earth , this would mean that his planet is within our own solar system . And here's another little factoid ? Earth makes a complete revolution around the sun every year , as you know . Pluto , on the other hand , takes something like 248 years to revolve around the sun . That has nothing to do with the movie , but is an interesting digression , I should think . I found the political backdrop to be one of the most interesting things about the movie , and not only because of what the political landscape was like at the time . It was interesting to watch a movie about aliens that so quickly and completely dissolved into a close examination of volatile human relations , and without ever becoming preachy or devolving into peace propaganda ( oxymoron intended ) . I actually think that a large part of what made up for the lack of aliens in this alien movie was the validity that its argument has . When Carpenter ( who they stopped just short of simply naming Jesus ) was greeted with the response that a meeting with all of the worlds leaders was impossible because of tensions between nations , he was genuinely surprised and saddened . He gives as his reason for visiting earth the fact that his civilization has noticed satellites being launched around the Earth's atmosphere and , since humans clearly are unable to get along , he was sent here to tell us to join them and live in peace or face our present course and face obliteration . Most importantly , if we chose the latter , they would be there to ensure that we would not export our violence to peaceful civilizations in space . The descending nature with which he speaks is truly revealing , it makes humans look childish because of our constant battling with one another . This is also where the movie coincides with some of the themes that Jonathan Swift presented in Utopia , his novel upon which several failed civilizations have been attempted . They have created robots , which we seen in the Iron Man , to prevent the rise of violence in their society . The robots have tremendous power , which cannot be revoked , and at the first sign of violence they react swiftly against the aggressor , which results in a peaceful society . I'm also reminded of Gulliver's Travels , also by Jonathan Swift , particularly the section where Gulliver lives among the Houynymns which , interestingly enough , are talking horses with a remarkable ability to live at peace . When at one point Gulliver describes lying , which does not exist to the Houynymns , one of them responds incredulously with something like , " Why on Earth would one say something that isn't so ? " Carpenter displays exactly the same shocked surprise when he learns of some of the awful characteristics of human beings , which seems to suggest that before we look for other civilized worlds in the galaxy , maybe we should work a little more on civilizing our own world . The famous quote that I've quoted in my summary line is one of the many delights that this film presents , and Evil Dead fans will be thrilled to see the origins of those strange words that Ash had such a hard time speaking in Army of Darkness . The genre of science fiction has a much larger than average ratio of bad films to good ones , and I think the best ones are the ones that have a concrete connection to the real world , as The Day the Earth Stood Still obviously does . Given the political atmosphere here in the first month of 2005 , it's obvious that humans have not taken much advice from this movie , but then again , as Arnold stated in Terminator 2 , " It's in your nature to destroy yourselves . " Scary .
" How about a magic trick ? "	It's been a long time since I've been wildly excited about going to see a new movie in the theaters . I normally wait until the crowds die down , and see the big movies at least a week or two after they are released , if I don't just wait for the DVD . But the previews and reviews of The Dark Knight were so uniformly excellent that I was counting the days , and I was definitely not disappointed . I have heard speculation that a lot of the positive reviews are based in no small part out of respect for Heath Ledger's tragic and untimely death , but now that I've seen the movie I know that that is most certainly not the case . His performance as The Joker is one of the most consistently outstanding film performances I've ever seen . Brilliant ! ! I've never been a huge fan of Ledger's , although I find his performances usually pretty good . But I've rarely seen an actor do something as brilliant as what he did for this movie . As for Christian Bale , I'll watch him do anything ( you probably saw the preview before this movie for Terminator Salvation , and in my opinion , it's Bale that is the savior of that franchise , as he is of Batman ) . This is one of out most enormously talented and wonderful actors , and he fills the role of Batman perfectly . What I love the most about the movie , however , is not about the performances or the special effects or even the action , but the way it delves so deeply into the psychology of all of the main characters . There is an astonishing amount of introspection given into the minds of The Joker , Batman , Two-Face , and others , and this psychological analyses give insight into the minds of the characters and gives reasons for their actions . Or , in the case of The Joker , the absence of reasons for their actions ( " I just . . . DO things . . . " ) . In a lesser film , the villain explaining that there are no real reasons behind his actions , like there are for normal people , that he is just basically flailing wildly and there is no explanation for his villainousness , would come off as weak screen writing , a weak excuse to present an evil character with no moral boundaries . But The Joker is written and performed so well that , when he gives this explanation , you almost want to cheer for him . His brutal honesty counteracts his evil tendencies and makes him enormously watchable . Like Mickey and Mallory , writers Christopher and Jonathan Nolan ( also responsible for the purely brilliant Memento ) understand that a good villain must have plenty of public appeal . All of the previous Batman films have dealt pretty simply with the hero Batman trying to save Gotham City from the evil villains , and this is changed completely in The Dark Knight . The citizens of Gotham are calling for Batman's unmasking , the revelation of his identity , and for him to face the consequences of laws that he has broken and other problems that he has caused , such as being a vigilante and even causing the deaths of police officers . There is a major identity struggle as Wayne watches in dismay the news reports of public masses calling for him to show himself , as The Joker has vowed to kill people every day that Batman keeps himself hidden . Wayne's options get slimmer and slimmer . Seemingly in an attempt to undermine everything that Batman has come to represent , The Joker concocts brilliant schemes which force Batman to make a decision between two choices , each of which forces him to make a terrible ethical or moral mistake . He is forced to choose someone at the expense of another , to do something he would never normally do , each time lengthening his rap sheet , so to speak . You may begin to notice that , as in real life , when he starts doing these terrible things because he has no choice , his guilt is written in stone . No one cares that he was forced into anything , or that he made the best possible choice he could . The goal , of course , is to humiliate Batman and destroy his public image , and it's a little frightening how easy that is . The transformation that the characters undergo is hugely unexpected , and it is not at all disheartening that the movie ends with virtually the promise of more sequels . I personally expect to see again Commissioner Gordon ( Gary Oldman ) , Lucius Fox ( Morgan Freeman ) , Two-Face , Gordon's son ( that little blonde kid that Two-Face almost killed ) , and probably Salvatore Maroni . He has a relatively small role , but it's interesting that Batman dropped him off a building and shattered both of his legs , and then he was walking around again a few scenes later . He's gotta have powers of some kind . It's not often that a movie comes along with this much hype and expectation and speculation , and not only lives up to the hype , but surpasses it . I have noticed that The Dark Knight has unseated both The Godfather and The Shawshank Redemption and has taken the # 1 spot on the IMDb's Top 250 list . This is the first time in the ten years I've been using the IMDb that I have ever seen any movie other than those two at # 1 or # 2 , and the movie definitely deserves it . Christopher Nolan's second Batman film has not only elevated the Batman franchise , but it has both elevated and broadened the entire sub-genre of the comic book movie . While so many extra sequels these days come off as another movie tacked on to a successful franchise just to cash in on the popularity ( Hear that , Jones ? ) , the Nolan brothers have taken us deeper into the story and completely changed the direction . I am eagerly waiting to see what comes next !
You can't take it with you but you can't just walk away ?	I never saw this movie in the theaters because something about the title struck me as being more academic than something I would be interested in paying $9 to see . I made the same mistake about American History X ( and didn't learn from it , apparently ) back in 1998 , and while the movie is not about some sort of evolution of violence , as I assumed , there is an interesting paradox about violence that is approached . There is a short special feature on the DVD that shows a couple of scenes of violence that were different in the international version from the US version , because the blood had to be reduced for the US version . This struck me as quite odd because in the hour long documentary included on the DVD , Viggo Mortensen says that violence is sort of celebrated in America . Why is violence so celebrated in the same place where it is so heavily censored ? At any rate , you know those crime movies and gangster movies where someone wants to get out of that life , do this one last job to make enough money to get out , and invariably someone tells them that they can't just leave ? They can't just walk away ? That's what this movie is about , it shows why you can't just walk away , because no matter how hard you try you can't change who you are . Viggo Mortensen plays Tom Stall , an unassuming café owner in a small , charming town , who lives a happy , simple life with his family , but which is entirely shattered when a couple of traveling criminals attempt to rob his store just before it closes one night . This leads on to a mysterious case of mistaken identity that gradually may or may not be mistaken , turning into an almost Hitchcockian thriller . ( spoilers ) Even when you learn what is really happening in the movie with the character of Tom Stall , it is clear that throughout the film he is always just trying to get back to the normal life he has been living in the small town of Millbrook . The movie makes a powerful statement about how hard it is to escape a life of crime , especially when you happen to be really good at it . Also of important note is the heavily meaningful ending , which I won't go into too much detail about because I don't fully understand it , but it is one of the most powerful scenes in the film , performance-wise , and it's amazing how much emotion it contains , given that not a word is spoken in the closing scene . Unusually powerful for such a violent thriller .
Ah , the memories ?	I should admit that I haven't seen Reading Rainbow for probably 15 years , but it is such a milestone in my development that I have to say something about it . I only stumbled on the series on the IMDb when I was looking up a mediocre thriller starring Hillary Swank , and even after all these years just the title of the show brought a smile to my face . I remember being enraptured with all the new books and stories and illustrations and everything , and while I don't watch the show anymore , I have become a voracious reader in my adult life , probably in no small part because of this show . I don't think we have shows as healthy and fun and well made as this one much anymore , this one seems to continue to be the only major broadcast show that encourages kids to read , which is really sad . Then again , I watch so little TV that there could be others that I don't know about . Either way , I doubt very much that many modern shows have the same kind of appeal to the young and old alike as the Reading Rainbow , which makes me wish there was some kind of TV forum like this geared more towards maturer readers . I have a feeling that there are plenty of authors who would bring a pretty big audience were they to give interviews and talk about their books the way they are discussed on this show . Bravo ! !
Hilarious !	Like many of it's animated colleagues , Ice Age starts off with a wonderful short film , this time one which was even better known than the rest of the film before it was released . You may remember seeing previews for Ice Age that were made up entirely of footage from Scrat's Missing Adventure , which is probably the most entertaining and amusing short animated film I've ever seen . There is something to be said when a movie like Drop Zone or even a James Bond film like Moonraker can so badly screw up the concept of skydiving , and then a short children's film like this makes the effort to portray it so accurately ( with the obvious exception of all that nut gathering business , of course ) . I have heard that Scrat was originally meant to play a much larger role in the film , which was to be centered around him as the main character , but other characters were brought in under the demand for a more large scale motion picture . Thankfully , Scrat makes several much-welcome appearances throughout the film , but this opening sequence still stands as probably the best four minutes of the entire film .
Stanley Kubrick's ambiguous science fiction epic continues to baffle audiences around the world , even more than three decades after it was filmed .	The obvious question that someone is going to ask after watching 2001 : A Space Odyssey is , ' What was the meaning of that damn monolith ? ' Well , as is the case with the majority of great movies , 2001 spawns thinking and discussion . A movie that answers all of its questions neatly and in a timely manner can rarely be anything more than something to watch to kill a couple of hours . But 2001 is so creative and so mysterious that you really have to think about it and even watch it a few times over before you can begin to come up with a coherent meaning from it . This is a science fiction film for the thinking audience , as opposed to the fast food schlock that is cranked out by Hollywood ( Mission To Mars , Pitch Black , Supernova , Armageddon , and other such nonsense ) , but with the obvious exception of the excellent Apollo 13 . Kubrick's superior directing skills are a large part of what makes this movie such a classic . The circular space station provides him with an opportunity to film some unique versions of his traditional tracking shots , and there is also something to be said about the way that he was able to make a menacing character out of a computer that had no features other than a monotonous voice and that unblinking red eye . The award winning special effects easily surpass the vast majority of the computer generated special effects used in science fiction films today , flawlessly creating a world of zero gravity and isolation . There were several different methods that were successfully utilized in order to create a convincing outer space setting , such as near constant tilted frames , amazingly effective rotating sets , ever present humming sounds from the machinery , among other strange sounds , as well as the slowness of everything , which is present throughout the entire film , at least the entire film after that world famous jump cut . Speaking of which , I think that the cut from the bone flying through the air to the space ship floating through space was not done as well as it could have been . I think that the cut should have come a few frames sooner , when the bone had just started moving downward , so that the cut would be smoother , with the slow moving space ship . The story that follows also poses the question of how the monolith got to the moon , and even whether or not it is the same monolith as the Neanderthals found in the powerful Dawn of Man sequence . Was it really put there by an extraterrestrial species ? Was it capable of moving on its own ? What exactly was the effect that it had on individuals who came into contact with it ? In the Dawn of Man sequence , it seemed that it gave at least one of the Neanderthals the intelligence burst of learning how to use something as a tool ( or a weapon , in this case ) . But later in the film , it seems to have not only an intelligence ( as it screams just before being photographed ) , but it has a less readily identifiable effect on humans ? in particular , on Dave Bowman . Dave is in space near Jupiter , he goes through some sort of warp , and suddenly he is in a strange mansion , and soon there are a number of editing tricks in which Dave sees his older self , and then becomes that older self . Soon , he is so old that he is barely alive , and the monolith appears in the huge bedroom in which he lies . He slowly reaches out to it , and then turns into that famous mystical fetus that this film has come to be famous for . Does this mean that the monolith is some sort of evolution stimulant ? Did Dave evolve beyond present human kind to a state above the inconveniences of these vulnerable human bodies that we all possess ? Who knows ? Maybe Stanley Kubrick doesn't even know , but that's really not the point here . The point is that the movie really makes you think ? and not just about the meaning of the monolith , but also about the underlying theme about man vs . machine . 2001 : A Space Odyssey is famous for a lot of things . It's famous because it was directed by Stanley Kubrick , of course , but also for a lot of other things - the opening sequence , that jump cut , the mysterious monolith , the realness of it all , even for the look of the Jupiter spaceship , which bears a strange resemblance to the Even Horizon . The sequel , 2010 , clears up some of the mystery of this film , but even though that film is very good ( although not as good as this one ) , that tying up of loose ends is not necessary for 2001 to remain one of the best and most fascinating science fiction films ever made .
Peter Jackson proves himself for good .	There was a time when I thought that Peter Jackson may have been using the success of the Lord of the Rings trilogy to kind of throw any kind of movie he wanted out there , knowing that it would make money , and a remake of one of his childhood favorites did nothing to dispel these possibilities in my mind . But when I saw King Kong the other night I was absolutely blown away . I have heard so much about how convincing the ape is , which is a huge achievement given that he is completely CGI , but I had no idea that it was this good . 1930s New York is flawlessly re-created , challenging the similarly impressive scenery in movies like Gangs of New York , so it was fascinating to watch even the almost full hour that led up to the confrontation with Kong , smoothed along even more by outstanding performances from Jack Black , Naomi Watts , and Adrien Brody , among so many others . The performances are wonderful , the sets and set design is brilliant , and , by far the most important thing about this movie , King Kong is never , ever , ever , even for a single second , a movie monster . Never . It would have been so easy for them to have gone completely overboard with King Kong and make this movie into nothing more than a goofy , overblown comic book comedy , like they did with the Hulk . Hulk could have been so much better , but they couldn't resist making him about 12 times as big as he ever was in the TV show , which just turned the movie into farce . King Kong , on the other hand , is a wild animal . He is big , but he never stops being anything more than an ape in this movie , even when he's slapping biplanes out of the sky from the Empire State Building , which may as well be bugs from where's he's from , which aren't much smaller than biplanes . He acts like real apes act , snorting and chuffing and barking , roaring not for effect but only when upset or threatened . There is a much more personal story between Anne Darrow and Kong in this film than there was in the original , mainly in that Anne now sees something in Kong beyond a big scary beast , which Fay Wray's Anne Darrow never did . Kong has always been fascinated with Darrow , but her view toward him is significantly changed in the new film . I like to think that Darrow's involvement with Kong explains everyone else's desire to capture him while they seemed unimpressed or uninterested in the plethora of dinosaurs that also populated the island . There are also a lot of additions made as far as the other creatures that live on the island , particularly a lot more dinosaurs and some serious , serious bugs . There is , in fact , one scene involving bugs of such size and such quantity that it's difficult to believe that so many of the human characters escaped from them unharmed . One of the things that I respect the most about this movie is that it could so easily sell out by minimizing violence in order to widen the target audience , but instead it resists that temptation and is therefore not afraid to kill people . On the other hand , we have scenes like the one described above , in which Adrien Brody's character , for example , is covered in bugs the size of large dogs , which are shot off with a shotgun by a helpful buddy , only to come away without a single scratch . Then there's the stampede of brontosaurus's down the alley , with terrified humans running between their feet trying not to get squashed like grapes , with an astounding survival rate . A thrilling scene , to be sure , but you have to know that not a single person would have survived something like that , even without the velociraptors also dodging brontosaurus feet and trying to eat the humans . And if we're asked to believe that so many of them made it , should we really have to see one guy doing a flying karate kick to the head of a fallen velociraptors amidst such chaos ? But in the end the important thing is that Peter Jackson set out to remake one of his favorite classic films , one which introduced a story that had so many possibilities , most of them beyond the special effects capabilities of the time , and that's exactly what he did . There is so much more to the relationship between Anne Darrow and King Kong in the new film , and it has so much more of a valuable lesson to present . There is a lot of symbolism represented in the movie , much of it about mankind's ( American ? ) response to the discovery of an anomaly of nature that is at first marketable and then threatening . It's interesting to note how our need to be entertained and our need to overcome nature is expressed in this movie , not to mention one thrilling scene after another . The scene where Kong fights the dinosaurs to protect Anne , for example , is not only a thrilling spectacle to behold , as it was always meant to be , but is shocking in how primal and realistic it is . Yes the movie may be a little too long , but do not miss it . This is by far one of the best films this year .
Story of the story of the year ! !	Did I ever tell you about the time I went out and watched the Best Picture of 2003 ? Tim Burton , obviously very aware of the old saying , ' The older I get , the faster I was , ' has fashioned a masterpiece about his own craft , piecing together an intricate story of stories and oddly managing to remain true to his distinctive style while at the same time creating a film different from anything he's ever done before . The extension of the title is only learned through internal dialogue in the film itself ( something about a big fish in a small pond ) , and it has a variety of meanings throughout the story ( depending on to whom it is referring at any given time ) . As I watch the primaries for the presidential election coming up in 2004 , it's strange how much the race of the Democrats seems to reflect Big Fish on its road to the Oscars . All I'll say is that Howard Dean was in a comfortable front-running position until Iowa , where he was rendered a disappointing third place . Big Fish , similarly ( at least in my own opinion ) , sort of plays the part of John Kerry ? somewhere in the distance until he became noticed , and was suddenly catapulted to first place . Howard Dean for me was The Return of the King , the final Lord of the Rings installment that I was sure would win the Best Picture Oscar until I saw Big Fish . Now , however , Big Fish is not even on the list of nominees , which gives me the urge to roll up my sleeves and scream . The really sad part is knowing that Big Fish can't win , so it'll be interesting to me to see how Big Fish ( Kerry ) does in November . Surely he has a better chance of winning than his cinematic counterpart does . Anyway ? Every once in a while I see a movie and I read through some other reviews , on the IMDb and otherwise , and it is absolutely amazing to me how many people are able to completely miss the boat on so many truly great films . Roger Ebert completely missed the point of this film even more than he missed the point of Memento , which is incredible to me . One of the most disturbing things that I read was by one reviewer on the IMDb who mentioned that it was stupid to have had Jessica Lange and Albert Finney play a married couple . This reviewer was particularly bothered by the fully clothed bathtub scene in which Lange crawls into the tub with her husband and cuddles up to him . I find it really sad that today's audiences are put off of a movie as great as Big Fish for something as trivial and stupid as that . Are people really that shallow these days ? It's the same as a complaint about Kim Basinger playing Eminem's mother in 8 Mile . People said she was just too beautiful to play someone so poor and trashy , to which Roger Ebert cleverly responded that , given how many ugly people are filthy rich today , there can really be no complaint about beautiful people with no money . Big Fish is a perfect example of the old adage , the whole is greater than the sum of its parts , although I think it would be more appropriate to say that the whole is completely different from the sum of its parts . Take any individual scene at random , almost any SHOT at random , and it is clearly the work of Tim Burton , yet the film as a whole is completely different from anything he's ever done before . Movies require a certain suspension of disbelief , regardless of their director , story , genre , etc . , but in Big Fish that suspension is displaced by the identity of the storyteller . Most of the film is told through the stories of the aging Edward Bloom , whose stories we learn very early on are heavily exaggerated if not totally fictional . Tim Burton uses that almost as an excuse to craft this adventurous tale involving giants and midgets and jumping spiders and leaning houses and gigantic fishes and wedding rings and Siamese twins that look more like a two-headed woman and a magical town called Spectre that might be ( is ) Heaven where the streets are paved with luscious grass and everyone walks around barefoot and loves it all so much that no one ever leaves . It doesn't matter whether or not you believe that a young Ed Bloom really parachuted accidentally onto a stage being watched by hundreds of armed Vietnamese soldiers and then escaped because his endless charm overcame the two-headed performer and got her / them to help him . It doesn't matter if you believe that young Ed Bloom worked for years without pay at a freaky circus in order to learn the identity of a woman he saw only a single time across a crowded circus ring and then went on to marry her . It doesn't matter if you believe in werewolves , in magic , in fish that eat wedding rings , and it certainly doesn't matter if you believe that someone who looks like Jessica Lange could ever love and be happily married to a man who looks like Albert Finney . Big Fish is the character study of Edward Bloom and his son , Will , who didn't speak for years after Will's wedding when he heard his father's story about the day he was born for the last time that he could stand . ( spoilers ) Think about the character change in this movie . Will has been bored to tears by that story for his entire life , growing increasingly disgusted at how little his own part is in the story of the day he was born , and it is not until he is in his 30s that he learns the value of the storytelling of his father . The most moving scene is not the scene where Will tells his dying father the story of how he ' goes , ' it's the final scene of Edward's funeral . There's no dialogue , but we see who has shown up . The giant from Edward's stories in there , as is Amos Calloway , the eccentric circus ringleader . The two-headed woman from Vietnam is there , except we learn here that in real life she is two women , identical but certainly separate . Citizens from the town of Spectre are there , as is Jenny , Edward's almost love affair and supposedly the wicked witch that terrified Ed as a child ( I'm still working on the chronology of that one ? ) . What we learn in the funeral scene , even though we can't hear anyone talking , is that Ed's stories were not all fictional . They were certainly exaggerated , which is revealed all along the way and not the least example of which is the fact that the two-headed woman is two completely separate twins . Edward Bloom is a man who aggrandized the past through his remarkable storytelling skills , and Tim Burton delivered this to us with his remarkable filmmaking skills . Writers will tell you that they write about what they know about , and Tim Burton has made a movie about what he knows about ? telling stories . Burton realizes the importance of the role of storytelling in our lives , and has made a film about that importance and the effect it can have on us . Stories told verbally perpetuate lives , cultures , families , and loves . Edward Bloom was a master storyteller , and you can see his influence on the vast number of people that he knew and were fortunate enough to know him in the closing shot of the film . We see of the people that we met throughout the film , older but clearly happier as they stand around , telling each other stories in memory of their friend . I say bravo , Mr Burton . Bravo .
A stunning war picture with amazing performances from all of the hundreds of actors involved , The Last of the Mohicans is a near flawless presentation of war-life in the 1700s .	The Last of the Mohicans is an epic portrayal of the conflicting interests of the French , the British , and the Native Americans in colonial America . The French and the Native Americans are allies , but the film throws in some completely unexpected and surprisingly effective plot twists toward the end , something that is relatively uncommon in period films . Mixed in with the adventurous atmosphere of war is a powerful romance that develops between Hawkeye ( Daniel Day-Lewis ) and Cora Munro ( Madeleine Stowe ) , who play two characters very unlikely to fall in love . Hawkeye was adopted by the Mohicans as an infant , and was raised by them for his entire life since then . Cora is the daughter of a British Colonel , and their romance is strikingly effective , and made even better by the settings . I think that the romance is especially notable here because usually , and especially in action or adventure films , whenever there is a significant romantic subplot , it usually seems to have been thrown in relatively clumsily and with the obvious objective of making the film appeal to a larger audience . However , in The Last of the Mohicans , the romance is so well developed and so well acted that this is clearly not the case . Every part of the story in this film , including the romantic subplot , fit together flawlessly , resulting in a top-notch historical action drama . Even better than the incredible performances and the fascinating story is the breathtaking cinematography and on-location settings . The film is literally packed full of amazing shots of the endless and stunningly beautiful colonial American countryside . This is one of the ways that the film is able to flawlessly bring the 1700s back to life with incredible reality . The film is beautifully shot by director Michael Mann , whose films seem to be getting better and better . Another thing that was done noticeably well in this film was the editing , particularly in the fast-paced and excellently executed battle scenes , which were brutal but rightfully so . I've always thought that the only excuse for excessive violence is if it's true , and this is the kind of thing that went on when this country was founded . The notable thing here is not how much violence there was , but how spectacular the presentation of history is , and in such a convincingly realistic way . ( spoilers ) The Last of the Mohicans is a look at a certain point in history as one point in a huge timeline . This is the revelation that makes the ending to the film one of the best endings in any film in years . The closing line , ' Once , we were here , ' is an acquiescent observation that no matter how hard they fight , the Mohicans will be gone someday , as will be the frontier itself , and a different people will someday inhabit the land . Such is the way that the world goes , things change , nothing lasts forever , but there are some who are willing to accept that and be proud of whatever mark they have made . THIS is how great films are made .
" Funny looking bird , isn't he ? "	I seem to remember back when I was in college when I first started studying film I became very interested in Chaplin after seeing Modern Times and The Gold Rush , so I watched a documentary about him and his line " These things have to be done " in Monsieur Verdoux was the first time I had ever heard his voice , except for his song at the end of Modern Times . Of course , he sounded very different from how I imagined him while watching all of those old short comedies that he made for Essanay and Keystone , etc , which is probably why Chaplin so strongly resisted the coming of sound to the cinematic medium and , failing to stop it , knew that he would have to let the little tramp rest rather than move him into sound film . There is a lot of talk about how this film was not released in the United States for almost 20 years after he made it because Chaplin was accused of being Communist . It is so bizarre to me , living here in the heart of Communist China , to think back to a time when a Chaplin film would be barred from release in the U . S . because of something like that . Then again , that was a very different time . But it does seem to me that this is the kind of thing that people should look back on and try to take some lessons from . We resisted releasing some masterful film from one of the cinema's greatest artists because of political differences . It seems to me that , just like the 2008 Olympics , there are certain things that just should not be affected by politics . Chaplin stars as the smooth talking Monsieur Verdoux , a startlingly different character than we have ever seen . He worked as an honest French bank clerk for 35 years , he says late in the movie , but then found that his services weren't needed anymore ( thanks to the Great Depression ) , so he turned to a life of crime , in the most incredible way . It's well known that he occupied himself by marrying wealthy women and then killing them and stealing their money , but what is even stranger than that is that he is able to maintain half a dozen or so marriages simultaneously , and some of them he remains in for a decade or more . Monsieur Verdoux starts off with one of his ' victim's ' families , as they worry about the wife / daughter / sister missing with that funny little man , and they are sure that something terrible has happened because they haven't seen or heard from her in three months . Immediately Chaplin pokes fun at himself , as the family looks at his picture ? " He must be a pretty good salesman to sell anything with a face like that ! " Much of the film is composed of Verdoux going from one wife to the next , explaining how tough business is and how he unfortunately has to leave again right away , but in just a couple years or so things should be better and he'll be able to spend more time with his lonely wife ( i . e . wives ) . The movie gets a lot of bad press for being misogynistic , but it seems to me that this is a bit of an over-reaction . It's a black comedy , and Chaplin is satirizing a peculiar life of crime . In order for it to be genuinely misogynistic I feel like it would have to glorify violence or crime directed at women , and the movie definitely doesn't do that . I feel like it should be noted that , first of all , he embarked on this life of crime to support his real wife and son . He would charm and then marry wealthy women and then murder them and clean them out . It's hard to explain how murder can be funny ( which is probably why the original title , A Comedy of Murders , didn't work out so well ) , but if it can be , Chaplin can do it , and he does it here . Besides , for all of the marriages he was in , it is significant that he apparently didn't have any sexual intimacy with any of them . One of the wives in particular , Annabella , stands out from the rest , if only because of her brash , vulgar performance . Each of his wives seems to have a different tone to her personality ( such as the thin , bespectacled suspicious one , who reminds me of Aunt Spiker from James and the Giant Peach ) , and Annabella is the mouthy wife with new money ( she won the lottery ) , who clearly doesn't belong among the high society with whom she now likes to rub shoulders . She's not very smart , and can't tell when people are obviously ripping her off . This causes much stress for Verdoux , who can only sit by and watch her money getting thrown away before he can steal it from her ( " Glass , you silly ass . Glass ! " ) . The irony is fantastic . The Great Dictator was criticized for becoming preachy at the end of the movie , and something similar happens here , but I don't really think that either movie should be criticized much for that . It's true that the speeches he makes toward the ends of these two movies seem a little incongruous with the rest of the film , but I read one critic who asserted that Chaplin's politics " ruined " his two black comedies of the 1940s . This is absolutely going too far . The movie is also packed full of memorable quotes , many of which almost seem to describe the entire movie in themselves , or some big part of Chaplin's message , not just in this movie but in his entire career . The first line that Monsieur Verdoux speaks when we meet him at the beginning of the movie , for example , seems to carry some deep meaning that permeates not only the movie but himself and his most famous character ? " You'll be stepped on , little fellow , if you're not careful ? "
' I was raised in America , and America hates me for what I am . I am YOUR sh , you should be ashamed of what you have eaten . '	My compliments to the musical tastes of anyone who can place that quote . Hey , you wanna know what I'm getting sick and tired of ? I'm sick and tired of hearing the phrase ' America's First Serial Killer , ' if only because it's generally a phrase used to promote Monster , the stunningly well-made and effective movie about Aileen Wuornos , who was not in any way a serial killer . Serial killers kill people because of the order that their names appear in the phone book ( the Terminator did , anyway ) , because of their addresses , certain physical or even behavioral characteristics , whatever . Basically they are targeted based upon a quite often arbitrary set of circumstances . Aileen Wuornos killed people because she was so psychologically damaged by the experiences she suffered in her life and because of her desperate attempt to earn ( if you could call it earning ) something real and pure and happy for herself and her newfound love . If nothing else , the fact that she is motivated by her desire for a better life and to be a better person separates her from the classification of ' serial killers . ' Besides that , she was hardly killing off the best people that society had to offer . Charlize Theron's performance is probably the most famous performance of 2003 , although not entirely because of the positive chatter that it generated . The way that she captures and becomes Aileen Wuornos is astonishing , even if you go into the movie looking for Theron under the make-up from the very beginning . It's as if she does not try to justify the amount of work needed to transform her stunning appearance into that of a hardened prostitute , but rather was transformed into that person , through the make-up as well as her own physical transformation . There's nothing more pathetic than people who complain that Theron didn't act , it was the make-up delivering her performance in this movie . PLEASE . On second thought , there are things more pathetic than that , and several of them get killed off in this movie . The movie does a pretty impressive job of walking the tightrope of the line between depicting how sickening these people are that Aileen kills without leaning toward the appearance of justifying her murders . But the thing that the movie wisely focuses on is the way that Aileen's life led her to what she became , straight from childhood , and the way she tried so hard to become something good and worthwhile . She tried so hard , in fact , that they made a movie about her . It is an important fact that Aileen's first murder was in self-defense , and that afterwards she found herself with a car and a few dollars in her pocket . It was presumably the only thing she had ever done other than what really can be called nothing but rape or sexual torture from which she profited in any way . And like the first time Charlie Chaplin saw people tossing coins and cheering at him after he ran onstage and sang a song when he was just a little kid , Aileen saw that this was something that she could make enough money from not only to earn a living ( as was Chaplin's epiphany ) , but to get away from prostitution forever . Prostitution has destroyed her sexually , and given her experiences with the first guy she kills , it's not hard to see why she hates it so much . Interestingly , it is not immediately clear in this situation who is the victim of whom . Christina Ricci delivers a flawless performance of the naïve 18-year-old lesbian who falls in love with Aileen and ultimately wins Aileen's love as well , despite their tense first meeting . Ricci's shy demeanor and disarming cuteness are exactly what are needed to portray a kid getting into something that she really doesn't understand , all the while not noticing ( it's hard to pinpoint when exactly she knows what's going on and when exactly she allows herself to believe it ) what Aileen is doing in order to get them the life that they are both dreaming about . I would be curious to know what ever became of Selby Wall . The movie doesn't explain that much at the end other than to say that she and Aileen never spoke again . Sad but not entirely surprising . Multiple murders tend to put a damper on short-lived relationships really based mainly on lust and mutual , superficial needs . And by the way , this is probably just me , but Ricci looks exactly like Edward Furlong in this movie . They could be twins . Except for all that crap about ' America's First Serial Killer , ' Monster doesn't take Aileen's story and turn it into an excuse to make a big Hollywood movie , but rather presents a different way to look at someone who has committed the crimes that Aileen has . The movie is about what a capitalist society , and even the very people charged with seeing after the safety of the people in that society ( ' The police used to watch over the people , now they're WATCHIN ' the people , ' my compliments again to the musical tastes of anyone who can place THAT quote ) , can do to create what Aileen Wuornos became . And the important thing to notice is that the movie is able to do that without offering any excuses for her murders . It's not a film about how someone was sentenced to death who didn't really deserve it because what she was wasn't really her fault , it's about what kinds of things can lead a person to such a life . Have you ever heard a story about some heinous crime and wondered how people get like that ? Here are some ideas . Dismissing such people as monsters and executing them is a great way to get them off the street and stop their killing , but it's not really going to get us anywhere as far as preventing that behavior from surfacing in someone else .
Steven Spielberg comes forth with yet another classic . Jurassic Park will not be forgotten .	This is the best dinosaur movie that has ever been made . Maybe a better one will be released sometime in the future , but so far , Jurassic Park is unparalleled . The story involves the re-creation of actual living dinosaurs from their own DNA which was recovered from dinosaur blood remaining inside a prehistoric mosquito which , millions of years ago , was unlucky enough to get caught in the soon solidified sap of a tree . Even all of the scientific elements of the story are explained in a way that even the youngest viewers could understand . Jurassic Park , However , is not just about making dinosaurs and then getting eaten by them , it is about what happens when humans play with life and try to re-make and contain it in ways that were never meant to be . Dinosaurs once " ruled the earth , " but the earth is now ruled by humans , and the two species , separated by millions of years of evolution , cannot coexist . Neither can contain the other , one is sure to overcome . The spectacular visuals and amazingly convincing special effects and make-up provide an absolutely incredible cinematic experience . Never have dinosaurs been so convincingly made on screen . The fact that the dinosaurs were so real allowed for the film to really keep the audience on the edge of their seats . Particularly memorable moments include a velociraptor jumping up and almost out of the screen as it tries to get Alexis ( Adriana Murphy ) as she climbs up into the ceiling to escape , and also a scene with a Tyranosaurus in the rear-view mirror of the fleeing humans ' Jeep ( imitated hilariously in the great Toy Story 2 ) . However , even though the special effects have the rare combination of being both overpowering and amazingly convincing , Jurassic Park had a good number of important messages to deliver . There were a lot of things that could be learned from this film , and many of them were put right into the dialogue , mostly that of Dr . Ian Malcolm , played wonderfully by Jeff Goldblum . Michael Crichton needs to be recognized for his brilliant creation of such a man as Ian Malcolm , talking understandably about chaos theory and scientific responsibility and the extremely important fact that " life finds a way . " Sam Neill also delivers one of the highlight performances of his career as the wonderfully convincing Dr . Alan Grant , alongside Laura Dern as Ellie Satler , and both of them , along with the rest of the cast , were perfectly faithful to the original novel . That , in my opinion , is an extremely important element of films that were adapted from books , and Jurassic Park is rivaled in its literary faith only by other great films like The Green Mile . Jurassic Park is not a film about a dinosaur amusement park . That is the premise , but the message of the film has a lot to say about the vulnerability of the human race , and it is a testament to the skills of Steven Spielberg and the other filmmakers involved that they were able to make a movie with such an important thing like that to say ( among others ) , while at the same time making the whole experience so much fun .
" Do we have any communication with the President at all ? "	I have yet to see any of the films that have been coming out lately about the attacks , and I had deep reservations about this movie , simply because I had a hard time imagining how they could make a movie about what happened that day and really do justice to the events that took place and the people that were involved . I guess I just couldn't imagine how they could make a movie about and keep politics out of it , but director Paul Greengrass has done just that , and with spectacular success . I think that the only line in the entire movie which might have carried some political message is the one I put in my summary line above , but even this would only be a political statement if it were forced to be . In reality , no they didn't have any communication with the President , but that was because he was sitting in that classroom in Florida . He was making a public appearance and was simply not available for standard contact , I guess you would say . Bush largely escapes criticism in Greengrass's film , which I must say is something of a relief . I think we have seen plenty of films that bash Bush for his response to and behavior during the attacks , regardless of how relevant they are . Greengrass understands that we don't need to see that anymore . The government itself , however , receives the full blow of harsh criticism , spearheaded by such scenes as the air traffic controllers trying to get permission to act against the hijacked planes before they reach major metropolitan areas . They are still struggling to get this permission more than an hour after the second plane has hit the World Trade Center , and if I remember correctly , up until that time they were only given something like two or three jets . Unarmed ones . Most importantly , the film tells the powerful story of the people aboard the flight that took control of the airplane from the hijackers and disrupted what may very well have been the destruction of the White House . Regardless of the lives lost ( the White House had been evacuated long before the plane would have hit ) , to have lost the White House would have done catastrophic psychological damage to the country . In a different way than the loss of life in New York had , but if the White House had been hit , people would barely have noticed the Pentagon . The film succeeds not only as a humanitarian story about the incredible bravery that took place on board United 93 , but also as a telling of the events as they happened . It succeeds as a crackling thriller as good as any of Tom Clancy's " Ryan " films , with the added bonus that everything that takes place is real . It works as a thriller without even needing to resort to fiction or contrived situations . The tension that you feel is so real that it's almost like you're watching the news . As I said , I haven't seen World Trade Center , and I'm a little nervous about it , mostly because Nicholas Cage is starring , but if they can make movies this good about the attacks , leave the politics at the door , and tell the story so powerfully and with so much respect for those lost , then it will settle my reservations about films about . Whether this can be done with the second Iraq war , however , remains a mystery .
A great adventure film in somewhat the same style as other great fantasy adventures like The Neverending Story , The Princess Bride takes us on a wonderful trip along with fascinating and enormously amusing c	I'm not exactly sure what exactly it is that makes The Princess Bride such a spectacular film . Or , at the very least , I just can't pinpoint a single characteristic about it that really rises above all others as the main reason that no one should miss it . Indeed , it has a title that should prove to be remarkably uninteresting to the typical action adventure fan ( okay , MALE action adventure fan ) , but even the most die-hard Die Hard fan would love this film . It is extremely important not to judge this film just because it has such a flowery and dangerously ( at the risk of sounding shallow ) girly name , because it is full of wonderful adventure and even some good killing and violence . Does this belong in this kind of romantic comedy ? Absolutely ! The cover box of the film looks like that of a cheesy romance novel , but the film is truly great from start to finish . And , indeed , the film is very aware of the superficial impression that it leaves , and it even presents it directly through Fred Savage's initial response to his grandfather reading him the story . But as the film goes on , we begin to have the same reaction that Fred has . We can't get enough . Cary Elwes delivers by far the most outstanding performance of his career as Westley , the love-struck servant to Buttercup , a beautiful blonde woman living in a misty romantic fantasy world . Sadly , Elwes ' later career has been punctuated by roles that do not serve him well , especially after such a stunning performance in this role . Liar Liar and Twister come immediately to mind . Robin Wright also gives one of the best performances of her career in her film debut here as Princess Buttercup , but the real quality of the performances that makes the movie so great is the fact that they were able to pack the film full of comic relief ( it was nearly nonstop from start to finish ) without taking anything away from the tension or the overall respectability of the film . It is interesting to consider the polar opposite effect of the comic relief on the vast majority of the James Bond films . Wallace Shawn is absolutely hilarious as Vizzini , the bonehead villain who is completely convinced that he has the whole world figured out , Andre the Giant delivers a lumbering but highly impressive performance as Vizzini's enormous , idiot sidekick , and by far my favorite of all , Mandy Patinkin creates one of the most entertaining and likeable characters created in a film in the entire decade of the 1980s ( ' My name is Inigo Montoya . You killed my father . Prepare to die ! ' ) . This is great stuff . Told as a story read from a book , just like The Neverending Story , The Princess Bride provides a magical mix of romance and fantasy and action and comedy to provide an enormously entertaining film for moviegoers of all ages . The Princess Bride is an absolutely wonderful film that is truly not to be missed .
A much needed wake-up call ?	Extraordinary Rendition is a frightening practice authorized , surprisingly , under Clinton , that allows the U . S . government to seize and hold anyone suspected , seemingly for any reason , of being a terrorist against the United States . This is a touchy issue , especially after , because supporters of the practice will always criticize the opposition as withholding vital power from the U . S . that it needs to effectively fight terror . Fanatic supporters will label the opposition as terrorists in themselves . But like a recent film that lent a similar level of humanity to the death penalty , The Life of David Gale , Rendition shows us a story of the misuse of extraordinary rendition , or at least the ease with which it can be exploited and falsely applied . The story involves Anwar El - Abrahimi , an American chemical engineer born in Egypt who is seized on his way back to America from giving a lecture in Egypt . The cause given is that he made phone calls to a known terrorist . No proof is ever given ( or needed ) that it was Anwar that made the calls , that his phone was never lost of stolen . Meanwhile , Anwar's extremely pregnant wife , Isabella , is back in the states frantically trying to find her husband , who got onto a plane to Chicago but apparently never got off . The flimsy explanation that he was never there evaporates when she discovers that he made an in-flight purchase using his credit card . Lately I have been researching modern Chinese history , particularly that of the astonishingly selfish and brutal dictatorship set up by Mao Tse-tung , and it is more than a little frightening to see the similarities between extraordinary rendition and some of Mao's brutal scare tactics , including his public executions ( which the people were forced to watch ) , and extensive use of torture specifically used to extract " confessions . " It is pretty disturbing to notice that Mao specifically did these things to create an environment of fear in order to achieve obedience from the Chinese people . To say that the Bush administration has not created an environment of fear and continues to milk it for everything it's worth would be naïve in the extreme , and although extraordinary rendition was not created under Bush , it is clear that it does more harm than good . Adding to the thickness of the film is Douglas Freeman ( Jake Gyllenhaal ) , who works behind a desk for the CIA and has little field experience , until his boss is assassinated and he suddenly finds himself supervising the torture of a man that he quickly comes to doubt has anything to reveal . Fatima's ( Freeman's boss ) daughter also plays a pivotal role , as does a senatorial aide played by Peter Sarsgaard , who might have the most satisfying role in the movie . Meryl Streep is also suitably cold and clinical as a chilly senator with a dogmatic support of the necessity and practice of rendition . As a political thriller , the movie is remarkably well-crafted and paced . But the scariest thing about it is that this is all real . The movie's goal is to get people to really think about the things done in America's name , especially when they claim to be done to prevent those same things . Conducting terror in the name of preventing terror will win no sympathy for us , nor will extracting confessions through brutal torture , which is the basest form of criminal investigation . Unfortunately , we are gradually heading in that direction , of doing these things more rather than less . The frightening question is what is the event that is going to take place at some point in the future to convince us to stop and head the other way , toward civilization and peace , or will we just keep heading toward a military dictatorship until we finally get there ?
Slowly fascinating .	I admit that for the first 20 minutes or so of this film I wasn't entirely sure I was going to sit through the whole thing . Like many other people , I found it pretty boring , and I wasn't entirely looking forward to an hour and a half of watching this guy bite icicles and stick them together . However , if you sit through the creation of his first work long enough to see the finished product , you get an idea of how impressive the rest of the film is . I really think it's sad that so many people found this impossibly boring or a retread of ideas done by other artists . Rivers and Tides is a quiet study of some of the artwork and methods of Andy Goldsworthy , who makes his art entirely out of things in nature , generally resulting in pieces that will be consumed by nature through the normal process of entropy . It is slow moving and unglamorous , but I think that a lot of the point of the movie is to show that Goldsworthy's art does not need any accompaniment in order for it to be appreciated . I've even heard people complain about how he is always talking throughout the movie , rather than just letting nature and his artwork speak for themselves , which I just think is madness . On the other hand , lots of people complain about CDs coming with the lyrics written out inside them . A lot of musicians as well think their music should mean whatever the listener wants it to mean without the musician showing the exact lyrics , I guess I'm just the kind of person that believes that I'd like to know what the artist was trying to accomplish with his or her artwork . I can still take it how I want to even if I know what it was meant to do . I can understand not wanting to hear him talk through the movie . He does , after all , lose his train of thought and find himself unable to explain some of his work at more than one occasion , but if you don't want Goldsworthy talk about his art while you're watching the film , feel free to turn the sound off . That's like not reading the lyrics if you don't want to know what a musician is singing and would rather interpret the words yourself . I think that Andy Goldsworthy's work , which I had no idea existed before I watched this movie , is incredibly impressive , and I'm glad that this film was made in order to showcase it . Indeed , since his work is generally not the kind that can be transported into a studio , photography is the only medium other than film that can express it , and I really appreciated being able to see the work that goes into his art , and the way that only things from nature are used . Whether or not you appreciate certain aspects of how this film is presented , Goldsworthy's work is moving enough to overlook that , because the film is not the star , Goldsworthy's art is . And given the lack of any music or even the smallest special effects and the slow-moving nature of the film , it seems to me that director Thomas Riedelsheimer knows that .
The Exorcist stands firmly among the greatest films ever made .	The Exorcist is widely regarded to be the scariest movie of all time . Personally , I would put it a little differently . Instead of calling it the scariest movie of all time , I think that it would be more accurate to say that it's the best horror movie of all time . These may be just two different ways of saying the same thing , but I think that there is a notable difference . I just watched The Exorcist again , and I experienced the nervousness and tension and fear that it was meant to cause and I jumped a few times , but I've watched several other horror movies that have caused those same feelings ? The Shining , Pet Sematary , The Sixth Sense to a certain extent , even the remake of The House on Haunted Hill had a few quality scares . But I think that the thing that sets The Exorcist apart is that everything was just done right . The acting was great , the story was unique and well presented , the gruesome special effects were skillfully crafted , even the gore and the sickening profanity were put into the film with good reason and with good results . It's so rare to see a horror movie come along ( and it gets rarer and rarer as time goes on ) that is actually worth watching , and when one comes along that is absolutely ground-breaking , like The Exorcist , then it's a huge cinematic event . The Exorcist is just as timeless as horror films get , and it should be noted for its style and its effectiveness . There have been so many imitations of this film that have popped up over the years ( which is to be expected , because it created so many possibilities ) , but none of them , not even any of the sequels , even come close to the greatness of the original . Not only is it original and unique , but it also contained some stunning performances , particularly on the part of Linda Blair as Regan , the 12-year-old girl who was the subject of the exorcism . There were some frankly shocking things that she did for the film , and the brilliant special effects and make-up added to that to make Regan's possession amazingly realistic , which is probably the most remarkable thing about the film . Another thing that was done especially well in The Exorcist was the sound effects . Probably one of the main reasons that the movie is so scary is because it is so unexpected and therefore so unsettling to hear some of those noises come from a little girl . William Friedkin's skillful but relentless directing style clearly played a large part in the convincingness of the final outcome , which stands as one of the definitive films in cinematic history .
" Time makes strangers of intimate friends ? "	A Woman of Paris is probably best known , ironically , by the fact that it is a Chaplin film that Chaplin does not appear in . It opens with a title card in which Chaplin himself wishes to clear up any misunderstanding by mentioning that he does not appear in the film , but my understanding is that it was a popular and critical failure at the time of its release . He does appear in the film , but walks on and off screen so fast and looks so little like himself that there is really no reason for him to be there . The film's popular failure seems to have been something that plagued him through the rest of his career , since he returned to the film and re-scored it at the age of 87 . It was the last work he ever did as a filmmaker , and the result was that people finally recognized the film for the master work that it is . We meet a young woman whose father keeps her in the house under lock and key , but who nevertheless escapes at night to visit her lover , whom she plans to marry . One night , her father sees her leaving , and then locks her out . He then proceeds over-react to the point where he won't allow her in the house , so she is forced to try to go find a place to stay at her boyfriend's house . It is a curious illustration of 1920s society that his parents want to kick her out of the house as though she were a diseased rodent . They are committing an unpardonable sin by being together at night outside of marriage . It's easy to sympathize with their desperate situation . Soon , tragedy strikes , which leads to a tragic misunderstanding which , I have to say , is not presented very well in the movie . This is , however , probably the film's only weak point . I had to wonder why this even allowed for a level of misunderstanding that enabled her to move to Paris and join high society without ever talking to the man for long enough for him to explain what happened . It's also a little strange that they both appear to be in their mid-30s or so and are yet not only unmarried but still live with their parents . Nevertheless , she joins a wealthy social circle and becomes involved in their wealthy and loveless life , surrounded by rich people in constant leisure , smoking cigars , drinking champagne , and eating truffles ( " a delicacy for pigs and gentlemen ? " ) . It is inevitable that they will meet again at some point , and when they do , time has , indeed , made strangers of them , but his love is still alive . He has become an accomplished artist and she hires him to paint her portrait , which again intertwines their lives . It is interesting that he is still mourning the death of his father , even years later . But he comes from a world where relationships are extremely important , whether romantic or family , and she , on the other hand , has entered a world of money where relationships are startlingly meaningless . She drags her feet at talking about the history between them , saying that she doesn't want to dig up the past , while he interestingly looks directly at the camera and explains that he is still badly hurt by what has happened . Soon , she is forced to choose between a life of love or a life of luxury , and it is notable that the rich man that she was in a " relationship " is pointedly indifferent when she leaves him , explaining that he'll never see her again . " Okay , phone me sometime , " he says as he casually walks out the door , leaving her to do as she will . Soon , things seem to be looking up for their mutual happiness , but another tragic misunderstanding ( or at least badly timed conversation ) , throws everything into chaos again . When she leaves , Jean , her boyfriend , becomes desperate . The ending of the film is deeply symbolic , and involved a long road , like the ending of some of Chaplin's better known short comedies . The film's message , that time heals and the secret of happiness is in service to others , doesn't need to be delivered as directly as it is , but it also doesn't hurt the movie that this happens . It's a deeply moving story that illustrates an unfortunate aspect of a certain level of society , a level about which Chaplin was certainly no stranger . It is definitely , as the title says , a drama of fate , and makes a strong comment about what is important in life . It's interesting to consider Chaplin's personal life at the time that the movie was made , but I think it's more important to let the film stand on it's own . This is a brilliant piece of film-making .
The Saving Private Ryan of the Vietnam War .	Similar in many ways to another quality war film , Casualties of War , Platoon is a story that takes place during the Vietnam War and is about a platoon torn basically between good and evil . Oliver Stone relies heavily on personal experience in the war in his writing of the film , in which the above-mentioned platoon is divided by the brutal activities that take place in the overtaking of a village in Vietnam . Charlie Sheen plays the role that parallels the role played by Michael J . Fox in Casualties of War . He is the narrator who tells the story of his disillusion with the camaraderie that develops between men during service in the war , which he left a fairly cushy lifestyle to volunteer for . I've never served in the military , much less been in battle , but it is clear that nothing is sugar-coated in this film , which leads me to willingly believe that what you see on the screen is exactly what it was like in Vietnam , especially given the fact that Oliver Stone served in that war himself . The war drama is made even more realistic by the fact that so many of the actors were , at the time at least , relatively unknown , which is one of the things that has always bothered me about Saving Private Ryan . In Platoon , these are just regular guys from everywhere and anywhere and nowhere , and they are all stuck in the same situation risking ( and in many cases losing ) their lives in battle . The Vietnamese were portrayed as savages to some extent , but that's because they are obviously the antagonists from the point of view that the story is told , which is Private Chris Taylor's ( Charlie Sheen ) point of view . On the other hand , this portrayal can be forgiven because their tactics in many of the battle scenes are fairly clear , it's obvious how intelligently they fought the war . I think that one of the things that makes Platoon so good is some of the many memorable scenes in the film , particularly those involving Sergeant Elias , played brilliantly by William Dafoe . The view from the helicopter of him being chased ( unarmed and suffering from gunshot wounds inflicted by someone on his own side ) by dozens of rifle wielding Vietnamese soldiers is an absolutely terrible thing to witness , and is one of the many ways that the sheer brutality of this war is presented in this film . Of the countless war films that are made , every once in a while a truly great one comes along , and Platoon is one of the great ones . It doesn't try to sugar coat anything , but presents the viciousness and violence of the Vietnam War as straightforwardly as possible , which is one of the many things that makes it so good . It is not only a startlingly realistic piece of entertainment , but also a good place to learn a little bit about the kinds of things that went on in the Vietnam War , and what go on in any war . This is great cinema .
Whose idea was it to bring a cat in the first place ?	I'm a little confused as to why there was a cat on board in the first place . Needless to say , given that there was an entire crew on board the Nostromo , a merchant vessel carrying , if I remember correctly , something like 20 , 000 , 000 tons of mineral ore , there was hardly a lack of companionship . At any rate , I can easily brush aside my curiosity about the effort that went into designing the life support system that would have been needed to keep the cat alive along with the rest of the humans as they traveled for months on end in deep sleep . It doesn't matter , because the cat was involved in most of the scariest scenes . That being said , I think that one of the things that really makes Alien great is that it explains all the twists and turns of its plot in great detail , which is almost unheard of in science fiction and horror films . No one displays ludicrous behavior to allow for the construction of bloody , gory death scenes , the alien , masterfully designed , isn't rushing across the screen in every scene to allow for maximum payoff of the costume design , we don't even see it until well past the halfway point in the movie . Like Jaws , Alien takes its time to allow the characters to gradually grasp the enormity of their situation . The Nostromo is a merchant ship , which allows for a non-military crew to be faced with a mortal enemy that they do not understand . The ship intercepts a strange transmission that must be from an intelligent source since it repeats itself every twelve seconds , and so it wakes up the crew to investigate . The subtlety of the way the conflict is introduced is very important . The transmission didn't just appear , the ship awoke the crew months ahead of schedule , because it was programmed to do so should anything like that happen . And to the chagrin of a couple of the money financial-minded crew members , it is also in their contracts to investigate any such occurrence . The movie is covering its tracks very thoroughly and to great effect . When they reach the planet from which the transmission originated , they find the spectacular discovery of what appears to be a crashed alien spaceship , complete with a dead alien pilot still in his chair . A brief look at the body suggests that the pilot may have exploded from the inside , creating curiosity about his death that the movie never satisfies but doesn't need to . One of the crew members discovers what look like dozens of leathery eggs , gets attacked , and is brought back on board the ship . Significantly , protocol is broken to get him and the alien life form back on board for medical attention . When they discover that the alien has blood that melts through the hull of the ship like thermite , a new and particularly difficult challenge arises . How do they kill a deadly enemy without making it bleed ? And to make matters worse , the very ship is programmed to work against them . They are in the most hostile environment imaginable , worse than anywhere on earth . They are being stalked by an unknown creature that they can't injure for fear of damaging the hull of the spaceship , and the ship itself has placed the survival of the alien life form above their own survival . They have to trick the alien into submission without letting the ship know what's going on . Even HAL wasn't THIS creepy . Released at a time when science fiction was probably at the most popular that it had ever been ( and possibly ever will be ) thanks to the recent release of Star Wars and the soon to follow first sequel , Alien came along and capitalized in an area of science fiction that people evidently were very eager for , the darker , more sinister and dangerous side . The side of science fiction with the bloody deaths rather than light sabers and heroes . In fact , by looking at the way people probably saw Alien in 1979 and the way they see it now , you can learn a lot about how science fiction and horror have evolved over the years . Back then , this was horror / science fiction . Today , it's science fiction / horror . But while it was more horrible in 1979 than it is today , it is significant that , while other films that have come along over the years have overshadowed Alien as far as the intensity of the horror , the movie has lost none of its powerful effect . Rather than reinventing the science fiction genre by adding horror to it , it is now maintaining the life of the science fiction genre by reminding us of how good it can be when it's done right .
They must have used up all the fake blood in Volume 1 .	SPOILERS SPOILERS When you have a movie as hugely popular as Kill Bill Vol . 1 , it is to be expected that it's sequel , or in this case it's other half , generates a huge amount of expectation and attention , especially when it also involves a director as hugely ( and deservedly ) popular as Quentin Tarantino . Combine this with the depth of Tarantino's films and the amount of subject matter that he wisely leaves up to individual interpretation , and you have a virtual blank canvas upon which just about anyone can insert almost any meaning that they want the movie to have . This makes for some pretty interesting film criticism read , on the IMDb and elsewhere , but the reason I bring this up is because I just read an article in the April 26 , 2004 issue of Time magazine in which Richard Corliss claims that Kill Bill II has ' enough blood to appease the Passion of the Christ crowd . ' Is it just me or is this a display of a massive misunderstanding of the Passion of the Christ and it's intended audience ? Anyway , back what is arguably the less violent of the two movies under discussion . Kill Bill II is not a sequel and it's not a prequel , but while it is simply the other half one the same story , it has elements of both sequel and prequel . It's part II but it also tells about the story before part I began but it also picks up directly in the middle of a story , in the middle of which Part I also ended . We learn about what exactly was going on at the fateful ' wedding party ' where the first film began , we learn about the past of The Bride , why Bill tried to kill her , why she was getting married , and why she is so heavily trained in martial arts ( hint : it's not just because she's starring in a movie directed by a life-long lover of kung-fu movies ) . ( spoilers ) There is a memorable scene where The Bride , whose real name turns out to be Beatrix , is enduring some of her early training from an old kung-fu wizard who , when he stands up and fights , reveals that he is not as old as he looks from far away , but rather about as old as he looks close-up . No that the make-up was bad . In fact , that endless beard managed to earn itself a spot as one of the best sources of comic relief in this movie which , being a Tarantino film , is literally brimming with comic relief . Like Part I , however , Tarantino is very aware of which scenes should have a comedic edge , and which scenes would destroy the movie if they were made amusing . The scene where Beatrix is buried alive , for example , is like the scene in Part I where she realizes that she is no longer pregnant . Neither should be funny , and neither are . In this case , it comes dangerously close , as Budd ( one of Beatrix's targets ) and one of his Texas hillbilly friends are looking down at the restrained Bride , and said hillbilly , in his miniscule amount of screen time , presents himself as a staggeringly backwards and idiotic inbred moron , such a clod of a man that you almost have to laugh in pity . There really are people like that in the world , it's tragic . Volume II has been called a character study , and I have to agree . The movie is essentially , and importantly , about the vague and blank spots in Volume I . Specifically , the other characters in the Deadly Viper Assassination Squad . While it's true that much of the suspense is killed by the little factoid that it's not hard to guess that these former partners of Beatrix are going to meet an unpleasant end at some point in the movie , the ultimate face-off with Bill could not have been less expected . At least one of the characters , Michael Madsen's Budd , believes that Beatrix deserves her revenge , but none of them , himself included , are planning on allowing her to achieve what she deserves . I was initially pretty surprised at how talky Volume II is , mostly because I expected it to be even more violent given the fact that is necessarily includes the climax of the overall story . On the other hand , after a movie like Kill Bill Vol . 1 , Quentin really had a lot of explaining to do . The dialogue in the movie is unnervingly thoughtful , much of it , especially in the scene with Bill , even psychological , which is another of Tarantino's signature film tricks . He can make brutally violent characters speak like philosophers and you don't even really realize it until you write a movie review about it later and think to yourself , Hey , who talks like that in real life ? Or maybe that's just me . My favorite example is most of the dialogue between Vincent and Jules in Pulp Fiction . The females in Kill Bill are famously much deadlier than the men ( Budd , for example , has graduated in life to a dingy trailer in the middle of the Texas desert and earned himself the highly skilled job as a bouncer at a topless bar ) , which is good , because our hero is a woman and what would be the fun of her just running around and exacting her revenge on a lot of men ? Compare Daryl Hannah's Elle Driver to Madsen's Budd ( and the way she calmly killed him ) and you'll know what I mean . Speaking of which , here's an interesting scene . Elle Driver comes to Budd's house because he's called her to inform her that he has buried alive their highest value target , and he wants to sell her priceless Hattori Hanso sword to Elle for a measly million bucks . Elle shows up , gives Budd the money as he stumbles around the trailer in true redneck form , spilling his drink everywhere ( doesn't matter , he's rich now , he won't be living there much longer anyway ) , and as he sits down and starts greedily pulling out wads of $100 bills , he uncovers a black mamba snake , for which Beatrix was code named . I assume Elle used a black mamba both for symbolism reasons , as well as to punish him appropriately for burying Beatrix alive before she was able to have her way with her first . At any rate it provides an excellent opportunity for Elle to provide the toxicological contents of the black mamba's venom as it seeps into Budd's bloodstream from all of the bite wounds to his face . Animal Planet was never this muc fun ! What makes no sense about the scene is that after the snake delivers a series of fatal bites to Budd's face , it disappears and Elle walks calmly around the trailer , even stooping to the floor to gather the pile of now-loose $100 bills back into the suitcase , never once worried that the snake might still be around to deliver another fatal dose a venom . I doubt if black mamba snakes take sides in such a conflict as these people are engaged in . And besides that , how did she get it in there in the first place ? Sure , there are some holes here , but I like to think that despite such inconsistencies and loose points like these , the movie doesn't even falter . Indeed , it is surely a testament to both the popularity and skill of Quentin Tarantino that he is able to so smoothly get away with a scene like this , where literally the only thing that makes sense is that the snake would be in a biting mood after being stuffed in a suitcase packed with wads of $100 bills . I've read articles here and there about Quentin talking about putting together a Kill Bill Vol . III sometime in the distant future ( after part 1 I had a theory that Vernita Green's daughter would come back in Vol . II to get her revenge against her mother's killer the way O-Ren Ishii did for her parents ' killer , but then I realized that she would still be a little girl in Vol . II ) , as well as an animated prequel in the same style as the animated sequence in Vol . I . Tarantino is , however famous for leaving projects on the back burner for years and years , if not indefinitely , so while a Vol . III would not be released for years anyway , there may be little use in holding your breath waiting for more of the Bill saga to come from the Tarantino camp . I can't believe I just said that . I hate it when people talk about this camp or that camp . Anyway , Kill Bill as a whole is an intricate and self-sustained movie that is not in need of any other movies to supplement it , but it is also clever in that it leaves tons of room for at least one more or two more movies . And given the popularity and quality of the two parts so far , I don't imagine there would be a lot of complaints about more .
Lord of the Stone !	Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone was released in close proximity to the great Lord of the Rings , and while this has happened many times before with the general result that one of the two films is widely , although not always correctly , considered inferior to the other ( Independence Day and The Arrival , Armageddon and Deep Impact , etc . ) , this has surprisingly not been the case with these films . Clearly , The Lord of the Rings is a much more mature and bold film , but the first installment in the Harry Potter series is much more than a childish adventure tale . One of the things that really makes it a great film is that the film is so faithful to the book . The writers and director Chris Columbus wisely decided not to take any creative liberties with the material that they had to work with . I am glad to see this , because literary faithfulness is almost always associated with better adapted films , and it's good to know that no one involved with the making of Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone felt the need to improve upon a book that has been justifiably described as a ' publishing phenomenon . ' J . K Rowling has created a brilliant adventure masterpiece with her first novel , which she reportedly began writing in some café in England back when she was a struggling single mother , and Chris Columbus has successfully taken on the daunting task of bringing it to the screen . One of the things that Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone has in common with The Lord of the Rings is that they both bring the audience to entirely new worlds , with the added bonus in Harry Potter that we actually start out in the real world ( to some extent ) and travel to the world of witches and wizards with the equally amazed Harry Potter . On a structural level , Harry Potter takes an age-old underdog winning formula and reformulates it to make it interesting again . We get a surprisingly simple version of the good vs . bad structure that Star Wars exemplifies so well as Harry faces off with his pals in Griffindor against the obviously malicious Draco Malfoy ( what a name ! ) and the rest of Slytherin . There is a surprising amount of characterization going on in this film even at the level of their actual names , to such extent that a couple of Draco's loyal goons have names like Crabbe and Goyle . Real charmers , I'm sure . Obviously , in a film with this much fantasy and adventure , there is a definite need for some amount of computer-generated special effects . You just can't have a fight with a fully-grown mountain troll or a game of Quidditch played on broomsticks or a lot of the magic that took place in the movie without them , but thankfully they were wise enough not to take the special effects too far , a mistake the ease of which to make George Lucas is happily proving . The problem with computer-generated images these days is that no matter how huge the budget is or how high tech the images are , they NEVER look completely real . Chris Columbus seems to realize this , as can be seen , for example , in the Quidditch game , in which all of the players zooming around on their brooms are generally shown from a distance , so that the only way that we can tell that they aren't real , with a few exceptions , is that we've never seen someone in real life riding a flying broom . Given the fact that a game played entirely on flying brooms was made to look at least moderately convincing , we're more than willing to forgive the relatively few scenes in which the level of reality slips a little bit ( such as the scene where the mountain troll is hanging Harry by his foot , swinging at him with his club ) . The casting in the film , as well , could not possibly have been better . 12 year-old Daniel Radcliffe perfectly captures the unique character of Harry Potter , and his young friends in the film are portrayed by a series of preteen newcomers as well . The surprising thing here is not only that most of the children with lead roles in the film are very new to film acting , but that Chris Columbus managed to coax such convincing performances out of all of them ( obviously , being fans of wonderful adventure tales such as Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone , we all remember director Richard Donner mentioning in the director's commentary on The Goonies DVD that working with children made him contemplate suicide on a daily basis ) . Robbie Coltrane delivers the performance of his career as the lovable Hagrid , the gigantic Gamekeeper with the heart of gold and the clumsily loose tongue , while Richard Harris and Maggie Smith fit so well in their roles that they seem to have been written specifically for them ( each easily reaching the incredible level of precision with which Ian McKellan and Christopher Lee each fit into their respective roles in The Lord of the Rings ) . And , of course , I can't forget Alan Rickman , who is so perfectly cast as Severus Snape that the role could not have been filled half as well by any other actor . Rickman has been unfortunately typecast since his absolutely brilliant performance in Robin Hood : Prince of Thieves , and his role here as Snape is hardly a notch or two below that one . Clearly , Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone is aimed at a relatively younger audience , since the books are aimed at a young adult audience , but the film manages to entertain children and adults alike , just as the books are easily enjoyable by any adult who is at least slightly in touch with his or her inner child . It is not often that a book or series of books as fascinating as the Harry Potter books comes along , and it's great to see that , just like The Lord of the Rings , the series is off to a smashing good start . I wish they would make movies out of some of the other adventure books that are just as fun to read as the Harry Potter books , such as The Phantom Tollbooth or The Chronicles of Narnia ( someone's sitting on a gold mine with that one ! ! ) , but for now , I am personally more than content to sit back and watch a new Harry Potter or Lord of the Rings film for the next couple years , and hope that this trend of quality adventure will continue in the future .
( best episodes ever )	I don't know why I first developed an intense love of CSI Las Vegas , given that so many of the episodes follow the same basic format , but this is the first time that that format has been completely thrown away and the show went in a completely different direction . We can thank Quentin Tarantino , of course , for that change , since he was given the opportunity to write and direct these two episodes in his own way . It's interesting to consider that he made these shows a year after making Kill Bill , in which Uma Thurman's character is also buried alive . Nick Stokes ' kidnapping and live burial is not necessarily an homage to Kill Bill , but it seems that Tarantino has noticed the effectiveness of a live burial , particularly one in which the person is unconscious when buried and then wakes up underground . Can you imagine ? I was particularly affected by these two episodes , because being buried alive is one of my own worst fears , along with drowning , spiders , and Global Thermonuclear War ( an intense fear that I developed in 1983 after watching an early Matthew Broderick movie ) . I had hoped that Tarantino might take it upon himself to write and direct more for the show , but as of now that has yet to happen , and it looks like it's not going to . Other than these two episodes , all of the rest of the series looks surprisingly homogenized . . . Note : my summary is in all lower case letters and parentheses because in my first attempt to post this comment , I had it all in capital letters to emphasize how impressive these two CSI episodes are , but then when I tried to post it , the IMDb told me DO NOT SHOUT in my summary . So it's a whisper . Happy now ?
Even though he wasn't at the director's helm this time , George Lucas has done it again .	In a film like The Empire Strikes Back , especially a few years on the heels of such a mind-bogglingly great film like the original Star Wars , there is something that comes immediately to mind that would at first seem to count against the film , but instead only winds up increasing the respect that it commands . In the 1977 Star Wars , there is a clear reliance on simplicity in some parts . Obviously , it is much more than a simply made science fiction film , but like I said in my review of it , there was a lot of highly effective reliance on things that were not put on screen , such as Obi Wan's description of The Force to Luke . In The Empire Strike Back , the first thing that we are treated to is the traditional scrolling text along a background of stars , depicting what has happened between the last film and this one , and reminding us of the things that were mentioned in the last film but never explained . At first , this would almost seem to be a way to save money to get more information across to the audience without having to actually put it on screen , but this is really an ingenious way of furthering the story . The very fact that we are so willing to read all this information and forgive our inability to actually see it is a testament to the quality of the series , even at this early stage in its presentation , and we know the story so well from the first film that we are glad to see such a large change in what's happening in the films , not for a second lamenting the fact that we have obviously missed so much action . And besides that , if and when George Lucas runs out of new prequels to release , and maybe if he someday begins to run low on how many hundreds of millions of dollars he has , he could go right back and make these in-between scenes into full length films . What would he call these , if he did that ? Introquels ? Who cares ! The names themselves would be interesting enough , and if you go back and read the stuff that introduces this film , it's obvious that there's an entire film there just waiting to be made . I guess the question of actors would be a formidable one , though . The Empire Strikes Back is the film where we are first introduced to the great Jedi master Yoda ( ' Away put your weapon ! ' ) , as well as some of the most thrilling battle sequences of the entire Star Wars series , and that includes the prequels . The battle scene where the rebels fight the Imperial Walkers on the ice planet is an incredibly well-made battle scene , not only in the way that it was put together so convincingly using models , but that the machines themselves are so creatively made . Indeed , the Imperial Walkers are some of the most recognizable machines from the entire Star Wars saga , right up there with the Millennium Falcon and the Death Star . I have just watched this film again , having already seen Episode I and Episode II , and not having seen any of the original Star Wars films for maybe 10 years ( except for the original 1977 Star Wars , which I saw and reviewed a few days ago - and these aren't even the Special Edition versions ! ) . When I first saw Yoda when watching The Empire Strikes Back again , I was really struck by how different he looked from in the newer movies . Obviously , he's completely computer generated in the new films , but here in Episode V he looks like a muppet ! Even so , I would like to express my opinion that Yoda is more realistic and more interesting here as a puppet than in the newer films as a computer generated image . At least here in the older films you know that he's actually THERE , and that he's not just added into the film later . Oh yeah , speaking of Yoda , can I just complain for a minute ? What the hell was up with the Jedi training ? Yes , I realize that I'm just a lowly IMDb reviewer , while The Empire Strikes Back is a part of the greatest science fiction series of all time , but would it have killed George Lucas to write in a little more creative training for Luke ? The thing that struck me first about the Star Wars films when I first started watching them was how incredibly imaginative they were , but then Luke started his training . You know , when I was in high school I played football . I was a wide receiver / tight end and I hardly ever got to play because I was too tall and too skinny , but part of my workout was to carry the linemen up and down the stairs to the weight room . Some of these guys weighed 100 pounds more than me , and I still almost never saw the field , and here's Luke Skywalker . He carries Yoda around this boggy swamp and he gets to be a Jedi ! What the hell ! There is also the addition of a surprisingly fitting love story . First of all , anyone who has ever read my review of a Jerry Bruckheimer movie will know that I am not the biggest fan of cramming a love story into a movie where it doesn't belong . I can't seem to write anything about Bruckheimer movies without complaining about the idiot love story , and now it's even worse because here's this movie that was made so long before , from which Bruckheimer could obviously have at least learned a LITTLE bit about how to do it right . Han Solo and Princess Leia maintain the personalities that they developed in the first Star Wars film and there is now a sort of love / hate relationship between the two of them , where neither one of them wants to admit their feelings for the other . This romantic subplot is characterized perfectly in the scene just before Solo is carbon frozen , when Leia risks approaching a cheesy romantic moment by saying ' I love you ' just before Han is lowered into the freezing chamber , and he saves the moment by responding , ' I know . ' Han Solo . Smart-ass to the last drop . Before I end I would like to point out that the goofs that can be found on the IMDb for this film are some of the most blatant that I've ever seen in a film . The scene where you can see someone giving a woman at the tactical maps a cue to deliver her lines is amazingly obvious , and some of the other ones , such as the stage hand swinging the light saber prop briefly into view as he switches it for an ' off ' prop with Luke just after he knocks Darth Vader over backwards , are just as much fun to look for . I have one question about the goofs , though . There's one where Luke looks off into the fog just after R2-D2 is eaten by the sea monster , and you can CLEARLY see a person running to the right a little ways off in the fog . Is that meant to be Luke ? It seems that it's supposed to be him running in his search for R2 , because you can even hear the FOOTSTEPS of the person running . I can't even IMAGINE how they could have missed THAT ! ! It is , however , a testament to the quality of a film when such tremendous oversights in editing do nothing to take away from the overall quality of the film . The Empire Strikes Back remains an extremely powerful and well-made installment in the Star Wars series , not taking even a single step backwards in the sheer breathtaking adventure of the original film . It's not often that a film as good as Star Wars can be released and then followed up with a sequel that is just as great , as is clearly the case here . Star Wars was a gigantic film upon its release , and with The Empire Strikes Back , Lucas has begun the formation of one of the greatest film series ' in cinematic history .
Best Picture of 1997 . By far .	1998 was one of the most controversial years ever as far as the Best Picture Oscar winner , but I think that this is only because Saving Private Ryan and Shakespeare in Love , the two front-runners for the award , were both such tremendously spectacular movies . There was a similar situation the year before , in 1997 , with the rivalry between Titanic and As Good As It Gets , it's just too bad that the Academy chose to give the award to Titanic's ticket sales rather than the sheer earthquaking quality of As Good As It Gets and the fabulous talent within it . Thankfully , the Best Actor and Best Female Actor awards were given to the stars of As Good As It Gets , clearly showing that the Academy realizes that the content was in As Good As It Gets , but chose instead to award the financial purging and pretty pictures and sparkly oohs and aahs that were in Titanic . The Oscars , it becomes clearer and clearer , are entirely a commercial event and have little to nothing to do with furthering film as an artistic medium . 1998 , then , may be seen as something of an apology , where the Academy tries to show that they know about good film beyond goofy romantic set pieces like the joke that Titanic has turned out to be , but unfortunately in 1998 they awarded a worthy film but had to also turn down another equally worthy film . Like I always say , though , movies are not a stratified medium that releases one great film every year and a lot of pretty good movies every year so that the Oscars can be neatly distributed and we can all go home smiling , which is why I don't involve myself too much in who gets what Oscar , but rather watch the Academy Awards for entertainment purposes and , most of all , to develop a list of the quality films that I missed during the year . I wish people wouldn't get so freaked out about it and just enjoy the show , because it is quite often these same people that go out and pay full ticket prices for crap like Big Momma's House and Gone In 60 Seconds and the Scary Movies and whatnot . We have a consumer responsibility people ! These trashy movies keep getting made because someone keeps buying tickets to see them ! Who are these people ? ? But I digress . As Good As It Gets , as the title refers , is just about as good as human interest dramas get . I have read reviews complaining that Melvin ( the mentally flawed character played flawlessly by Jack Nicholson ) is a man who it is impossible to like or love , whose compulsive , antisocial behavior is sad and disturbing , neither cute nor funny , to put it in the words of one of these unsatisfied reviewers , Christopher Brown , my colleague and good friend . Quite the contrary , however , Melvin Udall is a man who suffers from obsessive compulsion , severe antisocial tendencies , and whose interaction with the world , like Vincent Gallo's Billy in Buffalo ' 66 , is limited to harsh insults intended to harm . I think it's true that the character is presented in such a way that he doesn't seem to realize how hurtful his statements can be ( such as in the diner scene when he makes a touchy comment to Carol ( Helen Hunt ) about her son . The major flaw of the film is that the plot boils down to a fairly familiar formula , in which the man who hates everyone he comes into contact on a daily basis softens and ultimately grows to accept everyone from women and children to his gay neighbor's dog . Given the fact that the film is peppered with high priced Hollywood movie stars ( Jack Nicholson , Helen Hunt , Greg Kinnear , Cuba Gooding , Jr . , etc . ) , it's obvious that it's not a cheap production , so the crowds have to be pleased to some extent , but even the rather conventional path that it follows to the end is made into a tremendously enjoyable ride because of the quality of the performances . You can clearly see the difference between where the money goes in a movie like this and a movie like Titanic . You can either have enormous special effects and fancy cinematic trickery dumbed down by wooden performances , as was the case in Titanic , or you can have a movie that takes place in a familiar setting and is bursting with Oscar worthy performances from top to bottom , as in As Good As It Gets . That being said , I am willing to forgive a little bit of bending to the crowd-pleasing formula , which is something that I generally hate more than anything else because it is so rarely done right . Most producers ( Jerry Bruckheimer ) try so hard to please so many different people that they end up pleasing no one at all . In this film , the conventional formula is the price that we have to pay to see the quality of the performances and the story . Clearly , no one but Jack Nicholson could play a character like Melvin and still be liked by the audience , so his character is a success despite the callousness of him as a person . I can understand that there are a lot of people who may have been put off by a purely superficial look at the movie , maybe they couldn't look past Melvin's insults or maybe they weren't satisfied by the ending , which left very open the possibility that the future would hold more trouble like we had already seen up to that point in the movie ( I felt this way myself , to a certain extent ) , but there can be no denying the enormous quality of the film and it's inarguable superiority to Titanic . As Good As It Gets is such a fun movie that it's almost hard to see how anyone could not like it , unless maybe they were in bad mood when they watched it . If you are one of these people , I would advise you to watch it again and pay close attention to Melvin's character throughout the film . You may be able to profit from his lessons .
Timeless .	Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory is a truly magnificent piece of filmmaking and remains one of the most fascinating and wonderful adventure films ever made . One of the things that makes this film so intriguing is that it could have been made at any time . I mean , just from watching it , you can't really tell when it was made . It has been one of my favorite films for almost 20 years now , and it wasn't until today that I actually realized when it was made . Watching it again last night , I had convinced myself that it was made sometime in the early to mid 80s , and I was shocked to find out that this year is the movie's 30 year anniversary . Until now , pretty much the only movie I associate with 1971 is A Clockwork Orange , and it's just strange for some reason to find out that this classic movie was made so long ago . At any rate , Willy Wonka is a tremendously imaginative and inspiring film . It's a family film , but one of the most important aspects of a family film is that it has to be enjoyable for a variety of ages . This is what makes movies like Toy Story and Shrek such huge successes - the adults will love it just as much as the kids are sure to . Hence : ' family ' film . On the other hand , this is also the downfall of such other movies that are strictly for a much younger audience , like Cats & Dogs . The makers of Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory understood this very well , and you can see that just by the way that the cast is divided . Here are all of these kids ( funny how it was only kids who found those golden tickets ? ) who were at this candy factory , and they had each elected to bring one of their parents with them as the one admissible member of their family who was allowed by Wonka to accompany them to the factory . One of the best elements of this film is the excellently written script and , even more , the songs . These are some of the best songs in any movie ever made , rivaling even the best of the songs from Disney's films ( hey , some of them are really good ? ) . There are , of course , some exceptions , such as ' Cheer up , Charlie , ' which I have been fast-forwarding through for as long as I can remember , but for the most part , the songs are fun to listen to and they pertain to life outside the movie . They are not just songs about the candy-making genius of Willy Wonka or the excitement of being able to tour his mysterious factory , but they are about life in the real world . They're about believing in yourself and being motivated in life ( ' Anything you want to , do it . Want to change the world , there's nothing to it ? ' ) , but there are also some that have to do mostly with the movie but are still just as enjoyable , such as the classic song that Wonka sings in the tunnel on board his boat ( curiously named ' Wonkatania ' ) , which was creepily covered by Marilyn Manson a couple of decades later . The dialogue in the film contains some of the most interesting little tidbits in the entire movie . Wonka's lines , in particular , are wonderfully strange and amusing ( ' A little nonsense now and then is cherished by the wisest men . ' ) . He is a truly eccentric and fascinating man , and Gene Wilder captures the character flawlessly , as he delivers the lines from the brilliantly written script . Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory is one of those rare movies that comes along and completely changes the way that fantasy films are made . It's all about having fun in life and being hopeful against all odds and , most of all , being able to have fun in life . There are times when you have to let things go for a while and just act like a kid . Eat candy , run around and play , steal fizzy lifting drinks and bump into the ceiling that now has to be washed and sterilized , it doesn't matter as long as no one's looking . That's such a trivial little quirk of Wonka's ( who sterilizes their ceiling ? ) that it becomes obvious that the movie is trying to say that it's okay to break the rules every once in a while . Have fun in life . Besides being absolutely mouth-watering ( to this day , I still fantasize about sinking my teeth into one of those gigantic gummy bears ) , the movie is an uplifting adventure that warms the heart and sends people of all ages away with fairy tale candies dancing in their heads and wonderful songs just behind their lips . It is an always-welcome vacation from reality for people of all ages , and it should always be remembered and loved for that . This movie will ALWAYS be a must-see .
Incredibly intense drama .	Return to Paradise is probably the most intense drama that I've ever seen . Three friends , Danny , Lewis , and Tony , travel to Malaysia for a vacation , taking a trip that will change all of their lives forever . When one of them decides to stay there at the end of the trip to help the wildlife , it starts a chain reaction that brings the other two back to Malaysia hoping to save their friend's life . There is a curious subplot here involving the all too common thought among Americans that we are so high on the international food chain that we can simply leave the country and then all laws do not apply to us . As is made very clear to these three friends , even the most foreign of foreign countries have their own laws , and even the great United States cannot always help you when you break them . The year after Return to Paradise was released , there was another film released called Brokedown Palace that borrowed so heavily from it that it was almost a remake with females . But even though that film made every possible effort to capture the intensity and power of Return to Paradise , it just could not achieve the same effect . This is not only because Brokedown Palace was released after Return to Paradise or even because it is such a rehash of the same idea , but simply because Return to Paradise is one of those movies that has such a powerful effect that any succeeding film that approaches the same idea cannot re-create the same experience . There is an amazing atmosphere that permeates the entire film , from the beginning part with the three friends ' vacation in Malaysia to the scenes in New York . Downtown New York was presented just as well as the Malaysian prison , making each of them that much more effective as far as communicating the horrific experience that Lewis McBride ( yet another brilliant but traditionally unenviable role played by Joaquin Phoenix ) suffers through for two years before Sherriff and Tony learn what has happened and are suddenly faced with a decision that will change their lives forever . ( spoilers ) One of the many things that is truly admirable about Return to Paradise is the ending . Rather than trying vainly and failing spectacularly to force a smile onto unhappy material ( as was the case in Brokedown Palace ) , we see an east Asian country stand up for its laws and enforce them in their own way . This film delivers a powerful message that the United States is not all-powerful . We cannot simply travel to a distant country and think that we can do whatever we want because we're out of America and clearly this country where no one even speaks English can have their own rules much less be able to enforce them . Lewis suffered a horrible fate , which most people in America would think was extremely harsh for the relatively harmless crime they had committed , but Malaysia has their own beliefs about that crime , their own punishment for it , and their own reasons for not relenting simply because this was an American kid . Of course , they're never going to achieve a successful democracy over there in Malaysia if they keep killing off their potheads . Who would be president ? ?
Jim Carrey's best performance ever .	The Majestic is probably one of the most complex and satisfying romantic dramas to come along in years . It tells a very complex story that is fascinating from beginning to end , however unlikely it is in reality . Obviously , it's not likely that a man is going to stumble into a small town after an accident and be mistaken for someone else by that town's Mayor and all of its citizen's including the man's former fiancée and even his FATHER . No matter how vaguely you look at him , Peter Appleton does not look like Luke Trimble and he most certainly does not talk like Matt Damon . However , once you suspend disbelief enough to accept that this has happened , you get a great story about a man trying to figure things out , as he put it . Jim Carrey delivers a stunningly convincing performance as Peter Appleton , the struggling screenwriter whose career is threatened because he is suspected to be a communist at the height of the Red Scare . Needless to say , we grow to like Appleton enormously over the course of the movie even though he doesn't even know who he is and for a lot of the time we're not even really sure either . When we see that his career threatened to be destroyed by these groundless suspicions ( not to mention when we see a lot of men that we hate from the moment we see them ? one of which keeps a fly swatter in his office within easy reach on his desk . How's THAT for symbolism ? ) , it becomes clear that the movie has a lot to say about how the government handles things like this . But more important than that , the movie says a lot about the public , particularly the moviegoing public ( yeah , that's you ) . The movie portrays the public as a group of people who are ready and willing to follow along with whatever they hear in the newspapers and condemn the movies written by a man who is suspected by the government to be a communist . Here's a completely innocent man whose life was about to be ruined because of the gullibility of the American public . I can't say I was entirely thrilled with a lot of the small details in the movie , such as the fact that Appleton was a screenwriter but was a bad speller ( people who write for a living did not get to that position by being bad spellers ? professional writers who can't spell do not exist ) or the fact that after the car crash the director felt the need to have Appleton smack his head on the cement pillar ( was falling off the bridge and landing in the river upside down not enough ? ) or even the fact that he walked into the town of Lawson and looked ' familiar ' to everyone he saw . Could NO one place him ? Oh , and remember what happened after the crash ? Appleton washed up on the beach along with his CAR . What the hell ? ! Was it made of styrofoam ? Besides that , the landscaping in the movie could use a little work . There was hardly a single backdrop in the entire film that didn't look fake , but the story is so good that it vastly overshadows things like this . Jim Carrey once again proves himself as an extremely capable actor , and that he is not just some slapstick comedian goofball . His reactions are perfect as people begin to realize who they think he is . This is a nearly perfect performance , it keeps you entertained from beginning to end , and never gives away too much to allow you to predict the ending . The only problem is that when the end does arrive it seems to be sort of a copout , a little TOO much of a happy ending , but not all that improbable either , especially when compared to the rest of the situations in the movie . The movie has a lot to say about the government and about America and about war ( it looks WAY down on war ) and leaves us feeling that no one in the movie was cheated even though Appleton's career was unfairly put into danger , a whole town was brought to their feet by someone who wasn't who they thought he was , and Luke Trimble was just as dead as the town of Lawson had been thinking that he was for 9 ½ years . The trial before the House Un-American Activities Committee was one of the best climactic scenes I've seen in a movie in years . Jim Carrey's performance is at it's peak here as he clearly shows that Appleton is trying to decide if he should go ahead and take the risk of standing up to the committee , and he does it so well that it makes you want to stand up and cheer for him . I'm an aspiring director , and this is exactly the kind of movie that I want to make .
A true classic . This is a historic action thriller that is not to be missed .	What a great show this was . Claude Rains plays Jack Griffin , a scientist who discovers a formula with which he renders himself invisible . The only side effect of the drug is that it also slowly drives the subject insane . The special effects are terrible , in many cases it's laughably obvious how they were created , but you need to remember that this film is almost 70 years old ! For special effects like those in The Invisible Man to have been created in the early 1930s , when even SOUND was still fairly new , is extremely impressive . Even though the structure of The Invisible Man was fairly simple , there were elements of the story that showed how well thought out the movie was . Griffin points out that dirt on his feet , snow on his shoulders , and even dirt under his fingernails would be enough to give him away . He needs to wait a certain amount of time after he eats because until his food is fully digested , it is still visible ( THAT would have been interesting to see ) . With The Invisible Man , James Whale has delivered yet another masterpiece , and I think that this is among the better ones . The film has definitely dated ; the black and white photography is gritty , the camera movements are often jumpy , and the dialogue has that " old movie " scratchy sound to it , but none of these things should discourage anyone from watching this excellent film . It is one of the establishing films of horror / thriller history , and it should not be missed .
Incredibly well-made and important futuristic action drama ?	London , 2027 . The world society has collapsed into widespread chaos , and as the news reports in England loudly proclaim , " Only Britain soldiers on ! " Needless to say , the British have sealed their borders and have begun forcefully exporting illegal immigrants and , for nearly two decades , no one on earth has been able to conceive a child . There is global grief expressed when a teenager , the youngest boy in the world , is killed in a fight in South America . On a purely aesthetic level , I love that futuristic London looks almost the same as it looks now , which will certainly be the case when 2027 finally does roll around , with the exception that in the movie it is a frightening police state . There are no flying cars or bizarre outfits , just normal people going about their lives in a decaying society . The most futuristic things in the movie are the video billboard ( which are here now , by the way ) and the crazy looking iMacs that people are using . The movie is basically about the approaching end of mankind , the gradual disintegration of modern humanity as we know it . There are a lot of clever political jabs inserted into the plot , such as some ham-handed ones like a bunch of anti-Bush stickers on the wall of a key character's apartment , but also more clever ones , like the revelation that suicide kits are made available to the public but marijuana remains illegal . There is global fear about the inability for anyone to conceive a child , and it provides a much more immediate threat of the end of mankind than the gradual decay of civilization . If no one can procreate , the human race is sure to die out . This is an even faster and more effective method of killing off the entire human population than the deadliest plague or virus , both of which always leave survivors . The strength of the human race is founded on our diversity , but if we can't reproduce we are certainly lost . When an African woman turns up pregnant , the government wants her and there is a frantic race to gain custody of her , complicated by massive political turmoil . Clive Owen and Julianne Moore play Theo and Julian , respectively , ex-spouses who team up to protect the miraculously pregnant woman and deliver her to a location that is safe enough so that she can give birth and restore hope in the future of mankind . The movie makes an interesting and frightening assertion that mankind will not end with a bang from an asteroid or nuclear war or an act of God , but will gradually fizzle out and destroy itself , that we will bring it about ourselves , powerless to stop it even as it is happening around us . It's a scary thought , but one that we should really allow to affect the way we lead our lives and our international relationships ?
A true landmark in science fiction and filmmaking .	The problem with reviewing a film like Star Wars is that it has been scrutinized and analyzed and poked and prodded for decades , which leaves little left to be said about it that has not been said already ( and , consequently , probably means that virtually no one will read my review of it ! ) . The thing that allows Star Wars to really get under your skin and have such a powerful and lasting effect on you lies in the combination of its simplicity and complexity . It is no secret that the vast majority of film plots revolve around some version of the ancient ' good vs . evil ' storytelling structure , and Episode IV is probably the most widely given example of this . The original Star Wars is a shockingly simple presentation of this structure , but it is also an immensely enlarged version of it . Lucas uses good vs . evil to structure his plot , but at the same time , he adds a story that entails such a level of complexity that it is impossible to reduce the film to a tired exercise of an age-old story structure . George Lucas's superhuman visual imagination is one of the things that plays the largest role in making the original Star Wars film such a joy to watch . Every single scene is packed with visual curiosities that fascinate the viewer time after time , making the re-watch value nearly endless . Lucas is able to walk the fine line between using visual effects to carry his story and using them to enhance it , and this is an even stronger testament to the quality of the film , because the special effects , while obviously not the most technologically advanced in the world , are far superior to the complexity of the story , at least on a structural level . The thing that really counts against the newer Star Wars films - rather ironically , as it were - is that they replace the physically creative genius of these earlier films by simply creating everything through computer generated images , making the effects slightly more lifelike but immensely less realistic . A cartoon is more lifelike than a hand-puppet , but not more realistic by any stretch of the imagination . The old Star Wars films are the happy home of Lucas ' extinct belief that less is more , and we can see this in the tremendous amount of material that is discussed but never seen on screen , because it doesn't need to be . Lucas understood how powerful an effect he could create by having Obi Wan Kenobi give the young Luke Skywalker a brief description of what the Force is , and then use it to influence the weak mind of an Imperial Storm Trooper ( ' We don't need to see his identification . These aren't the droids we're looking for . ' ) . This is great stuff , and there's not a single CGI effect in the film necessary to create it . Consider , also , the extent of creativity involved in the making of the human portion of the film . We don't just see good guys and bad guys , but entire governments created with uniforms and even wildly elaborate outfits for their dark leaders ( Darth Vader is , undoubtedly , one of the most recognizable figures in film history ) . This is an extremely well-presented hierarchy of characters , but it goes beyond just the leaders to include lower levels , all the way down to the scum of the run-down trade cities , as well as other characters such as the infantry-level Storm Troopers , who always seem to travel around in amusing little idiot packs , no doubt chanting ' We are the moron brothers ' to themselves and each other all the while . It's amazing that the Imperial Forces have managed to become so immensely powerful when their most basic watchmen are such boneheads . Didn't Lord Vader notice how pathetically weak-minded all of his troopers were ? Obi Wan sure did ! Harrison Ford fits perfectly into the film as the greedy Han Solo , a character who is so one-sided that Ford has recently revealed that he has no interest in ever playing him again , which is too bad because there are sure to be a lot of interesting things that he could contribute to Episode III . Mark Hamill delivers a brilliant performance as Luke Skywalker , who has nearly as much charisma and charm as Norman Bates , without all that stuff about his mother . Carrie Fisher is spectacular as Princess Leah , although unfortunately so spectacular that her role in the early Star Wars films has immensely overshadowed the rest of her sadly dismissible career as an actor . She and Mark Hamill were both , in fact , horribly insulted by their roles in the latest idiot film from Kevin Smith , Jay and Silent Bob Strike Back . The title makes it immediately clear that the movie is to be largely a parody of the Star Wars films ( specifically the older ones ) , and the parody that is made in that film makes it very clear that some people ( Kevin Smith ) haven't sense enough to respect such tremendously successful and brilliant movies like the old Star Wars films , but rather know only to try to feed and capitalize off of them , regardless of how low they have to sink to do it . It's sad that movies come out these days that are so insulting to old classics , and that this almost always happens in spoof films , which always have the potential to be tremendously hilarious and entertaining films , but they rarely do . I hope that someone with some power in Hollywood will notice that the spoof films that blatantly exploit the films they are parodying in order to get some cheap laughs are unequivocally the awful ones ( Jay and Silent Bob , Scary Movie 1 and especially 2 , etc . ) . I wish it wasn't so hard for them to see that films that poke fun respectably , like Spaceballs or even Wrongfully Accused , to some extent , are always the ones that generate the most satisfying laughs , and retain the most staying power . Regardless of how the spoofs deliver moronic parodies of the original Star Wars films , however , they continue to stand as some of the greatest science fiction films of all time , and they remain that way even compared to their computer aided descendents . It is a testament to any kind of movie when it can stand up to nearly endless childish parodies as well as to theoretically improved versions of itself and extensions of its story , and still remain as powerful and moving as it was on the day it was released .
The second of Hitchcock's string of thrillers released in the early 1930s that went on to associate him with the thriller genre for the rest of his career .	The 39 Steps is one of Hitchcock's smartest thrillers , and it displays almost all of the characteristics that later became traditions in his films . The plot concerns an ordinary man who suddenly finds himself involved in an extraordinary situation , which is common in Hitchcock's thrillers , but in this case it is especially noteworthy of the extent to which this man's involvement was completely accidental and unwitting . It could very well have happened to just about anyone who was in his position . The film starts off in a crowded theatre during the performance of a man who goes by the name of Mr . Memory . He learns 50 new facts each day and literally never forgets a thing . While the audience is questioning him to test his intellect , a shot rings out and the frightened crowd quickly disperses . Robert Donat plays the part of Richard Hannay ( as well as a variety of other identities ) . After the gunshot , Hannay leaves with Anna Smith , who turns out to be the woman who fired the shot in order to create a diversion to escape from two men who wanted to kill her . Hannay gradually catches on to Smith's strange behavior in his apartment , afraid to have the lights on and not wanting to get too close to any open windows , and at first he scoffs at her , calling it ? persecution mania . ' ( spoilers ) Clearly , Hannay is a regular guy who ran into a woman and suddenly finds himself involved in this criminal situation , much like in The Man Who Knew Too Much , the thriller that Hitchcock released just before this one . In this case , however , the unwitting involvement is even more believable , because a normal guy seems to leave a theatre with a normal woman , and the next thing you know she ends up dead and he ends up impersonating the milkman to get out of the building ( in a scene that is certainly not without its comic appeal ! ) . Soon we see the famous match cut on sound when the maid finds the woman dead and turns to the camera to scream , and her scream is drowned out by the train whistle that begins the next scene ( probably one of the most famous bits of editing that Hitchcock ever made ) . The rest of the movie takes place on the train , and we begin to see references and allusions and foreshadows to some of Hitchcock's earlier and later films , such as the way Hannay overhears people on the train discussing the murder to which he has been erroneously linked ( similar to Hitchcock's earlier film Blackmail ) , the train is crawling with police officers ( also similar to Blackmail ) , two businessmen are ( strangers on the train , you might say ) are entirely preoccupied with a cricket game even during shootouts that they are involved in ( similar to Bob Lawrence's occasional aloofness in The Man Who Knew Too Much ) , and like in just about all of Hitchcock's other films , he uses complex editing to convey an impressive amount of the plot . In fleeing from the murder , Hannay finds lodging with a poor Irish couple who live in a cabin out in the country , conveniently isolated from his pursuers . At a dinner table scene , there is an exchange of glances in which the wife sees a newspaper headline reporting a murderer on the run , then she looks at Hannay who returns her glance with one that tries to admits that the headline refers to him but that he is not really a murderer . The woman's husband sees all this and immediately concludes that they are having an affair . The scene is constructed using a complex sequence of close-ups and point of view shots . Hannay sees the newspaper article on the table and we see his eyes scanning the page , and then we see a shot of the newspaper on the table . The wife sees Hannay reading and follows his glance , sees the newspaper , and then looks up at him with a horrified expression . There is a quick bit of cross-cutting between them as they have their silent conversation in which he attempts to tell her with no words that he's not a killer , and then we see a shot of all three of them from across the table , the husband in the middle on the far side and his wife and Hannay on either side of the table and the screen , the husband's eyes are darting back and forth between them . Through nothing but close shots of facial expressions and the juxtaposition of shots we see the wife discover Hannay's secret , Hannay's attempt to explain it to her without words , and the husband's resulting suspicion that they are having an affair . The level of humor in The 39 Steps is especially effective . Humor is present in just about all of Hitchcock's films , and is often the most effective when it is inserted in places where it doesn't seem to belong , which happened in The Man Who Knew Too Much the year before The 39 Steps was released , and probably even more in this film . In some cases , the comedy is juxtaposed with scenes that are most certainly not to be laughed at , leaving you with mixed emotions about whether you should laugh or cringe . There is a scene after Hannay has left the Irish couple's cabin that her husband discovers that she has not only let Hannay escape when he planned to sell him to the police for the reward , but has also given him his good coat as protection . He advances on her and we hear him begin to beat her off screen , and then the film immediately cuts to a scene where some detectives are marveling over a hymn book that managed to stop a bullet and save Hannay's life ( joking about just how hard it really is to get through those hymns ) . Hitchcock mixes a very serious scene here that entails some social commentary with one that is genuinely amusing , especially a moment later when the detective says , ' We're not so daft in Scotland Yard as you smart Londoners think ! ' as he arrests the wrong man . Hannay later refers to some sheep as ' a whole flock of detectives , ' making an unmistakable comment on Hitchcock's opinions of the law enforcement community . From this point on , Hannay finds himself handcuffed to a woman who thinks him a murderer , and he is faced with the task of convincing her that he is not a criminal while at the same time trying to get her to flee with him so he can avoid capture . There is some interesting symbolism in this relationship as she gradually begins to believe that maybe he is telling the truth . When she finally discovers for sure that he is telling the truth , he is asleep on a bed , and she has managed to free herself from the handcuffs . Rather than run from him , she goes to him and covers him with the blankets , which is understandable since she is probably developing the obligatory romantic connection with him , but then she pulls the covers back off of him and covers herself , seemingly showing that she doesn't really care about him but is instead only interested in her own protection . In the closing scene of the film , Mr . Memory is revealed to be not the astronomically intelligent man that he was presented as earlier in the film , but rather a man who has a steel trap of a mind but who exercises little control over the information that goes into or comes out of it . It seems that he has been given secret information to prevent any kind of paper trail , and in the climax of the film , Hannay storms into the theatre during one of his performances , pursued by police and criminals alike , and demands of Mr . Memory to tell what the 39 Steps is , and Mr . Memory's expression goes blank as he recites that information that has been installed in his head . ' The 39 Steps is a collection of spies collecting information on behalf of the foreign office of ? BANG ! ! ' Poor Mr . Memory drops to the floor dying , Hannay is vindicated , and the film closes with a heartwarming if slightly cheesy close up shot of the woman holding Hannay's hand , which still has an empty cuff hanging from it .
Charlie Chaplin's own deeply impoverished past plays an extensive role in the theme of his film Modern Times , which is probably the most potent of his dozens of films that deal with the difficult lives of th	It is a testament to Chaplin's filmmaking skills that he is able to impose such significant meaning on what really boils down to little more than a series of comedy skits strung together on an apparently flimsy clothesline of a plot . Indeed , the cinematic value of Modern Times is unquestionable , but it is ironically noteworthy that such a simple and even blocky plot is made into such a memorable film experience and delivers such a strong , time-transcending message about poverty stricken populations . It is no secret that Charlie Chaplin was more or less dragged into the sound era against his will . In the early part of the 20th century , he had built a tremendous career as a silent film actor , and had created a character , the Tramp , that was purely a silent film character who could not be transported into the sound era . Charlie had built his career and his popularity with the Tramp , and the coming of sound to the cinema meant the end of that character ( as illustrated by Robert Downey Jr . ' s Charlie Chaplin in the 1992 film Chaplin , ' The Tram CAN'T talk . The minute he talks , he's dead . ' ) . Chaplin delivers to the world a cynical satire about modern technology as well as his own ode to the silent film with Modern Times . Charlie plays the part of a man who works a dehumanizing position in a factory in which he is little more than a component of a machine , and he is controlled like a pawn by the menacing boss , who we see mostly as a looming face on a tremendous television screen . Clearly , the most memorable scenes in the film involve something to do with the factory , such as Charlie's brief trip into the innards of the machine , as well as his warm-hearted efforts to feed lunch to a man who has inadvertently become lodged in a machine , with only his head free . However , there is a very noteworthy but fairly subtle subplot that quietly reveals Chaplin's fondness for the silent film . The first and most obvious thing is that for the most part , this is a silent film . There are intertitles , there is precious little dialogue , and the film's main character doesn't utter a sound until near the end of the film . But there are also a lot of other things that more subtly hint that silent films are better than sound films . For one thing , the only intelligible words spoken in the film are done so through some sort of barrier . There is the factory boss speaking demandingly through the television screen , and the feeding machine company speaking through the radio as they try to sell the feeding machine to the factory boss . This becomes the most obvious by the fact that anyone speaking on screen - such as the factory boss as he tells the men that the feeding machine is not practical - only does so in intertitles . We know that dialogue can be put in the film , but Chaplin chooses only to do this in a detached and mechanized way . There is also a very strong example of Chaplin's endless sympathy for poor people at several points in this film . The most significant example of this is his interactions with the Gamin , played by Paulette Goddard , as well as his nearly constant contempt toward the police . After the scene where he gorges himself at a small diner ( note that the window said ' Cafeteria : Tables For Ladies ' ) , he casually calls an officer into the diner and tells him to pay the tab , unable to pay it himself . As he is handcuffed to the officer , he gets a cigar from a nearby vendor and hands some large candy bars to a couple of small children nearby , who look to be the type of children who are never sure where their next meal is going to come from . Charlie plays a hard working , lower class man in Modern Times , and no matter how badly he just wants to get some good work and earn a living so that he can buy a house for himself and Paulette , things constantly seem to go wrong for him . It seems that this bad luck is used to suggest that poor people are not poor as a result of their own shortcomings , but because they just can't seem to work their way up to a better life , no matter how hard they try . This social commentary is intertwined with such skillful intricacy with the story about Chaplin's love of silent film that there is really no switching back and forth between the two . Modern Times strikes me as especially memorable because it is a very simple story that is punctuated by a series of comedy skits , yet it also delivers several different messages that are important to society as well as to the filmmaker himself . In this way , the movie almost seems to deliver these strong messages without the audience even being aware that they are being presented with these issues . It is a great way to mix entertainment with important societal topics , and Charlie's decision to finally have the Tramp utter vocalized speech is done so in an endlessly watch-able song and dance scene , adding to the immeasurable number of film skits for which Charlie Chaplin will be remembered and loved .
A . I . is a perfect example of negative criticism born from expectations based on assumption or ignorance .	That's right , Steven Spielberg is back . He has taken it upon himself to helm the story started years and years ago by the late Stanley Kubrick , and Kubrick's influence is strikingly clear , especially late in the film . A lot of people were put off by A . I . , but this is because they expected a cute kids movie , something in the tradition of E . T . I don't know , maybe it's the fact that both movies have initials in the titles that caused this association . Spielberg is no stranger to dark content . I don't think I need to take the time to explain the content of much of Saving Private Ryan or Schindler's List or even pars of Jurassic Park . Before I saw A . I . , I read that Spielberg described the tone as what you would get if E . T . had been killed and dissected by the scientists , or if he had never recovered from that mysterious disease . This is a surprisingly accurate description of what you get with the film , so be warned ! Don't come out disappointed because of false expectations , as I'm sure is the case with soccer moms around the world . The other thing that people are likely to criticize A . I . for is the almost uncomfortable closeness with which the film parallels the Pinocchio story in many ways . Sure it does that , but it never pretends that it doesn't . On the other hand , you have to keep in mind that this is also a tremendously different version of the Pinocchio story . This is not the story of a puppet , made for entertainment , miraculously attaining consciousness and emotions and wanting to be a real boy , it's the story of a hugely advanced artificially intelligent robot , created to love and comfort humans , attaining consciousness and emotions and wanting to be a real boy . ( spoilers ) The thing to remember here is the extent to which reality was considered when creating a film with such a fantastical premise . Sure , this is science fiction , but one of the greatest pitfalls of the sci fi genre is the excessive dismissal of reality . In A . I . , everything that can go wrong , does go wrong , and it's a good thing , because that's life . Monica decides to keep little David ( Osment ) , but then her real son comes out of his coma , which no one expected . Needless to say , all sorts of complications come as a result . Martin ( Monica's son ) treats David with all of the inhumanity and cruelty as he would treat any lifeless toy . He has no respect for David's feelings , and while this does not seem to bother David , it does have an impact on the development of his emotions . Later on , we find out how hated these androids are by real humans , we see them destroyed , we see them rotting in dumps filled with sickening body parts , where damaged and mutilated robots wander , in search of replacement parts . This is not a perfect futuristic world , although it is a lot cleaner and more optimistic than the future presented in the majority of science fiction films . The emphasis here is not placed on making everyone happy . You won't walk away from the film with a contented smile on your face , everything does not go as planned , and no one lives happily ever after . In fact , the end of the film runs the risk of ruining the rest of it , the way the end of Mission to Mars absolutely wrecked what was otherwise a decent sci fi film . The unimaginably advanced machines of 2000 years in the future are at first frighteningly disappointing , but also strangely beautiful ( they look like machinery encased in flawless glass . . . ) and not entirely beyond reason . They may have been a little too computer animated , but they ultimately served their purpose well . Haley Joel Osment gives a stunning performance as David , he even surpasses his excellent performance in the great film The Sixth Sense . Haley Joel is on his way to big things . The special effects were spectacular , both with all of the machines as well as the scenery and also the little things , like the great character Teddy . Teddy was a much better character than Wilson in Cast Away , by the way . And Jude Law gave a strangely refreshing performance as Gigolo Joe , the lover robot who also ends up inadvertently as David's fortunate sidekick . With A . I . , Steven Spielberg has taken his uncanny ability to please huge numbers of people and mixed it with Stanley Kubrick's uncanny ability to perplex huge numbers of people , and the result is a tremendously pleasing film that unfortunately went completely misunderstood by a substantial portion of the audience . There can be no mistake about the quality of this movie , but the subject matter is something that today's spoiled audiences are not likely to swallow too easily . Modern cinema is so sugar coated and drab that people just can't take it when a little robot boy spends 2000 years in a stolen police helicopter at the bottom of the ocean , pleading to a lifeless statue to make him into a real boy . If you just can't stand not having a bright side , consider the fact that if she had made him real , he would have died . The movie ends in death , but it is a desired death . It is a rest for a robot who has searched for closure for all those years , much like what was seen in the far inferior Bicentennial Man . If you hated the movie , I'm sorry to hear it , but I can say with reasonable certainty that it's because you didn't understand it or you had unjustifiable expectations . Watch it again with an open mind , and enjoy this excellent film for what it is . Steven Spielberg was obviously not concerned with making everyone happy when he wrote the screenplay for A . I . , he was concerned with telling a good story , and that's exactly what he did .
Heroes underground .	I imagine it was the lengthy running time that kept me for so many years from seeing The Great Escape , although that doesn't explain why I haven't seen hordes of other movies . But I've been going back and watching all the old classics and The Great Escape is one of the best ones I've seen so far . The movie is not only wildly entertaining throughout it's nearly three hour duration , but shows some actors who went on to become famous for other roles in decades and generations to come . Granted , I am speaking from the perspective of a different generation of moviegoers , which is why I know Charles Bronson more from Death Wish than this film , or James Coburn from films like Payback and Affliction , Donald Pleasance as Dr . Sam Loomis and Richard Attenborough as John Hammond from the Jurassic Park films . I think the thing I loved the most about the movie was how open everyone was about their plans to escape . Not that they tried to escape out in the open , but they made no effort to hide the fact that they were analyzing their surroundings , trying to find a way to get out . As we soon learn , it is their sworn duty as captured officers to consistently try to escape and , failing that , to make life as confusing and frustrating as humanly possible for their captors . The story involves a lot of British officers being held captive by the Germans , at a prison where all of the most consistent escapers have been compiled for special supervision . When the prisoners arrive at the beginning of the movie , many of them , including Virgil Hilts ( Steve McQueen ) walk into the gates and then immediately walk to the fences around the outsides of the compound , looking up and down the length of the fences , studying where the guard towers are , looking in broad daylight for ways to escape . What follows is a brilliant competition between the proud British officers being held captive and the Germans guarding them , as the British make every attempt to escape and receive minimal punishment when they're caught . 20 days in the cooler for a failed escape attempt ( doubled from only 10 for mouthing off ) is pretty light compared to what I would have expected POWs to have suffered at the hands of the Nazis in World War II . Because the escapes are only hidden during their preparations , there are portions of The Great Escape that play almost like a sports movie more than a war film , because of the atmosphere of competition and , among other things , there is so much comic relief , One of my favorite scenes is the one where they first begin digging under the floor in their bunker . Danny Velinski ( Bronson ) is under the floor digging away when the Germans march in for a surprise inspection , and he jumps out , they put the cover back on the hole and smear clay around it and then pour water into it , one guy starts mopping the floor , everyone else goes back to playing cards or milling about , and Velinski hops in the shower , and the suspicious officers come in and demand to know what they're each doing . The guy mopping explains that he's mopping , Velinski says he needed a wash , and Louis Sedgwick ( Coburn ) , says about Velinski , " I'm watching him . I'm a lifeguard ! " It's also a great scene when Hilts ( McQueen ) tells Bartlett ( Attenborough ) and the other officer his plan for escape . Steve McQueen is the star of the movie but spends most of it pretty much out of the loop . He was in the cooler when the plans for the great escape were first hatched , so when he finally got out most of the camp was involved in planning this epic breakout , and Hilts comes up to Bartlett and one other officer and gleefully tells them about his and Ives ' nutty plan to burrow three feet down and dig straight out , sticking metal tubes through the ground to the surface so they can breathe . Bartlett and the other officer leave both of them out of the plans for the time being , for reasons that are explained later in the film . The movie is expertly written , with outstanding dialogue and even better performances and direction that I like to think is still inspiring filmmakers throughout the world . I learned from another reviewer on the IMDb that the music is almost competing within itself , with different instruments representing the British and the Germans , so I was watching for it when I watched the movie . Not only is the different music representative of the two opposing sides , but it does it within scenes and even within individual shots . Consider , for example , the scene where Hilts and Ives are first brought into the cooler . The music is almost reacting to what is going on on screen , like it's trying to describe where each character is within the frame . That is true film-making brilliance . The movie ends with a massive setback , a tremendous downturn in tone , but does so without turning into a tragedy or overshadowing everything else that has gone on before that and , most importantly , while remaining true to the real life story . It displays the pride and determination of British military as well as was done in The Bridge on the River Kwai , and that is a major accomplishment . Bravo .
" A picture with a smile ? and perhaps , a tear . "	Charlie Chaplin's first full length feature film , and his biggest success up to that date , is a remarkably heartwarming story , which makes the surprising connection between slapstick comedy and dramatic tragedy . It begins with a woman who's " sin was motherhood , " who gives birth to a baby she can't support at a Charity Hospital which is kept pad-locked from the inside . She is forced to abandon it in an alley , and before long Chaplin wanders by and what follows is one of the best sequences of the film , as he is casually strolling by and then , through a series of odd but entirely believable situations , he is unable to get rid of it . It is no secret that little Jackie Coogan nearly stole the show from Chaplin ( who was in top form ) playing the little boy at 5 years old . Charlie's life is thrown into turmoil by the unexpected arrival of the baby , but eventually he sort of organizes his life and when the kid gets a little older they make a nice living together , the boy breaking windows and Charlie selling replacements . Soon the police notice so they have to cut and run , because there are other conflicts approaching which will warrant screen time much more than how they make money . It is interesting to watch the film oscillate back and forth from Chaplin's traditional slapstick comedy and a much more developed , dramatic story . The film is interspersed with pure slapstick and some genuinely moving moments ( sometimes simultaneously , if you can believe that ) , but overall it is a truly heartwarming tale of friendship and family and survival , and it is never once predictable , all the way until the last frame . There is a quick scene where the kid gets into a fist fight with another little boy , and in between " rounds , " Charlie is rubbing the kid down and congratulating him on fighting so well , and giving him hints for the rest of the fight . Meanwhile , the other kid's brother shows up , a massive oaf of a man who looks more like Frankenstein's monster than anything else . What follows is a pretty funny fight that looks startlingly similar to the fight between Charlie and the town bully in Easy Street . This is a slapstick set-up that is so simple that it could have been thrown in just to take up screen time , were it not for it's direct relevance to the story . At another point , there is pure slapstick taking place in their little shack of a home , as the 1921 version of Child Protective Services shows up to tear the young boy crying from Jackie's arms . I think this is the only time in any film that I've ever seen genuine , low-brow slapstick so seamlessly combined with a truly sad and heartbreaking incident . This combination , not just here but throughout the film , is The Kid's biggest achievement . There is a dream sequence near the end of the film that I am really not sure what to think about , although my understanding is that volumes have been written about it's symbolic meaning , both within the movie and in reference to Chaplin's personal life . And speaking of which , supposedly there were some legal issues involving money and divorce for which Chaplin sped the film stock to Utah for editing . I don't know which story to believe , that it was because of Chaplin's painful divorce or because he was unhappy with his salary ( I would bet it's a little of both ) , but the film is here and I guess ultimately that's all that matters . In the five or six times that I've seen The Kid , I am always a little uncomfortable with that kiss that Charlie gives the kid when he finally rescues him from the back of that truck , if only because I am conscious that he is not the tramp's real son , either on screen or off . Then again , I am looking at it with 21st century eyes . Some of Shirley Temple's early films are also a little disturbing to me , although for not quite the same reasons . By this time , Chaplin was fully on the road to his career in full length feature films , and after 36 short comedies for Mack Sennett at Keystone Studios and a dozen or so more for Essanay and Vagabond ( along with a few assorted others ) , Charlie was fast on the way to establishing himself as one of the greatest stars in the history of the cinema .
Fascinating !	Recently I have been learning a lot about ancient Chinese history and am completely transfixed . I read a book about the treasure fleets of Zheng He , the Grand Eunuch during the Ming Dynasty who led , at the time ( the early 1420s ) , the world's largest armada on a series of great voyages around the world , basically mapping the entire planet decades and centuries before the great European explorers . Unfortunately , because of internal strife ( and an unbelievably unlucky lightning storm ) , the government was overthrown and all records of the voyages and discoveries deliberately destroyed , followed by China turning in on itself for hundreds of years , allowing the great European explorers like Columbus and Magellan and Cook to follow in the footsteps of the great Chinese fleets , often using their maps , and then claim credit for their discoveries . I am still on the keen lookout for any TV or film representations of those great voyages , which immediately piqued my interest in seeing this BBC series about lost ancient cities . Each episode would be entertaining enough to me already , but becomes more so because each lost city is also shrouded in a seemingly unsolvable mystery , like the ancient city of Pyramesse , whose buildings were discovered nowhere near where the foundations were . How could it be in two places at once ? And why did these great cities disappear altogether anyway ? These are completely engrossing stories about ancient civilizations that will really open your eyes about how complex and developed the history of mankind is . The evolution of society certainly did not take place over anything even resembling a linear pattern . Great , powerful civilizations rose and fell and were obliterated by millennia of sand , only to be discovered and then remain clouded in mystery for decades more , while the secrets of the cities remained to be solved for decades longer . I did , I should admit , find it a little strange that , for example , the great city of Pyramesse ( considered sort of a " holy grail " among Egyptologists ) , was discovered in the form of a huge area covered with the massive pieces of buildings , completely out in the open . They could have been seen from an airplane . How did it remain lost for so long ? I am usually not a big fan of seeing the TV recreations of the time periods , because given that they are made for TV they are automatically going to be of lower quality than a film version might be , although here they are generally very well done and present a vivid picture of what those times must have looked like . The only scene in the three episodes I watched that was a little too much was one which showed Rameses in his battle gear . He is riding on a chariot and wearing this goofy , bright blue helmet that not only looks like cheap plastic but also makes him look like a spaceball . Did he really wear such a thing ? At any rate , I will definitely be on the lookout for more of these . It's fascinating and well made , and leaves you with the feeling that there is still so much about human history that remains buried beneath the sand . Highly recommended !
A truly inspiring film about one of the most important things that you can ever have ? an education .	Stand And Deliver deals with a lot of inner city kids who have grown up in a bad neighborhood and who all have dismal outlooks for the future . Edward James Olmos delivers the performance of his career as Jaime Esclante , the math teacher who comes to this school determined to teach these kids calculus and have them succeed in school to inspire them to improve the rest of their lives . The rest of the staff at Garfield High School has just as little faith in him and his efforts as they do in the rest of the school , and the film is also able to remain even more interesting because it deals with the lives of the kids outside of the school as well as in the classroom . Because the film presents such a realistic image of inner city life , we are completely engrossed with the atmosphere and the efforts of Mr . Escalante to teach these kids advanced mathematics , when many times they don't even want to put forth the effort themselves . There have been many films made about students with little to no potential showing that they are capable of being educated , and Stand and Deliver ran a huge risk of being repetitive when it was released , but it manages to cover new ground because it deals with so many different levels of the lives of the kids and the efforts of the teacher to teach them . The film is able to revolve not just around the kids trying to learn or the teacher trying to teach them , but around both of these things as well as around the daily lives of the students and the teacher and even the health and relationship of Mr . Escalante with his wife . We are introduced to a variety of fascinating and memorable characters in this film , particularly in Mr . Escalante , played brilliantly by Edward James Olmos , and especially Angel , played by Lou Diamond Phillips ( who , by the way , can be seen at his desk on the cover of the movie , but can't be seen on the IMDb's top billed list of cast on the Stand and Deliver page ) . The movie has the perfect amount of comic relief that is genuinely amusing but that doesn't take away from the overall appeal and seriousness of the movie . I can't say that there were no scenes within the film that were dramatized for effect , thereby illustrating the influences of Hollywood on the film , but even these scenes did not take away enough from the total value of the movie and the story that it presents to tarnish the real life accomplishments of Jaime Escalante , his calculus class , and the many students thereafter at Garfield High School that managed to pass the same test that we saw in this movie . This is wonderful entertainment for the entire family , don't miss it !
Maybe Chaplin's best early comedy ?	The Fireman soon strikes me as a perfect example of just how good Chaplin's earliest films could be . So many of the Keystone and Essanay comedies are rough and simple comedies with a lot of comical punching and kicking and not much else . This one has a developed story , multiple sets , location shooting , a nice love story , even a full-sized structure fire . It's also one of the earliest and best examples of Chaplin using reverse motion in his films . Here , it is used several times , and with surprisingly convincing effect , to show people going up and down the fireman's pole and to drive the horse-drawn fire engine forwards and backwards . Charlie is in good form as he is working diligently on the fire truck , and then quickly stands at attention and salutes when the fire chief boots him on the rear while he works . He salutes each time only to be rewarded with a good thrashing , once again showing a hard working guy getting abused and mistreated by his superiors . Finally , he decides he's had enough and fights back , only to be demoted to the cook's assistant , a job at which he is satisfactorily unqualified . Lots of comic mayhem ensues . But the movie really gets good after Charlie attempts to serve dinner and soon finds the fire chief , covered in soup from head to toe , chasing him all over the station . A couple of distinguished guests arrive , and the well-dressed man tells the chief that if he allows his house to burn down so he can get the insurance money , he'll offer up his daughter's hand in marriage . What a loving father . The chief agrees , and it's an ominous sign when the daughter shows a clear interest in Charlie rather than the chief . The chief orders the men to ignore the fire alarm , showing what a responsible leader he is , so they all ignore a genuine fire call until it's almost too late . Soon they realize their error and head with all possible speed to the site of the emergency , which sure looks to me like they really set a house on fire for the movie . I'm also curious to know where exactly the exterior shots were filmed , because I come from Los Angeles and it's always fascinating to me to know where exactly shots like that were taken so I can see what it looked like more than 90 year ago . There is a healthy amount of poetic justice in the film , which is one of it's strongest points . Every action has a reaction , and all corrupt decisions are punished by fate . The corrupt man sets his house on fire , only to accidentally do so with his daughter upstairs , and not only has he asked the firemen not to respond , they are already busy with the " honest fire " anyway . He runs on foot to find them , and when he tells Charlie , the real love interest , about the fire , Charlie steals the fire truck and heads over there , leaving the rest of the team with no way to fight the real fire . The truck breaks in half on the way to the other fire , so Charlie is forced into the role of a hero . It's clear as he's climbing back down the wall on the outside of the house with the woman on his back that she's a dummy , but it's a clever effect and it works well enough . When I see things like that , and especially things like the reverse motion used in parts of the film , I always wonder how they were received when shown to the movie's original audiences . Film was still an embryonic art form , and the general public had extremely little knowledge or understanding of it . I am willing to bet that a good part of the audience was totally stunned by seeing the horses walk backwards , and not because they're stupid , just because they had never seen something like that before , and it would have been much more difficult for a layman in 1916 to imagine running a film clip in reverse than it is for us today , when it is one of the simplest special effects that we can do . Lately I've been watching a lot of Chaplin's old comedies , and I always try to view them in reference to the time in which they are made , but even so , some of them are genuinely crude and look like they were slapped together in a few hours ( which many of them were ) . But The Fireman is definitely one of the strongest of all of the early comedies that I've seen .
A celebration of what the movies were , are , and hopefully can be again .	From beginning to end , Cinema Paradiso is , of course , about various forms of love , but my favorite element of the story is not just the way movies are portrayed , but the way old movies are portrayed . I have a particular fondness of older films ( and a particular distaste for the shallow , exploitative and unimaginative garbage constantly cranked out by Hollywood these days ) , and one of the biggest themes of this film is the loss of purity and truth and innocence that movies once had . Obviously , I'm not talking about the glory days when kissing scenes were edited out of the projected version of a film , but the days when even a film that had the kissing and even minor , minor nudity scenes cut out of them would still draw a frantic crowd so eager to see films that they would sit for 30 minutes waiting for the second half the begin . Today , audiences would be up and asking for refunds within five minutes , and if there was no sex or explosions or car chases in the movie , many of them wouldn't be there in the first place , which is truly sad and is exactly what this movie rails against . I particularly loved the scene where Toto finally goes back home when he learns about the death of Alfredo ( which would have been a spoiler , except that you learn of Alfredo's death within the first five or ten minutes of the movie ) , and his mother tells him that just before he died , Alfredo asked her not to tell Toto , not to ask him to come back . In the next scene Toto is walking through the ruins of the Cinema Paradiso and sees how cruel time has been to it and , even worse , how cheap and derivative the movies have become that are now played there . Alfredo didn't want Toto to come back because he saw what movies were becoming , and that is a direct message to the film industry the likes of which has never been seen like this . Cinema Paradiso owns that message , and it's one of my favorite lessons about film history .
SUPPORT THE TROOPS , NOT THE WAR .	My brother's girlfriend has a sticker on the back of her car which reads ' If you're not completely appalled , you haven't been paying attention . ' This is a movie for those people who are not completely appalled , because if you've been paying attention then you already know most of what this movie has to say . Or maybe I've just been paying attention too much . I never for a second bought the ludicrous story of weapons of mass destruction , not from day one . I had a friend of several years in Fresno that I longer talk to because we got in such a heated discussion about Bush's upcoming war . He thought that at a time of crisis it was important that America supports it's president , I was sure , and still am , that supporting a president as he makes such a massively wrong move could only make it worse . Just because a moron made his way into the White House is no reason to show the world that we are an entire country of morons , because we are not . I like that the movie stays away from the hard line tactics of Michael Moore , placing words in people's mouths and making dangerous assertions in order to get his point across . Moore has good points and its important that people see them , but his methods are not the greatest . Uncovered : The War on Iraq is made up of the testimony of 27 government officials , most of whom were involved in the events that led to this ridiculous war in Iraq , as well as lots of archive footage of top Bush administration officials putting their feet so far in their mouths that they may need to have them surgically removed . It was mere months before Bush gave Hussein his 48 hour warning that both Colin Powell and Condoleeza Rice stated that Saddam had no weapons and no means of obtaining any weapons . Next thing you know he is an imminent threat who could launch WMDs within 45 minutes of giving the order . How can people be so blind ? When Fahrenheit was released , the right wing , particularly radio talk show hosts ( keep your eye out in Uncovered , by the way , for footage of Michael Savage , one of the most hate-filled and nakedly racist men ever allowed near a radio microphone in the history of the medium ) , were so shocked and frightened that they immediately denounced it as things like a ' pack of lies ' ( Rush Limbaugh ) . My question would be something like , Did Bush ever say ' Some call you the elite , I call you my base ' ? Did he ever say that or was that another of Michael Moore's lies ? In Uncovered : The War in Iraq , Director Robert Greenwald leaves no room for such hollow and weak arguments . The film is literally packed with video evidence of top Bush administration officials stating their reasons for the war , which gradually change as their faulty intelligence becomes apparent . First we went to war to rid Hussein of WMDs , then we were in Iraq to free the Iraqi people , then when that failed too we were there to make America safer , which has also failed . What's next ? Oh yeah , Saddam Hussein is a villain and the world is better off without him . Which renders very difficult to explain the footage of Donald Rumsfeld , the SITTING SECRETARY OF DEFENSE , SHAKING HANDS WITH HIM . Hussein was a brutal dictator , that is not a subject of debate , but neither is the fact that Iraq and Hussein had absolutely nothing to do with . This has been staring Bush and America in the face since . Hussein was an ENEMY of Osama bin Laden . But is the world really better off without Hussein in power ? I'll be the first to say that the world may very well be better off without him , but there are two things that I can also say for certain ? Iraq is not better off without him , and America is not better off without him . Iraq has become a haven for terrorists and insurgents and is massively unsafe for everyone within the nation's borders , and Bush has demolished the image of America as a benevolent force in the eyes of the world . We are no longer a benevolent force , we are the bully that no one likes . Hussein had no weapons on mass destruction and Iraq was not a terrorist nation UNTIL America INVADED AND OCCUPIED IT . As Bush himself said in front of lots of rolling cameras , he wouldn't be happy if he were occupied either . But hey , the first rule of politics is that the man who orders the execution never drops the blade , so Bush's total lack of any kind of military combat experience will make no difference as he sends thousands of young Americans to their meaningless deaths with the flick of a pen and an arrogant smirk for the passing cameras . Bush went to war in Iraq , among other selfish reasons , to finish what his father left undone when he lost in 1992 to Bill Clinton , and the movie ends with a powerful quote from a book by George H . W . Bush himself , which stated that a ground war in Iraq would have led to an occupation that would result in countless American deaths and no end in sight . Evidently his son is so against accumulating knowledge that he doesn't even read books written by his own father . Here's something that really gets me , people attack Clinton because bin Laden was offered to him but he wanted to pursue legal means rather than reckless military action , like Bush , so bin Laden wasn't captured and later attacked us on Bush's watch . Rather than go after bin Laden to clean up what supposedly was Clinton's mess , Bush diverts the vast majority of funds and military force AWAY from the pursuit of bin Laden in order to ' use as a reason to go after Iraq ' ( Rumsfeld's words ) , attacking and removing from power a man who had absolutely nothing to do with . Way to go , Bush , because of what you've done , the insurgents planting roadside bombs in Iraq and killing our troops are acting in SELF DEFENSE . The election , which takes place a mere 8 days after the time of this writing , is the most important election in American history . Lives are at stake , and the mere act of voting Bush out of office can perform miraculous work in repairing at least some of the decades and decades of damage that he has done to this country in his four illegitimate years in office . He has destroyed America's image in the eyes of the world , and in the catastrophic event that he wins a second term ( whether by being elected for the first time , or by being wrongly appointed again ) , we will effectively show the world that we as a country agree with his illegal tactics and arrogant foreign policy . It is absolutely IMPERATIVE that this does not happen , and films like Uncovered : The War on Iraq are exactly what we need to stop it .
Better than The Gammage Cup , Wolves of the Calla , and A Bug's Life combined ! !	Akira Kurosawa's ambitious Seven Samurai is a film that has been emulated and duplicated and imitated in almost every medium you can think of , probably most in books and movies , as in the cases above . It is a classic story of protection and thinly disguised revenge that has tremendous satisfactory power , but Kurosawa knows enough to avoid over-simplifying the impact of his film by introducing fault into the characters being protected . It is never really proved whether or not Kikuchio's ( Toshiro Mifune , a Kurosawa veteran ) assertion that the farmers were not nearly as poor ( and therefore unable to pay them ) as they let on is actually true , but it introduces doubt as to whether they are perfect victims . This is , of course , a movie about people , not about two dimensional characters , and any forward thinking village is going to try to save up whatever wealth or food that they can compile in order to ensure their own survival . I won't pretend to understand completely what compels samurai to do what they do , to risk their lives for such little ( if any ) reward , but I know that it is something that is almost universally accepted by samurais , and if I'm not mistaken , the samurai that abandon that code are known as Ronin , a not very enviable title . The movie is definitely something of a commitment at three and a half hours , but it flows smoothly and it takes the time to get to know its characters , which allows it to present the real world so much more clearly , and I was surprised to find that one of the most powerful scenes in the entire film took place in the last minute or two of the movie . This is an intense anti-war film that allows you to identify with three different sides in battle , the victims , the protectors , and the oppressors ( although that third not quite as much ) , and I think that one of the most important things that it does is that it provides a look into an ancient Japanese culture and makes an assertion about what may have happened that allowed for more flexibility in their culture rather than a strict adherence to established traditions , much like Chinua Achebe does in his novel Things Fall Apart , but I digress . One of the things that is introduced very early in the film is the fact that samurai are not entirely trusted by the villagers , and it is strictly forbidden that they mix with their culture , they are treated almost as subhumans , but their battlefield prowess is intensely desired . When a conflict arises about a local man's daughter becoming involved with a young samurai who is there to protect the village , he demands action and retribution , but the well-being of the rest of the village is deemed more important . There is a lot going on in the movie in terms of societal roles in Japanese culture , which affects the way things pan out in the movie ( although Kurosawa was known for rebelling against such expectations , particularly later in his career ) , and like so many of Kurosawa's films , there is so much going at so many levels that multiple viewings of the film will reveal more and more things going on that went unnoticed on the first time . Argued by many to be Kurosawa's greatest film , The Seven Samurai is certainly one among many .
Better than the hype would have you believe .	There are times when movies are released amidst enormous publicity and excitement and turn out to be average or even below average movies , and there are times when movies are released almost completely unnoticed and turn out to be milestones , and most rarely , there are movies that are released surrounded by great expectations and huge amounts of hype , and turn out to be even better than they were built up to be . Hero is , you might say , a close encounter of that third kind . Jet Li , whose startling martial arts capabilities have wowed audiences since Lethal Weapon 4 ( and for years previous to that , before he achieved international stardom ) has officially passed Jackie Chan , I should think , in American favor , which only a year or two ago may have seemed impossible for anyone to accomplish . Both men have released countless martial arts movies over the last decade or so , but it seems to be Jet Li who has been taking his craft more seriously . Of course , both men are incredibly skilled martial artists , but Jet Li has taken his craft in a completely different direction than Jackie Chan . While Jackie Chan's comedies are not less skillful than Jet Li's , they are certainly less dramatically moving . Jackie Chan's fighting style is much more conducive to comedy than Jet Li's , who fights with such captivating style and skill that he is much better used in hardcore action films where he's a closed off weapon , a genuine force to be reckoned with . Jackie Chan uses his skills to entertain people , and despite such flops as Romeo Must Die , Jet Li seems to want to do more with his craft . Hero , for example , is told through a series of flashbacks , as Jet Li in the present tense spends the vast majority of the movie on his knees before the king . The photography in the film is some of the most impressive I've ever seen in a movie , and embodies all of the things that I love about Japanese film-making . The lengthy shots and slow action during the scenes between Li and the king remind me of some of the best works of Kurosawa , while the stunning artistry of some of the fight scenes , many of which are given a color and display it with incredible prevalence and beauty , are so amazing that even someone who simply cannot accept zero-gravity in kung-fu movies ( I have a bit of a hard time with that myself ) can appreciate them . They take martial arts to a whole new level even beyond that seen in Crouching Tiger , Hidden Dragon . Posing as a messenger who has brought news to the king of an intricate plot to kill him , which he himself has stopped by dealing with the assassins personally , Li is granted unprecedented access to the throne , which no one has been able to approach closer than something like 100 paces for years . But the king is so impressed with Li's story that he rewards him by granting him permission to approach to within mere feet of the king . Gradually , it becomes apparent that Li , whose character in the movie is nameless , is one of the assassins himself , and has created this story with the help of the other assassins in it in order to win that very access to the throne . The king's realization that he has granted extraordinary royal access to an assassin is impressive indeed . But here is where the movie really gets powerful . Beyond the fight scenes , which are staggeringly remarkable both in their size , the way they are photographed and edited , and the way they are fought , the story thus far is impressive but fairly simple . But the movie has something to say about revolution , because Li has come within paces of the king , and both know that he could easily kill him , but he doesn't . He stands up and walks away , leaving a message immeasurably more powerful than if he had killed the king . Another king would have been brought in , Li would have been ultimately killed by the guards , who would arrive too late to save the king and may suffer some casualties themselves , but in the end he would be killed . The important thing is that another king would be brought in to carry on the legacy of the fallen king , this time maybe with tighter security . But because Li came close enough to kill the king but stood and walked away ( to his death , as it were ) , that king will go on ruling with Li's accomplishment in the back of his mind for the rest of his life . I could kill you right now , but I'm not going to because I've beaten you already . My job is done here . THAT is a message to an infallible dictator that is far more powerful than any measure of violence could ever be .
Kevin Costner's best film ever . And Morgan Freeman's . And Christian Slater's . And Sean Connery's . . .	While it's true that each of these actors has starred in films that easily rival Robin Hood : Prince of Thieves ( for example , Field of Dreams , The Shawshank Redemption , Interview With The Vampire , and Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade , respectively ) , this is definitely one of the best adaptations of the classic Robin Hood story ever made , and that includes the excellent Disney version ( not the best by Disney's astronomical standards , but still very good ) . The film takes place near the end of the 12th century in Jerusalem , and the effectiveness with which the time period is brought to the screen is one of the best parts of this amazingly well made film . Not only is every last character in the film , even down to the peasant extras , meticulously made to look exactly as they would be expected to have looked over 800 years ago , the settings as well as the sets were also stunningly realistic . Kevin Costner and Alan Rickman have great chemistry on screen as the mortal enemies from the classic Robin Hood tale , as do Costner and Mary Elizabeth Mastrontonio , as the beloved Maid Marian . Rickman delivers a career defining performance as the hated and despised Sherriff of Nottingham who , in this film , is probably one of the best villains ever portrayed in a movie , and who far surpasses any of the Bond villains . Morgan Freeman is flawlessly cast as Ozeem , a Moorish warrior who devotes himself to Robin , vowing to remain by his side until he has returned Robin's favor of saving his life . These are just a few examples of the countless phenomenal performances in this film - everyone involved delivered a perfect performance in his or her role . There is really only one scene that falters ( the scene where Will Scarlett ( Christian Slater ) tells Robin that they are brothers ) , and that's just the result of an overly emotional scene , not bad editing on Slater's part . The Friar Tuck is a particularly memorable character , because his transformation in character from the beginning to the end of the film is one of the best examples of the intricate characterization in the movie . Another noteworthy element of this film is the breathtaking battle scenes . Not only are they amazingly well crafted , keeping you on the edge of your seat throughout , but they are also amazingly realistic and tastefully executed . There really isn't very much blood or guts , and I think that the less gore that a filmmaker manages to put in a battle while not losing any effectiveness , the better the result . However , there are a few exceptions to this general rule , such as most of Saving Private Ryan , but the huge amounts of gore in that movie were put in with good reason to evoke a specific reaction to historically accurate events . This film deserves so much praise that it is impossible to fit it all into a single review , especially a review with a 1 , 000 word cap . There is the perfect mixture of action , drama , and comedy to keep it exciting , interesting , and entertaining , while at the same time to not compromise the solid narrative structure or reduce the extent to which the film can be taken seriously , but still enjoyed on a light-hearted level . This is one of those cinematic gems that is tragically rare , and should forever be treasured .
Try turning right to go left !	With as many phenomenal films on their resume as Pixar has , it is hard to believe that they can keep up the level of quality one film after another , and if you are waiting to see what will be the film that will be the first stumble from them , keep waiting because Cars is not it . Just when you think they must be running out of ideas by now , they come out with something like this and it blows me away every time . I watched Cars having never heard anything about it beyond the not very informative billboards that are plastered all over Los Angeles . The thing that I kept thinking to myself as I watched this movie is that if you took someone from , say , 1985 , and showed them this movie , they would be absolutely astounded at how far animation has come . If you took someone from 1950 and showed them this movie I don't think there is any way you could convince them that the movie is animated at all . The animation is so real that there were times when I wondered if they mixed in live action shots . I love the way the movie mixes the super-fast culture of stock car racing with the culture of a sleepy town which has become forgotten because a freeway was built nearby , taking all of the traffic away from the town and letting entropy take its course . Kind of like what happened to the Bates Motel , right ? Owen Wilson is the perfect person to voice the cocky Lightning McQueen , an up and coming stock car that is well on its way to winning a much sought after sponsorship . An unfortunate series of events , however , leaves him stuck in the charmingly named Radiator Springs , repaving their road after losing control of his throttle , so to speak , and thoroughly destroying it . He begins by thinking of them not as the little people , but as the microscopic people , not worth his time , energy , or even a thought . The process by which his views of these simple people form the plot of the film , and it is a highly entertaining ride . Larry the Cable Guy voices Mater , the town's rusty tow truck , and he steals the show from beginning to end . I got into listening to Jeff Foxworthy tapes and CDs when I was a kid living up in Diamond Springs ( near Placerville , CA ) , and from there got into the Blue Collar Comedy Tour , of which the only two that I found really funny were Jeff Foxworthy and Larry the Cable Guy . The guy with the mustache and goatee and the guy that was always smoking and drinking got real old real quick . My question at this point is , what else is there for Larry the Cable Guy to do in the movies ? I would love to see ( or at least hear ) more of him , but he doesn't seem to have a lot of range at this point . I think that the most important thing that makes this movie good , besides the animation and wonderful performances , is that there is depth to just about all of the characters . The amount of backstories that are smoothly provided is astonishing , and it gets you that much more into the movie . Also , in keeping with Pixar's image of not being able to curb their own overflowing creativity , the movie opens with another charming short film and , possibly my favorite part of the entire movie , ends with the characters from the movie watching excerpts from past Pixar movies , in which all of the characters are now vehicles of some sort . And one more thing , I would like to nominate the scene with the Italian-speaking Ferrari's as one of the single best scenes in any Pixar movie !
HELL YEAH ! ! !	Finally a science fiction film that cannot be immediately dismissed as either unreal or impossible . How can anyone say that this isn't exactly the way that reality is ? To try and disprove this view of reality would be like trying to disprove the existence of God . Maybe he's there , maybe he isn't , but no one can possibly prove it either way . It works the same way for The Matrix . It is possible that everything that we see is fed into our minds by machines and that we would never know it . Probably the only remotely convincing argument the other way would be that if that were true , why would the machines give us a movie like this to watch ? It would expose them ! But then again , maybe they just want to get us thinking , maybe to see how we'll react to the possibility of their existence . Maybe they are getting ready to present themselves to us . Robot rapture ! Who can say that the Wachowski brothers are not messengers ? This is by far the best science fiction film that I have ever seen . Aside from the relatively plausible story , every other element of the film was spectacular ! The special effects ( which , in my opinion , usually take more away from a film than they add ) were awesome , the fight scenes were incredibly intense , and the pace of the film itself was breathtaking . Every hole is covered up brilliantly , even down to a definition of deja-vu and a possible reason for why so many different foods taste like chicken . These little ties to reality are one of the best ways that this film was able to come off so realistically . The Matrix is absolutely not to be missed . Even people who don't like science fiction or even action films will more than likely enjoy this film . It is well presented , it is not unnecessarily excessive , and it presents the most innovative camera work in years . It has something for everyone , and will become a science fiction classic without a doubt .
One of the best adaptations of a Stephen King story ever .	Stand By Me is yet another one of the stories made into a movie from the author who has had more stories made into movies than any other author in history , Stephen King . Clearly , the central character here is Gordie Lachance , from whose point of view the story is told and who obviously symbolizes King himself , given many of his characteristics as well as some of the content of the film . This movie is literally filled with actors who have achieved varying degrees of success over the years , such as Jerry O'Connell , who played Vern , River Phoenix , who could have been bigger than Leonardo DiCaprio if he hadn't died , Corey Feldman , who has grown into an unenviable but visible existence , Kiefer Sutherland , who has become an excellent and very well known actor , John Cusack can be seen in a small role as Gordie's late brother , and of course , Richard Dreyfuss , who played the narrator and Gordie as an adult , has remained famous but originally achieved fame more than a decade before Stand By Me was filmed or the original story was even written . Stand By Me takes place in the summer of 1959 , the general time period that Stephen King is most skilled at presenting , and four friends set out to find the body of a kid who was killed by a train , hoping to find what they predicted would be astronomical fame . Unfortunately , the town's bullies are also out to find the body for the same reason , which leads to the films ultimate final climax . Even though this is a very clever story with which to tell a fall from innocence story , it is the brilliant characterization and the incredible acting that really make this a classic film . It is extremely rare that a film comes along that stars young kids and is so moving and powerful . Also , every one of those kids is made three dimensional in creative and smooth ways , making you feel like you really knew them by the end of the film . Vern is the fat kid who always gets picked on , Teddy and Chris both have abusive or deranged fathers , not to mention Chris's cruel brother , and Gordie is a young boy who lost his brother three months earlier in a violent accident and who has been largely ignored by his parents ever since . In one memorable scene , Gordie wonders how Teddy can be so enthusiastic about his father's alleged military achievements when the man once held his head to a stove , nearly burning his ear off . Gordie is mystified because he could care less about his own father , who hadn't laid a hand on him since he was three years old and got caught ' eating bleach under the sink . ' Stephen King pokes fun at his own craft many times in the film , such as in Gordie's vehement line , ' Fck writing . I don't want to be a writer , it's a stupid waste of time ! ' Not only that , but there are also obvious references to his other works , such as when the boys first realize that no one brought food , and Teddy says , ' This is great , what are we supposed to do , eat our feet ? ' People who actually read instead of just lazily watching the movies will recognize this as a major part of the plot of another of King's short stories , ' Survivor Type , ' from which Cast Away borrowed heavily . And why don't you people read these books ? ' The Body , ' which Stand By Me was based on , is only 148 pages long , you could read that in a couple of hours and the experience is totally different from a movie . It's even more disturbing that ' The Body ' was published in the same book ( Different Seasons ) as a couple of King's other famous stories ? ' Apt Pupil ' and , of course , ' Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption . ' Stand By Me is a story of how one event can unexpectedly change lives . It seems to be a story about friends and how important they are , but this possible theme is clearly dispelled in a line from the narration spoken at the end of the film ? ' As time went on , we saw less and less of Teddy and Vern , until eventually they became just two more faces in the halls . It happens sometimes , friends come in and out of your life like busboys at a restaurant . ' Instead , the film is about learning from a life changing experience and actually making changes or modifying your life in some way because of it , and this is heavily emphasized at the end of the film . Stand By Me is a timeless film . Stephen King's story is skillfully brought to the screen under the direction of Rob Reiner , and the 1950s are brought back to life just as successfully as King so often does in his stories and novels , with the slicked back hair , the hot rods , and in the film , and excellent 50s soundtrack . There is so much more to this film than just the superficial story ? things about the characters and the story , but also about the tremendously talented man who wrote it all .
The Wachowski brothers showed their talents long before The Matrix , but hardly anyone noticed because Bound is nearly direct-to-video material .	Any way you look at it , Bound is a sex thriller . The story is very engaging and the direction is absolutely incredible , but the whole lesbian thing really overshadows all of that , which severely limits the impact that this movie could have had . Gina Gershon stars as a tough woman who falls in love with Jennifer Tilly , who happens to be the girlfriend of a gangster ( Joe Pantoliano ) . The two concoct a scheme to steal $2 million from the mob , and this story is presented very skillfully and interestingly . Ironically enough , you have to look past all of the lesbian action between Tilly and Gershon in order to really experience the skill that this movie is full of . Bound is Larry and Andy Wachowskis ' writing and directing debut , proving that they had the skills from the start . The style that made The Matrix so good can be seen in nearly every shot in this film , and this style is probably the best part of the whole movie . But the excellent directing wasn't the only thing that made Bound so good . This is an great gangster film , despite a few cheesy or flawed moments . For example , it was a little weird that the mobsters who came to Pantoliano's apartment - suspicious of the murder that had recently taken place which Pantoliano was desperately trying to cover up - didn't see their own bloody footprints on the carpet , or at least feel the blood squishing up through the carpet as they walked on it . But that's okay , because where else can you see $2 million hung up in an apartment on dozens of wires , drying after having blood washed off of it ? This is good stuff . Gershon and Tilly work perfectly on screen , and not just in the sex scenes . Their unique relationship was made interesting by their skillful acting , which was best when they were beginning to distrust each other . Hey , that's what happens when you put your life into the hands of someone you just met . Gershon , in particular , delivered an excellent performance , flawlessly bringing out her masculine side to play the strong role in her relationship with Tilly . There is something to be said about a sex thriller that is as good and as engaging as Bound , because they never really are any good , you know ? Don't be put off by this element of the film , because Bound is a trashy movie that definitely deserves your attention .
One of Hitchcock's best . Nearly as great as Psycho .	Rear Window is Alfred Hitchcock's comment on the voyeuristic quality of society ( ' We've become a race of peeping toms ? ' ) . It is the story of a man bound to a wheelchair by a broken leg who sees what he believes to be a murder being covered up in an apartment across the courtyard from him . James Stewart delivers an excellent performance as L . B . ' Jeff ' Jeffries , the magazine photographer who is bound to a wheelchair and who finds himself spying on his neighbors , at first out of boredom but very soon out of strong suspicion . This is a very talky thriller and is limited entirely to what is seen from Jeff's large apartment window . The fact that the entire two-hour film takes place in such a small setting is a strong statement about Hitchcock's tremendous skills as a director . He makes the film interesting in countless ways , such as his excellent , meaningful use of shadows , the very thorough character development , his interesting use of symbolism ( such as Jeff's difficulty in reaching itches underneath his cast ) , not to mention the amazingly effective suspense , a Hitchcock trademark . Just before Jeff notices some suspicious events occurring across the courtyard , he is constantly complaining about not being able to find any interesting work as a photographer , and it is ironic that he soon finds something interesting right outside his own window , and while he is confined to a wheelchair , no less . The fascinating crime story of the man across the courtyard having murdered his wife is made even creepier by the fact that it is all deducted from behavior that Jeff sees out his window , and we don't even find out for sure if he is right or not until the film's exciting climax . Hitchcock fans are also likely to notice a line of dialogue that may have foreshadowed some of the events that were to later take place in Psycho , such as the insurance company nurse's speculation that the killer must have cut up his wife's body in the bathtub ( ' That's the only place he could have washed away the blood ? ' ) . Another thing that sets Rear Window aside from other thrillers ( including its own 1998 re-make which , incidentally , was far superior to the 1998 re-make of Psycho ) , was the way that it had several stories going on at the same time , which is one of the ways that it was able to remain so interesting . Jeff is an injured photographer , he is unsatisfied with his work , he is having a dilemma about marrying his sweetheart because he feels she is too perfect for him ( the flimsiest excuse on the planet , of course , but he actually makes it make a little bit of sense ) , and then he comes across these events across the courtyard from his apartment that make him think that there has been a murder over there , and the murderer ( Raymond Burr ) is trying to cover it up . Some of the things that happen in this film are not perfect , or seem uncharacteristic of Hitchcock , but the film as a whole is still spectacularly effective . For example , as a Hitchcock scholar , I found it strange that the killer strangled the dog and left it in the middle of the courtyard for all to see ( and for Jeff to make revealing conclusions about ) . Think about how much more effective this would have been if the woman who owned the dog had just stood out on her porch calling for him , and he never came . This way , the realization that the man had killed the dog would have been much more gradually realized , and may have made the suspense created by it that much more impressive . At any rate , this is an outstanding film , and Hitchcock definitely created an amazing amount of suspense with such limited means , leading up to a tremendous climax that provided a quick but satisfying ending to this classic film .
Steven Spielberg exercises the farthest reached of his imagination in this unforgettable tale of childhood adventures .	Every kid has imagined what it would be like to go on great and glorious adventures . Pirate ships , police chases , treasure chests full of gold and surrounded by human skeletons with patches over the eyes , the inherent excitement in the possibility of a cavernous wonder world beneath the very streets where they live . The Goonies is about a group of kids who have grown up together and are about to be torn apart because their parents are being forced to sell their homes . In the attic of one of their houses ( Mikey , played by Sean Astin ) , they find an endless supply of fascinating things - treasure maps , paintings , cryptic writings in strange languages . They find a map that sounds promising , and decide to see if it has any value , hoping to be able to find enough treasure to prevent their parents from losing their homes . Not only was The Goonies a brilliantly written , directed , and acted movie , but it was also so much FUN ! The adventures of these kids through the underground world , while being chased by the despicable villains known as the Fratellis , are fascinating to watch . The Goonies is a great cinematic experience . It has everything that anyone who was ever a kid could ever want . Even the elaborate sets are very convincing . The sense of adventure and hope that are presented in The Goonies is very uplifting and inspiring . The lovable characters are perfectly developed and endlessly entertaining . Many of them , particularly Sean Astin and Corey Feldman , delivered the best performances of their future careers right here in this early adventure film . This movie can be enjoyed by virtually anyone , which is one of its best values . It is truly timeless , and it should not be missed .
Brilliant .	It took me a long time to get interested in watching Atonement , even after it was so well received at the Oscars . Recently I watched the first 20 minutes or so and was immediately put off by the atmosphere and the characters ( " I've been going completely doolally up here ! " ) , for exactly the same reason that I am generally put off by books like The Great Gatsby or Faulkner's The Sun Also Rises , which feature characters of such wealth that their biggest problem seems to be what to do with all their surplus money and leisure time . Such people are difficult for me to relate to . For a couple weeks I put the movie aside and couldn't get up the interest to watch it , until finally I did and now I realize why it was one of the best pictures of 2007 . Keira Knightly , a clearly talented actor who , for some reason , almost never impresses me , plays the daughter from a wealthy family living in the beautiful English countryside just before World War II , and James MacEvoy plays the daughter of a man working for her family . He is a promising and educated young man , but the son of a housekeeper nonetheless , so clearly a romantic relationship between the two would be highly taboo . The first 30 minutes or so of the movie depict a life devoid of trouble or worries , and yet still manages to create an atmosphere of slight tension about the war that we can almost feel approaching somewhere beyond the edge of the screen . Before long , Cecilia's ( Knightly ) 13 - year-old sister sees a couple of things happening and makes some dangerous assumptions followed by some increasingly dangerous accusations , and radically alters the lives of her sister , Robbie ( MacEvoy ) , and herself . The three main characters , from this point on , have remarkably little control over their own lives , reminding me of the struggles of the main character in Kubrick's brilliant film Barry Lyndon . The unusually structure of the film allows us to explore the results of a few catastrophic days in the lives of these three people and how they affected the rest of their lives . The film covers the course of many decades , tells a stunning and moving story , and never once comes off as pretentious or cheesy or preachy , even in the closing scene , which shows Briony , Cecilia's sister , as an aged novelist giving an interview about how that one decision during her childhood has affected her life . This is a story about life and how we affect those around us , particularly those closest to us , even when we think we're doing the best thing for them . One IMDb reviewer calls it " pure poetry on film , " and it's not easy to think of a more accurate description . Note : There is a scene in the film where Robbie comes across a horribly grisly scene in the woods during his military service . The following close-up of his face is one of the best pieces of acting I have seen in many years . . .
And now for something completely different ?	A few days ago I watched the making-of documentary about the Flight of the Phoenix remake and was surprised at how much profanity it contained . There were several times when Director John Moore would literally scream at the top of his lungs , unleashing streams of profanity at his cast and crew ( mostly his crew , I think ) about why there weren't doing this or why this happened or what went wrong with that scene or what the hell has that guy been doing while the plane has been flying overhead all this time ? ? After watching this documentary , I start to get the feeling that maybe film-making is just much more frustrating than I had previously thought ! On the other hand , one of the things that I've always found the most interesting when watching these documentaries is to hear stories about troubles and mishaps that they run into along the way and how those events altered the course of filming or even changed scenes within the movie itself , but evidently there are times when it's such a lengthy and difficult process that it can leave people jaded and disillusioned when it's all over , even when the movie becomes an enduring classic . I think this was made for some kind of TV show just after the film was released , because it was filmed before the movie was released , before anyone knew what an important film it would be . I found it a little odd that they would have made it at all , since DVDs ( and the demand for supplemental documentaries ) were in the distant future and it seemed that so many people had substantial doubts about how the movie would be received . I am always a little put off by Making Of documentaries that spend too much time showing you footage of the movie that you just finished watching , and while this one does quite a bit of it , it doesn't do it in a way that is at all repetitive . There are interviews with Paul Newman and Robert Redford and Director George Roy Hill , but there is no video of the interviews , all we have is the audio , which is set over behind the scenes footage as well as scenes from the final film , in order to illustrate the points that were being made in the interviews . I wish they would do that more often , because while I don't like to see lengthy montages from the finished films in these documentaries , I do like when they describe how they made certain scenes and what problems they ran into and why they did it this way or that way , and then show the finished scene so we can see what they're talking about . And yes , that last line will certainly blow your hair back !
Can you hear me now ? Goooooood .	The first thing that interested me about Phone Booth was the fact that the whole movie took place on such a limited physical area . A lot of people that I had talked to about it before having seen it said that they thought it would be boring because of that , but on the contrary , a limited set like the one in the movie is a VERY good sign , because you can see from older movies that ( with the exception of relatively dull ones like 1999's Deterrence ) , limited sets not only imply , but REQUIRE good acting , good direction , and most of all , a good story . All of these and more are found in Phone Booth . I admit that the overall message of the movie is a little bit preachy , with Keifer Sutherland playing the part of the God-like watcher who goes around punishing low-life New Yorkers for their crimes , but the thrill of the film is there . Colin Farrell , whose eyebrows are rivaled only by the unbeatable Freddie Prinze , Jr . , delivers a spectacular performance as the cocky public relations representative who goes through life feeding lies to everyone he meets , including those closest to him . I loved how the movie takes such a simple premise and keeps it going so well . When I first saw him enter the booth and pick up the phone and start talking to the killer , I knew that , if I learned anything about the movie from the previews , he had to stay in that booth on the phone for the rest of the movie , and I wasn't sure how they were going to manage to keep it interesting or that long , but they definitely managed it . ( spoilers ) It's true that the whole situation works out a little too perfectly for the killer's plans , since everything that he wanted to happen happened , but this is a highly entertaining thriller that entertains and delivers a great message at the same time . There is a particularly impressive interaction between Stu ( Colin Farrell ) and Captain Ed Ramey , as Stu needs to let Ramey know what's going on without letting the killer in on it , which is difficult and exciting since the killer can both see and hear everything that Stu does . It's great the way that the killer has fun with Stu , demanding that he say offensive and disgusting things to Ramey and to his own wife , especially when you realize that Ramey is beginning to realize what's really going on . This is a challenge , of course , because of the excessive oddness of the whole situation ( which Ramey sums up as soon as he arrives on the scene ? ' Let me get this straight . This guy shot that other guy and then hung around to make a phone call ? ' ) . The end of the movie is where it falters a little bit , although there is a great twist involving the pizza guy , which was pretty interesting , although if they had left it with that it would have been a letdown because Keifer Sutherland's voice it too well-known to be passed off as this other guy's . It was pretty believable though , kind of reminds me of that thing that Kevin Spacey pulled as John Doe when he dressed up as a photographer in Seven . But where the movie falters a little bit is the part where the killer wanders up to introduce himself to Stu while he's laying in the ambulance . I thought that was a great turn of events , but it's the point in the movie where it approaches , just barely , but distinctively , the point of being altogether to preachy and cheesy . This is where it introduces the suggestion that the killer is just some guy out to rid the world of injustice and clean the scum off the streets with his sniper rifle . The pimp was just another dirtbag that he purged while attempting to get through to a more complex one , and the pizza delivery guy and the walking and talking robot were both collateral damage . There was some great commentary about the capacity for stupidity of the LAPD ( Michael Moore was a little more blunt in this area toward the NYPD in his TV show The Awful Truth ) , as well as about the greed of the human race in general as the killer taunts Stu about all of the tourists pointing video cameras at him , hoping to see some shooting so they can sell their tapes . The only problem with the message of the film , about cleaning up the streets of these filthy people , is that if snipers cleaned out all of the sinners from the human population , not many people would be left . Maybe Phone Booth will someday help people to realize that sinning is part of human nature , and that 100 % of the human race sin at some point in their lives . The hope is that they can come out and admit their faults , the way Stu does at the end of the movie . Imagine the relief .
Sleepy and brilliant .	There is a scene in The Piano where three women are walking through the woods discussing the bizarre behavior of Ada ( Holly Hunter ) , and her incessant piano playing . Just as I was getting a little irritated that Director Jane Campion would have the sound effect of the woman peeing , a decidedly distasteful sound , the woman peeing says about Ada's piano playing , " To have a sound creep inside you is not at all pleasant . " And I realize that Campion is thoroughly in charge of every sight and sound in the film , from beginning to end . It's a slow , moody drama , to be sure , and this is probably why it took me so long to get around to watching it again . I remember seeing it with my parents when I was a kid , but I found it to be so boring that I asked if I could go into another auditorium and watch a different movie . I know now why they said yes . Holly Hunter inhabits the silent role of Ada , a mute woman who enters into an arranged , loveless marriage in 1850s New Zealand , incidentally the place where Anna Paquin , who gave the most stunning performance in this movie , grew up . Campion's New Zealand feels like a small , isolated island surrounded by a cold , dreary sea , and cinematographer Stuart Dryburgh relishes the opportunities he has for cold , warm , and emotional lighting , literally painting the movie in cold or brilliant colors for us , and the results are fantastic . San Neill and Harvey Keitel play opposing roles , Neill as Alisdair Stewart , Ada's arranged husband who hopes that they will grow to love each other , and Keitel as George Baines , a man with Maori symbols tattooed on his face and who has a relationship with Ada that achieves astonishing change throughout the film . But it is Anna Paquin who steals the show entirely . Her performance is so brilliant and so unexpected that many times I forgot about the rest of the film and just tried to figure out how Jane Campion got that performance out of her . It is one of the best child performances in film history . Incidentally , I had some bizarre Sam Neill coincidences today . First I watched a terrible time travel film this afternoon called A Sound of Thunder , and one of the threads on the IMDb message boards for that movie asked what people's favorite time travel movies were , and many people mentioned The Final Conflict , which stars Sam Neill . Then while I was watching The Piano , out of nowhere I started humming to myself this old Rob Zombie song called Demon Speeding , where the chorus goes like this , " In the mouth of madness , down in the darkness , no more tomorrow , down in the hollow . . . " And I thought , " Hey , In the Mouth of Madness , I haven't even thought about that movie since high school ! " And then I looked it up on the IMDb and sure enough , Sam Neill stars in it . Sorry , I just thought I'd mention that . But more importantly , The Piano is a stunning accomplishment , another complex and engaging film from Jane Campion , who I don't think has made anything much less in her career . Bravo !
Brought to you by PBR !	Frank McCourt claims that no one in America admits that they drink Pabst . I don't know that that's true , but it does seem to have been relegated to what we called " frat beer " when I was in college . In 1941 , however , when Raging Bull takes place , it seems to have been a much bigger brand , at least that's the impression I get when seeing it as a major sponsor at major sporting events . Robert DeNiro stars as the enormously insecure Jake LaMotta , a young boxing legend who has trouble separating his boxing life with his private life . Raging Bull walks a fine line between being a boxing movie and a social drama , as we switch back and forth between LaMotta's turbulent boxing career and his steadily disintegrating personal life . The boxing scenes are magnificent even though Scorsese didn't pick up on Hitchcock's infamous chocolate syrup prop , giving us huge amounts of blood ( in typical Scorsese style ) that looks like water ( not typical Scorsese style ) . He also makes great use of super slow motion flashbulbs , which seems to be one of his recurring motifs . More than anything else , the movie is a fascinating portrayal of what fame can do to someone who doesn't deserve it , or can't handle it . At the beginning of the movie , Jake is a young boxing hero and we want to root for him . Then as the movie progresses he reveals his true self ? unpredictable , alcoholic , spontaneously violent , and generally just the kind of guy that no one in their right mind would want to be associated with . Even his own brother ( in a brilliant performance by Joe Pesci ) is uncomfortable around him because he's always doing some bizarre thing , like demanding that he punch him in the face repeatedly . Through his own uncontrollable outbursts and inability to maintain his composure , his boxing career disintegrates , leaving him a burned out has-been with no idea how to handle the money he has left over . He opens a nightclub ( can you guess what he called it ? ) and becomes a total dirtbag . All the stops have been pulled out by now , he no longer cares about anything , even the law , and he begins making stupid mistakes . He allows a 14-year-old girl to drink in his club because she's a good kisser , and ultimately lands himself in solitary . What's a 14-year-old girl doing in a nightclub anyway ? LaMotta's problems all seem to stem from his sense of invincibility . He doesn't believe anyone can beat him in the ring and taunts his opponents . He believes he is all-powerful in his personal life and ends up frightening the ones he loves and driving them away . And eventually he doesn't believe that even the police can harm him , so he flaunts his indifference to the law when an underage girl comes to his nightclub . " What're they gonna do ? " he asks . And then we cut to him in prison , where he belongs . In solitary , obviously , he hits rock bottom , and in the movie's most painful scene he has a total mental and physical breakdown , slamming his head repeatedly against the wall . When he gets out he returns to the club scene as a completely useless stand-up comedian , and when his audience boos him he responds with insults , which is exactly his problem . He is the result of being ultra-famous and yet having no showman's talent whatsoever beyond the ability to hit people really hard . In the end , we come back to the beginning of the movie , which showed an older and significantly fatter LaMotta in his dressing room preparing to go out on stage . He chants over and over again something of which he now has to convince even himself ?
The show that started it all !	The first time I ever saw COPS years and years ago I was immediately and absolutely mesmerized . It is such a simple but incredibly brilliant idea , to bring a camera crew along with the police as they go about their daily duties . The cost of making a show like this is next to nothing , compared to the massive interest that it will find on mainstream television . I'm just amazed that a show like this didn't come out years or decades earlier , given that all it takes is a simple traffic stop to create a traffic jam , while everyone cranes their necks trying to see what's going on . Police activity always draws a crowd on the streets , so it's amazing to me that it took as long as it did for television producers to realize that police activity would draw a crowd on the air as well . The majority of the shows deal with small time crimes , like drugs or domestic disputes , crazy traffic violations , drunk drivers , and just basically screwed up people . Like some of the trashier talk shows , a lot of the interest in this show comes from just seeing how messed up some people are . I invariably feel like near royalty after watching an episode of COPS . But of course my favorite thing about the show is that so many of the incidents shown are so hilarious , intentionally or not . I remember one particular episode where they chased a guy down who was driving erratically , and then he jumps out of his car and runs on foot . The police chase him into the woods and finally tackle him , and on the way back to the police cars they start asking him some questions . " Have you been drinking tonight ? " one of the cops asks . " No no no , " the guy says . " I haven't been drinking tonight , officer , all I had was a 12-pack and a bottle of Southern Comfort . . . " Just tonight I saw an episode where the police were called about two women , very obviously transvestites or transsexuals , who were causing a scene at a local bar . Two officers arrive and are talking to them , and when they ask the police what the problem is , one of the cops says , " we got a call regarding the behavior of you , uh , um , uh , ladies at the bar tonight . . . " As far as I know the format of the show is pretty much exactly the same as it was when the show started , but the content is so interesting that there is no need for anything to change . It has been on for so long that usually when I see it on TV there are four or five or six episodes on in a row , sometimes more , and it is one of the only times that I ever find myself nearly glued to the TV . I guess you could say I love the show because I like seeing other people get in trouble , but in my own defense I should clarify that I only enjoy seeing that when the people deserve it . I like seeing criminals get busted , and it's even better to watch them stumble and blubber , trying to lie their way out of getting arrested , which they almost always do . It is also a great way for younger viewers to become acquainted with the cops and to learn about how badly committing crimes can mess up their lives , so the show can work as a deterrent to crime as well . It's true that it doesn't show a lot of the aftermath of the arrests , but I think the fear that people often show is enough to illustrate what comes next . I happen to have a much more in-depth knowledge of these things than the show could ever provide , and trust me , it's not fun . These people are really doing good work , and to top it all off , it's so entertaining !
These people do good work !	I would say that we can never have too many shows like this , but that's not really true . If we have a show like this in every city it would start to look like TV networks just cashing in on the latest trend , and I think the work that the people are doing on the show is far too important to be trivialized like that . I have only seen a few episodes , but it is always uplifting to see people whose lives are centered on seeing that animals receive humane treatment in a very human world . I have a feeling sometimes that people will watch the show and see something like several educated and professional people fretting over the well-being of a 24-hour old baby rabbit and think , " doesn't the world have enough rabbits already ? " But the message of the show is that , especially in a society like America , humans are very much in control of the environment , particularly that of domesticated animals , and there are people who severely mistreat or neglect their animals and it's good to see that those animals are taken from those people , and as often as possible , the people are properly punished for their shabby behavior . I also like the way the show is structured . We see an introduction to a problem with an animal or some animals being maltreated or tortured or just living in an inhumane condition , and then the investigators go to check it out . Rather than just telling one story at a time , they introduce each story and then move on to the next , coming back to the different stories throughout the show and ultimately ending with a conclusion , which is as happy as circumstances allow . Generally the animals are treated and adopted into happier families , although there are cases where they have to be put to sleep . All my life I have had a very deep love of animals , so it's nice to see a show that is dedicated to their well being . The show is alternately heart wrenching and uplifting , and I like to think that even though there are only TV shows in a few cities , this kind of work is being done all over the country . Bravo !
Sure , it's almost 20 years old , but this is still some of the best stand up comedy I've ever seen .	In one of his earlier stand-up videos , Gallagher solidifies himself as one of the funniest and zaniest comedians in the world . His genius use of props as well as his trade-mark of smashing miscellaneous produce in front of the crowd with his Sledge-O-Matic ( ' . . . it is not a slicer , it is not a dicer , it is not a chopper or a hopper . What in the hell could it possibly be ? ! ' ) have set him apart from other comedy acts . This is stand up comedy of the highest quality . He is not just up there making sick jokes , he analyzes the world and makes fun of the stupid stuff , like the locks on the doors at the 7-11 that's open 24 hours a day . He makes fun of commercials , school , the government , people in relationships , banks , pretty much everything that can be frustrating in real life . You've used that bathroom cleaner to clean off mildew that says to only use it in a well-ventilated area right ? Gallagher says , ' If it was well-ventilated there wouldn't be mildew on it ! ' This guy is a genius , not only is he endlessly hilarious , he also has a very active mind that makes things funny in ways that you wouldn't have ever thought of . His comedy is surprising , it's intelligent , it makes you think , and above all , it makes you grab your sides as you fall into almost painful hysterics . Go out and look for his videos , you won't regret it .
The most shocking film in years .	By shocking , of course , I mean shockingly GOOD . Hugh Grant is one of those actors that I have never been able to tolerate , and I have never been a huge Julia Roberts fan either ( although I was truly impressed with Runaway Bride ) , but Notting Hill is one of the best romantic comedies that I have seen in years , easily surpassing Runaway Bride , one of my current favorites . Hugh Grant plays a normal guy who owns a travel bookstore in a tiny town called Notting Hill in London . He gives a surprisingly convincing performance in this role , and Julia Roberts is also excellent as the hugely popular Hollywood movie star because , whether you like it or not , she is a hugely popular Hollywood movie star . She plays the part of Anna Scott , the film star who happens to wander into William's ( Grant ) bookstore while in London shooting a film . One of the things that distinguishes this movie from other romantic comedies is the hesitant way that William and Anna grow to know each other . It's true that the whole oops - I'm - sorry - for - spilling - my - drink - on - you bit is not entirely original , but the good acting and directing made over-used material interesting again . By far the funniest character in the film , of course , is Spike , William's nut-case of a roommate ( or ' flatmate , ' as William calls him ) . Some of the things that he did in the film are funnier than anything I've seen in years . For example , the way that he blows smoke through his nose into the snorkeling goggles , the way he mistakes mayonnaise for yogurt , or the scene where he finds out that William turned down Anna Scott ( ' You daft prick ? ' ) . While the movie may be a little bit long for some people , and as a whole , it doesn't really present anything really new in the genre of the romantic comedy , it moves along so smoothly and is so entertaining and funny that it is more than worth the extra time . I think that the fact that I am personally not a fan of either of the main stars , and yet I thoroughly enjoyed the film , says something about the quality of the movie . An excellent date movie , for everyone from first dates to happily married couples , so don't miss it . Just be prepared to be sore from laughing so much .
One of the best films of 1999 .	Edward Norton returns after his earth quaking performance in American History X to play the part of Jack ( who has no last name for a reason ) , a typical white-collar guy who works in an office , makes a good salary , and spends his time trying to find that perfect furniture set or that set of the ideal matching dishes . He lives in an empty world defined by possessions and income ? a world that is empty beyond his paycheck and his high rent apartment . He realizes this on a subconscious level and begins to have trouble sleeping , so eventually he goes out and joins support groups for afflictions that he doesn't have , just for the emotional release and the feeling of belonging and of meaning . He almost immediately finds relief to his sleeping problems ( ' Babies don't sleep this good . ' ) , and makes the support groups a regular activity . Unfortunately , one day he runs into someone else who is doing the same thing , Marla , and it ruins everything for him . This woman disgusts him ( for obvious reasons ) , but he ultimately tries to reason with her so that they can both do the support group thing and not run into each other . The movie really starts moving when Jack runs into Tyler Durden while on a business trip . They meet on an airplane , and Jack is immediately impressed at what an interesting ' single-serving ' friend Tyler is . Tyler gives Jack his card , and Jack later calls him after his apartment explodes . Jack goes to stay with Tyler out of necessity , and Tyler introduces Jack to his world . Jack is fascinated . Tyler lives in a world devoid of personal possessions and responsibilities . He lives in a disgusting house , has no job ( no steady one , anyway ) , pays no bills , and would more than likely be in trouble with the IRS if he were to be audited . He lives below the poverty line , obviously , but he is free , and Jack admires his ability to reject all forms of authority . Out of the blue one day , Tyler asks Jack to hit him , and after some convincing , they get into the fist fight that sets off the chain reaction which results in the formation of the tremendously popular Fight Club , Jack's most violent but most successful support group , a club that grows exponentially despite it's own first two rules . The goal of Fight Club is to get it's members to analyze their own lives and eliminate unnecessary garbage ( ' The advertising world has us working jobs we hate , so we can buy sht we don't need . ' ) and to obtain psychological freedom through mutually agreed violence between members . Sure , this sounds a little weird , but there really is something to be said about the psychological states obtained from pain . To put it in the immortal words of Beavis & Butt-Head ( just after Butt-Head has ' smacked Beavis upside the head ' ) ? Butt-Head : ' That was cool ! ' Beavis : ' No it wasn't , that sucked ! ' Butt-Head : ' Yeah but like , after it's over , doesn't it like , feel pretty cool ? ' Beavis : ' Oh yeah , do that again ! ' This is not something that is likely to be practiced by everyday society , but a club like Fight Club would probably be successful on many levels ( one of which , of course , would not be the legal level ) . There are a few things in the film that could have done with a little bit more explaining , like why Jack is so interested in fighting William Shatner , but it doesn't matter that this is not explained . Fight Club is one of those movies that not only invites , but also REQUIRES a second viewing , and for countless reasons . Fight Club asks audiences to re-evaluate their lives , noticing the superfluous quality of the material obsessions of modern society . It is one of the most cinematically unique films to be released in years , and easily earns it's place among the greatest films of 1999 ( and possibly of the entire decade ) , alongside such other classics as The Matrix , The Sixth Sense , and American Beauty , although it has much more in common with the first two . There is an obvious correlation between Fight Club and director David Fincher's previous classic , Seven , which is another spectacular dark film from the same director . Fight Club is definitely aimed at a male audience , and it should actually be commended , in my opinion , for not sacrificing any quality just to attract a larger female audience , which is something that is almost universally seen in Jerry Bruckheimer productions like The Rock and Armageddon and Pearl Harbor . Fight Club does not pretend to be something it's not , and it comes off with tremendous success . I have heard professional film critics give Fight Club the lowest rating possible , foolishly focusing on the violent aspect of the film and entirely missing the point of the film as a whole while at the same time proving without a doubt that some critics simply cannot be trusted . Be advised that this is an almost stomach-turningly violent film at some points , but instead of condemning the film for that , it should be recognized for fitting that much violence into what is ultimately such a skilled and memorable film . It's too bad that films of this quality are so rarely seen in modern cinema .
One of the most powerful anti-war movies ever made becomes even more powerful more than two decades after it was made .	The thing that I really admire about war films is the way they manage to stand the test of time so well . Granted , there are counterexamples , it IS possible to make a bad war film , but for the most part , they deal with a subject that will never be far from the minds of the people in this world and especially this country , given our bloody history and our increasingly bloody future . I watched WarGames just a few days ago and was amazed at how well that movie was able to portray war as such a powerful force without ever showing any fighting or battle or blood or even the enemy . The machine that hypothesized about the possibilities of what would happen should World War III occur came up with the result that war is an interesting game . The only winning move is not to play . In a way , Gallipoli delivers a message identical to this one , although it gives a lot more detail as to why that particular fact is true . Frank and Archy , two track competitors who become close friends , are the unlikely team that deliver the message about war that so badly needs to be delivered again here in the early 21st Century . They become friends after having been competitors in a race ( at which Frank lost to Archy ) , and then travel together to Perth so that Archy can join the war and support his country the way that all the noble young men are supposed to do . Frank is not at all interested in joining , feeling that the war has nothing to do with Australia or Australians and they therefore have no obligation to go fight and potentially lose their lives . I am generally against goofy romance in action and especially war films , but there is a feminine influence in Gallipoli that is probably one of the best I've ever seen in a war film . En route to Perth , Archy and Frank stop at a house and develop an enormous crush on the same girl , each trying as hard as possible to impress her , but Archy is the only one to have much affect on her , because he is going to join the military . Both this girl and her family have a toast to him for his bravery , which is clearly the even that influences Frank to join up as well . They both join , and go through the typical smart-ass military shenanigans that are so common to see in young military personnel , but the battle scenes in the film , while relatively short and unspectacular , are incredibly powerful in delivering their message against war . There is a question of honesty as Frank is chosen to be a runner of communication between the General and the trenches , because even though Archy is the faster runner , he has come all this way strictly to be a part of the fighting and desperately does not want to give up now . Frank takes on the task with moderate reluctance , running messages back and forth when the phones go down , but ultimately ends up not able to run quite fast enough at a time when it was more important than any other time in his life to have been just a little faster . It makes you wonder what might have happened if Archy had been the runner instead of stayed in the trenches to fight like so many war-happy people have encouraged him to . One of the most potent messages delivered about war is the sheer distance between the people making the decisions when to advance and when to retreat , and the ones who are actually out there in the trenches fighting more for their lives than for their country . Following the orders of a General who is more interested in following a pre-arranged and massively flawed timeline than in the lives of the young men out there in the field , whole rows of men advance out of the trenches directly into the line of fire from a field of machine guns , which mow them down within seconds of climbing out of the trenches . The lucky ones die on the spot , the unlucky ones drag themselves back into the trenches to bleed to death . Even after being informed of what is happening to the men , the heartless General demands that they continue to advance , even with the full awareness that this will result in their deaths , and reminding us of how this is , for example , exactly what is happening in America right now . George W . Bush is taking us to war without a care in the world about all the innocent people that are going to die , and completely ignorant to the fact that in a war like this , someone has to back down , and it has to be either us or them . We can retaliate exactly like an inner-city gang , or we can back down , look at our own mistakes that caused people to hate us as much as they do , and promote peace throughout the world . The September 11th attacks were not a prank , they were done for a reason , and we have a responsibility as human beings to find that reason or those reasons and try to fix them rather than just vaporizing those people that are affected by them . In Gallipoli , the pointlessness of war is illustrated , in WarGames , it was described with shockingly accurate detail . How can this stuff be so easy to ignore ? Why is it that this stuff is so easy to explain and yet so many people simply don't get it ? Why have so many people been killed throughout history with no real change and it's still going on ? Is this the 21st Century or the 18th Century ? Have we made no progress at all ? Gallipoli shows how gruesome and destructive war is , and it makes the point powerfully and successfully , stopping literally the second that point is made . I only wish movies like this were mandatory viewing for anyone taking a political office , elected or otherwise . The world might very well be a more peaceful place .
Best cooking show ever !	I credit Good Eats with my immediate addiction to the Food Network . Alton Brown manages to present a wonderful combination of cooking instruction and entertainment . I realize that there is a lot of research put into each show , but he still manages to come across as an amazingly well informed chef , which just puts you in the mood to learn from him ! It seems that they realize that unless there is something really different done with a cooking show , it will never really be anything more than another cooking show , and they have really put a lot of effort into the entertainment portion of this show , which often takes the form of outrageously complicated set pieces and skits to illustrate what is happening in the pan while you cook or in your mouth and nose when you're tasting your latest creation . I remember one particular episode where Alton stuck his head up into a giant nose to show how our olfactory senses worked . Not very appetizing , but definitely entertaining , and I can't say I've ever seen anything like that on a cooking show before ! The food looks delicious and it's one of those cooking shows that I'll still watch even if I have no intention of ever attempting to cook the dishes he makes . I love cooking , but I watch the show for the entertainment of it , and that says a lot about it , I should think .
The best of the three documentaries included with the Troy DVD .	Since Troy is a film that is marketed on its battle scenes , it is important that they be well made , especially since vast looks at thousands of men fighting is fast becoming a cliché . The individual fight scenes , however , are so good that it makes up for the lengthy epic battle scenes where we sit through a lot of stuff that we have seen so many times before . There is mention of the fact that the Iliad describes Hector's spear as being 5 meters long ( ! ) which brings up some logistical problems in re-creating his fight scenes . While there was much creative liberty taken with the material due to a lack of historical knowledge , this is something that may have been difficult to get around , since it would be a deliberate deviation from the source material . Then again , this seems to me to be the kind of hyperbole often attached to Greek myth , such as the story of Achilles himself . I found it interesting that they used rubber swords while shooting the film , such as in the scene where Achilles makes short work of Boagrius , one of my favorite scenes in the film . They show the original shot of that scene , before Achilles ' sword was superimposed into it , which is another pretty impressive look at the special effects done on the movie . Brad Pitt talks about how brutal the fighting was back then , but ironically they say that most of the injuries that were sustained , at least a substantial portion of them , did not kill , but allowed the person to die slowly . On second thought that's probably a lot of what Brad meant by brutal and is also why director Wolfgang Peterson wanted as much battle blood and gore as possible . They weren't trying to glorify it , just make it realistic . Amazingly enough , the soldiers in the movie were portrayed by a lot of Bulgarians and Mexicans who were trained in just three weeks , having had no training whatsoever before that . This is also the documentary that goes into detail about how just as they were about to film the fight between Hector and Achilles a hurricane came through and wiped out the indestructible wall of Troy , so they had to rebuild the entire thing . But probably the most ironic thing in all three of these documentaries is that during shooting , Brad Pitt injured his Achilles tendon ( ! ! ) . Reminds me of all of those freaky stories you hear about people dying during the making of the Exorcist or multiple people getting struck by lightning during the filming of The Passion of the Christ . There are some great juxtapositions of the choreographers choreographing the fight scene between Achilles and Hector and the actual scene from the movie . I love it when they do things like that because it gives a very clear picture of how carefully and meticulously planned out the fight was . The film stays closely on topic , giving great insight into the filming and rehearsing of the great battle scenes from the film . It is a true behind the scenes look at how some of the fights from the movie were put together , and also tells some interesting stories about problems that they ran into while shooting , such as a hurricane blowing down the wall of Troy and the intense heat that they had to work in . Like the other two documentaries , I think this one deserved to be a little but longer , but is still well worth checking out .
One of the best short films I have ever seen .	405 is an extremely short action thriller that takes you on a wild adventure ride and then drops you off almost before you even realize that you've gone anywhere . The film is barely three minutes long , placing it on the level of extremely short short films , yet there is still so much accomplished in it that it is able to make a huge impression on the viewer even in that short time . In glancing through the other reviews of 405 on the IMDb , it seems that a lot of people ( or , at least , most of the six or seven people who bothered to review it ) were impressed with the special effects but saw a problem with logistics in the film . Okay , it's obvious that if a DC-10 rear-ended a Jeep Grand Cherokee , it's landing gear is not going to crumple , nor would the Jeep have the slightest chance of holding up the plane if it did . No roll bar in the world is going to enable a Jeep to withstand the gigantic weight of a full size commercial airliner . Also , to stoop to an even lower level of complaint , even the most decrepit of senior citizens is likely to notice that the guy who just flew by her and almost caused her to wreck was probably not doing it on purpose , seeing how there was a jetliner resting on top of his car . I doubt she assumed that he was towing it , so clearly the finger at the end of the film was thrown in for comic relief . Did they go too far with that ? Was that too much lowbrow comedy to allow the movie to be taken seriously ? Personally , I don't think that the amount or style of comedy put into the film was either excessive or cheesy . And even if it was , the movie is so good that it wouldn't even matter . This is a nearly perfect short action film , with the small exceptions of the very much forgivable logical flaws , and I think that it should be recognized for that . Another thing that I noticed in the other reviews on the IMDb was that the acting was criticized , particularly that of the driver of the Jeep . Well , first of all , there was such a miniscule amount of actual acting in the film that it would have been pointless to hire a more professional or more well-known actor to play the part of the driver , and besides that , I really saw nothing wrong with his acting . His facial expressions and body movements ( which collectively made up about 99 % of his total amount of acting ) perfectly showed his reactions to what he saw happening with the airliner , and the fact that he was just some guy rather than a more well known actor made it much more believable . This is just a regular guy driving down the freeway , and this amazing thing happens to him . The reason Alfred Hitchcock's movies were and continue to be so successful ( besides the tremendous directing skills of Hitchcock's himself ) were because they were so often stories of amazing things happening in normal circumstances , and that's exactly what is happening in 405 . We're not told what circumstances led up to the point where this guy is driving his Jeep along a closed freeway , wondering why there's not a single car on the road with him , but it doesn't matter because it's not significant to the story that we're watching . That's like asking what Norman Bates had for breakfast the day that Marion Crane showed up at his hotel . I can't say I wasn't shocked to read that someone was impressed with the special effects in 405 , but then called it a ' bad movie . ' What a thing to say ! This movie is incredible ! I think that the fact that Roger Ebert reviewed it says enough about its quality . Try to find another three minute movie that Ebert took the time to watch and review . I haven't done that myself , but I can't imagine that there are many . This is a famous short film for a reason , and it should not be picked apart for such insignificant flaws as the ones I pointed out above . This is a movie that nearly anyone would enjoy , and it also provides a great lesson for people who are interested in the possibilities of the filmmaking medium ( like myself ) . 405 is an extremely amateur film but the final product is amazingly impressive . Overlooking that just because the strength of a DC-10's landing gear was not parallel in the film with reality ( or because you invented some problems with the acting in the film ) would be a cinematic tragedy almost on the same level as it would have been if Kubrick had decided to throw that copy of The Shining against the wall with all the others . Enjoy 405 , and give it the respect that it deserves .
The darkness behind the scenes at the playhouse ?	The 1925 Phantom of the Opera , widely regarded as the best film adaptation of the story ever , starts off with the explanation that the Paris Opera House rises nobly over torture chambers and hidden dungeons , which is a great way to start a story about a disfigured man living in the torture chambers and hidden dungeons under the Paris Opera House . It not only establishes the setting as a classy playhouse built on the ruins of past torture chambers and dungeons , but also provides a level of creepiness necessary in a movie in which Erik ( the Phantom ) is able to live down there , in vast recesses which have become unknown . Lon Chaney delivers a stunning performance , one of the most famous in film history . Indeed , the scene where Christine pulls off the Phantom's mask is still scary 80 years after its release . People in 1925 must have been nearly frightened out of their seats . This film is indeed the Exorcist of the 1920s . The very simple story is presented with stunning effectiveness , especially since the now very recognizable music is not even in this version . In the cellars under the Paris Opera House lives the Phantom , who demands of the new and understandably skeptical management that the lead role in the play be given to Christine Daaé , under penalty of devastating punishment . The new owners laughed off a warning that they might hear rumors of ghosts , so it's the fact that they similarly ignore the Phantom's warning is to be expected . In this version that Phantom takes the terrified Christine into his dungeon because he loves her , " so that which is good within my , aroused by your purity , might plead for your love . " As is also stated in the film , man's hatred made him into the Phantom , and he needs her love to redeem him . The Phantom is constantly making gestures with his hands that give the appearance that he is about to pull off his mask , which is one of the brilliant ways the film adds to the suspense of Christine pulling it off . There is an impressive psychological subtlety here , as the film makes a comment on mankind's need to see and touch , our inability to leave things unseen , even when we know that they are better off unseen . Everything must be touched , experience , and , in this case , corrupted , even to theirs and our own detriment . Christine is humanity . The infamous chandelier is indeed one of the stars of the film and the story itself , as it is the Phantom's instrument of his most extensive murderous damage , but its effects are almost immediately forgotten . Even though the scene after it falls is the one where Raoul and Christine meet against the Phantom's instructions is the only one that really shows that they truly love each other , this takes place the night after presumably dozens of people were killed or injured in that very room . I would think that the Phantom would have been upset as much by the lack of remorse shown by the people that he intends to punish and frighten as he was at the reunion of Raoul and Christine . The Secret Police officer is one character that has been removed for the 2004 version , which is too bad because he added a great element of possibility to the movie , as he is initially thought to be the Phantom in disguise but ultimately reveals himself to be an officer who has been studying the Phantom for months in his attempts to capture him . The character makes for a great chase sequence of sorts late in the film , in which he and Raoul attempt to capture him in his dungeon home . In the climactic scene Raoul and the officer are in some sort of an oven-room being baked by the Phantom , who demands Christine's love in order to save them ( the 2004 version of this scene , again , is strikingly different ) , but they escape into a nearby room full of gunpowder . Nevermind the influence this must have had on National Treasure , the important thing is that this shows that the Phantom had some explosive plans . He is a character for whom we are meant to have limited sympathy . Although Chaney's powerful performance is the biggest aspect of this film production , Christine is the star of the story in this movie . She doesn't love the Phantom , obviously , but needs him to bestow upon her the talent necessary for her to achieve the stardom the she so strongly desires . Once she sees his disfigured face , she immediately calls upon Raoul to save her from him . It is important that she seeks Raoul's help only after seeing the Phantom's face , calling into question the realness of her love for him . Both men love Christine , but she loves neither of them . Her desire for fame turns to a desire to be saved from a man of whom she is terribly frightened but who is in love with her , and her only savior is a man who will similarly expect a lifetime of love and devotion from her but with whom she is certainly not in love either . The tragedy is Christine's , not the Phantom's . I was initially wondering about the point of having Christine turn a scorpion or a grasshopper to indicate her answer rather than simply saying yes or no , but it allows a great opportunity to have a deathly hazard befall the police officer and Raoul as a result of Christine's actions . The Phantom redeems himself by helping to pull them out the trapdoor , which finally brings sympathy to the fate that he ultimately suffers , which is similar to that suffered by Frankenstein's monster in James Whale's unfaithful 1931 adaptation , which was invented for that movie , as is this one . Nevertheless , the reputation that this film has as the best Phantom adaptation ever made are richly deserved . This is a milestone in film history .
Upgrades !	The thing that really strikes me about The Matrix Reloaded is that the increase in quality , if it can be said that there actually is one , from the first movie is more the result of an increased budget than anything else . I loved the new movie , but the talent was there in the first one , you can just tell that in the sequel the Wachowski brothers had a virtually endless budget , which allowed them to do pretty much anything they wanted . They have a very distinct style that is clearly evident in all of their movies , even if they are not laden with special effects . The fluidity of the camera movement and the strangely dark tones of their films are only a couple of the techniques that make them recognizable . These things really come to the surface if you watch the Matrix films , some of the most recognizable films ever made , and then watch an earlier one of their movies , like the trashy 1996 thriller , Bound . That being said , I think it's safe to say that , despite the massive and seemingly unsurpassable genius of the first Matrix film , the Wachowski brothers have made another step up from their last film . It should be noted that the film is the second part in a trilogy , especially before groaning out loud at the sudden ending of the film , which built up and built up and built up and then just stopped , just like the fist Lord of the Rings film did . I won't take time here to go into what the story is about and how it continues the story from the first film , if only because plot summary in film reviews is a total waste of time for the writer as well as the reader , and also because I've only seen the movie twice , which really isn't enough to get a total grasp on the depth of the plots , so I'll just suffice it here to say that the startling complexity of the original Matrix ( a complexity which is almost unheard of in a science fiction film ) is added onto and expanded in this film , although despite being hard to follow , is never confusing . I've heard all kinds of talk about the Italian Job having an even better car chase than The Matrix Reloaded and how the chase in this film wasn't even that good at all , blah blah blah . There is a freeway chase scene in this film which recklessly promotes reckless driving ( and , even worse , reckless riding ) , but it is one of the most impressively made and fascinating car chase scenes that I've ever seen . It also contains the characteristic style of the Wachowski brothers , and is famously filmed on a freeway that was constructed strictly for the filming of this scene . I can't remember where , Australia , I think . Anyway , Morpheus and one of the agents are having a kung-fu fight on top of a semi trailer ( which the driver never seems to notice ) , the poor keymaker in struggling to stay out of the way , Trinity is flying between cars against traffic on one of the most badass motorcycles on the road ( enter the Ducati commercial ) , and Morpheus is off doing , as they say , ' his superman thing . ' The superman thing is one of the elements of the movie that bordered on being campy , as the multitude of Agent Smiths comment to themselves , ' He's still only human . ' And then in the next scene he's flying . This is one of the points where you really need to keep in mind that Neo's body is plugged into a machine , in the strikingly less appealing real world , and is basically playing a video game where he'll die in real life if killed in the game because his body will think that it has been killed for real and will shut down . During the freeway scene , there's a camera shot where the camera literally goes right through the chassis ' of a couple of semi trucks as it follows Trinity , which I think got the biggest reaction from an audience in a single scene that I've seen since that Velociraptor jumped up at the ceiling in Jurassic Park . One of the other most memorable scenes is the lengthy fight scene between Neo and the hordes of Agent Smiths , one of the most entertaining fight scenes I've ever seen . It's obvious that the vast majority of this scene is special effects ( and not only because there are hundreds of the same guy in it ) , but it is so well made and convincing and even amusing that the entertainment value of it is massive . The new villains , by the way , are some of the best new villains since the Reapers in Blade II . I've heard something about an albino interest group that's trying to sue for the way albino's are portrayed in this movie because of these guys , although I can't exactly agree that they're even albinos . These guys are so weird looking they're barely human . If the albino interest groups are trying to sue , why didn't they sue when Me , Myself , and Irene was released ? Anyway , these guys have the interesting skill of becoming transparent and therefore untouchable , with the small condition that they are also unable to attack when in this defensive mode , which makes for some great fight scenes as well as some cool tricks , like that of hopping into rapidly approaching Escalades ( oh , there are lots of Cadillac commercials here , too ) . I heard recently that Cadillac is trying to aim for a younger audience than the much older people who tend to drive their cars , and if there were ever any doubts that the rumors are true , they are completely dispelled by their heavy placement in this movie . There are certainly some scenes in this movie where it drags and seems to even border on being unnecessarily philosophical and confusing , such as in the extensive meeting with the Oracle , who tells Neo all about choices that he has made but doesn't know he's made yet , or needs to make even though fate has already determined what decision he would make , or something of that nature , where after a while we find ourselves ( or at least I did ) paying more attention to the pigeons walking around in this startlingly different atmosphere than to the deep conversation that they're having . Maybe this is why it takes me more than two viewings to get the complete story of movies like this . Blasted pigeons . There is a lot of controversy over the quality of The Matrix Reloaded , which is to be expected , since it is a movie that has garnered such a vast amount of attention , even if only because it is the follow-up to such a massively successful film . But like Terminator 3 , I personally was hugely impressed with this sequel , and am more than able to accept it as a bridge between the original and the final film in the series . It is the better part of three hours long , but goes by much faster than anticipated because it is so well made and entertaining . Never mind that totally campy scenes , like the bullet removal scene and the dance club scene , because like so many other sequels these days ( and unlike so many others ) , The Matrix Reloaded will leave you eager to see the next one .
A brilliant look into the world of Gothic science fiction .	Cathedral is such a simple film that it is even more amazing how powerful it is . There is not a word of dialogue and almost no plot , but there is just enough going on so that you can insert your own meaning onto it , it means whatever is most important to you . The animation is spectacular , it reminds me of Final Fantasy , from a purely technical standpoint ( this film is much , much better than Final Fantasy ) , and the music , by far my favorite part of the film , is breathtaking . There is a fascinating cross breed between techno and classical chant that fits with the material like no other kind of music ever possibly could . When the music picks up near the end of the film , it is some of the best combination of sound and sight that I have ever experienced . The movie delves into the meaning of existence and suffering in such an obscure but powerful way that it is unbelievably moving to witness the fate of a person who we do not know anything about , especially since it plays off of the meaning of cathedrals themselves in a way that pays respectful homage . It uses them as a catalyst to tell the story but does so respectfully , returning the power to them that it borrowed for its own purposes . Bravo .
What WOULD Dieter do ?	After watching this documentary I have discovered that Werner Herzog is among the best directors working today . Unfortunately , I still haven't seen Grizzly Man , which I've heard only glowing things about . When I bought Rescue Dawn , I didn't recognize his name , and I even thought he was one of those famously bad directors , more well-known for their bad taste and incompetence than anything else ( like Uwe Boll or Eli Roth or any of the idiot Wayans brothers ) . Nevertheless , I bought it because I'll watch Christian Bale do anything . I don't think he's ever done anything less than stellar acting . As far as making-of documentaries , this one is longer than many , it gives much more detail about the production and the experiences of the cast and crew , including extensive interviews with Herzog and his brilliant cinematographer . But most of all I loved the descriptions of shooting on location in Thailand and the relationships that certain cast and crew members had with each other on set . Werner Herzog , also , at one point mentions how important it was to him to have as few digital effects in the film as possible . This is one of the only times I've ever heard a director verbally acknowledge that digital effects generally take away more than they add to a film , and it was then that I knew that I need to get some more of his films and pay more attention to him . The stories that Christian Bale and Jeremy Davies and Steve Zahn tell are fascinating and give a clear picture of what it was like making the movie , and all of them delivered astonishing performances . They talk about how Herzog would sometimes film them when they didn't know they were being filmed , and he captured some of the most convincing stuff in the film , because they weren't acting , they were just living in the jungle , and Herzog captured their experience . It's not often that a director as brilliant as that comes along .
Excellent look back .	Clearly , the most difficult thing about making supplemental documentaries about movies that were made as long ago as Bridge on the River Kwai is that there is so little to work with . With DVDs and even home video in the distant future , on set interviews were much more rare than they are today , but Director Laurent Bouzereau displays great skills in matching up interviews of cast or , more often , crew members talking about certain things that happened during the making of the film and then following them up with those particular scenes from the movie . A similar tactic was used to great success in the making of Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid , which at least had interviews with both Paul Newman and Robert Redford , although they were audio only . This documentary follows the making of the film from the initial translation of the original novel into English ( from French ) and then into an actual screenplay , which was scrapped and then started over again from scratch , to the screening of the finished film , where some great tricks were pulled on some lazy critics . I recently saw Hotel Rwanda at a screening in Hollywood and one of the actors from the film was at the screening , and he told a story about the writers of the movie having been trying to find somebody to get interested in their script for something like five or six years , which was astounding to me because Hotel Rwanda is probably one of the two or three most powerful films I've ever seen . There is a similar story in the case of Bridge on the River Kwai , and this documentary goes into detail about the difficulties that the movie had being made . Not only was Alec Guinness near the bottom of the list of preferred actors for the lead role , but he wasn't interested much in the project himself to begin with . There are some great stories about Sessue Hayakawa , who played Col . Saito in the film . Hayakawa is a well known silent film actor who had been acting for four decades by the time he appeared in this film , but this is by far the role that he is most known for . He made dozens of movies in the 1910s , like Chaplin did , which really makes me want to see some of them . The documentary also explains the importance of the train wreck to the film as well as the difficulty in planning it . Even for blowing up a bridge and sending a full sized locomotive plummeting into the river it was a surprisingly complex plan , made even more difficult by the fact that no one really knew how powerful the explosion was going to be . Naturally , as is just the case when making movies , not everything goes according to plan , and this documentary has some great stories to tell about how a great story was made into a movie .
No wonder no one says " swell " anymore !	My grandparents still consider the 1950's to be the golden age of pure , unblemished Americanism . A time when teenagers were respectful , parents were bright , smiling examples of friendly authority , sex was post-marital and marriage was a time of apple pies and cheerful strolls down the charming neighborhood lane . I don't know at the moment if my grandparents have seen Revolutionary Road , but rarely do movies come along when the opinions of our elders would almost surely prove to be enormously valuable and insightful . The movie is based on the novel by Richard Yates , which attacked the very normality and pleasant conformity of the 1950's that forms the basis of so much of the modern nostalgia about it today . There has been a lot of expectation about the movie that would bring Leonardo DiCaprio and Kate Winslet together again for the first time in more than a decade , but the romance that they share in Revolutionary Road could not possibly be more different from the one they developed on the Titanic . They are Frank and April Wheeler , an outwardly charming husband and wife who live in a beautiful dream house on Revolutionary Road . They radiate an atmosphere of perfection and happiness and are loved by the neighbors . We meet them just after they've made what they promised each other was only a temporary move from Manhattan to the sprawling suburbs . The movie begins with April in an unsuccessful play , and we learn very quickly about their relationship in the car on the way home as Frank thoughtfully assures her that it's okay that she didn't become an actress , it's not her fault that the play was lousy , and then in the fight that ensues , Frank tells her that she acts " sick " when she gets mad like this . It seems that the most important thing that Frank and April embody about the traditional 1950s couple was the routine sacrificing of dreams upon the altar of conformity and fulfilling expectations . April dreams of a romantic life in Paris , and Frank has artistic ambitions as well . But he is stuck in a job that he hates despite a good salary , they have two kids already and a third accidentally on the way , and adultery's going on left and right . April suggests that they drop everything and move to Paris where , with money that she could make working combined with whatever they could get for the house , they could live comfortably until he could get on his feet artistically and they could both live the lives they have always dreamed of . They are doing what is expected of them already , but they're both deeply unhappy and they see no improvement ahead . It is one of the movie's more successful tragic moments in the way that everyone Frank and April know react to the news that they are moving . Responses range from friendly disbelief to outward remarks of irresponsibility and suggestions that such a move would be " irresponsible . " It's hard to watch Frank and April let go of their dreams when it was right in their grasp . It's not unrealistic , ladies and gentlemen . It's uncommon and unexpected , but unrealistic ? Irresponsible ? I should hope not ! It's commonly believed to be irresponsible and unrealistic , but it's not , trust me . I'm doing it myself . I left a job in Los Angeles two years ago that paid well but that I didn't like , and I've been living in China ( decidedly less romantic than Paris , I admit ) ever since . I now have a job that pays less than I made in LA , but my lifestyle is much more comfortable and I work 10 hours a week , which leaves me time to pursue my artistic endeavors . See how that works ? Granted , I don't have any kids , but I also didn't have a house to sell to put together some money to support myself while I found work . " I just think people are better off doing some kind of work that they actually like , " Frank complains . I tend to agree . But ultimately life gets in the way , as they say . A gossipy real estate agent , played perfectly by Kathy Bates , makes friends with April and nervously asks if she might bring over her son John , who has been in a mental institution and who she thinks might benefit from meeting a happy couple like April and Frank . April agrees , but when John comes over , it seems that his only mental problem is an inability to adhere to accepted models of conformity , which manifests itself mostly in the form of cutting through other peoples ' facades like warm butter and laying bare the sad , bitter reality of their lives . When he does this with April and Frank , the results are not pretty , but they are some of the best movie moments of 2008 . Kate and Leo both approach perfection in their performances . Both of them have appeared in other brilliant films in 2008 ( Kate in The Reader and Leo in Body of Lies ) , but in Revolutionary Road their performances reach such a level of pitch and depth that , when combined , they reverberate against each other and turn into something entirely different . If there were an Oscar for the best combination of two performances , there would be no need for any other nominees . Revolutionary Road is not the most uplifting film of the year ( although it's also not nearly as depressing as , say , Rachel Getting Married ) , but it is definitely among the most important . It's not so much that the movie attacks conformity , but that it attacks that little voice inside us that prevents us from doing what we really want in life because it goes against the accepted norm . Watching the movie kind of takes a bite out of you , but it takes a bite of that part of you that gets in the way of your dreams .
Call me the American nightmare / Call me the American dream / Call me your soul corrupted / Call me everything you need . . .	You know , you really see movies differently when you hear the directors talking about what the movie meant to them or what they were trying to do with it . I really should watch more of those featurettes that come on the DVDs . I don't think I'll ever have the patience for audio commentaries , but the extra features on DVDs quite often have stuff like what you find in this outstanding documentary . Hearing the creators talk about their work really puts everything into a completely different perspective . I was especially surprised to see how affected most of them were by the Vietnam war , like Tom Savini , who served in the war and now does horror movie makeup , witnessed horrible atrocities and awful , bloody deaths , and then went on to incorporate those things into his movies . Kind of morbid , really , to think that he was an American soldier who , by his own words , would see dead bodies and would just detach himself from the immediacy and finality of it , and instead think more about how he could recreate something like that in a movie . Until I saw this documentary , I never once considered the idea of trying to recreate war deaths , at least by a soldier who is standing right there . Even directors who did not actually go to Vietnam were affected by the war , and it's amazing to see this powerful time in this country come across in what could easily be written off as just scary , gory horror movies . Good horror movies , but still nothing more than horror movies . In some of the clips that were shown , such as scenes from one of Wes Craven's first films , The Last House on the Left , I was amazed at how intense the horror is . I've been watching a lot of horror movies lately , things like the Friday the 13th movies , Nightmare on Elm Streets , Halloween , Child's Play , Texas Chainsaw , etc , and have started to think that I had just outgrown that sick feeling of fear and almost nausea that I would get as a kid just from walking around in the horror section , like the real raw horror movies turned into campy gore-fests by the time I got to the age I am now , but man , I must be going to the wrong video stores . There are some scenes shown in this movie that remind you what the real horror movies were like , back when they were meant to scare , not make tons of money . Back before the Japanese had to come in and show us how it's done , because we have obviously forgotten . Rob Zombie came out with House of 1000 Corpses last year , an underrated horror film that didn't set any box office records because it wasn't meant to . Like the directors in The American Nightmare , he is a lifelong horror fan and remembers what the real horror films were like . House of 1000 Corpses was his reminder to the world , now all these other directors are doing the same . While I loved hearing the directors talk about their movies and I loved watching all of the clips from their films , all the while trying to compile a mental list of movies that I need to rent , I have to say that I found the legitimacy of these horror films in the context of the society in which they were created to be the most interesting part . You don't really think about horror movies having too much social value or meaning , but these movies , as they say , are clearly a product of their environment . I found myself wondering at many points if we are going to see a new breed of horror directors eventually come home from Iraq ?
Aliens have returned in spectacular fashion !	Aliens avoids the all-too common fate of sequels , to live forever in the shadow of their predecessors , and usually for good reason . It is especially common for sequels of enormously successful movies to fall flat , particularly in the horror and science fiction genres ( remember The Exorcist II ? ) . The first sequel to Ridley Scott's spectacular 1979 film , which set the standard for science fiction for years to come , is placed into the capable hands of James Cameron , who clearly takes some knowledge from Halloween director John Carpenter . Once this movie gets going , it goes full speed and doesn't let you rest for two and a half hours . The movie starts off exactly at the same point where the first movie left off . Well , 57 or so years later , but otherwise the same . Ripley has been in deep sleep and drifting aimlessly in space , and was discovered , as one man describes it to her , by dumb luck . She wakes up to a series of significant and inevitable shocks . Her daughter , whom she had promised that she would be home from her mission , the one from the last movie , has grown up and died an old woman . It's a strange scene to see Ripley looking at a picture of her daughter , now decades older than her own mother . It's not long before Ripley learns that the planet on which they found the strange craft with the alien eggs in it is now inhabited by an entire subculture of families , living on the planet in order to cultivate the atmosphere so that it will be breathable for more people to go live there . Needless to say , she's not entirely impressed with the idea of families living on the planet where the aliens came from , but these people have a lot of money invested in populating that planet , so no one's going to call off the whole project based on the ramblings of some woman who has been floating in space for five decades . And there you have the premise for the movie , already having justified its existence and separated itself from its predecessor enough so that it owns the rest of its own plot . Many good sequels still only tell another story under the same basic plot outline or involving the same characters . In this one , only one character remains from the original story , and the rest of it is simply a continuation of the original story . James Cameron later went on to develop something of a reputation for making good sequels . Alien fans can rejoice because they made another movie but did not sell out . There's a big risk in successful movies being followed up with a sequel just for the money , you see it all the time ? Predator , Texas Chainsaw , Darkman ( Durant survived that helicopter crash ? ? ? ) etc . Aliens starts right off knowing that it's not wise to throw in another alien and film it chasing and killing people . The movie starts out with Ripley facing serious consequences for official misconduct for that expensive ship that she destroys . She has to convince the board that she had no other choice at the same time as she has to credibly explain the deaths of her entire crew and convince them that those families living on that planet , LV-426 , are in grave danger . Not only are they skeptical of her story , she's a suspect in a criminal investigation . Suddenly , all contact is lost with LV-426 , and Ripley's story begins to take on a little merit . They offer her a clean slate if she'll accompany their military forces to the planet to check out the situation . She agrees as long as they are going there to destroy the alien , not capture and study it . There is an interesting new crew in the movie , except in this case Ripley has to convince them of her reason for being there . She's not combat trained like they are , but she knows what they're up against , and it's not until they learn about that that they begin to realize how important she is to their mission . My favorite is Bill Paxton's character , Pvt . Hudson , a tough-talking , loudmouth showoff who is reduced to a whining baby , just about wetting himself with fear when the group is confronted with the alien . He was the toughest talker and the loudest mouth going into the mission , but the first to give up hope on himself and the entire crew . This is one of the ways that the story develops unique personalities , people that we can identify , if not identify WITH , just enough to care about what happens to them . And in a movie like Aliens , it's very important that the audience cares what happens to the characters . When they get to the island , it's not long before they encounter a young girl named Newt , who has survived when the rest of the planet was decimated by the aliens , and doubts the crews ability to fight a growing number of aliens with such a small force , and Ripley takes her under her arm . Ripley becomes the mother that Newt no longer has , and Newt becomes the daughter that Ripley no longer has , and it sets an interesting tone for the rest of the movie . The aliens are trying to protect their offspring , and Ripley is essentially trying to do exactly the same thing . One of the things that makes the Alien movies so successfully tense is the setting . They are enclosed within a ship in outer space , trapped with a much more powerful creature . If both sides were unarmed , the aliens would do away with the humans in minutes . Cameron uses this setting to its full potential , employing motion sensors to heighten tension and using spaces in the ship , like the space above the ceiling , to allow the aliens to get extremely close to the humans , even while the humans are watching their movement on their monitors and wondering why the monitor shows them in the very room but they can't see them yet . In another lesson that Cameron seems to have taken from John Carpenter , he keeps the aliens mostly out of sight during the movie , feeling that the less we see them the more menacing they become and remain . He's exactly right about this , too . It maintains a sense of mystery and danger surrounding the aliens that transcends simply their viciousness and obvious physical superiority , and always keeps the viewer straining to see more . But like the crew , we know very little about these creatures other than how deadly they are . Oh , and if you want to see what happens when a director doesn't understand the need to keep the killer in the shadows , watch Halloween II . This is , unfortunately , the last movie in the quadrilogy before it makes a precipitous creative turn downward with the sub-par second and third sequels , but Alien and Aliens are spectacular enough that they fill the void left by their two predecessors . Two such powerful movies may make it even more difficult to take that the good ones seem to be over , but these two remain landmarks . Also keep your eye out for ( among several other Cameron regulars ) Jenette Goldstein , a lesser known actress whose impressive versatility becomes clear when comparing her character in Aliens with her character , say , in Titanic !
Finally a making of documentary that deserves to be seen with the movie that it's based on !	The thing that I loved about The Making of Jaws was not the fact that the Special Edition DVD featured a shorter version of the documentary than the Special Edition VHS ( both of which I own because I'm just a geek like that ) but the fact that it covers every aspect of production from Peter Benchley's original conception of the story of Jaws all the way to the public reception of the completed film at the test viewings . Even the interviews are edited together smoothly , which is something that these making-of documentaries are notoriously bad at . It also goes into great detail about a wide variety of different topics , bringing back a surprising number of the original cast members . Even the girl who got eaten at the beginning of the film shows up here for an interview . I tend to find it tiring when these supplemental features on DVDs spend a lot of time playing clips of the movie that you just finished watching , so it was nice that this documentary showed so much behind the scenes footage and outtakes , as well as explanations for why certain scenes were not put into the movie . Steven Spielberg gives some great insights into his methods of directing , and everyone has some great stories to tell about the problems that were encountered during production , particularly with the shark hardly ever working . There's a part in this documentary where Spielberg talks about a time when he was genuinely concerned that the studio was going to send someone in to take over the project because he was taking so long during production , which really gives a lot of insight into how difficult film-making can be sometimes . Oh and you get to hear him cuss , too . I'd never seen that before . One of the most popular things that this movie spawned was not only the endless repetition of phrases like " Don't go in the water " and " You're going to need a bigger boat " is a tendency for people to make fun of the movie because the shark looked fake . But when you watch this documentary and see how much work went into making the shark look as real or fake as it did , it really makes you appreciate the movie more . Save your criticisms for the horrendous sequels . One of the other things that I really liked about this documentary was that it showed footage of some of Steven Spielberg's home movies , evidently shot with a home video camera on the sets during production . It was pretty interesting to see footage that he shot that looks like it could have been shot by anyone . Strange to see that one of the greatest filmmakers alive shoots video just like anyone else . A few days ago I watched a supplemental documentary for The Day the Earth Stood Still called Making the Earth Stand Still and I was disappointed not only that it had nothing to do with making the Earth stand still but that it was such a poorly made documentary to accompany one of the best science fiction films ever made , so it was nice to see that the re-release of Jaws was fitted with a fitting documentary .
" Who wants to believe that life is a tale told by an idiot ? "	Between Two Worlds gives the impression of being a documentary about the history of supernatural experiences and about the validity of the more compelling ghost sightings that have been reported , but is more of a psychological examination of what may very well be an actual need that humans have to believe in ghosts . M . Night Shyamalan tells about how civilizations and cultures have had ghosts stories for thousands of years all over the world , and goes on to point out that in his own research on the subject , children who have claimed to have seen ghosts almost invariably come from homes broken by divorce , NOT from experiencing deaths in the family . This makes sense , really , because everyone experiences a death in the family eventually , it's one of the sad realities of human life . On the other hand , my own parents divorced when I was four and I never saw any ghosts , I'm just afraid of the dark , even now , more than 20 years later . Make your psychological evaluations at will . William Peter Blatty , the author of The Exorcist , makes an appearance in this documentary and tells some very compelling stories about his own experiences with ghost sightings . He has never seen one himself , but he tells a story about his infant son that is pretty hard to argue with . One day his son looked off into a corner and smiled and said , " Ghost . " When Blatty asked him about it later , he asked if it was a man , no , was it a woman , no , then what was it ? " Happy . " This is a theme that seeps over into The Sixth Sense , although not in exactly that way . The ghosts in The Sixth Sense are not happy , but they are not malevolent . They don't want to hurt people or even scare people , they just want help . Spielberg took the same approach in Close Encounters of the Third Kind , approaching the possibility of extra-terrestrial life not only from a point of view of pure fascination , but with the idea that not only is there other life out there , but that we don't have to fear it . Bruce Joel Rubin , the director of Ghost and Jacob's Ladder , makes a powerful point about the differences in the ways that adults and children see the world , another favorite theme of Spielberg's , who used it to great effect not only in Close Encounters ( where Richard Dreyfuss's character recovered some of that lost childhood purity and was able to begin to believe ) and , even more famously , in E . T . Rubin explains that children have that purity of vision that we lose as we grow up and that adults are desperate to recover . It's amazing how right he is . The film makes some powerful religious assertions , such as the one that if you are with someone at the moment of their death , you can feel a presence in the room , you are definitely not alone , it's a powerful religious experience . I've never been with someone at the moment of their death , but I can put more stock into that idea than I can in the majority of religious references , which play a very small part in my life , if any at all . But that is the point that this documentary is trying to make , that you don't have to be a religious person to take ghost stories like these seriously , even if only for entertainment value . Between Two Worlds is designed to explain one of the reasons that The Sixth Sense was so successful , even in a time when the usual real life things that create interest in horror movies ? depression , war , political strife , etc . - do not exist . The Sixth Sense , according to this documentary , was successful because it taps into something that just about every person has in the back of their mind but that no one talks about , the possibility of the existence of ghosts that are around us at all times . Shyamalan did not make a ghost story like the ones we are used to , which are exploitative films that are meant to scare us , but one which goes to great lengths to create a real world , with child psychologists and worried mothers and schoolyard bullies , and he puts ghosts into it . This is a movie about real ghosts in the real world , not scary monsters meant to scare you so badly that you drop your popcorn . Watching The Sixth Sense , you forget the popcorn is even in your lap . In this documentary , we see several other filmmakers , as well as Shyamalan himself , talking about experiences that they've had in their lives that led them to create the stories and movies that they did , as well as to tell about their own beliefs in ghosts , which their films are so famous for bringing to forefront of our minds . This documentary makes it more and more difficult not to believe in ghosts in some way , but most importantly ( and this is one of the most important things about The Sixth Sense as well ) , it makes you want to believe .
Violence begets violence ?	In watching There Will Be Blood , I was a little worried to consider the old saying , like begets like , because it makes me realize that violence has always been too much of a prevalent part of American history . I am sad to realize that we might be one of the most violent countries in the world , in a way , at least because American history is peppered with intensely violent episodes , starting with the very first settlers who arrived here in the 18th century . There Will Be Blood takes place in turn of the 20th century America in the classic American frontier . Expansion is taking place everywhere , and we meet an ambitious prospector curiously named Daniel Plainview . Daniel Day-Lewis is clearly one of the most talented actors working today , and is a giant among even the greats of film history . There is a lot of talk about how he created the unique voice for his character , and it has an introduction that Orson Welles would have appreciated , in that there is not a word spoken in the movie until 15 minutes into it . It is curious the way music is used in the movie , as we get some suspense music at many points of the movie , perfectly relating the sense of unease and uncertainty that must have permeated through those times . We never learn anything much about Plainview . We don't know where he comes from , only that he has no friends and no family except a man who shows up midway through the movie claiming to be his long lost brother and an adopted son , who Plainview seems to take under his wing out of an inability to leave him for dead after his father was killed in a mining accident , but later it becomes clear that the boy can be put to good use for business purposes . When he grows up and wants to go into business for himself , Plainview's view of their relationship becomes clear . This is the ruthless business that was taking place in the early American oil industry . Plainview , a wily businessman if ever there was one , soon becomes immensely wealthy through his drilling ventures , so much so that he is able to effectively compete with the oil giant Standard Oil , throwing million dollar offers back in their face at a time when a million dollars was a truly astronomical amount of money . Standard Oil has been casing an area around the Sunday family ranch , until one of the Sunday sons , Paul ( Paul Dano ) introduces himself to Plainview and offers to tell him of a place where there is surely a huge oil deposit for payment of a few hundred dollars . Plainview is suspicious but pays him with a vicious threat if the tip turns out to be false . Upon arriving , he basically cons the Sunday father into giving him drilling rights for next to nothing , making a permanent enemy out of the other Sunday son , Paul's twin brother Eli , an evangelical nutcase . Paul Dano has made a jump that I didn't predict in his acting career . He was so good in Little Miss Sunshine that I didn't see him making such a big jump into such a completely different role , and even though his character was a little too over-the-top for me once or twice , it's clear that his acting career is progressing much faster than I would have anticipated . There is also , by the way , an interesting dichotomy in Eli's character . His only motivation throughout the movie is the propagation of his church and religion , which drives him to constantly try to wrest money from Plainview from his drilling profits , which reminds me of the constant relationship between organized religions and the never ending requests for donations from church members . According to the movie , religion is as much a business as oil drilling . We even see a variety of early " photo-ops , " one of which Plainview publicly throws back in Eli's face . He has nothing but contempt for religion , as he does for most people . The movie is loosely based on Upton Sinlair's novel Oil ! , which I understand tells a remarkably different story , but nonetheless this is a fascinating story about the formation of the American oil industry . Daniel Day-Lewis gives a performance that is alone worth watching the movie for , and while the film is not without it's imperfections , the effectiveness with which it recreates the American past is nothing less than stunning . I can't wait for a film adaptation of Sinclair's The Jungle !
" Bring on the funny man ! "	I've been spending a lot of time lately going through and watching all of Chaplin's oldest short comedies that he made for Keystone and Essanay , and with only a few left before I get into the 1920s I decided to jump ahead and watch this one , which is reportedly the last true silent film that Chaplin made , since there were elements of City Lights and especially Modern Times that were clearly moving toward the sound era . The first thing the struck my is how much better looking the film is , and the second thing that struck me is that , other than the length and thickness of the plot and story , it is remarkably similar to his earlier films . In a good way , of course . By now , Chaplin had reached a point in his career where he was a major film star , so of course this movie is much bigger , much more ambitious than the 10 or 20 minute films he was churning out a decade before . He plays the same person , the little tramp out of the job , out of money and out of love . Maybe this is just me , but I really think that the parts of Chaplin's films where we see the tramp before the story has started going are generally some of the best parts , because we get quick looks at the tramp's personality ? what he does with himself when nothing's going on . He's usually just hanging out , spinning his cane or browsing casually without a care in the world . I sometimes wonder what Rowan Atkinson would be doing if there had been no Chaplin to inspire his own famous character . There is a very clever opening to the movie , as Chaplin twice finds himself the victim of pick-pocketing , once when another man's wallet is slipped into his pocket , and another time when that wallet is stolen from him before he realizes he has it . Luckily , a police officer sees the second thief and returns the stolen wallet to the thoroughly astonished tramp . When he goes to spend some of his new money , the real owner catches him and , as can only happen in a Chaplin movie , the ensuing chase makes him a star . I especially love how much more complex the movie is the its shorter predecessors . It is clearly a big-budget 1928 Hollywood movie , with high-flying stunts and even special effects ( yeah , special effects in a Chaplin movie ! ! ) . There are plenty of charming and effective sight gags , including his famous tight rope scene with the monkeys , and a sweet love story that calls to mind the similar love story , and how it played out , from The Tramp , back in 1916 . If the oldest two-reelers are too rough or uninteresting to you , this would be a great film to see to check out Chaplin's early work . It's similar in countless ways , but is cleaner and has a much more engaging plot . Excellent show ! Note : The IMDb trvia page mentions that this is the only one of Chaplin's feature films not mentioned in his autobiography , because of " problems with the film , not the film itself . " I understand that his studio burned down during production and that he suffered a nervous breakdown during filming because of personal problems , but do any of his dissatisfactions have anything to do with the actual film ? If you know please email me , this movie is definitely something that I would think he would be proud of !
Yet another classic short film from Pixar .	Pixar , especially now that Monsters , Inc . ( preceded by the endlessly amusing For The Birds ) has been released , is quickly becoming more and more famous for the tremendous quality of the short short animated films that precede their feature films . Geri's Game , which can be seen before A Bug's Life , is one of my favorite of all of Pizar's short animated films . It's a testament to the quality of the film that the punchline ( that Geri is playing chess against himself ) is not only revealed in the film's tagline , but is also clearly revealed right at the beginning of the film , and yet it still retains the surprising and amusing affect . The editing in this film is so well-done that , as the chess game switches back and forth between Geri and his alter ego , you almost forget that you already saw that he is alone in the park and is therefore playing against himself in this heated game . I just learned from one of the other IMDb reviewers that Pixar dedicated enormous resources just for such a minor detail as to get Geri's coat to crease just right , and that is exactly the kind of thing that makes a good film , especially a short one . That is a tiny detail , but Pixar is so determined for their films to look just right that it is no surprise that they are now winning Oscars left and right for those films . Pixar spends all of the money that they put into their films in just the right places , and this can clearly be seen in the final product . The purpose of these short film is clearly just to add to the huge amount of entertainment that is almost invariably involved in watching a Pixar film , because they can obviously not serve any other purpose , being so short . It's obvious that they are not put in to increase the viewing time of the sometimes rather short films that Pixar puts out , but rather just to increase the enjoyment derived from their films . When you go to see a Pixar film , you get more than your money's worth , and not because the films take up more of your time , but because the quality is so high . If anything , people should be grateful that the people at Pixar are able to create such huge amounts of entertainment in relatively short periods of time , unless you have nothing better to do than spend your days in a movie theater . While that is definitely how I would personally LIKE to spend my days , I just don't have the time , and I am grateful that Pixar is so good at what they do that they are able to provide entertainment of such high quality and not take up two and a half hours of my time . Bravo !
" Ain't fair . Ain't fair . "	The first thing that struck me about The Killing is that the narration really doesn't seem to fit , which explains why Kubrick was so unhappy about being obliged to include it . My initial reaction upon learning this was to wonder why Kubrick would put up with someone forcing him to do something in one of his films that he didn't like , but then I remembered that this was very early in his career , and no one really knew who he was yet . Right away we meet an obviously unhappy couple , Sherry and George , and quickly learn why they are unhappy . Sherry has no respect for George because he had promised her a good life and a lot of money and has as of yet failed to do that . She belittles him and manipulates him , treating him like an irritating servant rather than as a husband . It is painfully obvious that he should drop her like a bad habit , but he is so in love with her that he takes it and continues to make her promises , even knowing that in order to fulfill them he will have to take a dangerous trip to the wrong side of the law . The build-up of the scheme to rob the race track is one of the film's greatest achievements , and Sherry manages to manipulate George into telling her about it , and then she immediately goes off to tell her lover about it as well . It is an interesting love triangle described here . Sherry is having an affair with a handsome stud but married to a whiny pansy who reminds me of Piglet from the Winnie the Pooh cartoons . George is desperately in love with Sherry , who has no respect for him , but is in turn in love with Val , a handsome man who clearly is only interested in her physically . At least until she mentions George's scheme to steal hundreds of thousands of dollars . Then he's interested in her financially , too . We know Sherry plans to betray George , and we can sense that Val intends to betray Sherry , which makes for some great dramatic tension later in the film . George is so intent on getting to trust his promise that things will get better that he doesn't think for a second that she would ever betray him , even when she is so clearly uninterested in him beyond the possibility that he may bring some money into her life . At one point he tells her , " I know I've made a lot of promises in the past , but this time it's not just talk . We're gonna be rich , and soon ! " This may have been emulated in a classic Simpsons episode , where Homer says almost exactly the same thing ? " After years of failing at get-rich-quick schemes , I KNOW I'm gonna get rich with THIS scheme . And quick ! " Kubrick has explored an astonishing variety of genres in his career , ranging from the beginning of time to the distant future and from sports films to science fiction . This one , I think , is his only film noir , and it is film noir by the strictest definition . I often notice that , with surprising regularity , it is women , or a woman , the generates much of the conflict in the movies , but here is a very clearly defined femme fatale that leads to the downfall of a doting man . ( spoilers ) There is a scene that suggests an ugly hint of racism , as the man hired to shoot one of the horses during the race ( and thus create the necessary distraction ) tells a polite black parking lot attendant to get lost in the ugliest way possible . I was a little disappointed to hear this kind of language in a Kubrick film , although it does fit in perfectly with the story and , more importantly , these are the last words the man ever says . Serves him right . This is Kubrick making social commentary in his own brilliant way . Very soon , he does it again , skewering corrupt or inept police and biased news outlets , which claim that the man was shot as he " attempted to shoot his way out of the parking lot . " As can be expected , everything does not turn out to plan , and Kubrick has created a brilliant ending that is both disappointing and hugely satisfying . Disappointing because the tension was created throughout by causing us to wonder whether or not the robbery would be successful , and satisfying because , even though we didn't really even notice it until now , none of the characters are very likable . Except maybe for that parking lot attendant . After all that planning , it seems , you can't account for every contingency ? Note : The eagle-eyed viewer will notice Rodney Dangerfield as an extra during the fight scene . I may be mistaken , but it looks to me like he is the man the second from the right just after the guy fighting flips two cops forward onto their backs at once .
What did you expect , BETTER than Jurassic Park ?	Okay fine , it's not as great as Jurassic Park , but The Lost World still came out as a quality dinosaur film . Keep in mind that the special effects and computer graphics are still virtually unparalleled in this kind of film , and I think that they did a good job presenting the story . Luckily , Stephen Spielberg agreed to direct a sequel to the tremendously successful original , because even though I think that potential disaster did not necessarily lie with the choice of directors , if he did not want to do it the whole movie could have been screwed up . I'm not saying that Spielberg is the only guy who could have directed this film successfully - I'm sure plenty of other directors could have done it - but Spielberg has such an undying fascination and love for dinosaurs , and I think that it shows in these films . If you listen to him talk about how he got into the whole Jurassic Park scenario and why he chose to do the films and why he likes dinosaurs so much , the guy sounds like a little kid because he gets so excited , and on top of that , he's a spectacular director . Those , not to mention a huge budget , good actors , and a quality special effects team , are the ingredients of a good dinosaur movie . On the screen , however , it's Jeff Goldblum who steals the whole show , just like he did in Jurassic Park . He is back as the ingenious and highly entertaining Ian Malcolm , the " chaotician " who is around to point out the dangers in harnessing live dinosaurs in a park , no matter how isolated . Probably one of the only things that The Lost World doesn't do as well as Jurassic Park is surprise the audience . ( spoilers ? ) When you watch The Lost World for the first time , you KNOW that there are going to be dinosaur attacks and people getting killed , etc . In short , you basically know within the first 20 minutes of the movie that Malcolm will be exactly right about his predictions of what will happen on the " new " island . So in this case , the fun part of the movie is seeing what they came up with to put into the sequel to the great Jurassic Park . I think that most of the credit should probably go to Michael Crichton for the quality novel that he wrote as a sequel to Jurassic Park , because this was by far the most important part of this movie . We already know that they can make the dinosaurs real , now the challenge is to make a second movie that is as engaging as the first , while using mostly the same technology . And obviously , this requires a seriously impressive story . Luckily , they left enough of a loophole in Jurassic Park so that a whole second island could be snuck in ? the island on which all of the dinosaurs were hatched and raised for the early part of their lives BEFORE being transported to Jurassic Park . The conflicting interests about what to do with the dinosaurs provides for the majority of the story here . You have foolish bounty hunters who want a freakin ' Tyrannosaur ALIVE , you have ignorant scientists trying to study the dinosaurs like everyday predators , you have the great Vince Vaughn ( shut up , he rocks ) there as a ' plan B ' in case anything gets out of hand , and of course , you have Ian Malcolm there telling everyone that they are wrong and should leave as soon as possible , which everyone in the audience knows , but it's okay that we all already know that . What you get with all of this is a film that does not live up to the stunning success of its predecessor , but that is still able to stand easily on its own . Stephen Spielberg provided just as much skill in his direction as in the original , and the acting all around , even from the unknown actors , was very good . All of this combines with Michael Crichton's excellent story , just the right amount of comic relief , and plenty of gory action to make another superior dinosaur film .
The Forrest Gump of the 1970s .	In watching Rocky I'm reminded that every once in a while a movie comes along that just seems to fit together so perfectly that it seems perfectly natural that someone had to have made exactly that movie at some point . Other times I am pleasantly surprised at how good a movie is , or irritated at how bad , or just amazed that someone would think to make something so bizarre or cheesy . But with Rocky , everything is exactly what it should be , the movie knows exactly where it belongs and exactly what it wants to say , and so it comes across as a perfectly natural piece of storytelling . The way that Rocky was directed not only indicates skillful direction but also very skillful acting . The film is composed of unusually long takes . There is very little cutting during scenes , which is difficult to do because the actors have to act for such a long time without stopping . This type of cinematography requires much more planning and meticulous rehearsal to get right , and there is much more dialogue for the actors to know all at once . There is something to be said about the actors because they were able to do this and still avoid making the dialogue sound even a little bit rehearsed . There have been thousands of movies made about an underdog getting the chance of a lifetime and rising to the challenge , but not only is Rocky barely about that fight , it also goes deeper and gives a reason for it . The world heavyweight champion , Apollo Creed , is planning a fight on the 4th of July that is to be a major , major event . All other professional fighters are booked on other events or , if he says so himself , afraid to fight him . This necessity inspires Creed to come up with a marketing ploy where he will broadcast an opportunity for an amateur fighter to fight the greatest fighter in the world on America's 200th birthday . But not just any fighter , it has to be someone significant , someone that will give meaning to the date that the event is to take place , and of course someone who will make Creed look symbolic and meaningful as he's knocking him out . And what better way to celebrate America's birthday and how far we've come than for a black man to beat an Italian in a major fighting event ! ( you see , Creed mistakenly believed that Christopher Columbus , an Italian , had discovered America , unaware that Columbus never set foot in North America and thought he was in India anyway , and regardless , the Chinese had landed on American's east coast more than 70 years before Columbus ever set sail ! ) . But what really wins Rocky's way into our hearts is how regular he is . Like it or not , he's a big , dumb oaf , but he's honest , he's hard-working ( his job as a collector for a bookie is not exactly high-brow professionalism , but he knows it's a bum job but he also knows that it's really the only thing he's any good at ) , he has a genuine love for someone who clearly needs it , and he cares for small animals and there's nothing quite as charming as a huge man who loves his turtles . Besides that , he believes in himself , even when it seems ludicrous to even consider that he might have a chance against the greatest fighter in the world . What gives the movie real drama is that to Apollo , the entire fight is just for show , but Rocky doesn't know that . He thinks it's meant to be a real chance for an unknown fighter to challenge the heavyweight champion . Apollo plans to knock him out whenever he's ready , but still that he's doing some kind of humanitarian thing by putting an unknown fighter's name and face up there on that poster next to his own . The fight between Rocky and Apollo at the end of the film is one of the true classic moments in the history of film-making . It proves that it's not about winning or losing , and it's not even about how you play the game , it's about giving it everything you've got when you have an opportunity . Rocky had a chance to do something that seemed impossible , and he did everything he possibly could do to make it happen . Bravo !
Hilarious !	I've read some pretty bad reviews of this little parody , mostly from people who thought it was simply bad taste . But Lord of the Piercing is not the title that you give to something that you expect to be entered into the Short Film Hall of Fame . Sure , it was mostly childish humor , but if there is a place for bad humor , this is it . Before you condemn this little comedy for being tasteless , keep in mind that they make full length feature films out of this same kind of humor and then charge 8 or 9 dollars to see it at the theaters . Lord of the Piercing is a good-natured parody of The Fellowship of the Ring that has it's place as an intro skit at the Academy Awards ceremony and as a little extra tidbit on the DVD . It is nothing more than that and it knows that , and that commands some respect in itself . Besides that , it was hilarious ! Jack Black continues to grow as one of the funniest men working in the movies today ( which is good , considering having performed several unenviable roles , such as that in Cable Guy and , even more , The Jackal ) . No one has seen him in Run Ronnie Run yet , because at the time I'm writing this review , that movie has yet to be released because of it's extremely vulgar content ( much of which involves a song performance by Jack Black ) , but I seriously hope they get moving on that . I saw it at an advance screening almost two years ago and just about fell out of my chair laughing . Jack Black proves himself more and more with every performance that he delivers , and even the wooden and virtually talentless Sarah Michelle Gellar had some good moments in the Lord of the Piercing . They made excellent use of original footage from the film to enhance the quality of their parody , making the story that they installed that much more impressive . Bravo .
The Phantom was a lot uglier in 1925 ?	Speaking of 1925 , I'm curious about the statement on the movie's poster , which claims that the classic musical is being brought to the big screen for the first time . I'm wondering who authored that statement and what is different about this time the classic musical is brought to the big screen and the times that it was brought to the big screen in 1916 , 1925 , 1943 , 1962 , 1989 , and 1998 , and now 2004 . I guess " The Classic Musical Is Brought to the Big Screen for the Seventh Time " just didn't sound as powerful . Then again , all of those film versions have not always been true to the source material ( in many cases wildly untrue to the source material ) , which is one of the things that irritates me more than anything when a work of literature is adapted into a film ( although this is more an adaptation of the stage play to film than the book ) . This film very competently rivals the Lon Chaney version as the best film adaptation of The Phantom of the Opera ever made . I saw Andrew Lloyd Webber's Phantom a few hours after I had watched the 1925 Lon Chaney version , and of course the thing that just about knocked me out of my seat was when the orchestra kicked in as the chandelier is being raised at the beginning of the film . The 1925 version is a silent film , of course , and the music that accompanies the film is not the Phantom of the Opera music that you probably know by now . I saw a live production of Phantom at a theatre in London two years ago , which is where I primarily know the music from . It is to be expected that many people will condemn this film immediately for being directed by Joel Schumacher , who many viewers have yet to forgive for Batman Forever and Batman & Robin . Roger Ebert , however , makes a valid point that the Phantom's mask has turned from a means to cover his hideously damaged face and into a fashion accessory , while half of the Phantom's face that remains visible is about as unattractive as Brad Pitt's not-quite-hideous mug . Indeed , the first thing that struck me about the movie ( besides that music , which is tremendously powerful ) , was how good-looking the Phantom was . And in a movie about a man who has quarantined himself in the dungeons under the Paris Opera House because of his " cursed ugliness " ( as Lon Chaney's Phantom describes it ) , it is certainly unsettling for even half of his face to be so good-looking . On the other hand , Ebert also called the music " maddeningly repetitious , " which I can't help disagreeing with . But maybe I just found the sheer magnitude of the orchestra to be so moving that I could have listened to it over and over all night . Ordinarily I tend to be uninterested in musicals , I just have a hard time watching movies in which people burst into song , performing complex musical numbers as though spontaneously , even though the acceptance of the musical aspect is a given in such productions . I was initially disappointed when I realized that the majority of the movie would be sung , I guess I found it easier to accept in the stage adaptation than the film , but I soon found myself readily accepting the singing even if only for the spectacular beauty and my own growing interest in the Phantom franchise ( by now , it can indeed be referred to as none less ) . It is interesting to consider deviations from the original material , particularly in the two lead roles of the Phantom and Raoul , Christine's love interest . The Phantom has changed from a hideous creature forced to live underground because of his ferocious appearance and into an undeniable heartthrob , while Raoul has remained the somewhat dislikable but socially acceptable man seeking Christine's true love . But the important element to consider in regards to this film version is that it plays like the stage play put on film . The performances are geared for the theater rather than film , which gives it a very authentic feel . But the overarching story is the one thing that Schumacher couldn't really touch , and it's good that he didn't . The Phantom's fate is decidedly different than in the 1925 version , but Schumacher seems to have concentrated on the look of the film and the direction rather than anything about the story . The film is wonderful to look at and to listen to , but the love story falls flat . The love between Christine and the Phantom , who is the villain , is by leaps and bounds more convincing than that between Christine and Raoul , which serves really as an obstacle for the Phantom , a catalyst by which he can measure Christine's willingness to devote her love to him rather than Raoul , who she clearly can't be in love with . Nonetheless , Schumacher's Phantom of the Opera is a tremendously impressive film , despite what tends to be cynical response from indifferent critics . It's a celebration of the classic Phantom story , an effort to bring it back from the obscurity quite likely brought on in no small part by the numerous remakes which took more liberties than they had any right to . The new version makes the story bigger and louder , which modern audiences tend to respond to more than they do to pure artistry , and it is truly refreshing to see a director like Schumacher , who is a Hollywood filmmaker no matter how unpopular his two Batman films were , take on such historical and artistic material . If a stage play has ever been literally made into a film , this is it .
" The amorous waiter of the rink ? "	The Rink , one of Chaplin's most charming early short comedies , starts out with the little tramp working as a waiter , and there is a hilarious short scene where a customer calls him over for his check , and Charlie comes over and writes up the bill based on the food that the guy has spilled all over himself . It seems to me that this was the film that inspired parts of Modern Times , especially the skating and the kitchen scenes . There are some wonderful uses of the IN and OUT doors leading to the kitchen , which do not seem repetitive even after I've seen Modern Times five or six times . One of the most charming scenes in the whole movie is a short piece where Charlie goes behind the bar to mix someone a drink ( shaken , not stirred ? ) . It's one of the famous scenes from Chaplin's early career . When Charlie gets off work , he changes back into his famous outfit and heads out to the bus stop . While he is sitting on the bench next to a woman , he pulls off some truly vintage Chaplin behavior that is so spontaneous and so well acted that it makes me think of Chaplin just goofing off in real life . This is what I imagine he was really like a lot of the time . With The Rink , it is easy to see that longer , and more genuine stories are slowly evolving in his early films . It is not a deep story by a long shot , and there is still plenty of high-action physical slapstick comedy , but there is much more here than at most of his previous films . But most of all , the feature skit of the film is the skating scenes in the second half , which are outstanding . It's amazing to me how good Chaplin was on skates , and some of the skits he pulls off here ( such as the bouncing up and down on the fat woman ) are truly brilliant pieces of slapstick . I have to say that I wish I knew where exactly the film's closing shot was filmed , since it's an outdoor shot and I am always curious to know what parts of Los Angeles are being shown . Excellent show !
This is an absolutely amazing film . However , it is also tragically underrated .	Primal Fear is one the best films that I have seen in years . Richard Gere portrays a glamorous attorney handling a case that has horrified the public and which seems to be a slam-dunk . He seems to be the only person who believes that young Aaron Stampler did not murder Archbishop Richard Rushman , a grisly crime which is tastefully portrayed at the beginning of the film . Edward Norton , in particular , was startlingly convincing as Stampler . This was really his chance to let the world know what a phenomenal actor he was and still is . Unfortunately , this film did not get the recognition that it deserved , which may have been a reason why Norton's next film , American History X , was also not as big as it should have been . Edward Norton was about 98 % of the reason to watch both of these films , which were both absolutely amazing and intense . Primal Fear is a film that can be enjoyed by pretty much anyone . The story is so well-told and well-acted that it holds your attention firmly and does not even begin to let go for all 130 minutes . It easily achieves the level of intensity that is desired by all mysteries and thrillers , with an ending that is both shocking and disturbing . Primal Fear is destined to become a classic , regardless of how relatively unknown it may be . This can be said about an extremely small number of films , but no matter what kind of movie you enjoy , if you haven't seen Primal Fear , go out and find it . You will not be disappointed .
Memento is the most creatively made and brilliantly engaging film of at least the last decade .	SPOILER ALERT First of all , I would like to point out that I am a huge fan of Roger Ebert . His reviews are well written and enlightening about the movies that they focus on and often a lot of obscure movies that are related to the one in question , but his review of Memento is one of the most ignorant and just flat-out incorrect pieces of film criticism that I have ever read . Sure , there's a hole in the plot . If the last thing that Leonard remembers is his wife dying , then he should not technically remember that he can't form short term memories . Plot hole , yes . But who cares ? ! Anyone ? Anyone ? Me neither . Plot holes plague the Back to the Future series , one of the most entertaining trilogies ever made , left and right . In Part II , Marty McFly leaves 1985 to travel to the year 2015 to prevent his teenage son from robbing a bank and getting thrown in jail and starting that horrible chain reaction that destroys his entire family . In his review of that film , Ebert seems to have overlooked the MASSIVE plot hole that far overshadows the one that he points out in Memento ? if Marty leaves 1985 and travels to 2015 , there is no longer any Marty left in 1985 to grow into the 47-year-old Marty that he finds in 2015 . This little revelation suggests that Ebert is either judging films on varying and unstable criteria , or he has something against someone involved in the making of Memento . Regardless of what Ebert says , Memento is an absolutely brilliant film that engages the viewer and literally brings him or her into the mind of the main character . Ebert naively points out that the reverse plotline of the film has nothing to do with Leonard's condition , which is arguably the most foolish thing that he says in his review . Ebert has made what may be called the idiotic assumption that the reverse plotline represents the way that Leonard lives . I am finding it difficult to determine how he has managed to come to that conclusion without inserting plotlines of his own into the film , such as ones involving time travel or some other such science fiction nonsense . Memento is a dramatic thriller about a man with a severe psychological memory disorder , and the reverse plotline is there to put the audience in Leonard's shoes . He has no idea what happened before what he's doing right now , and neither do we . Are you hearing this , Roger ? I suggest you watch this movie again , because you missed a LOT . ( spoilers ) Another gigantic element of the plot that Ebert seems to have missed ( BOTH times he saw the film ) , is the fact that Leonard's wife was never raped , and never killed . There is a single shot near the end of the film ( I warn again , there are spoilers ahead ! ) that is not more than a few seconds long , that proves that she was never killed ( I suppose rape is still a possibility ) , and also eradicates the plot hole that Ebert pointed out , that Leonard should not be able to remember his ' condition ' if the last thing that he remembers is his wife being killed . The shot that I am talking about is one in which Leonard is laying in bed , and his wife is laying next to him with her head on his shoulder , running her fingers over the tattoo across his chest that says ' John G . raped and murdered my wife . ' Are you hearing THIS , Roger ? One viewing , contrary to what Ebert foolishly suggested in his review , is NOT enough for this film . Memento is one of the few films that not only invites repeat viewings , but requires them . Confusion is not the state to be in here , not by any stretch of the imagination . Repeat viewings will remove you from that state and put you in a state of blissful enlightenment as you realize the astonishing intricacy of this film . The poignant back story about Sammy Jankis and his wife is not only powerful and moving , but relates DIRECTLY to Loenard's condition , which is yet another thing that Ebert has amazingly managed to completely miss . In Ebert's defense ( because I do not intend this review of my own to be a knock against one of my otherwise favorite film critics ) , I can only say that maybe he latched onto some erroneous idea the first time he saw the film that clouded his cinematic vision the second time he saw it , or perhaps he was simply viewing it from the wrong perspective . I invite you all to read his review but also note that there are maybe half a dozen or so things that he says in that review that are simply wrong , and this can be easily seen just by watching this incredible film . Roger , I love your work , and I have all of your books , but in this case , it seems that YOU may be the one with the ? condition ! '
An animated short whose brilliant animation takes second billing .	Sometimes I read reviews by other users on the IMDb as I write my own and I made the mistake of doing that for this film . Only about 15 people have written reviews at the time I am writing this , but as is generally the case , I was astounded at some of the things that people had to say about this brilliant film . Just as many people praised the quality of the animation as people who pointed it out as a way to see how far animation has come since it was released . One user even wrote that the animation was clearly dated , as though it were old and unimpressive . What is truly odd is that I think that the person who wrote that has written more reviews on the IMDb than anyone else on the site , and yet he completely missed the fact that the ragged , worn out stuffed-animal appearance of Bunny is all animated . This is not go-motion , it's pure animation and it's absolutely stunning . Even more astounding were a couple of complaints that the ending was stupid , or confusing . At the moment I'm having a hard time deciding which of these ludicrous claims is more foolish . The movie is an animated short with more of a somber feel than the typical animated short , and deals with what might happen to people when they die . This is , of course , all explained in the intro to the film , although had I not watched it I find it hard to believe that I would have been confused by an ending that featured an elderly bunny rabbit crawling into her oven and then flying into a white light , especially since she sprouts wings on the way . Director Chris Wedge describes it as sort of a fun way to look at the reality of death if , as Tigger might say , you can imaginate such a thing . The entire film is very quiet and almost depressing , even when we identify with Bunny for wanting to get rid of the pesky moth , she shuts it outside in the dark , turning off the porch light and leaving it in darkness , at which point feelings of annoyance turn instantly into feelings of sympathy . In the space of no more than a second or two we go from wanting to swat the moth to wanting to bring it back inside . This , I have to say , is absolutely brilliant screen writing ( by the way , another IMDb user made the astonishing comment that animated short films should stick entirely to comedy and cuteness , which itself is one of the most ridiculous things I've ever read on this site or anywhere else . I personally take it to be the same as saying that female actors should stick to romantic comedies ) . There are lots of clever touches in the film , such as the fact that Bunny uses a walker just as any aging woman would , but she still hops along with it . It's one of those things that you wouldn't even think about but that add tremendously to her character when you see it . Bunny is , even without the hopping , probably the most complex character that you could hope to see developed in a 7 minute animated film without a syllable of dialogue . She has lost her husband , lives alone , and while we want to feel sympathy for her ( and ultimately do ) , it is unsettling that she shuts the moth out in total darkness , almost as though she were starving it , and then even more unsettling that she swats it dead , stirs it viciously into her batter and loses her temper , hurling it into the oven and slamming the door with what must be the great majority of her might . When she falls asleep just afterwards , it is , as Chris Wedge explains in the intro , her symbolic death , and the film changes drastically from a lonely old woman cooking alone in her lonely cabin and into a portrayal of her path to Heaven and reunion with her lost husband . What I especially like is that the movie never becomes preachy , it doesn't show her becoming young again and dancing in Heaven with her husband , it simply shows her growing wings on her way into the light and then , in possibly the most moving few seconds that have ever been animated , there is a dissolve to her and her husband's wedding photo and moths fly up behind them , superimposing angel's wings onto the photo . My grandfather passed away recently and , since I own an editing studio , I made a video eulogy using family pictures that spanned something like the last 30 years , and am now making DVD copies to send out to my 10 aunts and uncles and countless cousins , and I ended the video with my grandparents ' black and white wedding photo from the early 1950s in Colombia and superimposed it over a short clip of the sun shining through moving clouds . It is truly a moving video , so I can clearly understand the motivation behind Chris Wedge using it as an ending . I feel honored to have had a similar idea , and even more disturbed that anyone would call it stupid or confusing . This is finally an animated short film that is not about it's animation , unlike Scrat's Missing Adventure , Boundin ' , and even Geri's Game , which is one of the cleverest and most charming animated short films I've ever seen . All of these are wonderful and fun animated short films , but none of them approach the power of Bunny . Bravo .
How could anything be more fun than this ?	Back To The Future is such an inventive and exciting piece of filmmaking that it is impossible to forget about it . The casting of every character involved was absolutely perfect , and the performances were spectacular . I first saw this film when I was six years old , and it is the only movie that I know of that I don't think I could ever get sick of . One of the best things about Back To The Future is that it really makes you think . You can have in-depth conversations about the plausibility of the story-line and spend hours discussing the film . The story is awesome , it is delivered cleverly and entertainingly , and the movie as a whole is just so much FUN that it can be forgiven whatever number of time-travel discrepancies that may be found in the plot . I cannot recommend this movie enough . I have never found a movie other than this one that provides such a huge dose of great fun , and it has the desirable quality where you are able to see something new each time you see it . The only problem is that they stopped at part III .
A classic computer film that has stood the test of time remarkably well , considering the fact that it's a computer thriller .	Wargames is one of those young adult films that manages to span just about all ages of movie fans with its sense of adventure mixed with a chilling sense of reality . Kind of like The Goonies , it is a movie that finds a young kid in an extraordinary situation , except that rather than the Indiana Jones type adventure that the Goonies go on , David ( a young Matthew Broderick ) has inadvertently come frighteningly close to starting a massive nuclear war between the United States and Russia . We meet David early in the film after a tense missile launch training sequence ( in which the men on hand do not realize that they are only participating in a training drill ) . David is a typical high school boy , bored to death by school but fascinated to no end by computers , even the now-prehistoric dinosaur that he had operating at home . One of the things that I liked about this movie , in fact , was that it made my computer look so high tech ! Obviously , any movie that deals with computers is going to be outdated in a few years , and Wargames is certainly no exception . Consider , for example , the fact that David's girlfriend was so fascinated by the concept of a speaker that she picked it up and looked at it from all angles , completely amazed . You can see this in any number of movies , such as the similarly ancient computers in Weird Science and , probably the most amusing , the massive , brick-sized cellular telephone that Wesley Snipes used in true gangster style in New Jack City . Technology is an amusing thing , especially when it's taken so seriously in the movies and then is so completely obsolete a decade or so later . Wargames , however , despite being jam-packed with outdated machinery and computer technology , is no less potent as a military thriller , because the technology is not the point of the film . Instead , the movie tells the story of how David goes searching for video games on the 1983 version of the Internet , only to accidentally stumble upon a top-secret military database , WOPR ( endearingly referred to as ' Whopper ' ) that runs hypothetical sequences of what World War III would look like , including how the Russians would react to American reactions to their actions , and so forth . The process by which this machine can do this is one of the few things that's left relatively unclear in the movie , which is probably a good thing , because it sounds suspiciously like something that a computer even today would have a hard time doing . Imagine the staggering amount of information that would have to be entered into a computer for it to achieve that level of intelligence . At any rate , wanting nothing but some new video games and to impress a girl , David searches for video games on what appears to be the web's only search engine ( and , indeed , it's only feature at all ) , and stumbles onto such titles as Backgammon , Chess , Guerrilla Warfare and , of course , Global Thermonuclear War . Naturally , being a high school kid , he's fascinated and wants to play the biggest baddest one . Probably the most hair-raising scene in the film is when David's mother calls him downstairs and congratulates him on passing his classes ( which he had changed by hacking into the school's computer system ) , by which he is thrilled until he turns to look at the TV , where the news is reporting the war that has been set in motion because of his tinkering on the computer . Wargames requires a substantial suspension of disbelief because of such things like the United States military's inability to tell whether or not those blips coming from Russia on their screens are real weapons of mass destruction of if they're just a computer game , but the fact that the world is tottering so lightly on the edge of Global Thermonuclear War , even if only because of the very presence of these types of weapons , is the frightening concept that the movie tries to get across . It focuses on the possibility that something like that could have happened , and it rings chillingly true to this day , no matter how much more advanced our technology is . Sure , it's not likely that the governments of the United States and of Russia or any other countries are likely to launch weapons that will kill millions of people simply based on a few lights that have lighted up on their switchboard , but the weapons are there , and someone paid a lot of money for them . Wargames is an enormously entertaining thriller that poses a question about humanity , with the answer from WOPR that , like Tic Tac Toe , there is no winning move in war . We see it playing through World War III on the military intelligence screens near the end of the film ( during which it evidently has a field day messing with the lighting in the room ) showing missiles coming from every direction and destroying everything on the map . ' This is a strange game , ' it says . ' The only winning move is not to play . How about a nice game of chess ? '
This is vintage Martin Scorsese in the tradition of the great Taxi Driver . Not easy to swallow , but sure to be loved by film fans .	Nicholas Cage plays an ambulance medic who develops a wide variety of personal problems as a result of a feeling of incompetence at his job , which is , of course , to save peoples ' lives . He begins to feel a personal connection to the people that die on him , whether or not it is a fault of his . This happens especially with murders , suicides , overdoses , etc . , whom he believes become spirits who are ' half-born , ' because life was taken so fast that they did not have time to develop fully . There are so many things about Bringing Out The Dead that all come together to make it such a huge accomplishment that it would be difficult to mention them all at once . This film is literally packed with messages about religion , about hope , about personal desperation and about lust and love . Not only are these things skillfully presented , but they are also weighed against each other , so that the course of the film takes us through a journey that is very subtle and thought provoking . Nicholas Cage stars as the burned-out and alcoholic ambulance driver , and he is amazingly made up to play the part , with the ghostly pale skin , the dark eyes , the constantly messy and greasy hair , and always seeming to be slightly out of breath and perspiring . Despite this sickly look that he had throughout the film , he still maintained his tradition sarcastic humor that he has come to be known and loved for ( ' Tom , where are the band-aids ? This is an AMBULANCE , isn't it ? ! ' ' This is the worst suicide attempt I've ever seen . Feel that pulse ? THAT'S where you cut ! ) ' . His interactions with his various ( and excellently acted ) partners in the ambulance show his view of the world from different angles as numerous points of views are presented . Ving Rhames presents the religious perspective , John Goodman presents the career-ladder climber , and Tom Sizemore is as effective as ever as the hyperactive guy who doesn't really care , he just wants to see some blood ( ' Someone's gonna kill themselves , I don't want to miss it ! ' ) . Some of the scenes may have been a little overdone , for example , I think there was probably an excess of blood in the ambulance after Noel , one of the many regulars at the hospital , had a run-in with Tom Walls ( Sizemore ) after having ' attempted ' suicide . However , think of what Scorsese was trying to portray in this film . As in Taxi Driver , Bringing Out The Dead presents a darkly disturbing and dangerous underbelly of the big city ( and not just New York , where the film took place ) . Nicholas Cage's Frank Pierce had numerous similarities with Robert DeNiro's Travis Bickle ( from Taxi Driver ) , but there were many more differences , which are important for this movie to avoid being branded as a ? re-make ' of sorts . For just one of many examples , Bickle was angry at the world , couldn't sleep , and wanted to drive that taxi as much as his boss would let him . On the other hand , Frank is personally troubled by the goings on at his job , has developed an alcohol ( as well as numerous other drugs available to him from his own ambulance ) problem as well as a seemingly unhealthy interest in the daughter of one of his barely alive patients , and he desperately wants out of the job . Frank Pierce is searching for redemption . He once lost a girl named Rose , because he was unable to revive her , and he sees her face virtually everywhere he looks . It seems that he subconsciously feels that if he can help Mary ( Patricia Arquette ) get through the loss of her father , then it will be like he was able to go back and help Rose . This is exactly what Malcolm Crowe ( Bruce Willis ) was trying to do with Cole in The Sixth Sense . He wanted to help Cole so that it would be like he helped Vincent Grey , a previous patient that he was unable to help and that he ultimately lost . Bringing Out The Dead is an absolutely brilliant film , but it is definitely not for all tastes . Anyone who does not have at least a basic understanding of Martin Scorsese's work will not understand it at all and will therefore not like it . But if you understand what Scorsese tries to do in his films and if you understand the media of film itself , then this is definitely a must-see . There are anomalies that really make you think ( like that white horse that was casually strolling through the streets of a terrible neighborhood while Frank and Tom were on a suicide call ) , there are fascinating uses of the color red ( playing Red Red Wine while Frank walks through an apartment on a call in which everything is red ? the curtains , the walls , the Christmas lights , the blood ) , and the way the story is presented is very unique and perfectly chosen for the kind of film that this is . Also listen for Martin Scorsese himself as the male ambulance dispatcher . Excellent and skillful direction , great acting from everyone involved , and the virtual perfection of nearly every technical aspect of the film ( the photography , make-up , lighting , high-speed camera-work , music , dialogue , everything ) all work together beautifully to make up a disturbing but thought provoking and generally great film to add to Scorsese's growing list of contemporary classics .
No woman no cry , man . I'm tellin ' you .	( spoilers ) I'll be the first to admit that I'm no Star Wars expert . I love the movies and I've seen them all , but I have friends who have such detailed knowledge about the mechanics and structure of the films and their interconnected stories that they make me feel like I've never seen any of them . That being said , I don't feel too bad about the knowledge coming as something of a surprise to me how much one woman played a role in the underlying conflict on which all six films are based . Bob Marley has never been so right ( note : yes he has ) . There is getting to be more and more conflict about the special effects , in effects movies in general but especially in the new Star Wars films , because it is getting to the point where almost nothing other than the actors was really there on the set , everything was added digitally later . I tend to agree that the movies are still good despite being so reliant on special effects , partly because one of the people that I heard complaining and moaning about the special effects said that they were what drove the entire movie , there was no acting , no interesting characters , and no story . The performances I can agree with , although they were better in Episode III than in I and II , but no story ? There's no story in Star Wars , are you joking me ? Good God man , there's enough story in Episode III to make three more films ! In keeping with what has been something of an increasing bar on the light saber fights since Episode I , Episode III manages to top Yoda's light saber fight from Episode II , which in turn had topped the one between Obi Wan , Qui Gon Jinn , and Darth Maul from Episode I . What I love about the big light saber scene in Episode III ( although there are two , but I'm referring here to the first one ) , is that its effect is built upon the surprise of seeing one of the antagonists completely transform from a coughing and spluttering commander literally into a spinning and flashing machine of light saber inflicted death . Holy crap . The fight between Obi Wan and Anakin Skywalker was outstanding , too . In mostly all of the light saber scenes that I've seen since Episode I , I keep thinking that they should really go faster . Thhen Yoda did it in Episode II and Obi Wan and Anakin do it here even more . Nice ! Speaking of which , how about the scene where they're out on that huge outpost sticking out over the river of lava , and lava splashes over the arm holding up the post , melting it and causing the whole thing to fall into the burning river . We get a long shot of the thing standing up on the lava , floating down the river as it slowly melts into the molten rock , and all you can see of Obi Wan and Anakin is their light sabers flashing and slicing into each other on the side of it . Doesn't there ever come a time when you stop and just start commiserating ? As far as being the only Star Wars film that has ever been rated PG-13 rather than just PG , I think that the rating was deserved but also that the extra violence was justified as well . I imagine the end of the fight scene between Obi Wan and Anakin was most of the reason that the film got the harsher rating , but you kind of have to have something like that to really show a character transform from Annie Skywalker into Darth Vader , you know ? Which , by the way , I actually liked the rise of Darth Vader better in the preview than I did in the movie ? " Lord Vader ? " " Yes , Master . " " RISE . " MAN that was good ! Ever since I knew that the trilogy of prequels was going to be made I have thought that Episode III would have the most anticipation and would be expected to accomplish more than the other two films , because it is the one that leads into the original Star Wars film , and I was really interested to know how it would be done , because obviously no one can come back from the original film and play a younger version of themselves , and who would audiences accept as a different person to play Obi Wan Kenobi or Luke Skywalker ?
America is closed .	When I first saw the theatrical trailer for The Terminal recently , I was initially worried about the fact that Tom Hanks takes on such a heavy accent , since his character is from Krakozia ( sp ? ) and speaks only a few words of English . This is not , in my opinion , necessarily one of the hardest things for an actor to accomplish ( because I think a lot of the road to success is paved by the audience's ability to believe an actor with a new accent ) , but rather one of the hardest things for an audience to accept . A well known actor taking on a different accent or , in this case , a completely different nationality and language , tends to call attention to the man or woman on screen talking so differently from how we are used to hearing them . Tom Hanks , nevertheless , pulls it off flawlessly , once again demonstrating the sheer vastness of his screen presence and acting skill . Spielberg once again delivers an immensely moving story about a man trying to get home , a theme that he clearly loves , since just about every movie he's ever made boils down to that theme . The reverberations and reflections of the things that are going on in the world today are impossible to miss , which is why it shocked me to read one reviewer on the IMDb refer to The Terminal as a light-hearted romp . Yes , it's a lot of fun , it's amusing , endearing and charming , but it's also extremely powerful in a very serious way . It features the second most direct and blatant impersonation of government officials working in America today , second only to the replica of Dick Cheney in The Day After Tomorrow . Stanley Tucci plays the part of an customs and immigration official , whose charge to look after national security matters at a major airport disquietingly echoes much of what is going on in America today . The little American flag that he always wears on his lapel is far too similar , in size , shape , and location , to the one that George W . Bush always wears to possibly be a coincidence . The story is remarkably simple . Tom Hanks plays the part of Viktor Navorski , a man who has traveled to New York for reasons that are revealed near the end of the movie , and while he is on the plane to New York , his country falls into a military coup and basically ceases to exist , leaving Viktor without a country and without a valid passport , and thus nowhere to go but the terminal . He can't set foot in America and he can't go back to his country until it establishes a government recognized by America . He is a perfectly innocent illegal alien who has fallen through a loophole in what is meant to be the most sophisticated national security system in the world . And since I live here , I like to think that it really is . The movie walks a very fine line between sadness and comedy , since Viktor's hardships tug the heartstrings so much but the movie itself is so funny , and these two emotions are woven together to create an unusually strong bond with the character who , like Chuck Noland in Cast Away , is basically stuck on a deserted island and left to his own resources to survive . Chuck Noland had to literally live off the land for years , Viktor Navorski now has to survive in an isolated location , surrounded by capitalism , indifferent Americans in a hurry to catch their flight or get home , and a bureaucracy that increasingly wishes he would just disappear . As Viktor proves to be capable of following the rules that were laid out for him ( and in a language that he could hardly understand ) , Frank Dixon ( Stanley Tucci ) grows increasingly impatient , which leads to the most biting criticism that the movie makes of the way the American government handles the maintenance of national security at our airports and , presumably , beyond . Viktor is stuck in a terrible situation , and Dixon does little to make it easy on him . He explains to him that he can't leave the airport until further notice , and then forgets about him until it turns out that he is doing exactly what he is told . Here you have a national security officer who is faced with a timid and exceedingly polite foreigner who he can't allow to step onto American soil , and because he is obeying all the rules set out for him , Dixon doesn't have a clue in the moon what to do . From this point on , Dixon does everything from explaining to Viktor that for a specific five minutes , a specific door into America will be left completely unguarded and available for easy escape to planning to basically pass him on someone else . Release him , but just enough so that someone else will catch him and then he'll be someone else's problem . Dixon can't arrest him unless he breaks some law , and Viktor is apparently entirely unwilling to break any law , even to pass into America unlawfully when the man in charge of the airport's security has instructed him to do so . While living in the terminal , Viktor sets up his own little living space in an area of the airport that is under construction , and he gradually becomes known throughout the airport . There is a particular scene involving a Russian man who needs to take medicine to his dying father , but Dixon insists that the prescription drugs must remain in America until the proper red tape can be processed , and Viktor diffuses the situation in a tense scene which makes him a hero throughout the entire airport . How everyone heard about it I'm not entirely sure . There are also numerous smaller stories that take place as a result of Viktor being stuck in the airport . Catherine Zeta-Jones passes through the movie on a wispy strand of a plot involving a flight attendant who is having an emotionally destructive relationship with a married man , and as she and Viktor grow closer and closer together , although not quite close enough for a whole date , she goes back to the married man that has been causing her all kinds of pain , disappearing into his arms and out of the movie . There is a charming Indian janitor named Gupta , who is unable to go back to his country for reasons that are slightly hinted at by the extent of the pleasure he gets from seeing people take nasty spills from walking across his wet floors . Then there is a food services employee who befriends Viktor in hopes that he can help him to win the heart of one of the women working at the immigration office , which seems to be the story put in to balance out the ones involving Catherine Zeta-Jones and Gupta , who suffers a rather unfortunate fate that is never shown . The Terminal is a simple story that moves along quickly and efficiently because the script and Hanks ' acting make us care so much about the character of Viktor Navorski that we really want to see how his story pans out , we really want everything to work out for him , even if some laws have to be broken along the way . Spielberg has been accused of being sappy many times , and if he is guilty of it in this movie , it is because of things like the portion of the movie that explains why Navorski was in America in the first place , but only because something that moving is not necessary in order for the audience to care enough about Viktor for the movie to be effective . Viktor had us at ' Krakozia ! '
By far Jim Carrey's funniest movie , Dumb & Dumber delivers the best laughs to come to the silver screen in years .	From beginning to end , Dumb & Dumber is sheer hilarity . There is not a slow moment in the adventures of Harry and LLoyd , two great but incredibly unintelligent friends who decide to move to Aspen , Colorado to get out of their dead-end lives in Providence , Rhode Island . Jim Carrey delivers a side-splitting performance as Lloyd , the lovestruck limo driver who first suggested the trip to Aspen ( " We got no food , we got no jobs , our pets HEADS ARE FALLIN ' OFF ! ! " ) , mostly so that he can find Mary Swanson ( Lauren Holly ) , the woman he fell in love with after he drove her to the airport in Providence . Lloyd's and Harry's adventures on their trip are absolutely hilarious to watch , especially their run-ins with the criminals who are chasing them , trying to get the briefcase that Harry and Lloyd do not know is full of ransom cash . One of the best things about this film is that it never strays too far from reality . There is never anything presented that could not possibly happen in real life . Also , the original and strikingly funny comedy that was written for the film is great ! I can't remember ever laughing this hard at a movie . Dumb & Dumber takes a good story , adds some tear-inducing comedy , some endlessly hilarious dialogue ( " I guess they're right , old people , though slow and dangerous behind the wheel , can still serve a purpose . Don't you go dyin ' on me ! " ) , and needlessly good direction and molds one of the funniest films ever . Good for all ages , Dumb & Dumber is sheer unadulterated comedy and is destined to become a classic .
Another spectacular samurai film from Akira Kurosawa .	Kagemusha is one of Kurosawa's later films , in which he deals with such themes as vicarious existence and other personal illusions . One of the main ideas in the film is that if you deny your own personality as an individual and take on the superficial appearance of someone else , you may experience gain and even happiness , but eventually you are sure to be forced back to being yourself again , and you may find yourself worse off than before . There is a piece of dialogue in the film that very clearly backs this up . The late Lord Shingen's brother , in an emotional scene , says , ' I was once in my brother's shadow . Now that I have lost him , it is as though I am nothing . ' Kagemusha is the story of three different warlords who are all fighting for sole leadership of Japan . This premise is the foundation for the plot of the film . When one of the warlords is killed by a sniper , his clan tries to keep his death a secret so they can avoid invasion and defeat at the hands of the other two clans . In order to do that , they make use of a petty thief who bears a striking resemblance to the late Lord Shingen , and he is put in the place of Shingen so that his death is not known by the other clans . At first , this thief ( known as Kagemusha ) , revels in the luxury and comfort of being in the place of Lord Shingen . He is thrilled to be the king , and he literally becomes the leader of the clan simply because he bore such a strong resemblance to the previous leader . As his true identity gradually becomes clear , the other clans begin to investigate his death , suspecting that he is not really dead . Kagemusha's true identity is soon discovered ( although in the story , he remained in Lord Shingen's place for over two years ) , and he is coarsely cast out of the castle and into exile . Kagemusha is left to helplessly witness the subsequent overthrow and destruction of the clan , over which he understandably seems to have developed some paternal feelings . He must now live his life with the feeling that he failed all of those people and was responsible for the destruction of their clan . When we are first introduced to Kagemusha ( in the opening scene of the film ) , we find out immediately that he is a petty thief , as Lord Shingen and one of his advisors are discussing ( in his presence ) his striking and almost disturbing resemblance to Shingen . For the vast majority of the rest of the film , Kagemusha is seen in the place of Lord Shingen , and he is ironically more likeable than the late Lord . He is more humorous , he treats his mistresses better , he even gets along with the Lord's own immediate family ( especially Takemaru ) better than Shingen did , so the audience is able to develop a very positive attitude toward him . However , it is always subtly known that he is still the thief that was picked off the streets early in the film , and this is the life to which he eventually is forced to return . There is a fairly significant example of irony in Kagemusha , because of the events following Kagemusha's ? inauguration ' into the place of Lord Shingen . He is a petty thief in real life , and he is put into the place of Shingen for no other reason than that he looks so much like him , yet he turns out to be a very competent leader . His skill in making decisions led to the victory of many battles ; it even seemed that he was a more capable leader in this way than the rest of Shingen's council . It is ironic that a thief could be picked off the streets and put into a position of power , and lead as skillfully as Kagemusha does . Kurosawa utilizes extensive long takes , employing a film technique that seems to draw more attention to the story itself rather than the cinematography . As is almost a Kurosawa trademark , there are many shots in the film where the camera as well as the characters on screen are largely motionless , but they are engaged in significant an often heated conversation . Keeping in mind that Kagemusha is at least partly a war film , this particular technique suggests that Kurosawa wanted the audience to have a deep understanding of the story behind the film , and he used this muted technique to make sure that people were not distracted during important scenes . Kurosawa uses this realistic filmmaking technique to allow the characters tell the story , rather than to fill the movie with fancy camera tricks . Very unobtrusive , with incredible results .
Is there anything that Charlie Chaplin can't do ?	The Immigrant is one of Chaplin's early short films , with a very simple story but Chaplin makes it work . The thing that makes this early short film work so well is Chaplin's skill at slapstick comedy , it's so much fun to watch him try to deal with these endless predicaments that he gets into that you don't even pay attention to the simplicity of the story . The majority of Chaplin's early films , particularly the short films like The Immigrant , are little more than brief comedy skits . But the value here does not lie in the story of the film , it lies in seeing how well Chaplin fits the role and how entertaining it is , even by todays standards , to watch his face as he realizes that he has dropped his money , after watching a man get beaten up for being ten cents short . The Immigrant is a classic because it is a Charlie Chaplin film , and really for no other reason . Chaplin makes it work , and he does it extremely well .
Excellent film by Martin Scorsese that foreshadows the great Bringing Out The Dead , which he directed on almost the same subject over two decades later .	Taxi Driver deals with the perils of big city life , and the film works so well because it adds a touch of mental instability to this otherwise tired theme . It focuses on the life of a lower middle class man who lives in a city that he finds filthy and that is full of people who disgust him . Everyone has impulses to do things that they know they would never actually do , and the vast majority of people generally listen to the voice of reason . Taxi Driver deals with what happens when a man acts on those impulses , driven away from reason by the multitude of atrocities that surround him . Travis Bickle seemed to be a person who had a very lonely life . The film begins with him applying for a job as a taxi driver because he can't sleep at night , and this may be a symptom of his loneliness . He likes to spend his free time at the adult movie theater , and he even took a date there , which tends to give the impression that he is not very experienced with women . Like most introverted people , he kind of kept to himself a lot of the time , and almost always seemed to be fairly deep in thought about something . As he took in everything around him , he constantly saw terrible things ( bums , drug dealers , twelve-year-old prostitutes , etc ) that drove him closer and closer to the proverbial ? edge . ' His inability to establish healthy relationships is more than likely a result of bad experiences during childhood , which also gave him this mistrustful and overall negative perception of the world . His rescue attempt , although seemingly insignificant in such a huge city full of crime and corruption , was his personal endeavor to try to make a difference , to do something important and good which would give a specific purpose to his otherwise meaningless life . Travis Bickle seemed to gradually begin to realize his own dire intentions and at one point even seeks advice from one of his fellow cab drivers . He goes to an experienced cab driver known as the ' Wizard , ' and basically asks him for direction in life , but walks away without having received any comprehensive advice . It seems that he felt that there was something positive in the world that he was missing and that was why he had such negative feelings about it . When he found that the ? Wizard ' evidently either had no idea what he was talking about or had a very hard time explaining himself , he seemed to be discouraged . The fact that he was not reassured at all by this guidance troubled him , and it seemed to narrow his options . It made him feel that the world really did exist exactly as he saw it , and he began to feel even more strongly that something had to be done about it . Taxi Driver is a very dark film . There is a lot of narrative by Bickle , a lot of it as he writes letters , which he may or may not even have anyone to send to . Even more important that that is when he would be driving in his taxi and his thoughts would be narrated out loud for the audience . Often during these narrations the viewer would see the streets as Bickle saw them , very dark , cold , dirty , and filled with questionable and suspicious looking people . Coupled with his unhappy words , this darkness gave the city an entirely dismal look . One of the things that this film is most famous for is Bickle's mohawk . It is such a drastic change that it calls attention to his psychotic condition . The first time his mohawk is shown is while he is at one of senator Palantine's rallies . Bickle is smiling radiantly and capping enthusiastically , but he also has this crude and extreme haircut , and he is wearing an army-green trench coat through which the viewer can clearly see the bulges of the guns that he recently purchased . You know he's not there to cheer on his favorite candidate . This plan to assassinate Palantine , like his conversation with the Wizard , and his relationship with Betsy , was another failure , and this was part of the reason that he put so much more effort into being successful in helping Iris . The countless point of view shots from the taxi window looking at prostitutes , pushers , pimps , thieves , and all sorts of other sleazy people that allowed the viewer to relate to Bickle's view of the world . Robert DeNiro provided a spectacular performance as the mentally disturbed Travis Bickle , and the brilliant direction by Martin Scorsese also served to mold Taxi Driver into the timeless classic that it has become . It's not a pretty film in any way , but the skill and the style are unmistakable .
" Prejudice always obscures the truth . "	It seems that the message of 12 Angry Men ( above ) comes across as the film's only weakness . It starts with the very close of a trial that we never see and convenes immediately into the jury room , where we spend the rest of the movie . It seems an open and shut case , and by a show of hands , there are 11 jury members convinced that the defendant is guilty , and a single man who believes not that he is NOT guilty just that there is a CHANCE that he's not guilty . The film's weakness comes in because it seems that every single person who believes the kid is guilty ultimately reveals that they have some kind of personal vendetta and want to secure a conviction regardless of the sureness of the truth . The problem here is that people who believe in guilty are bad guys ( and they rarely let you forget this , as one or two of them increasingly show off as brutish jerks , while the calm , endlessly likable Henry Fonda heads up the good guy side . Maybe the movie should have been called 11 Angry Men instead . There is also a certain level of ham-handedness involved in the initial presentation of how little the case means to most of the jurors . The story is about how important such legal cases are , because the decision that they make in that room will change someone's life forever , and it is absolutely imperative that they make the right decision . But at the beginning , all of the jurors have their minds somewhere else . They're talking about sports or their jobs or some other casual subject , and it takes one brave juror to stand up to the rest and get them to pay attention and think about what they are about to do . Sidney Lumet , in his book Making Movies , gives us invaluable insight into his goals and experience making 12 Angry Men , including the positioning of the camera ( watch for the appearance of the ceiling late in the film as the tension mounts ) and his brilliant use of lighting . Late in the movie , as the jurors remain in the room until darkness falls outside , it is so gradual and so cleverly done that we don't even realize the movie is getting darker and darker until they flip the lights on , and when they do , it's not just the room that is lighting up . The performances themselves have not aged well , but it is a brilliant analysis of some facts that seemed to so obviously point to one foregone conclusion , although I have to say that the film's other weakness is that a lot of the facts that they re-analyze ( or analyze for the first time ) should have been ridiculously obvious in the original courtroom trial . The jurors question for the first time , for example , the eyesight of the case's key eyewitness , who claims to have seen the murder take place at night and through the windows of a passing elevated train . I should hope that such a situation would have been scrutinized more closely by even the most inexperienced defense attorney , but maybe that person was secretly hoping for a conviction , too . At any rate , the film is a brilliant achievement , given that it is so engaging even though it literally never leaves the room . It reminds us of the importance of certainty in trials , even when the result seems completely obvious . The end of the movie is perfect , as there is only one way that it could really end ( and I don't mean the jury's final decision ) , and yet it is not predictable . This is one of Lumet's most glowing achievements .
Interesting look back .	I get the feeling that this retrospective documentary was made as a TV spot in response to the tremendous success of Terminator 2 , which was released the year before this documentary was made . As is almost always the case with these making-of or retrospective documentaries that often accompany movies on DVD , this one has garnered a ridiculously and inexplicably low user rating on the IMDb . Once again , here is a documentary that is vastly superior to the rating that people have given it on this site . Whenever I rate one of these documentaries , because they vary so much in their subject matter , I always try to concentrate mostly on whether or not it succeeds in delivering what it sets out to deliver , especially according to the title . What I can't stand is when someone makes a documentary and then gives it a clever sounding title that ends up having almost nothing to do with what is actually in it ( see " Making the Earth Stand Still " ) . This one is exactly what it claims to be , a documentary about the creation of the Terminator , the distinction from " making " the Terminator being that this is not about the making of the movie as much as it is about the conceptualization of the character and some of the things that Arnold and James Cameron discussed during production as far as who the Terminator should be and how he should act . James Cameron came up with the idea of the Terminator while he was down with the sickness in a Rome hotel room , so he was able to relate to Reese and the Terminator being in a foreign environment since they were from the future . They both tell some pretty interesting stories about production , such as the fact that the hardest thing for Arnold was not any of the extensive stunt work but the few scenes where he had acid poured over him so that he would be smoking , as well as the fact that the production offices wanted more of the movie to take place at night to save money on shooting , but Cameron held out because he thought it was important for the style of the movie that it take place mostly at night . Good thing , too ! All in all this is a very interesting documentary , even though it is simply made . All it really is is a conversation between Cameron and Arnold as they talk about the movie and their experiences involved with it , with various clips from the film edited in to complement what they are talking about . I am always suspicious of supplemental documentaries that include too much footage from the movie you just finished watching , but they are provided in a very complementary way in this documentary . Arnold and Cameron are talking about the production of the concept of the movie just as much as the shooting process itself , so it's not a problem that there is no behind-the-scenes footage . Very informative and interesting .
The shark looked fake .	But who cares ? ! Frankly , I'm sick and tired of hearing people complain about the shark looking fake . You didn't think the shark looked real , but you were still in suspense , weren't you ? The fake-looking shark is a testament to Steven Spielberg's directing skills , because he still made Jaws into an intense and terrifying thriller . That shark may have been the reason that Spielberg only agreed to direct Jaws on the condition that the shark would not be shown until at least halfway through the film . ( spoilers ) Jaws wastes no time . The film starts off on a beach ( a scene in which the film's time period ? the mid-70s - is very clear ) , and some goofy young guy gets together with some drunk girl , and they waste no time in getting naked to go swimming . This is a confusing scene , though , because it seems to be dawn when they get to the water . Were they drunk and going swimming at dawn ? And then , in the next shot , it's dusk again , and it even switches back and forth a few times . Needless to say , the naked drunken promiscuous girl gets munched , and they find her remains on the beach the next day . Spielberg wisely chose to present a very tasteful autopsy , which was not gory at all but still effective , and it was one of the little tricks that he pulled in this film in order to keep the rating down . The shark attack spells disaster for Amity Island ( ! ! ) , a very small town dependent on its summer tourists for a substantial portion of its economy . The mayor , who proves to be not a very nice guy , wants to keep the shark attack covered up and keep the beaches open so that tourists will come , even though those very tourists would be in danger . Little does he know that an idiotic horror film - released four years later and nearly named after his town - will probably hurt the tourist economy much more than any shark could . Some of the best parts in the film come early on , as Brody ( Roy Scheider ) nervously scans the tourist crowded water for the shark , after having tried unsuccessfully to get the beaches closed . There are at least two shots in which the ocean itself looks menacing , which is significant because the ocean naturally radiates calmness and tranquility . Robert Shaw plays the part of Quinn , the hardened fisherman ( who , we later find out , was once involved in a historic naval accident , putting him in the water with sharks for an extended period of time ) who offers to go out and catch the man-eating shark terrorizing Amity Island , given the proper reward . He provides a good guide for Brody , the chief of police who doesn't handle himself very well in the water , and Hooper , the oceanography expert who doesn't seem to have as much field experience as Quinn . The final scenes with these three men at sea battling the shark are probably the scenes that this film is best known for . Obviously , this is the first time we get a good look at the shark ( oh shut up , it was plenty effective enough ) , but also , I think that the scene where Hooper goes down in the shark cage may be the most intense moment in the film , because we actually see the shark coming while in its own habitat ? underwater . Jaws is such a powerful film because it takes something out of nature , something that is real , and presents a situation in which that element of nature has become extremely dangerous and must be stopped . The film score is one of the most memorable in motion picture history , and the film also contains numerous pieces of dialogue which have quickly become universally recognizable ? ' Don't go in the water , ' ' You're going to need a bigger boat , ' etc . Steven Spielberg proved his masterful directing skills with Jaws only four years after his first full-length motion picture , leaving audiences all over the world wanting more .
There is something that Martin Scorsese can't do . There has to be . But evidently , that thing doesn't have anything to do with movies .	Martin Scorsese's stunning gangster film Goodfellas is the true story of Henry Hill , a man that wanted to be a gangster for as long as he can remember , and who lived as a gangster for a significant portion of his life . Scorsese seems to suggest that his tendency toward a life of crime comes as a result of an unhappy childhood , particularly the brutal beatings that he received from his father as a kid . Ray Liotta gives an excellent performance as Henry Hill , and Robert DeNiro is just a bad-ass in the film . He makes an awesome gangster , and he just looks intimidating and interesting and impressive . True , the guy is just a phenomenal actor , but he can also play extremely opposite roles , such as the one he played in Scorsese's Mean Streets in 1973 , as well as the nutcase Travis Bickle in Scorsese's Taxi Driver . Joe Pesci , also a Scorsese regular , and also a tremendously diverse actor , plays the part of the undeniably likeable but quick-tempered and highly ambitious Tommy , one of the most violent gangsters portrayed in the film ( by the way , his similarity to Edward G . Robinson's performance as Rico Bandello in Little Caesar ( 1930 ) is extensive and unmistakable ) . On a trivial note , look for Scorsese's mother playing the part of Tommy's loving mother ( almost a staple in Italian cinema ) in the film . It's interesting that for a good portion of her screen time , she is telling stories from the past , exactly as she did in Scorsese's rather short film Italianamerican , which starred his mother and father as themselves . Scorsese clearly sees something of himself in the young Henry Hill , given his fairly impoverished and physically unhealthy childhood in New York's Little Italy , where he was always fascinated by organized crime . His unique and expressive direction works perfectly to present the story of the life of Henry Hill , with the overall purpose of showing what life in the Mafia is like . The power , the money , the women , the cars , the color coordinated wardrobe , the special treatment by just about everyone , everything that comes as a benefit of being a gangster . On the other hand , the dark side of organized crime is equally presented . We see the loyalty turned to betrayal , the senseless murders , the self-aggrandizing acts that lead to one's own downfall ( especially seen in the way that Tommy kills a ' made ' man named Bask ) , the occasional crackdown by the law , etc . But even when in prison , they get extremely favorable treatment , with their quarters , their food , and pretty much everything else about their treatment . ( spoilers ) Even the extensive length of the film serves to increase the effectiveness of this presentation of gangster life , because it provides time for Scorsese to completely immerse the audience in the world of the Mafia , rather than tell about the life of some gangster with a story that is over in 90 minutes . The movie spans a time period of about three decades , from Henry Hill's first involvement with the Mafia , basically as an errand boy , until his eventual betrayal of his betrayers , leaving him stuck to live the rest of his life ' like a schnook . ' Earlier in the film , DeNiro's character , James Conway , tells the young Henry Hill that he had learned a valuable lesson from his first run-in with the police - ' Never rat on your friends , and ALWAYS keep your mouth shut . ' Henry is proud of this , and even at the end of the film , when he opens his mouth and rats on his friends , it is clear that it is not the way that he wanted it all to end . The tragedy here is that he has to spend the rest of his life living in a way that he always despised , as a ' normal ' person . Even as Henry goes to the police , Scorsese is still illustrating the practices and realities of the Mafia . Henry notes that the cops talked to him , which assured him that they were not associated with the Mafia , because ' goodfellas ' ( this is what the gangsters called each other - ' You'll like this guy , he's a goodfella . ' ) would have just killed him . He wouldn't have even heard anything . The Italian influence in the film is obviously unmistakable , both in the stereotypical ( and , in reality , generally incorrect ) involvement with the Mafia as well as everything from the way that they dress to the strong family bonds and the delicious meals . Goodfellas is an uncompromising and brutally straightforward look at the inner workings of the Mafia that makes no effort to make anything easy to swallow . I've heard people complain about gratuitous violence in the movie , such as when Henry walks up to some guy on his driveway and pistol-whips him for sexually assaulting his sister . This is crap , of course , because the guy got exactly what he deserved . I think they should implement pistol-whipping in the US court system as a common punishment for sexual assault . The violence is not put into a movie like this to impress the younger male audience that looks for that , it's put here because that's the way the Mafia works . This is realism , not audience manipulation , and the spectacularly effective result is a tremendous accomplishment .
An exercise in pure artistic creativity , Amelie is a beautifully made romantic comedy that succeeds hugely at the daunting task of being a freshly entertaining romantic comedy .	The dreamy atmosphere and truly creative romance of Amelie reminds me of the similarly captivating Chocolat of the year before . Both films are endlessly charming in their own original way , and both leave you with a huge smile on your face . The first fifteen minutes of Amelie consists of one of the most obscurely interesting pieces of plot development that I've ever seen . We seem to be given completely arbitrary bits of information about what's going on around the city , and it's not until the film moves on from there that we realize that we've just been completely brought into the world presented in the movie . The film deals with the heartwarming story of Amelie , a girl who has grown up in an unhappy an unaffectionate family , and now has to deal with the resulting fear and discomfort with romance and physical as well as social contact . The event that changes her life forever is when she learns that Princess Di has been killed in car crash , but only because it causes her to drop a bottle cap , which rolls into a tile on the wall along the floor , which turns out to be loose , and behind it she finds a box that a little boy hid there 40 years earlier . She determines to find the man that was once that boy , and it is her anti-social tendencies that prevent her from giving it straight to the man when she finds him . Rather , she devises an ingenious way of getting him to find it on his own , and is delighted with the pleasure that comes from bringing so much happiness and joy to this man . She decides that she will make it her life's purpose to bring happiness to other people , and the interesting and creative ways that she comes up with to do this provide much of the entertainment for the middle part of the film . ( spoilers ) During her quest to make people happy , it is not unexpected that she should run into an equally unusual and unique method to bring about her own happiness , which she ultimately finds in the eccentric Nino , a man who works in a sex novelty store and has the hobby of collecting unsatisfactory pictures from the trash can and the floor around photo booths . Audrey Tautou flawlessly captures the nervousness and anxiety of Amelie , and Mathieu Kassovitz delivers a wonderful performance as the strange Nino , who seems to be more shocked that someone is interested in him than anything else . A strikingly endearing romance begins to develop between the two , and even though this is a light romantic comedy and we already know that they will wind up together at the end , the delivery of the story itself is so original and unique and fascinating that it makes the whole thing fresh and interesting again . Besides the fact that the film is packed with eccentric little things that pop out of the woodwork ( reality is completely set aside at many points in the film , and with spectacular effect ) , there are so many different stories being told that we don't even have a chance to get bored with a budding romance the end of which we knew before the movie even began . There is the story of the glass man , there's the story of the one-armed artist who is subjected to heartbreakingly vicious verbal abuse for most of the film , the disillusioned cigarette saleswoman who finds temporary relief from loneliness in the disillusioned romance critic with the microphone at the café who is sure that all women are operating on the same master plan to deceive and destroy the hearts of men , and of course there are the various stories of the people that pop into the film only long enough to be transcended onto completely new levels of happiness because of the actions of Amelie . Amelie is not a movie concerned with the real world . It provides a fantastic bit of escapism for anyone who has anything to escape from , which is why its disregard for reality in a lot of scenes is so magically successful in having the desired impact on the audience . This is the story of a woman who has had a rough life but decides that she wants to spend most of her energy doing various things to make others happy , and the film as a whole has the exact same affect on the viewer .
Absolutely engrossing , in a sweaty kind of way ?	Body Heat is a resurrection of the film noir genre , which has been on some kind of back burner since the 1940s or so . This is one of the more distinct film genres , even more so than such genres as comedy or action or horror , which all have a tendency to blend into one another to some extent . Films noir are extremely characteristic pieces of filmmaking with a very rigid set of distinguishing elements , but it is a genre that has largely been left behind in the era of gangster movies before they were made into a joke by later spoofs like Dick Tracy , which is why it is sort of surprising to see the genre brought back to life so effectively by a movie like Body Heat . It's good to know that even genres that have seemingly been left behind still have some life left in them for great films . Body Heat is widely compared to one of the original , and still one of the best , films noir ever made , Double Indemnity . As is often the case in films noir , Body Heat tells the story of a very effectively portrayed romance gone horribly wrong . William Hurt and Kathleen Turner work amazingly well onscreen , and the cloyingly hot and muggy atmosphere takes a welcome turn from the typical wet streets of classic noir films and makes it work spectacularly well in enhancing the tension of the film . I've noticed that some other reviewers recommend watching Double Indemnity before viewing Body Heat , but I don't think the order matters as long as you see both at some point . Body Heat is a tremendously effective film made by the capable Lawrence Kasdan , and it borrows heavily from its 1944 counterpart . Both films are more than capable of standing on their own , but they have a complementary relationship that enhances both films without belittling one or the other . Mickey Rourke delivers an early performance as the surprisingly effective arsonist , but the real surprise in this film is Ted Danson , whose performance as Peter Lowenstein just about steals the whole movie . He is a perfect , if rather ham-handed , example of a three-dimensional character , in that he has this interest in dancing that is not linked to anything that happens in the film except to make him a more interesting character , and his performance , I will admit , far surpasses anything of which I had previously thought Mr . Danson capable . Bravo .
This is absolutely brilliant .	I'll Wait for the Next One sets itself up as a cute little comedy skit , and it delivers on that premise but also surprises you with an incredibly moving finale . Four minute comedies are not supposed to be as moving as this film is , it's funny , charming , and heartbreaking all at the same time , showing you your emotions in a combination that they are not generally found . I can't recommend this movie enough . By the end of the diminutive film you feel like you have known the characters for years , especially the lead man and the woman looking for love , probably because they so perfectly represent . The look on the man's face and the woman's face at the end of the film are brief moments of sheer performing brilliance rarely seen , especially in a short film , which itself is rarely seen . Seek this one out , you will laugh and you will cry , and most of all you will be moved .
Finally a movie with a tagline that has some meaning .	Adaptation has a rather lengthy tagline , but the thing that I like about it is that , with the exception of the last six words , it is a tagline that summarizes the movie rather than advertises it . This is a rare film that is about its own creation and all of the adaptation that goes on in the lives of the people involved . Nicholas Cage takes on one of the smartest and most complex roles he's ever done , playing the parts of Charlie Kaufman and his fictional twin brother Donald , both of whom are screenwriters with polarly opposite ways of living ( or not living ) life and dealing with the world . Meryl Streep plays the part of Susan Orlean , the author of the novel ' The Orchid Thief , ' which Charlie is desperately trying to adapt into a worthy film version , the hugely talented Chris Cooper takes on the toothless role of John Laroche , a man who is strangely proficient at adapting to the slings and arrows of the world around him , yet not quite that great at getting anywhere in life . He lives a rather run-down life , but escapes criticism for it because he seems so content with his situation . My favorite story here is the one dealing with Charlie and his twin brother Donald . Charlie is an introverted screenwriter who is incapable of approaching the writer of the novel that he is adapting , and he is so determined to create a great film out of a book that he enormously admires ( and is enormously confused by ) , that it nearly drives him insane . His brother , on the other hand , takes some quick , cheap screenwriting class at some adult night school just to learn the absolute basics of screenwriting , and he throws together a huge hit , based on an idea that Charlie gave him as a joke . I saw Adaptation the same day that I saw National Security , About Schmidt , and Catch Me If You Can , and National Security was playing on the biggest screen . This is a travesty of modern society and the commerciality of today's cinema . THAT is what this part of Adaptation was about , and it's a message for audiences , because we are the ones responsible for the abysmal decline of the quality of modern movies . The reason that we are flogged with ridiculous movies like National Security and American Pie and Scary Movie and Big Momma's House and Donald's ' The 3 ' is because we buy the tickets . If George Lucas filmed an old washing machine spin-cycling itself across an old wooden floor , lit only by a single naked light bulb , and he called it Episode III , people would buy tickets by the millions , it would make tons of money , and then it would become a trend seen in movies to follow . Granted , that's not going to happen , but that is what Adaptation is trying to say . The people who write good movie scripts get yelled at by the lecturers of cheap screenwriting classes , and they go insane trying to get their intelligent movies seen by the public , who are not always as intelligent or receptive to intelligence as is often assumed during the screenwriting process . ( spoilers ) The part of John Laroche also parallels this descent into barbarism that the movie points out , as it presents Laroche as a man who has suffered a lot of bad situations and circumstances in life , but who adapts to what comes his way and gets along by whatever means are available and wherever the money happens to be at any certain time . He is at one point collecting beautiful orchids , which happens to be illegal except that he's collecting them for Indians , who have rights because of their traditional heritage , and because he never touches them . Sure , it turns out that the Indians use them for drug purposes , but he later turns to online employment , creating a pornographic website and amazing himself at how much money he brings in regardless of how terrible the content may be . Both of these professions are not the most respectable , but they illustrate a transition from nature to technology and from hallucinogens extracted from flowers to technology and pornography . This is an unmistakable step downward for society , because John represents a lower class of people who are intermingling with a higher class , such as authors of intellectual novels ( such as Susan Orlean , with whom Laroche has a twisted sexual affair ) and the screenwriters who adapt them into films . We live in a melting pot society , and it is up to everyone from the top of the social scale ( however you may personally define it ) to the bottom to prevent ourselves from reversing the process of evolution . Adaptation is not an easy movie to understand . It has a lot of strange twists and it looks back at itself across the barrier between a movie and it's own creation , intertwining a lot of different storylines and even ending in a climax that seems to belong in an entirely different movie , if not even an entirely different genre . But the film has an important message to deliver , not just about what kinds of movies people watch and the results of these ticket sales , but also about the overall state of American society and the ways that some people are forced to live in it . I can certainly understand a lot of people being put off by this film , it's not easy to follow , not easy to understand at many points , and not easy to swallow , but it is surely worth the effort to recognize what it's trying to say .
This must have been tremendously difficult for Gibson to make .	Given how strong Mel Gibson has revealed his religious beliefs to be , it is astounding to me that he was able to make this film as graphically and powerfully as he did . " Okay , now this time when you whip him with the flog , the barbs are going to stick into his back , and then you rip it out and blood and skin will fly everywhere . " Gibson makes no effort to hide his desire to show the world the sheer extent to which Jesus suffered . Shivers run up my spine when I even think about the concept of crucifixion , and that's not even all that Jesus suffered that day . Roger Ebert made an interesting comment in his review that related to my own experience of the movie . He explains that anyone raised as a Catholic will be familiar with the stops along the way . I wasn't raised Catholic myself , religion in general was and remains a very minimal part of my life , but I watched the movie with a friend of mine who spent 12 years in Catholic school and he was yapping on and on during all the dramatic scenes in between the torture and crucifixion , explaining to me who was who and what was going on . The best part was that after the film was over , my friend said that he heard that Mel Gibson wasn't even going to bother with action films like Payback or Lethal Weapon or anything like that anymore , that he only wanted to make meaningful films like this one . I checked online and guess what the next movie was on Mel Gibson's to-do list ? Mad Max ! At first I wished he would shut up but his explanations were actually pretty helpful and it made me think that there are probably a lot of people who would watch this movie and really miss a lot . On the other hand , this is one of those rare movies that speaks its message loud and clear even if you don't know who every character in the movie is , because there are many important people who receive minimal , if any , character explanation . But this movie is about exactly what the final hours of Jesus Christ's life , as Christians believe it , it's not a sermon and it's not a film adaptation of the Bible . The movie borders on getting preachy as it intercuts between Jesus ' torture and crucifixion and flashbacks of him talking to his followers about how he is the way , the life , and the light , but it is such a powerful film that such things are forgivable . True , the movie is about Jesus and what he believed and stood for , but I tend to think that we already know that without having it shoved in our faces like that . The power of the rest of the film gives me the impression that such things are unnecessary . In this case , I think it would have been a case of less is more . I am not the one to consult on the historical accuracy of the film , but the power with which it describes the final hours of Jesus ' life will affect people regardless of their beliefs . Even more , however , I think it's a film about the disastrous cruelties that humans so willingly inflict upon each other , and more importantly , about the irrelevance and hypocrisy of the Church . I've always been fascinated with the old question , " If God is everywhere , why do you have to go to church every Sunday to talk to Him ? " The film is not about Jesus being crucified for what he believed in as much as it is about him being crucified to please the crowd . Granted , the crowd wanted him crucified for what he believed in , but consider this ? they wanted him crucified because of their fear of the Church , which wanted him crucified because he flew in the face of their establishment as the sole means of connection and communication with God . Overall , the movie is about human beings doing horrible things to each other , and the saddest part is the glee with which the people greeted Jesus ' torture and crucifixion . As I watched the film I was reminded of all of the conflicts that have occurred in human history in the name of religion , and how today , after thousands of years of bloodshed , we are not an inch closer to peace than we ever were . The Passion of the Christ is undoubtedly the most violent portrayal of Jesus ' life that has ever been put on screen , and while I am not a religious person , I genuinely appreciate the massive amount of debate that the film has created , it's one of the most important functions of the cinema . The movie is almost physically painful to watch , and I'll probably never watch it again because of that , but Mel Gibson has indeed created something powerful and meaningful . That it has been ignored by the Academy Awards is certainly telling , because this movie certainly deserves to be recognized and rewarded .
One of the best films noir ever , Double Indemnity communicates with amazing effectiveness the depths of depravity , greed , lust , and betrayal of the seemingly innocent and beautiful .	This is one of the best films of all time , not necessarily because of its story but because of the acting , direction , cinematography , lighting , and just the way that the story itself was told . At the time the film was released , the idea of revealing who the killer was in the opening scene was virtually unheard of , but it ended up being very effective because it allowed the audience to concentrate more on other elements of the film , which was the goal of Billy Wilder , the director . Instead of trying to figure out who the perpetrator was , there is more emphasis on how the crime was pulled off , what mistakes were made during the murder , who betrayed who , how close Barton Keyes ( the insurance investigator ) was getting to solving the case , and , probably most importantly , what kind of person Walter Neff is and whether or not sympathy should be felt toward him . Barbara Stanwyck , in one of the most remembered performances of her extensive career , represents ( with nearly flawless ease ) the cold and ruthless manipulator who has no difficulty in ruining other people's lives in various ways ( including death , if necessary ) in order to get what she wants . Known in the film community as the ' femme fatale , ' this is someone who uses her sexual prowess , seductiveness , and emotional detachment to drag an unsuspecting person ( generally an interested man ) into a scheme from which she is expected to benefit heavily and he is most likely headed for destruction . In these types of films , the man often either finds his life in ruins or ends up dead , as is often ( but not always ) also the case with the fate of the femme fatale . Barbara Stanwyck ( as Phyllis Dietrichson , the murderous femme fatale in Double Indemnity ) and Fred MacMurray ( as Walter Neff , her ? victim ' ) , have amazing chemistry on screen . Their attraction is incredibly well portrayed , and the development of their relationship with each other is so convincing that what happens between them almost seems normal . Besides that , their mutually calculated interaction , although it seems at first like it has been rehearsed endlessly and ultimately brought unconvincingly to the screen , is exactly as it was meant to be , because it represents each character's intentions , even very subtly foreshadowing their future betrayals against each other . Phyllis has gone through every word she ever says to Walter in her head . She has practiced what she wants to say when she brings up the idea of life insurance to Walter in the beginning and she knows what she wants to say whenever they interact with each other because she has been planning for quite some time the prospect of murdering her husband in order to collect his fortune . Walter , conversely , methodically makes amorous advances as though this is something that he does regularly , and then ultimately he also plans out his conversations with Phyllis because he begins to suspect her and is sure to tell her only what he wants her to hear . This seemingly stiff dialogue brilliantly represents Phyllis and Walter's precise ( and sinister ) intentions , and it's quick pace creates a feeling of urgency and restlessness . Probably the most fascinating and entertaining actor in the film , Edward G . Robinson , plays Barton Keyes , Walter's friend and employer at the insurance company where he works . Keyes is a very suspicious man who closely investigates the insurance claims which come into the company , having a striking history of accurately isolating fraudulent claims and throwing them out . His handling of Phyllis's ( and Walter's , technically ) claim and the way that he gets closer and closer to the truth create a great atmosphere of tension and drama . Double Indemnity is nearly flawless . From the shocking and unexpected beginning to the already known but still surprising end , the audience is held rapt by the excellent performances , the brilliant and imaginative direction , and the flawlessly created atmosphere . This is excellent , excellent filmmaking , and is a classic film that should not be missed .
Truly a wonder of nature , this urban predator , Tommy the Clown and many a story to tell . But it was a rare occasion , such as this , that he did ?	Primus fans , admittedly not exactly the target audience for this film , will immediately recognize the lyrics above and hopefully get a little kick out of it . People who don't know Primus , probably most of the people who would watch this documentary and read about it , will most likely send me angry e-mails . I am not the biggest fan of hip-hop , rap , r & b , etc . , but I decided to check out this documentary because I recently moved to LA and I appreciate seeing people who take difficult life situations and turn them into something positive , and that is exactly what happens in this movie . All of these kids living in the so called dangerous parts of Los Angeles take their frustration and their fear and channel it into a unique style of dancing , which is often quite a spectacle to behold . It starts with a man who calls himself Tommy the Clown , who entertains at children's parties much like most other types of clowns , except that he specializes in an amazing dance performance rather than magic tricks and balloon animals , and before long other dancing clown groups are popping up all over the place , mostly staffed by kids and teenagers who otherwise would more than likely get involved in a life of crime . This is an amazing look into the reality of the lives that these people live , right down to individual dance parties , some of the unwritten social rules of the people who dance together ( the styles change so quickly that they can tell who has missed even a single day of dancing ) , and tragic events that take place in their everyday lives . Even if this is not your style of music or dancing , this documentary is definitely worth a look to see how some people take something so difficult and so bad in their lives and turn it into something good . Truly inspiring .
Early science fiction story that presents a pessimistic prediction of a future society .	Who ever heard of an epic science fiction film ? Especially in the 1920s ? Sure , some science fiction movies are huge today , such as George Lucas ' latest goofy Star Wars movie , but in 1926 , Fritz Lang came out with a brilliant film about what the future would be like if people went on living the way they were living back then . And sure enough , we went right ahead living the way we were living , the population got bigger and more crowded , and now modern society is not a whole lot different from what was presented in Metropolis . The story is about a young rich kid without a care in the world who becomes concerned about the way that society ( Metropolis ) was run by his father , John Frederson , the master of Metropolis . He lives in a ? Pleasure Garden ' high above the level of the workers ' , and he worries about what would happen if the huge number of workers were to turn against his father , given the terrible conditions under which they live and work . Some of the best scenes in the film take place in the underground mines , showing the workers portrayed as little more than components on a gigantic , sinister looking machine . The scene where the machine overheated even contained some impressive stunts , as well as interesting cinematography as the machine transforms into a giant devil-looking monster . After countless workers are consumed by it ( no wonder this was Hitler's favorite film ) , they are immediately replaced by other workers , who go right to the same spots that the previous men left and resume their robotic movements . If some of these scenes , men can be seen being carried away on stretchers after having been injured , and the rest of the workers keep right on working , hardly even noticing . The way that the workers are portrayed as lifeless machines is one of the more potent elements of this film , as well as the most revealing about the directors intentions . When his son complains about the tragic things that go on in the mines , Frederson replies that such accidents are unavoidable , but his son still insists that they deserve credit for building the city . This is the kind of content that foreshadows some serious mutiny , and at the same time it shows what may very well happen when large groups of people feel mistreated . ' Never underestimate the power of stupid people in large groups ' is a saying that doesn't necessarily only apply to stupid people , as Metropolis suggests . Fritz Lang brilliantly portrays this very complex story with extremely limited dialogue , and the result is still compelling today . The special effects in this film are decades ahead of its time ? it even resembles The Fifth Element in many ways ( except that the two films can hardly be compared ) ? and the acting and especially the elaborately created sets are stunning to say the least . An excellent film , Metropolis is one of the few that should never be forgotten .
Charlie Chaplin at his best .	The Gold Rush is one of Chaplin's best films , as well as one of his most famous . It has been said that it is the film that he most wanted to be remembered by , and it's not hard to see why . Chaplin plays the part of the lone prospector , a young miner during the gold rush . After getting caught in a storm , he hurries to the only shelter that he can find , a wood cabin in the middle of the storm . It turns out that it is already inhabited , and by a tough criminal named Black Larson , no less , and the scene in which Charlie and Big Jim , another prospector , insist to Black Larson that they are going to stay is one of the countless memorable scenes in the film . Charlie and Big Jim are left alone and without food when Larson goes off to face the storm looking for food ( having drawn the lowest card in another amusing scene ) , and the scenes in the cabin are some of the best in the entire film . There is , of course , the boot eating scene , memorable not only because of its cleverness and effectiveness , but also because while making the film , Chaplin ate so much boot ( which was made out of licorice ) before he was satisfied with the take that he had to be taken to the hospital to have his stomach pumped . Another thing that was really well done was the special effects . I am still amazed every time I watch the film at how realistic it looks when there is a long shot from outside showing Charlie hanging from the door of the cabin , which is balanced precariously on the edge of a cliff . Also notice the fast paced and very effective music during this scene , the same song that is played in the best scene of the 1996 film Shine , with Geoffrey Rush . There is also a very noteworthy love element of The Gold Rush , a part of the story that Chaplin generally has much success with in his films . Charlie's amorous interests in Georgia , a dance hall girl , leads to the scene where he performs the famous dance of the dinner rolls , probably the most famous scene in the film , which was also performed very well by Johnny Depp in Benny & Joon . Charlie's relationship with Georgia is also the thing that leads to his presentation of his sympathy for the lower classes , when he meets her on the ship after having become a multi-millionaire . Chaplin's full length films are inherently more famous than his earlier short comedies , and The Gold Rush is one of the best of his full length features . A must see for any Chaplin fan , but The Gold Rush is also a film that anyone who is interested in quality comedy should watch .
The ultimate classic ?	I believe it was Mark Twain that once lamented about his works being called classics , because in his opinion a classic is something that everyone respects but no one ever reads . Or watches , in the case of movies . To a certain extent I agree , because who other than English majors reads The Waste Lands or Heart of Darkness or Hard Times ? And who really watches Citizen Kane or The Third Man or Casablanca for the entertainment value ? Well , maybe more people than I think . The Third Man is a hell of a movie . For me , the first half or so of Casablanca was remarkably uninteresting , although the atmosphere created by the war taking place off screen is incredibly well done . I just hope I'm not becoming spoiled by modern film , that's one of my biggest fears . Casablanca is the last hope for people who can't get to Lisbon to escape from Europe as it descends into war , and because all of the dregs of European society ( the people who can't afford to buy their way out ) make their way by hook or by crook there , it becomes a sort of a prison where people wait for years for their chance to escape to America . The movie is so famous and such an enduring classic that it's almost impossible to write a review of it without mentioning some of the memorable lines , which are so famous that they have become a part of modern lore , like " Here's lookin ' at you , kid , " and of course , " Of all the gin joints in the world ? " It's hard to imagine the movie-making world in which the movie was made , but equally fascinating to learn that the people making the movie had no idea that they were making what would become one of the most popular movies ever made . It was a big movie , of course , but it was made on a relatively tight budget , which is something that I wish modern filmmakers would remember . Money has never been what makes great movies . Few people know that anymore . There is an intensely romantic story in the movie , what must be the best love story in a war film ever made , and it is remarkable how convincing and unpredictable it is . During the first half of the movie , it's easy to think that you can see exactly where it's going , which is most likely the reason I found parts of the first half slow and uninteresting . But soon there comes a point where you realize that you can't predict the ending . Specifically , this happens when we learn that Ilsa's ( Ingrid Bergman ) " new " love , the man for whom her romance with Rick ( Humphrey Bogart ? one of the biggest giants in film history ) has to end , is really a good man . It's a strange love triangle between the three characters , one that many people may find morally repellent , but moving nonetheless . These are real people , not movie characters , and it seems that their amazing level of realism comes across on the screen so smoothly that it's almost by accident . Ultimately Casablanca is a story about painful sacrifice for the greater good , softened by the assertion that the problems of three little people don't amount to a hill of beans in this crazy world . It's fascinating to consider the reality of that statement as we hurtle through the cosmos suffering the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune . But as we try to find all the answers , it's nice to be able to look back to one of the most tumultuous times in modern history and see three people who know they have to suffer but know the reason why . So often we aren't afforded that luxury in real life .
After thousands of years of war , we are no closer to peace than we have ever been .	I remember being initially put off by a movie with ' Samurai ' in the title and starring Tom Cruise , but like Brad Pitt did in Troy recently , Cruise delivers a powerful performance as a Civil War veteran whose meaningless life takes a shocking turn after being sent on an assassination assignment . We meet Cruise sitting backstage , about to be called on to speak to an adoring crowd about his military experiences , and he stumbles onstage , drunk and belligerent , and winds up pulls out his rifle and firing several shots above the shocked heads of the crowd . So yeah , war had a not so good effect on him and he's not too happy with life . He takes an assignment to assassinate the samurai leader Katsumoto , and after a vicious battle , Nathan Algren ( Cruise ) is taken prisoner be captors who clearly respect / fear him because he fought a circle of men literally until he could not stand , killing the last one of them while lying flat on his back . The Americans were in the process of aiding Japan's eager transition from the Old ways to the ways of the West , the process of which provides endless opportunities for massive financial gain in areas like weapons and trade . Algren is already disgusted with the military because of a traumatic experience he had in following what he always felt was an immoral order from a superior officer , Colonel Bagley ( Tony Goldwyn ) , who he never forgives and is never faced with reason to . That particular battle is only hinted at in a series of fast and blurry flashbacks , but it is more than enough to get the idea that it involved sacking a village that Algren believed had nothing to do with their conflict , and it resulted in the deaths of the entire population , including women and children . After being taken prisoner by Katsumoto , he is returned to Katsumoto's village and kept as a prisoner , but here is the difference between the Civil War era Americans and the samurai ? the Americans want to know their enemy , the samurai want to understand their enemy , and as the rest of the movie shows , there is a huge difference between knowing your enemy and understanding your enemy , not the least of which is that the former is generally useful toward the purpose of killing them , the latter more useful in the purpose of understanding why they live and fight the way they do . Algren begins his captivity as a prisoner , albeit one with an amazing amount of freedom within the village . He is not imprisoned , but rather allowed to roam the grounds , exploring the area and people , and only reminded that he's a prisoner of war by the studying looks he receives from everyone he passes , particularly as he passes groups of warriors training for battle . Algren gets to know the people and their culture , as do we along the way , and we grow to appreciate their culture and their way of life , the cleanliness , honor , and respectability , especially when it is contrasted by Colonel Bagley's calling them savages armed only with bows and arrows . This juxtaposition of the American prejudices toward the samurai and our developed respect for the organization of their culture is indeed unsettling . I just watched Fahrenheit a few weeks ago and have since automatically seen parallels between the events in the Middle East and almost every movie I watch ( I even managed to make two connections which you can find in my review of Day of the Dead , of all movies ) , so I try not to talk too much about parallels in every movie , but the ones here are too much to overlook , especially when America is so occupied with battling what are often called insurgents or savages . Given the videotapes that these people put on the internet , I tend to agree with naming them vicious savages , but The Last Samurai is a reminder that such terms simply cannot be applied to populations or cultures in their entirety . There are savages in EVERY culture . I think this movie may have gone a little far in that the samurai were completely pure , there was no counterpart of Colonel Bagley on their side , for instance , which tends to suggest to me that the movie is more interested in promoting an understanding of cultures that so many people know nothing about . It's scary to watch this movie and see all of the good , moral people on both sides who kill each other and are killed when , as is in this case most demonstrated by Colonel Bagley , the primary reasoning behind it all is a lack of mutual understanding . After spending some time in captivity , Algren comments in a voice-over that he has slept well in this village for the first time in many years , a curious statement which highlights the irony that the only way he found peace was through his experience as a prisoner of the very culture he was sent to destroy . This has to be one of the clearest and most effective anti-war statements I've ever seen in a movie . The relationships that develops between Algren and Matsumoto is , obviously , where the majority of the film's message lies , as they grow from enemies to comrades on the battlefield . There are striking comparisons between the samurai's willing to die for honor ( which , in sharp contrast to American beliefs , can be achieved through suicide ) and what I think is a more apprehensive view of death on the American side . I believe that Americans see deaths on the battlefield as something tragic , a necessary amount of suffering in the name of something for which we as a people largely believe in ( hence the enormous importance that going into war is done for just reasons ) , while the samurai see death on the battlefield as a good death , an honorable one . The divide is sharp , but the two of them find connection in their values , not their cultures , and especially in their view of honor . Their mutual understanding of deaths in battle as honorable is the seed upon which they are able to build their relationship with each other . Despite so many seemingly uncross-able differences , this one belief leads to their understanding and respect of each other , which personally left me hoping that one day this might happen in the world on a larger scale .
( best bond ever )	So the reason my summary line is lower case and in parentheses is because initially I had it all in capital letters followed by your everyday period , but the IMDb politely told me DO NOT SHOUT in your summary line . So it's a whisper . Happy now ? Anyway , when I say that Casino Royale is the best Bond ever , I mean that it's the best film , although I would argue that Daniel Craig is also one of the best actors to play James Bond , maybe second only to Sean Connery . He fits the role of a younger 007 with such flawless precision that it's amazing to me that there is any controversy at all about his casting . I have heard that there were a lot of people that were upset that they cast a blonde guy in the role of 007 , but that just strikes be as such a shallow and ridiculous complaint that I don't bother to take it seriously . Having watched Die Another Day just before watching Casino Royale again , I am struck by how much more realistic the plot of this film is . There is nothing totally outlandish about the villain or the plot , and Bond is not presented as an infallible superspy . In fact , I think that's one of the best things about the movie . It's a prequel to all of the preceding films in the series , and Bond has just received his 00 status . Craig gives us a portrayal of James Bond that's totally different from anything we've ever seen before . He's reckless and unpredictable , he allows his emotions to control him and he makes drastic mistakes . Craig gives us a younger and less experienced 007 , showing us some of the formative experiences that made him into the character that we have come to know and love . Bond is embarking on his first mission since being granted 00 status , and his learning experience is not without difficulties . A man named Le Chiffre makes a living by bankrolling terrorists , and after losing $100 million of his terrorist investors ' money in a botched attempt to destroy a prototype plane that would revolutionize the air travel industry , he has to win back the money in a high - stakes poker game or face their wrath . I just have to say that it's amazing that a Bond film that's about 30 minutes longer than the average 007 movie can be centered around a card game and still flow so smoothly and so quickly . Despite having not the slightest interest in poker , I was never for a second bored during the card playing scenes , which should tell you something about how well-made the movie is . Le Chiffre is also one of the best villains of the series . He's scarred and has a bad eye that occasionally leaks blood ( although he assures one of his investors early in the movie , " Weeping blood is only because of a deranged tear duct , nothing sinister . " Right ! ) . He has no plans for world domination of global destruction , but is instead in the very real world position of a bank-roller of terrorist organizations . After the botched attempt to destroy a prototype airplane and thus generate a tremendous amount of money in the stock market , Le Chiffre instead loses more than $100 million , so he sets out to use his tremendous mathematical ingenuity to win back the money in the high - stakes poker game . MI6 sends Bond to participate in the game , informing him that if he loses , the British government will have directly financed terrorism . The stunningly beautiful Eva Green stars as Vesper Lynd , who must surely be the classiest and most intelligent Bond girl ever , as well as the one with the most important and unique role and impact on Bond's life . Bond's experience in knowing her is not always good but it has an effect on him that affects who he is , and no Bond girl has ever done that before , except maybe for the woman Bond married in On Her Majesty's Secret Service in 1969 . Best one-liner : Bond : " Vodka martini . " Bartender : " Shaken or stirred ? " Bond : " Do I look like I give a damn ? " By the way , can I just ask one question ? Why doesn't anyone EVER do CPR right in the movies ?
If I sing a song will you sing along ?	This is the first time I've seen any performance footage of the Blue Man Group , who I previously knew only from having seen them in commercials several years ago . They are such an entertaining act that they don't even need very innovative or even very good quality music , and yet the songs that they write are fantastic . They poke fun at themselves in this concert , with a big booming voice echoing through the concert hall between songs , giving instructions on how to become rock stars . On the other hand , it's a great illustration of the differences between themselves and conventional rock stars , a surprising number of which seem to have followed the instructions to the letter . Some of the instructions the Blue Men are clearly mystified by , such as the rotating your hips to the techno music section , but others they adhere to with hilarious closeness , such as the " Alter your appearance to make you stand out from the crowd . " They have this characteristic way of looking at each other , as though they're not sure what's going on , and it is a great effect when they do it here , as though just realizing that they look different than all of the people watching them . Another of the many highlights of this concert is the section where they pay homage to all of the other rock stars that came before them , again following instructions given by the booming voice . The crowd cheers in delight as they recognize some earlier hits such as a song by one-hit-wonders Devo ( the majority of whose music is almost painful to listen to ) , and Crazy Train by Black Sabbath . The Blue Men react in hilarious fright when Ozzy's voice bursts from the speakers . The DVD also features a couple of music videos of songs which also appear in the concert , but the videos are great to watch on their own as well . There is an outstanding song called Sing Along that should certainly not be missed , since it is sung by Dave Matthews ( who does not appear in the concert ) . It is a beautiful song , and the Blue Men perform it with their characteristic mixture of humor and incredible musical skill , banging on huge octopus-looking structures of PVC pipes and vacuum cleaner hoses strung about their bodies like grotesque backpacks , pouring from them an astonishing composure of sound . I also love the effect of the guy with the whip . There is also a video of the song that the Blue Men did for Terminator 3 , although it is much less impressive than the other two music videos that appear on the DVD because Bush's Gavin Rossdale has too much of a heavy presence in it . It is his music video , the Blue Men simply make appearances , which is why it comes off as a more traditional and less interesting video , although the third video , Exhibit 13 , is incredibly simple , beautiful , and an exhibition of pure artistic skill . At the time of this writing something like 13 people have rated this concert DVD on the IMDb , and I like to think that it's just because not many people go to the IMDb to look up information about concert DVDs as much as to get information and write reviews and whatnot of more traditional movies . Whatever the case , I certainly hope that more people will make an effort to see this DVD and other work by the Blue Men , because they are certainly one of the most talented acts working today . Their unique and fascinating performance makes even the best rock acts seem to fuse together with the rest of the traditional performance world , even to the point of blandness . If you get the chance to see them in concert ( which I haven't ) , don't miss it because it is sure to be a concert experience unlike any other .
Brilliant moody trip through a damaged mind .	This has to be one of Christian Bale's most memorable performances . I have read that he lost nearly 70 pounds for the role , which is an astonishing amount of weight and supposedly the most that any actor has deliberately lost for any role in a movie in film history . His appearance is frightening in itself , with his protruding bones and sunken eyes , he inhabits the role of a man struggling with severe insomnia and an increasing array of other problems . He has a job as a machinist and it is not pleasant work . It's repetitive and dark and boring , and he tends not to get along with his colleagues so well . He seems a little out of place , even a little confused by his surroundings , and becomes increasingly distracted by various strange occurrences . I love that Bale's character's name is Trevor Reznik , named after Trent Reznor , the singer of Nine Inch Nails , one of my favorite bands . I hear that they were sought after to do the soundtrack but they decided not to go in that direction with the movie . It's too bad , too , because Nine Inch Nails could not possibly do anything bad to a movie like this . There is an intense scene in the film where Trevor is giving a ' hand ' to a co-worker named Miller , when he gets distracted and bumps into a power button , activating a machine which then won't stop , and Miller loses an arm at the elbow . It's a grisly , painful scene to watch , and it is a major turning point in the movie and Trevor ' life . Later , Miller is able to make feeble attempts to joke about the accident , apparently trying to make some light of the subject while at the same time barely covering his mixture of anger at Trevor's catastrophic carelessness and shock at how quickly his body and his life were forever changed . Trevor , on the other hand , is tremendously upset at the accident , and becomes increasingly irrational and angry as time goes on , as he tries to figure out what happened . There is a man named Ivan who works with Trevor , and for a variety of reasons they get to know each other . Ivan once suffered an injury at the workplace and lost some fingers , which were then replaced with some of his toes , resulting in one of the most grotesque things you may ever have seen organically attached to a human hand . It is truly disgusting . Things start to get weird for Trevor when he discovers that he is the only person who knows of any Ivan that works there . The idea of a character getting to know someone and then discovering that that person doesn't really exist is nothing new , but here it prevents us from having any idea where the movie is going . I think it's safe to assume that a lot of what is happening is happening in Trevor's head , but more importantly , it is a fascinating trip through the moody blue atmosphere of Trevor's sleep-deprived mind . For a temporary escape from his lifeless life , he looks to Stevie , a prostitute who gives him much more than sex , she gives him an understanding that he can't seem to get anywhere else . Jennifer Jason Leigh is surprisingly effective in this role , and she is able to very clearly portray Stevie's understanding of Trevor , as well as the emergence of their mutual need that goes far beyond just being physical . If there are any slow points in the movie , they are easily glossed over by the interest generated by Trevor's deteriorating condition . Something terrible has happened to him in the past , or continues happening , and the movie shows us his own efforts to figure it out , put everything back in order , and finally get some sleep . The end of the movie will disappoint some viewers , but like so many other great films , it doesn't tie everything up in a nice little bow . It leaves you thinking , and demands a second viewing . Note : According to the IMDb trivia page for the movie , Scott Kosar wrote the screenplay for this movie right out of film school , which would mean that , when he wrote the script for the 2003 Texas Chainsaw remake the year before , he was still a student . This may provide some reason for why that movie was so astonishingly bad . Director Brad Anderson , on the other hand , also wrote and directed a brilliant horror film a few years ago called Session 9 , which I also highly recommend ?
The mixture of British humor with Romero-style horror is indeed a winning combination .	I had Shaun of the Dead pegged as one of those straight-to-video movies that pops up every once in a while , featuring a clever lampooning of something popular in movies at the time . In the wake of a spectacular remake of Dawn of the Dead , it was not hard to come to this conclusion . But not only in Shaun of the Dead more than a straight-to-video sideshow hoping for a few minutes of attention , it's a tremendous installment in the horror genre that shows that romantic subplots can indeed have a place in scary movies . What is truly amazing is that Jerry Bruckheimer can screw up romantic subplots in movies that seem to demand romance , and yet Director Edgar Wright is able to make it work in a gory zombie movie . This is outstanding ! The best parts of the movie are the gradual evolution from a romantic comedy and into a horror film that takes place over the first third or so . The movie opens in a serious conversation between Shaun and his amazingly beautiful and adorable girlfriend Liz , in which they discuss how unhappy Liz is with the way their relationship is going . They each complain about the other's friends , all of whom are sitting right there listening . Shaun's inability to find anything else to do other than hang out at the same pub , the Winchester , and work at the same dead-end job have led to Liz issuing an ultimatum . Change things , or she's outta here . I love that the movie is so effective both as a horror film and a romantic comedy , while at the same time going significantly out of its way to make fun of those two genres . My favorite is the way the sound is manipulated early in the film . Horror films constantly manipulate sound to create scares and tension ( such as the Screeching Cat scare ) , and this movie makes fun of that tactic , giving extreme close-ups and vastly amplified sound for things like brushing teeth and spreading jam on toast . As Shaun goes through a typical day the day after his conversation with Liz , he notices things here and there that seem out of the ordinary , like lines of massive military vehicles rushing past his workplace , a man obviously terrified running past him at full speed , and a staggering man across the street who picks up a pigeon with the intention of eating it . If you think about it , most of the more well-known zombie movies start out in the middle of the crisis . They don't take the time to show normal society , they just start out focusing on a small group of people , the last survivors in what is by now an almost complete decimation of the human race , which has consumed itself , you might say . Here , everything is normal , and the movie takes the time to show what it might be like for the average person if the walking dead started eating people and turning them into walking dead as well . There are frantic news reports that offer vague theories as to what is causing ' the crisis , ' but like the military vehicles and other strange things that Shaun noticed , he always gets distracted before he catches on to what is going on , which allows room for some of the most memorable scenes in the movie , like when Shaun and his best friend Ed , one of Liz's major complaints , leave the Winchester that night , pleasantly intoxicated . In the morning , Shaun wakes up and walks across the street to the corner store , like he does every day , and doesn't notice the chaos that has erupted overnight . When he gets back , there is a hilarious scene where he and Shaun find a zombie stuck in their backyard , apparently unaware of where she is or where to go . This is a perfect example of where the movie most sharply departs from the traditional zombie movie . Shaun and Ed don't react like actors in a gore movie , they react like normal people would in such a situation . When the zombie girl turns around , they look at her shocked , and then laugh at how drunk she must be . When she falls and suffers a significant injury , only to get right back up , the looks on Shaun's and Ed's faces are absolutely priceless . From this point , the movie turns into the more traditional horror film , but it maintains its originality and romantic comedy portion by stopping occasionally to remind you that the other plot has not been forgotten . There are times throughout the movie where the characters are surrounded by zombies and stop completely to argue about their personal differences . At one point , they are literally surrounded by hundreds of zombies only a few feet away , and Ed stops to sit casually on a nearby bench and talk to someone on his cell-phone . Shaun smacks it out of his hand and essentially tells him that that's exactly the problem with him . I think that where Shaun of the Dead is most successful is in the blending of these two seemingly incompatible story lines . A lesser movie would have tried to mix together a romantic comedy and a horror movie and ended up screwing them both up , trying to please everyone and ultimately pleasing no one . Shaun of the Dead , however , tried to please everyone and succeeds because it doesn't disenfranchise anyone . It doesn't start as a romantic comedy , then turn into a horror movie that solves the romantic comedy because Liz fell back in love with Shaun , who in the course of the horror portion had become a hero . That's how you screw up a movie with a premise like this . Instead , the movie weaves this tapestry of horror and romantic comedy , each infiltrating and playing off of the other , becoming in the process a success in both areas and something truly unique . And even if it had done nothing but make a zombie movie unique , it would have been a success , but there is so much more there . Don't miss this one .
" Why kill myself worrying when I'll end up just as dead anyway ? "	Bicycle Thieves initially struck me as being much more famous than it deserves . I will admit that for a good portion of the film I found myself wondering why it is such a well known classic . Then again , I'm not exactly an expert on Italian Neorealism so that may have something to do with it . One thing that really caught my attention right away was how well the film captured the desperation of the out of work masses . I live in central eastern China at the moment , in a relatively small city of a mere 6 . 5 million people , and everywhere I look I see similar circumstances . Especially in the countryside , it's frightening to see how poor these people are . The film tells an incredibly moving story about the life of a poor family using an extremely effective but amazingly simple plot device , a stolen bicycle . In my life I have probably had half a dozen or so bicycles stolen from me , and it's such a sinking and sickening feeling , that for a while I wondered if maybe a stolen bicycle was the original inspiration for the story . Indeed , the after effects are captured flawlessly . The instant desperation , the frantic searching , the fleeting certainty that you'll be able to recover the lost bike , and the gradual and crushing realization that that is never going to happen . Even after filing a police report and doing everything possible to find it , the world is filled with millions of bicycles . As " the one who sees " explains , " Find it right away or you never will . " The story boils a man down to the singular need of that bicycle in order to provide with his family , and when it is taken from him we witness all of the above changes in him , along with the gradual increasing of his desperation until he ultimately reaches the conclusion that many of us were waiting for all along , and yet dread to see when it actually happens . All along he only wants to provide for his family , and yet ultimately he is forced to do something that he despises , and clearly isn't very good at . The helplessness and uselessness of the police is surely a statement that Hitchcock would have loved , and also says something about the plight of people in his situation . Even in a situation when he was sure he knew who had stolen his bicycle , and who had even run away from him minutes before , he was told by a police officer that he had no proof and was then ridiculed by an entire neighborhood in front of his son . Sadly , there is no real conclusion to the man's story , because there is no easy ending in his life either . It is interesting to consider the meaning behind the lack of closure . Obviously , it is a closer representation of real life this way , but there is also a point when Antonio , the main character , muses briefly but powerfully on his situation , giving the film a whole new depth - " There's a cure for everything - except death . "
Charlie Chaplin meets the Tramp .	In Kid Auto Races at Venice , Chaplin first tried on the costume of the little Tramp , and was clearly unsure what to do with it . He wandered around and made himself seen , making it clear that he wanted to be noticed and had something to show the world , but he still wasn't sure what the personality of his character was . In Mabel's Strange Predicament , he tries something new , and finds that it went wrong . Now , in Between Showers , we have another example of the incredible , almost prophetic foreshadowing and symbolism that we saw in Kid Auto Races . Whereas in his last film , he was an obnoxious , belligerent drunk , in Between Showers he decides to try helping people . Not only that , but within the first few minutes of the film , he is literally testing out the waters . And as we would see in the years to come , the experiment worked with phenomenal success . What Chaplin also largely discovers in this film is the hyperbolic fight scene , exaggerated to cartoonish proportions for the benefit of the slightly fast motion and the absence of close-ups , which provides a comic effect sufficient to inspire years of including similar scenes in future films . The plot is simple , as they were in those days , and concerns the varying degrees of possession of an umbrella , with hilarious results , as they say . Between Showers probably marks the last major change for the Tramp that we would ever see , since Chaplin got it nearly perfect here . Let the show begin ?
Funny , entertaining , and amazingly intense and dramatic .	I find it sad that so many people are so narrow-minded that they will not watch a movie that is black and white or , in this case , is subtitled . I feel sorry for people who refuse to watch a movie like Life Is Beautiful just because it is a foreign film . They have no idea what a beautifully acted and directed film this is , and they'll never know what an amazing experience they are missing . Life Is Beautiful manages to walk the extremely thin line between humor , fantasy , and tragedy . Sure , the film is clearly comedic , but nevertheless it manages to very effectively communicate the tremendous losses suffered in the Nazi concentration camps and has scenes at least as intense as any scene in Schindler's List . This is one of the best films that I have ever seen . It manages to be so encompassing that you hardly notice the subtitles are even there . I proudly cast my vote of 10 .
Whether you love it or you hate it , you have to respect The Blair Witch Project for its uniqueness and its originality .	One of the many unique things about the Blair Witch Project is that no one liked it . Everyone who saw it either absolutely loved it or absolutely hated it , there was unusually little in between . It should be noted that no one has ever made a professional film like this before . People often joke about a movie being so bad that a student filmmaker could make a better one . Well , a student filmmaker really COULD make a movie like the Blair Witch Project , but the point is that no one has ever made a film this deliberately crude and yet attained such stunning success . The makers of the Blair Witch Project cleverly avoid the inevitable comparisons to student films by making the actual premise of the film as a student documentary . That's what makes the movie so good ! The tagline is about a bunch of kids who went into the woods , got lost , and whose video footage was found a year later . That makes the film itself realistic beyond all other horror films . The methods of production enabled the actors to present an even more convincing portrayal of a bunch of kids lost in the woods and desperate to get out . A lot of times they didn't even know what was going on with the picture , they really WERE lost and confused . Another notable element of this movie is the way that they were able to create such a tense atmosphere with a virtual absence of gore . This is proof that you do not need buckets of blood in order to make a good scary movie . So many people complained about the shaky camera work in the Blair Witch Project . They say that it was terrible filmmaking because the camera is always bouncing around , but that was done on purpose ! Don't these people realize that the home video look was the primary goal for the finished product here ? These kids didn't go out into the woods to shoot this documentary with a full-on film crew complete with caterers and everything else , they went ALONE . However , there was a little bit of botched editing in this film . It is meant to be presented as though they found their video cameras , and what you see on the screen is simply what they recorded on their cameras , with little , if any , editing . Obviously the two cameras they used needed to be edited together so that they show the same material , but there was at least one scene where Heather was seen on the opposite side of a stream crossing the log ( the one that they had come back to ) , but her voice is heard as though it is her holding the camera . Overall , the Blair Witch Project is a very original and satisfying horror movie , but you have to have an open mind . You have to be able to accept something that was made different than your traditional movie is made , and try to really understand what is different about it and what makes it good . I think that one of the best things about the story is that it leaves so much to the imagination . You never see what is actually tormenting them from out in the woods , all you see is the dark , and that makes every individual audience member imagine whatever it is that they fear the most out there in those woods . In this sense , the film is almost interactive . No other horror film has ever come close to doing anything like that , and the Blair Witch Project should be recognized for it . This is an original , entertaining , and ultimately terrifying film , and you see something new every time you see it .
THIS is an Oscar worthy animated short !	Rocks is one of the best animated films I've ever seen . It not only starts off with a clever idea , but it alternates between real time and geologic time so simply but so effectively that it is almost like it is alternating between two different worlds . It gives a great idea of the difference between geologic time and the time that we experience , as two rock piles talk to each other , complaining about another ice age like it's a rainy day . The stop motion animation itself is indeed brilliant , but my favorite part is the picture that the movie paints about the path of human history . It shows us how fast we move in geologic time , illustrating the description of humans as a " flash in the pan " in the perspective of the history of the earth . Take any geology class , and one of the first things you will learn is that , if all 4 . 6 or so billion years of the earth's life were condensed into a 24 hour period , humans came into existence something like 2 seconds before midnight , and this movie knows that . The rocks are initially impressed with the development and industrialization that they see going on around them , the increase in productivity and efficiency , until suddenly it becomes a monster , growing and growing and towering over them , threatening their homes and their existence . But before anything serious happens to them , the growth that they witnessed begins to decay and break down , and they watch apathetically as it collapses back into the earth from which it grew , becoming the rolling hills that it always was . It is a very pessimistic view of the future of the human race , but more than likely true . What I really love about the film is that it can really make you look at the way you live your life without ever becoming preachy or , in a film that contains the end of humanity , political . This is truly a great film .
A startlingly well made political love story , The American President succeeds hugely in the tremendously difficult task of being a good love story and a good political story at the same time .	Michael Douglas , who is most well known for his enormous skill in playing stolid villains or regular men who become desperate because they manage to get themselves in way over their head , puts off these characteristics to play the part of the President of the United States , and he delivers a towering performance in this role . The story is based on the fact that President Andrew Shephard ( Douglas ) will soon be facing reelection , an election which may be compromised by the fact that he is developing a romantic interest in an envorinmental lobbyist named Sydney Ellen Wade ( played beautifully by Annette Bening ) . Matters are complicated by the fact that Shephard's wife died just before he was elected in the first place , and his cabinet members ( particularly Lewis Rothschild , played by Michael J . Fox ) are urgently trying to persuade him not to date during the election . One of the strange things about this movie is that it's kind of ironic that no one has really made a political film like this that centers around a romance involving the President . Indeed , watching a man as powerful as the U . S . President using his powers to flirt with someone that he has a crush on ( okay , that sounded pretty dumb . Maybe no one's done it before because it sounds ridiculous in writing ! ) , trying at the same time to persuade her that he really is the President . While it doesn't exactly SOUND like it would make the greatest film , this premise has resulted in the exceedingly superior romantic comedy that we see in The American President . The performances in the film are spectacular throughout , but it's actually the script that deserves even more attention than the actors ' performances , which is a rare distinction in a film . I think that the reason that The American President succeeds so well as a political film as well as a romantic comedy is that both elements are so realistically presented . I think it was Roger Ebert who praised The American President for approaching and handling real issues , such as gun control and the environment , instead of side-stepping this and trying to present a President who is not taking any certain stands on any certain issues that might cause the film's audience to like him or the movie less . The love story , one of the easiest things in the cinematic medium to completely screw up , is done brilliantly here , largely because of the occupations of the two subjects that it centers on as well as the excellent script . The movie has a nearly endless amount of comments to make about the American Presidency , the way that the public sees the office , and the restrictions that it places on its occupants . There is a pleasant irony between such things as President Shephard's ability to get Wade on the phone when she doesn't even have a phone of her own ( hey , I'm a poet and I didn't even realize it ? ) , but his complementary inability to even bring her to the house for a nice , innocent dinner . President Andrew Shephard is faced with the unfortunate task of trying to appease the American public , retain his position in the White House , convince Sydney Ellen Wade that he is who he says he is and that he is genuinely interested in her , and provide for his own romantic happiness , with the added conflict that if any one of them fails , all of the others are likely to fail as well . It's true that , this being a rather light-hearted romantic comedy , we already know how the film is going to end , but brilliant dialogue , a fascinating story , unusually interesting characters , and a tense political atmosphere prevent the material from getting boring just because we really already know how it's going to turn out in the end . Besides that , the romance in the film is so well done that that element alone makes it worth watching . There's a scene in the film when President Shephard and Wade are dancing in a crowded dinner hall , and she asks him what people are going to think about the whole situation , wondering who that woman is and why the President is dancing with her . In an example of the brilliance of the script as well as the reason that the romantic plot of the film succeeds so well , Shephard responds , ' Sydney Ellen Wade , because she said yes . ' You see , romance CAN be done right sometimes .
Evidently not a crowd favorite ?	At the time of this writing no one else has bothered to write anything on the IMDb about this short documentary that accompanies the Vista Series of The Sixth Sense , although fans have certainly found it in their hearts to give it a whopping 3 . 4 collective vote . Why people voted it so low I can't imagine , because it delivers exactly what it offers , reflections from the set . All of the people who played the biggest roles in the film appear in this documentary , from M . Night Shyamalan and Toni Collette to Haley Joel Osment and Bruce Willis . , to talk about their experiences in making the movie . In pondering what might have caused so many people to give this documentary the lowest rating on the IMDb , I thought that maybe Donnie Wahlberg's interview might have had something to do with it , because he tells some pretty odd stories . Shyamalan praises him for his dedication to a role of Vincent Gray , which would only entail about five minutes of screen time , and then Donnie Wahlberg gives a pretty extensive interview about how he went about preparing for the role . It turns out that he transformed his body in the same way Tom Hanks did for Cast Away . Not quite as extremely , but he did lose something like 25 pounds for the role , which is a tremendous amount for someone of his size . He goes on to tell a strange story about going to the park with a friend a few days before shooting his scene , and he decided that his character wouldn't be able to do that , because he had no friends , so he took off and hid in the bushes until the early hours of the morning , and then got out and walked around for even longer , " just trying to exist . " And I thought to myself , What is this guy talking about , trying to exist ? He already lost the weight , just say the lines ! And then I thought to myself , wait a minute , I don't know how to act , who in the hell am I to criticize this guy's methods ? Wahlberg delivered an outstanding performance and he deserves nothing but praise for it . Speaking of which , all of the cast heap praise on each other , such as the way Bruce Willis praises how Shyamalan makes up stories out of his head rather than remaking old movies or TV shows from the 60s or something , how he's a great storyteller and whatnot . I don't really think that this is the cast and crew praising each other in hopes of doing business together in the future or to help themselves get hired in the future , but is a really natural reaction to having worked with people on a movie . People praise each other on these documentaries even for bad movies or movies that were commercial failures , like Willard ( which I thought was a very good movie ) or Texas Chainsaw III . Whatever the case , they are really designed to give insight into the movie and , at least as importantly , to perhaps raise your opinion of the movie , even if you already loved it . It's hard to criticize a movie when you see how hard these people worked on it , and Reflections from the Set gives tremendous insight into the movie , which was already an amazing success , which is why it is so strange to me that people on the IMDb voted it so low . There was a tremendous amount of film-making talent that came together on this movie , and you can see it in this documentary just as much as in the movie .
Not even really a Shakespeare adaptation , but that's what's so good about it !	There was quite a bit of understandable controversy over the Best Picture Oscar for 1998 , because Shakespeare in Love and Saving Private Ryan were both tremendously good films , and the audience was very divided between the two . There is a definite popular influence on the workings of the Academy Awards ( no matter how good a film is , it will never win a Best Picture Oscar unless it is hugely popular like Private Ryan and Shakespeare in Love . This is exactly why Memento never won a Best Picture Oscar ) , but in this case , I think that the quality of the historical element was one of the things that caused the Academy to sway more toward Shakespeare in Love than Saving Private Ryan . Obviously , both had enormous historical value , but I think that there are some notable differences between the two . First of all , Saving Private Ryan is , for the most part , a presentation of true events that occurred during World War II . It is a spectacular portrayal of true events in American history , and should definitely be recognized for that . The fact that Saving Private Ryan did not win the Oscar does not mean that it is not widely , and correctly , considered to be one of the greatest war films ever made . In my opinion , the Oscar was given to Shakespeare in Love because of the enormous effort that was put into the film's story . Private Ryan had a great fictional story as well , but it is much more complicated to come up with such an elaborate story of something that may have happened in Shakespeare's life , and to tie that story in with what little we know about that life , than it is to create a fictional and touching story that takes place during war times . Shakespeare in Love takes the unfortunately small amount of information that we have about Shakespeare's life and brings it to the screen in an amazingly realistic way . We know that this is all fiction , but the fact that it fits so well with the content of his plays and the society that he lived in makes it magical , because Shakespeare is literally brought to life for everyone to see . We get something brought to the screen that people have wondered about for centuries , so of COURSE it should win the Best Picture Oscar ! Granted , from the few portraits that survive , William Shakespeare was probably not nearly as attractive as Joseph Fiennes , but hey , Hollywood had to have its influence somewhere , right ? Fiennes delivers a brilliant performance in this staggeringly well-made drama , which provides one of the best period settings ever created on film . When you watch Shakespeare in Love , you're THERE . And we not only get what would be on its own a fabulously developed and interesting story , but also some potential facts that interact with what we know about Shakespeare , such as possible inspirations for some of the characters in his plays , the most important of which is obviously Viola ( although Shakespeare's infatuation with her does not exactly match her character in Twelfth Night ) , as well as some of the content of his plays , like Romeo and Juliet . There is also a brilliant subplot that makes Shakespeare himself the main cause of the rather mysterious death of Christopher Marlowe . One of the main problems with movies these days is that people think that just because you get two great names together ( like Spielberg and Hanks ) , then you have what should automatically be the Best Picture winner for that year . This is a hilariously erroneous way of examining the movies , especially when many of the people who think that way have not seen most of the other contenders for the Best Picture Oscar . Shakespeare in Love may not escape from that prejudice entirely , although I doubt there were many small films that matched it in quality . This is a spectacular drama , it has a remarkable score , brilliant direction , wonderful performances from everyone involved ( Judi Dench's earth-quaking performance as Queen Elizabeth should be especially noted ) , and an ingeniously written script , which explored every element of Shakespeare himself , even going so far as to give him a rather short temper ( ' God's TEETH am I to suffer this constant stream of interruption ? ! ' ) . True , we can't assume that such a great man as Shakespeare didn't have a temper ( there are already enough rumors about him , such as the one that when he was writing his plays , he ' never blotted a word . ' ) , but quick to anger is not the kind of thing that is generally associated with him . It is rather unfortunate that Shakespeare in Love and Saving Private Ryan came up against each other in the Academy Awards for 1998 , because they are both worth a Best Picture Oscar , but since only one can be given out , I think that Shakespeare in Love has the edge on Private Ryan . Just barely , but it does . Shakespeare in Love is a nearly flawless film , and just such minor things like casting a late 1990s teen heartthrob like Matt Damon as Private Ryan ( just in case you thought the movie took place anytime other than the summer of 1998 ) by itself knocked it at least a notch or two below Shakespeare in Love . The direction was spectacular , and Spielberg was rightfully given the Best Director Oscar , but when every element of the two movies are taken into account and compared , Private Ryan just has to stand aside in the Best Picture category . I stand by the Academy's decision , and I hope that , from what I have said about Shakespeare in Love , those rather misled people who think that Best Director and Best Picture automatically go together will begin to understand why that is not at all true .
Outstandingly slow !	I should clarify . In what is known as the first prison break film ever made , I was initially surprised at how similar Grand Illusion was to the 1963 film The Great Escape , which is to be expected , of course , since this film probably had such a profound impact on that one ( and any respectable break-out movie that has ever come out , as it were ) . I was also surprised to see that , not only does the movie move at an alarmingly slow pace during much of the middle of it , but several of the characters come across as almost stereotypical caricatures , like they are filling in expected roles in a formula film . But then ( and here is where it really struck me how great this movie is ) , before I even realized anything was changing in my mind , it occurred to me that the combination of the slow pace and the caricatures were almost like a cinematic justification of the pace of the film and the characters that appeared in it . After more and more seemingly slow or even irrelevant scenes , you suddenly see these caricatures not only as characters rather than caricatures , but as people rather than characters . At least as important is Director Jean Renoir's desire to present it not as a movie about relationships between people of different nationalities ( an understandable conclusion , since it takes place in a time of war ) , but of HUMAN relationships , of common bonds of humanity rather than nationality . He explains this in a wonderful video introduction to the film , in which he also talks about the film's nearly miraculous survival after years of having been lost . If you get a chance to catch it on DVD , you will be watching a copy that was thought to have been destroyed by the Nazis decades ago !
A startlingly realistic portrayal of the hardships that the great Queen Elizabeth struggled through in the early days of her reign .	It's too bad that they don't make more period films , because of they did , Joseph Fiennes might find more work . Joseph Fiennes was probably asked to play William Shakespeare in Shakespeare in Love because of his excellent performance in Elizabeth , and he was only one among a great many actors who gave incredible performances in this spectacular historical drama , in which the 16th century is flawlessly created and presented . There are many things that make Elizabeth a great film . For example , not only is it amazingly realistic , but it also portrays a very accurate depiction of the Queen . The difficult early part of her reign is not as well known as the stunning success that she later achieved as a leader , and her potent and strong-willed personality is captured very well in this film . She suffers through countless hardships during this part of her life , and the circumstances leading to her crowning of herself as The Virgin Queen are what make up the story of this excellent film . The visuals , particularly the breathtaking interiors of the tremendous castles in which much of the film takes place , are some of the most amazing things about this movie . This is an epic drama crafted with amazing skill , excellent performances , and stunning photography . See it .
" Only John can drive somebody that crazy ! "	In what has to have been the highlight of Bruce Willis's hardcore action movie career , Die hard is a nonstop adrenaline packed thrill ride that even manages to avoid the Rambo effect , where the single hero takes down the whole world around him . John McClane is just a regular cop , he's just really good at what he does and he's thrust into a situation where he can either act or be killed , or let a lot of innocent people be killed . A group of terrorists , led by Hans Gruber ( a delightfully sinister Alan Rickman ) has taken a building-full of hostages in Los Angeles and are demanding the release of prisoners in Northern Ireland , Canada , and Sri Lanka . Clearly this is a pretty lofty goal , but it's only a cover to buy time while the terrorists go after their real goal , which is to steal the$ 640 , 000 , 000 in bearer bonds in the building's safe . What makes John so convincing and so human is that he has not come here to save the world , he came because he's a New York police officer but his wife got a job in Los Angeles that he didn't think she would keep . She has become more and more comfortable , so he came all the way to LA to try to convince her to come back to New York to be with him . What follows is one of the most skillfully crafted action movies in the genre . Director JohnMcTiernan made his name with this movie , even after the similarly impressive Predator the year before . Robert Davi turns in an outstanding performance as the FBI agent assigned to take over control of the situation from the incompetent LAPD , and the movie even takes time to take a jab at the press , which nearly blows everything near the end of the movie . Note : There is a point in the movie where we see a gas station which is selling unleaded for $0 . 75 a gallon ! Makes me wonder what gas prices are going to be like in another 20 years ! I do have one question though ? why does it rain paper at the end of the movie ? White Christmas ?
Francis Ford Coppola takes a story written by Mario Puzo and makes it into one of the greatest films ever made .	Italian films have quite often come under some sort of controversy , in large part because of the fact that Italian immigrants have been given an undeserved reputation of being inherently violent and universally tied to some sort of organized crime . Mass media is one of the main reasons for this , which is why Francis Ford Coppola's The Godfather instigated such fierce opposition and controversy when it was released in 1972 . Coppola has insisted that the film is not about Italians involved in organized crime , but that it is instead a metaphorical representation of the American government . Personally , I don't believe that at all , if only because no one is going to watch a film like that and overlook exactly what they see and make the connection between the film and the American government . However , this does not take away from the overall accomplishment that the film makes . The genius of The Godfather lies in Coppola's obvious directing skills , as well as author Mario Puzo's skill as a storyteller . The film tells the story of five tremendously powerful crime families that are at war with one another , but no one seems to be quite sure who committed the crimes that instigated the war , which makes for an interesting investigation as a subplot . Marlon Brando's performance as Don Vito Corleone is one of the best in history , and one of the major accomplishments of the film as a whole is that it is able to take this man , who is really a despicable person , and make him into an endearing character that we really care about . He is the leader of a crime family , but he is made into an antagonist . The film twists things around like that , which is one of the things that really makes it so watch-able . Aside from making Don Corleone into such a likeable character , he is also made to be tremendously respectable . Personally , I noticed this because I watched The Godfather again recently while going through and watching all of the James Bond films . Here is James Bond , who is supposed to be one of the most tasteful , refined , and high-class figures in action film , and Brando's Don Corleone effortlessly makes even Sean Connery's Bond look like a Spice Girl . The story of The Godfather is complex and involved enough to have taken up three very long films , and they are tied together brilliantly . This film ends with Vito Corleone's son Michael taking over his leadership position , in a scene that doesn't only leave room for a sequel , but demands one . The film ends with Michael Corleone in his father's office , being addressed by two of his father's assistants as Don Corleone , a title attributed only to his father until that point in the film . It would have been an unsatisfactory to end the film that way without continuing the story , and this was done two years later , with yet another Best Picture winner . The Godfather is a landmark in film history , because of the incredible story , the astronomical performances , the expert direction , and the picture perfect cinematography . The film is literally packed with memorable and famous scenes , and the performances from everyone involved are spectacular . Even at three hours , The Godfather never gets boring or slow . It is a stunningly intense ride from beginning to end .
Some interesting thoughts on a brilliant film .	It's really easy to mess up a making-of documentary . I haven't watched one for quite a while but probably the most common mistake that I see in them is when they have a few brief pieces of narration , thoughts on the movie from some of the cast and crew , but the vast majority of it is just clips from the film which , more often than not , you just finished watching . It's like watching a 30 minute theatrical trailer with a voice-over . But the Making of Dances with Wolves tells some good detail not only about what it was like making it but the whole back story about how the movie was basically born , which is a pretty impressive story , by the way . Kevin Costner also says near the beginning that movies are about dilemma , about not knowing what you would do in a given situation , which is exactly what I had been thinking about throughout the movie when I was watching it . The documentary ends with him wondering how he accomplished what he accomplished with Dances with Wolves , and wondering if he could ever do anything like that again , or even if he could have done a few more days of what he had been doing at the time he was making the film . Needless to say , he achieved his goals in making the movie , and so much more . Bravo .
