Proof positive that even Sean Connery makes MISTAKES ! ! !	I saw the movie Zardoz some twenty years ago at a university filmfest on a program including shorts , features , etc . I am a fairly patient soul who sits through just about anything and try not to judge a film too harshly early on . My expectations were not too high , but I figured that with Sean Connery in it . it would be entertaining , at the very least . I was very much mistaken . I can think of very few movies that are worse , though there are some . Let me count the ways : cheesy plot , bad dialogue , acting that runs the gamut of adequate to " I wanna be paid " , ludicrous sets and ridiculous costumes ( although I must admit the costumes are not entirely disappointing ) . The one plus is in Special Effects and even those are only good . I got in for free and felt overcharged . Pee-Wee's Big Adventure had a more belivable premise ! Further deponent saith not .
If there's a film worse than this one , I don't want to see it	I happened to catch this on a premium channel a while back and I've got news for you : it makes Showgirls look like Casablanca or Gone With the Wind by comparison . I'm one who happens to believe that the merits of a film are to a degree relative ; you don't judge Bikini Carwash by comparing it to , say , Schindler's List , as an example . But for the type of movie , compared to others in the same vein , it's lousy . I don't bore easily at all , but this one did that in spades . If you want something like this , look for Kira Reed in the cast and it's probably worth seeing . But this one reeks !
Abandon all hope ( of being entertained ) ye who view this " movie "	It is not generally my practice to review movies that I dislike to any great degree . However , one or two times a year , I temporarily set aside my rule to only comment on things I like to give a word of warning . I find it more enjoyable to comment on something I like and boost it than I do shooting at bad movies . But some " movies " cry out for the razor . Bilitis is one of them . The cinematography isn't the only aspect that is blurry and out of focus here . An almost indiscernible plot ( certainly incoherent , if there even is one ) bad acting , cheesy script and awful pacing . Those are its major problems . Understand , I firmly believe that not all movies are created equal and films should be judged according to their category . It is not reasonable to judge , say , Beach Blanket Bingo against Gone With the Wind . I judge Bilitis against other movies in its weight class . Measured against movies like Emmanuelle or Secrets of a Chambermaid , it comes off very badly indeed . Even eye-candy has to be entertaining and Bilitis most definitely is not .
If Rock Hudson ever regretted making a film , it was probably this one	As a rule , I don't like making comments about films that I don't really like . But occasionally , I'll make an exception . Actually , I can't say I dislike this film so much as that I was disappointed by it because with the cast , I expected a better movie . I'd read the book and enjoyed it and looked forward to the movie . The sad truth is , apart from one or two performances , there really isn't much to this harmless bit of fluff . By the bye , it is a titillation flick , like it or not .
Occasionally has something funny , but largely derivative and rarely clever	I will say this for Family Guy-it's better than American Dad-but so is almost everything else ! The animation is marginal , most of the jokes are stale and predictable , the material that's become the staple humor wasn't always funny even when they started ( the jokes about Meg weren't funny in the first season and they haven't improved with age ) . I know this has been said by many others , but it's true-this show is a pale carbon copy of The Simpsons , just as American Dad is a 20th-generation mimeograph of Family Guy . The fundamental difference between The Simpsons and Family Guy is that the characters on The Simpsons do things that step out of the stereotyped behavior expected of their characters-as an example , Homer will do something thoughtful and tender , Bart will be compassionate , etc . Family Guy doesn't do this , for the most part . Peter is always a dolt , Meg is always treated as a doormat , etc . There's no soul to Family Guy . It's like a third-rate silent slapstick comedy with only a pie in the face for a laugh . It has moments , but they get buried under all the dross and slag .
Tina Bockrath aside , it's not that interesting	This movie is leaden , slow , dull , labored , obvious to the extreme , poorly scripted and tedious . Were it not for the fact that Tina Bockrath is in this abuse of celluloid , it would be absolutely worthless , and even with her , it's still awful ! Granted , Tina Bockrath is not a terribly good actress . But she is one of the prettiest ladies to ever grace the pages of Mr . Hefner's publication . On her appearance , this error in cinema gets a four ( and I'm being generous at that )
Even Speedy can't save this disaster !	A great many Warner Brothers cartoon fans consider the cartoons produced in the mid to late 1960s to be lousy beyond description as a class . While I don't tend to agree with that blanket judgment ( or with most blanket judgments , come to that ) , I feel that , for this one particularly , lousy is an understatement . If someone argues there is a worse effort out there , I'd have to seriously disagree . Everything about this one screams , " Garbage " and at the top of its lungs . Every complaint ( most legitimate , some not ) that is made about the later cartoons as a class is here-bad music , horrid backgrounds , no imagination , lousy writing , bad animation ( even for limited animation ) - everything about this one makes it the nadir of Warner Brothers animation . Not even ridicule can make this one sufficiently entertaining to make it worth watching more than once and only that if you are a hardcore Warner Brothers completeist . Watching it will temporarily lower your IQ 20 points . You have been warned .
If I judged this solely on the look of the cartoon , I'd give it decent marks-but one cannot live on animation and backgrounds alone .	This is a beautiful bore of a cartoon . The story would have bored me to tears when I was five . Visually , it's very nice , with striking backgrounds and nice color . It's this type of cartoon that led an animator who worked for Van Beuren to do a comic strip modeled after the head of the studio and call it " Van Boring " . There will be minimal spoilers , but there will be spoilers of the action ( the " plot " , such as it is , was spoiled before I was born ) : Molly is friends with the butterflies and she watches a show put on by the butterflies . The nicest bit in the picture is a very cute lighting " effect " during the show . It's beautifully drawn and animated . Had the short been along these lines all the way through , the cartoon would be much better . It didn't last very long . There is introduced a " villain " - a butterfly collector , who basically scoops up butterflies and sings a song which makes the songs Raffi sings sound like arias . It's clearly targeted at children , but Fred Rogers proved that children deserved better than this drivel and that they could appreciated it as well . Molly . of course , saves the day and proves that the butterfly collector is as bright as a two watt bulb in the process . Thankfully , the closing scene is , in many ways , beautiful in terms of both animation and color . It took the bad taste out of my mouth . If you like good animation and the visually artistic side of cartoons , this is worth watching .
Why was this cartoon made ?	While I've seen worse , I kept thinking that this cartoon would have no reason to exist save for the fact that Warner Brothers had a contractual obligation to supply a certain number of shorts to movie theaters , so they fiddled around with film stock , yawned and sent this one out on an unsuspecting and somewhat indifferent world . While my view of the later Warner output is more charitable than others feel is warranted , a few miss the mark for me . This is one . Worth watching once . Recommended for completists .
Disappointing cartoon , to say the least .	This cartoon has its moments , but most of them are the ones found in the old Fleischer Studios footage that comprises about seven minutes out of the running length , but less than half of the original cartoon . The original most of this was cribbed from is infinitely better than the framing material and the re-looped dialogue can't begin to equal the original . I find the new animation irritating at best . Watch the source cartoon instead . This is a waste of time and is just sad by the inevitable ( unavoidable , really ) comparison of the Fleischer Studios work to that of the later Famous Studios Paramount efforts . Others may find this worthwhile , but I certainly don't .
Bosko is pretty much an extra in his own cartoon	This is , at best , an average short which has a few good moments , but is mostly a rather dull and flat affair . It's kind of predictable in spots , yet it's not sufficiently interesting to overcome that deficiency all that often . As I want to discuss some details , this is a spoiler warning : For the first three minutes or so of this one , Bosko doesn't really have much to do and is only seen briefly playing a musical instrument . Instead , the bulk of the time is spent following a lamb and its interactions with a couple of insects . Except for some of the animation of the insects , this part of the short is even less interesting than it sounds . There's a repeated gag that was interesting the first time , but boring in repetition . The best part of the short involves another of Bosko's conversions of other items into " musical " instruments , here taking a beehive and some branches and fashioning a set of " bagpipes " . A sleeping Bruno , with some little animals acting as stops , snores into a log with holes in it and creates a tune to accompany Bosko . This was rather clever . Then ( oh , joy ! ) we have the " pleasure " of watching Bosko eat a sandwich , the same way he's eaten sandwiches in at least two other shorts . It wasn't that interesting the first time they did that bit . The final part of the short has a wolf trapping the lamb which was the focus of the first part of the short and taking it to a cave . Bosko and Bruno track it to the cave and a major fight takes place ( off-screen , inside the cave ) with a very predictable outcome and a gag repeated from other Bosko shorts . While this isn't all that memorable , I do hope it is released on a Looney Tunes Golden Collection in the future . Worth watching at least once .
One joke that is beaten into the ground by the time this ends .	When this begins , it's amusing , particularly if you know the ad campaign this lampoons . But the problem is , the premise isn't strong enough to support the length of the cartoon . It's a joke with one punchline repeated far too often and after a while , it becomes tedious , at least it did to me . The first one and a-half minutes are quite funny and then it becomes repetitive and the idea just isn't clever enough in and of itself to sustain itself over the rest . Still , worth watching once .
This one just didn't work for me .	This one did not impress me very much . I don't care for the Beat movement at all , the animation was marginal at best , the POINT was so obvious that I felt that the writer / director was beating me over the head with it most of a very short film and this just didn't work for me on any level . If your tastes run to Beat poetry and polemics , you may enjoy this one . You are thus warned : for me , here there be boredom . It can be found on Spike and Mike's Festival of Animation , Vol 4 , I believe .
A Sing-Along where the animation seems perfunctory and irrelevant	The Sing-Along cartoons were often almost cheaters in that large segments of the running time were simply song lyrics running across the screen with a cue ( usually a bouncing ball ) pacing the audience as it sang along . They were quite popular for a number of years . The animation ranged from forgettable to excellent . This one is eminently forgettable . The only novelty involved is that Betty Boop , who at that point had been drawn as dog-like in all her previous appearances , has a feline appearance and is being courted by a would-be feline Lothario . This slender bit of novelty cannot save this from banality . The song isn't even all that memorable . Later Betty Boops would use more energetic , jazzy songs and stick more in the memory . For completeists .
Only a studio like Van Beuren could have developed a series like Molly Moo Cow	This short was one of a series of shorts starring Molly Moo Cow . They were done toward the end of the Van Beuren studios existence and are uneven , ranging from just okay to awful . But Van Beuren's output was generally in those ranges . It was probably the weakest studio regularly producing short animation in what is commonly considered " the Golden Age " for the animated short . Only the Iwerks studio comes close to them in the race for last place ( actually , that's not very fair to Iwerks ) . I want to discuss some details , so this is a spoiler warning : Molly Moo Cow washes to shore on an island , the one occupied by Robinson Crusoe . Much of the short is Crusoe extolling the virtues of the solitary life , Molly trying to ingratiate herself to Crusoe and Crusoe trying to get rid of her . He finally succeeds-just before cannibals come ashore , capture Crusoe and dump him in a pot . From the time they grab him Crusoe is yelling for help ( from whom is unclear , given that he wants the island to himself ) . Molly hears his cries for help and turns around to try and save him ( given the fact that he repeatedly shot at her earlier , she has a most generous nature ) . She manages to drive the cannibals off before Crusoe becomes the main course and Crusoe reluctantly agrees to let her stay ( such gratitude ! ) but asks Molly what they can do to make things work . Molly dons black-face and Crusoe immediately exclaims , " Friday ! " . Thus all ends well-at least until Crusoe decides the fare on the island is bland and decides a hamburger would hit the spot . For Van Beuren completeists or cartoon collectors like me !
A pretty much standard formula Mighty Mouse notable primarily for the dog guarding the sheep	This short is a fairly predictable short , with the only really notable aspect being the appearance of one of the two dogs who act as foils for Heckle and Jeckle as the shepherd ! Though there really isn't much to spoil , I will be discussing some detail , so here's a spoiler warning : This is pretty much " The Boy Who Cried Wolf " , only this is the " Sheep Who Cried Wolf " in this case . Five young sheep tended by a dog are going out to graze and one , a troublemaker , throws a tomato at the dog . Not satisfied , he repeatedly warns of a wolf and-well you can guess the rest . A wolf comes along and catches the bad little sheep . His brothers plead for Mighty Mouse to come save him , which ( of course ) Mighty Mouse does . The wolf , not able to stand up with Mighty Mouse , calls on other wolves for help ( notice that he didn't call them when there was a flock ripe for the picking , though ) and eventually all are bested by a caped mouse small enough to fit in one of their paws . What will the boys at the union hall say at Wolf Local # 342 ? Enjoyable for kids , but nothing terribly inventive here . Worth watching once .
Well drawn and animated but trite and uninteresting .	There's a funny thing about this cartoon-not that it's funny ( it really isn't ) but the characters all tend to look familiar . The teacher is the character Iwerks used as everything from a landlady to Flip's wife ( ! ) in Flip the Frog , the kids all resemble each other like a B-grade horror flick ( Village of the Damned Stepford Children perhaps ? ) and apart from good technical aspects , it would bore a five year old inside thirty seconds . Like some actresses I won't name-all looks and no substance . Worth a look or two , but don't expect much . Iwerks was just playing out the string here . For completists only .
The ending's cute , but there's nothing special here	Famous Studios had been a by-the-numbers studio for years by the time this was made in 1960 . They made cartoons designed almost solely geared towards the tastes and attention spans of young children . The backgrounds and animation were basic and rather bland ( nice colors , though ) and plots were simple . This cartoon concerns a very henpecked husband who buys a robot with the idea that it will simplify his life-an old plot done more successfully in one way or another by virtually every studio . The cartoon is rather bland and quite predictable , though the ending is quite cute . Famous Studios created some memorable characters , like Casper and Baby Huey , but this was a one-shot . Memorable only because of the ending . For children under seven , it probably works better . Recommended for that audience .
By this point , they were mostly going through the motions .	This cartoon is nothing special-routine and average at best . Not too bad for the period , but that's not saying much . By 1967 , it was fairly obvious that the only thing expected from the animation department was the production of enough material to fulfill contractual obligations . Speedy is a high point and although Daffy still isn't a natural foil for Speedy , they actually have a logical reason for him to be chasing " the fastest mouse in all Mexico " for a change . Mediocre backgrounds and lame , canned music didn't help . For absolute completeists and Speedy fans .
Very short on animation and basically just following the cue for the lyrics of the song .	You may enjoy this one more than I did , particularly if you are a fan of the original version of Karaoke-the old time sing along that used to be a staple of the night out at the movies decades ago . Though there isn't much to spoil , this is a spoiler warning : The animation at the beginning is perfunctory and if you sneeze at the beginning , you'll all but miss it completely . It's a brief bit with Koko the Clown leading an orchestra in playing the song " Sweet Adeline " , which is a beautiful melody with incredibly saddening and melancholy lyrics . That's basically all there is to this one-a little animation later on in the song , but there really isn't much animation and thus this is of limited appeal to anyone interested in animation , which includes me . Worth listening to once .
As you watch this , you may ask yourself , " Is this trip really necessary ? "	This isn't the worst Famous Studios Popeye short , not by a long shot . Far worse came several years down the road , when the staff seemed to stop really even trying to be even mildly entertaining . The problem with this one is that it isn't very funny-or much fun either . In spite of the three best voice actors the primary characters had in the series-Beck , Questal and the great Jack Mercer-the script and story are flat , the backgrounds not bad , but nothing to write home about , no real life in the gags , nothing memorable about the short to make it worth watching twice . Not bad enough to poke fun at , really . It's just there , nothing more . Any cartoon with Jack Mercer doing Popeye can't be all bad and this one has moments-but too few . I just wish it was funny . For completeists only .
Except for a running gag featuring an eagle in the last part of the short , this one is pretty unmemorable .	There's not much to this short apart from one running gag and a few sight gags . You get a general feeling about the whole , but very little stands out and makes a lasting impression . I will discuss one or two things here , so this is a spoiler warning : The cartoon has some cute gags in the first couple of minutes , with the marching band and what looks like a moose doubling as a turnstile . Intercut in here are scenes of Bosko being tortured under the guise of being given a " massage " ( ouch ! ) . The football game is really not very interesting in and of itself . There are one or two good gags and some horrible puns that pop up . Most of the funny stuff is off the field antics ( a reporter pounding away at his typewriter until the typewriter pounds back , a face appearing in the crowd watching the game in obvious disapproval , etc . ) . Toward the end , they periodically cut away to an eagle perched upon a flagpole . This running bit is far more interesting than the rest of the short and the ending is quite good . I won't spoil it here . Though this cartoon is not all that special , I hope it is released on a Looney Tunes Golden Collection at some point . Worth watching once .
Good animation , but the concept is tedious and grating here	The Hubleys used a technique a number of times where the simply recorded their children at play and then constructed the animation around whatever they did and said . Often , this worked out fairly well , Moonbird and Windy Day , for example . Here it did not work . The short is well animated , but the dialogue here becomes tedious and grating after a bit . Perhaps if it had been shorter , it would have worked better . Not one of their best . The more you like the Hubleys , the greater latitude you give them in cases like this . Still moderately interesting . Worth watching for the animation .
This one would have been better if they'd dropped the live-action and the sing along and added more animation , but it wouldn't have been a Screen Song then , now would it ?	The songs that Rudy Vallee sings in this are not terribly well known almost 70 years later . This is understandable , because there isn't anything special or memorable about them . The cartoon is first-rate , but the rest is a boring waste of time . There is a cute interaction between Betty Boop and Rudy Vallee , but the rest is a total loss except for the animation . In print and available on a tape worth getting for everything else on it but this . Watch the animation here , but when the ball starts bouncing , watch only if you are suffering insomnia , as this will cure you of that fairly swiftly . For Betty Boop / Fleischer diehards .
Out of Terrytoons , by Longfellow ( with a happier ending )	This short is mostly memorable for the narration , which is primarily taken from the Henry Wadsworth Longfellow poem it's entitled after . It takes the poem , adapts it in spots to incorporate plot changes and to allow for Mighty Mouse to be included in the ending . I want to discuss some details here , so here there be spoilers : The short opens with a sea voyage , a ship's captain taking his daughter to sea and getting caught in a raging storm . The use of Longfellow's poem as the narration is an interesting conceit , thought the best part is where the animation has little to do with the narrative , such as an octopus setting up a dinner " table " for eight , including several sharks . At one point , you see mice leaving the ship , using doughnuts as flotation devices . Mighty Mouse comes in at the end in a rather different manner-some of the mice wash ashore at a lighthouse and Mighty Mouse is the lighthouse keeper and spots the ship . He saves the ship , captain and crew of one and his daughter . There are some nice visual bits and this is a fairly good short , at least so far as the series is concerned . Worth watching , if you can track it down .
Starts out well , but the one gag premise isn't substantial enough to keep this all that entertaining	There's basically one joke here-this lion is hungry ! Unfortunately , when the bulk of the gags bounce off of a single premise , there's a danger that they'll fall flat after a while and that's largely what happens here . I will be talking about some of the gags , so consider this a mild spoiler warning : When we meet the lion , he's hungry-he basically says so to the audience . We see him try twice to catch a meal , with very unsuccessful results . The second attempt is with a porcupine ( ouch ) ! He then hears a voice on a radio ( the radio actually has a mouth and talks ) which promises three meals a day if you go to their zoo . We see a hunter who bears a slight resemblance ( visually and vocally ) to Jerry Colonna , a popular character actor and radio personality , who was frequently caricatured in cartoons . The lion goes to take a physical and meets a skunk who tearfully says that they rejected him . The physical is perfunctory and punctuated by the lion begging the hunter for a meal . Even at the zoo , no one feeds him . The crowd of animals tells him , " You'll be sorry ! " , as he arrives and the crowd outside his cage heckles him . He finally rebels and escapes , thus starting a chase sequence sprinkled with food jokes . The lion is ultimately recaptured and caged again . The short ends on a high note , as the conclusion is funny , if a bit predictable to anyone who's watched many cartoons . Not a bad cartoon , just not as good as it could have been . This is on at least one inexpensive compilation DVD . Worth watching .
Cute , if somewhat trite , little short .	This is a cute ( almost too cute ) little cartoon with only a few Fleischer touches and some reasonably good visuals . Catchy title tune , sung by an elephant , naturally . If you like the early Betty Boops , this one will leave you cold for the most part . But it is a pretty cartoon and is well worth watching , at least once . On the Somewhere In Dreamland DVD set , which is in print and available . You won't regret buying this one ! Recommended for kids and fans .
See Bosko . See Bosko build a robot .	This short is reasonably decent , even if it basically copies a trend among other studios which did similar shorts based on the same premise and springing from roughly the same inspirational source . It was the last Bosko done for Warner Brothers , as Harman and Ising left there to go to MGM , where they used the character occasionally and drastically redesigned him , but that's another story . I want to talk about some of the gags , so this is a spoiler warning : In the 1930s , there was a movement called " Technocracy " , whose proponents believed that technology was the salvation of mankind . A number of shorts made use of the theory as a jumping-off point for the basic inspiration , including this one . The short begins with Honey doing housecleaning chores , specifically cleaning a window . Bosko makes the mistake of showing up ( he also takes Honey's flowers from the front yard to " give " them to Honey . Bruno , being far wiser , stays outside . Honey is delighted to see Bosko , telling him ( in a rhyming couplet , no less ) that he's going to help her with the dishes , which he finds terribly amusing . The scene dissolves to find Bosko and Honey-you guessed it-doing the dishes . Bosko , incapable of acting seriously , " shuffles " the stacks of plates together and tries dancing his way to the cabinets with a huge stack of dishes . The predictable disaster happens and Honey chews him out , but Bosko sees a headline about robots and decides to build one to do his work for him . So he rapidly builds a robot out of items he just happens to find laying around and builds his own " mechanical man " . He starts it up and it promptly goes berserk ! This is where most of the really visually interesting gags come from in the short . The animation on the robot is very good and watching it crash through Honey's house taking out door after door ( with Bosko trapped between two of them ) is quite effective . Honey briefly stops the rampage by spraying perfume on the robot , which then starts prancing around and tearing off sheets from a roll of bathroom tissue . This stops when it sees Bosko and it goes after him again . Honey then sticks a record player ( with a copy of " Mary Had a Little Lamb " on the turntable ) into the robot and it calms down again-until the record sticks and it goes nuts again . It chases Honey and Bosko out the front door , startling Bruno , who runs after them when the robot shocks him . Bosko ends the chase ( and the short ) when he hurls a bomb into the robot's mouth and blows it up . This has some very nice animation and is a nice finish to the series at Warner Brothers . I hope that it winds up on a future Looney Tunes Golden Collection . Recommended .
Even as a little dutch boy , Bosko is still Bosko .	This is ( good and bad ) a typical Bosko short-it isn't all that special , but it isn't horrible either . I will be discussing some details , so this is a minor spoiler warning : If you've seen many Bosko shorts , you'll recognize quite a bit that's familiar here in this one , for all that it's set in Holland . With a few obvious changes ( the buildings-even down to an out-house ! ) are windmills and the shoes are either ice skates or clogs , this is basically Bosko gone Dutch . He and Honey still dance ( in clogs ) and they still sing . One of the cutest gags is a little duckling stopping to run to an out-house . That should give you an idea of the type of humor in this one . The gags are fairly predictable , with a central plot point basically copied from an earlier short , only this time , instead of Bruno trying repeatedly to avoid going through a hole in the ice and eventually failing to avoid hitting the water , it's two versions of Wilber skating and going into the water instead . The first time Bosko rescues them from the water is fairly interesting and the timing is very good on the whole bit . But this is a Bosko cartoon and things repeat , so they wind up back in trouble , this time on a piece of ice and the rescue the second time at least earns points for creativity , even if it is rather abrupt and most strange . I would like to see this released on a Looney Tunes Golden Collection in the future . It's worth seeing at least once .
Larry Storch is the best thing in this one .	This is not a terribly imaginative or interesting cartoon , with flat characterizations , marginal animation and a repetitive story . Larry Storch breathes some life into this with his voice work , but he's the only thing much worth the effort in this one . Unless you're a real fan , pass on this one .
This would have been helped greatly by less Ludwig and more music .	This cartoon was nominated for an Oscar and the only reason that I can see is because it was released by Disney . It's at least 2-5 minutes too long , has not nearly enough music and too much Ludwig von Drake ( a character I normally like , but here , for some reason , he's like fingernails on a chalkboard ) . Disney's done much better work in the same vein , like Toot , Whistle , Plunk and Boom . Here , Drake's commentary is unfunny and excessive . Disney runs this during Vault Disney occasionally-not too often , though . Has it's moments . Probably worth seeing if you like Disney .
Not even nearly as good as the first one as a movie , but , oh that music !	As far as the movie goes , it is pretty lame . The main problem is obvious-Dan Ackroyd and John Goodman don't have the comic timing or rapport that Ackroyd and Belushi did . Not even close . But when yu look at the musicians involved-the Blues Brothers Band , Aretha Franklin , James Brown , the line-up that fills out the Louisiana Gator Boys , Jonny Lang , so many others I probably overlook , that's worth it alone . Buy the CD if it's available . As a movie , it would probably serve better if the negative were cut up and used for guita picks ( except for most of the musical numbers ) . Music-10 , movie-0
Without a doubt , the most unremarkable Bugs Bunny ever made	This is by no means a bad cartoon . It is just not a terribly notable or interesting one either . Apart from the fact that Sam is a royal chef ( ! ) , there isn't much terribly novel here . The gags are well-worn and the tread is coming off . Nothing really creative , unless the reference to the German dish " hassenpfeffer " counts . That's cute . Recommended for completeists
I found the camel most annoying !	This is a marginal short partially salvaged by an interesting ending . There will be mild spoilers in the portion which follows : The Pink Pather is looking for artifacts and / or jewels in Egypt . He goes to buy a camel , but has little money and has to settle for a small camel that behaves as if it were a dog . The old saying truly holds here-he got what he paid for , which wasn't much . In spots , it reminds me all too much of the horse in Pinto Pink and other shorts The little camel causes the Pink Panther no end of trouble and gets chased away more than once here . There are a couple of interesting gags involving water in one way or another , with the strange sight of a camel guzzling a canteen being the most unusual . The Pink Panther has a few experiences with explosives here and finally manages to get into a crypt-one with a warning of a curse on anyone who enters . He grabs a large gem and begins running , only to periodically change into things-a rat , a lizard , etc . Not the greatest short , but it's only six minutes long and it does have a few moments which make it worth watching . It's on the Pink Panther Classic Cartoon Collection , which is well worth getting .
most of the funny bits don't involve the Pink Panther	This short is very hit and miss , at least for me . The Pink Panther isn't even terribly important to this one and most of the good bits don't even involve him . I want to discuss this , so there are spoilers below : Entirely too much of this cartoon feels like a retread of Pinto Pink , as the gags center around the Pink Panther's attempts to ride the same obnoxious horse , with pretty much the same results . It's basically filler , as the best parts center around the cartoon's variation on the little guy who shows up in a lot of the Pink Panther cartoons . Here , he has darker hair and is the evil knight , who grabs the princess and rides off to do whatever nefarious things evil knights do with captured princesses . He comes to regret this , as she eventually turns the tables on him and he's the one yelling for help . Sadly , every time this section starts getting interesting , they cut back to the futile attempts of the Pink Panther to ride his horse . Here , it's just painfully unfunny . I can't quite figure out why , but here , it just gets very annoying quickly . When the Pink Panther finally gives up and gets a fire-breathing dragon , things pick up considerably , but by then the short is practically over . Personally , I would have enjoyed a different ending from the one that was done . I would have like to have seen the princess deck the Pink Panther , go off back to the castle on the dragon and then have her chase her father ( the king ) , the Pink Panther and the evil Knight with the fire-breathing dragon hot on their tails . Now that would have been hilarious ! This short is on the Pink Panther Classic Cartoon Collection , which is well worth having . This cartoon is worth seeing once as a curiosity .
This short is okay , but nothing special	I'm not going to spend a whole lot of time discussing this short in detail , as I want to discuss the character in general and his place in the history of the studio and in animation history . I will , however , discuss some details here from this specific short , so there are minor spoilers : This cartoon is cute and has some good visual bits , but it isn't anything earthshaking . It's inherently limited by the main character-Bosko . There are some very good gags in the beginning with Bosko's phone working frantically to try and wake him up ( along with help from his alarm clock and the ending gag is funny , but it doesn't really do much overall . That's because Bosko isn't all that interesting . One of his " big " scenes features him exaggeratedly eating a sandwich ( I guess somebody really liked that visual , because it's used in at least one other Bosko short , down to practically the last detail ) . At this point , Warner Brothers hadn't been doing their own animation for long and it was , at best , no better than third , behind Disney and Fleischer . Lantz may also have been ahead of them at this stage . Granted , those studios had all been doing animation longer . But they were doing significantly better work . For example , at roughly the same time that Bosko's Holiday was done , Fleischer did Bimbo's Initiation , which is considerably better , though the irony is , Bimbo fared no better than Bosko did , for basically the same reason-not much personality for him either . What Bimbo's Initiation has that Bosko's Holiday sorely lacks is better gags and much better pacing and timing ( the fact that Betty Boop is in Bimbo's Initiation didn't hurt ) . Bosko didn't last at Warner Brothers very long-he left with the parting of ways between Harman-Ising and Leon Schlesinger . He was briefly resurrected in altered form at MGM . Though he pales in comparison to the characters later developed at Warner Brothers , he was the first " star " for the studio's animation department and there is some justice to the argument that he paved the way for what later happened at Warner Brothers . Friz Freleng , for one , had an extensive early involvement animating Bosko shorts and later became one of the key directors for Warner Brothers . Bosko certainly did well enough that Warner Brothers kept making animated shorts . He was never the strongest character , but he got the ball rolling . This is a decent short and well worth watching .
Bosko goes hunting for a fox and brings home a dog .	An average Bosko short notable for basically one thing-Bosko's dog Bruno comes onto the scene . The short is largely unmemorable otherwise . I will discuss this in a little detail , but not much , so this is a mini-spoiler warning : When it comes to fox hunting , my sympathies are wholly with the fox , so the fact that the fox more or less makes the hunters look silly doesn't disturb me in the least . Bosko is Bosko , so he does one or two odd things with ( and to ) his horse . He and the horse wind up in the mud , courtesy of the fox . Enter Bruno , who tries to help Bosko catch the fox . There are some fun gags with Bruno and a nice bit where Bosko winds up becoming quarry rather than hunter . The ending may be the best gag in the whole short . This is a decent enough cartoon , though it isn't anything special . Hopefully , it will wind up on a future Looney Tunes Golden Collection . Worth watching at least once .
So-so Porky Pig short . with Porky not doing much-the focus is on a cat	This is a black and white Porky Pig short which doesn't really have a whole lot to do with Porky himself . As I want to talk a bit about the cartoon and some of the gags , this is a spoiler warning : This short has Porky Pig as the proprietor of a pet store which specializes in selling fish . It opens , though , with a cat following a mouse , with the intent of having lunch . Failing ( rather unceremoniously ) at accomplishing that , the camera then switches to the store and we see Porky break out in song while a bunch of rather marginal fish-related sight gags go by , the best of which involves some electric eels . Then the noon whistle blows and Porky goes out to lunch , placing a sign on the door . The cat , perhaps in the mood for some sushi , seizes the opportunity and goes into the store ( turning around Porky's sign , which then reads , " in to lunch " instead . The bulk of the remainder of the short is the cat attempting to get a free meal and the efforts of the various fish to ruin his appetite for him . Again , the best bit involves the electric eels , though there are very nicely animated sequences involving an oyster , some flying fish and a mussel which figure prominently . While some of the bits are inventive and very funny , a lot of this is just a bit off the mark . The timing seems to be a bit off of a lot of the jokes here , or maybe I just didn't find it funny . The closing gag , where the cat sees the mouse again and goes after it when denied a fish dinner is fairly nice and a good way to close what is a very uneven short . This is available on the Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Volume 4 and the collection itself is marvelous . This short is certainly worth a look at least once . Worth watching .
Bosko shows his love for nature but nature ( for the most part ) does not reciprocate	This cartoon is a largely routine and exceedingly forgettable short . There are one or two fairly decent bits that I'll likely discuss , so consider this your spoiler warning : This short is set in the great outdoors , with Bosko going fishing . Bosko decides that he can't put the worm on the hook and use it for bait , so he lets it go-whereupon it's spied by a bird and nearly become food rather than freed . The chase scene between bird and worm is a good deal more interesting than most of Bosko's bits . Bosko pets a fish he catches , which spits in his eye for his efforts . Bosko wanders around and various critters dance and do little bits . There's a particularly nice bit with some frogs and one with a spider and Bosko is involved here and there . The climax of the short has Bosko attacked by insects which bomb him and cause him to jump into a fountain for cover . I found myself cheering on the bugs . Not really a bad cartoon , but there were much more interesting Bosko shorts than this one . You can tell it's early in the game for Warner Brothers animation . They were way behind Disney and Fliescher and Lantz were also much better at this point . Worth seeing once .
Visually stunning , but whoever wrote the narration had absolutely no shame !	This documentary won a very deserved Oscar for Documentry Feature . The cinematography and visuals are beautiful . But some of the narration is atrocious . The narrator isn't the problem-not much , anyway . I am thankful for the ' mute ' button when I watch this . I know scorpions have a public relations problem anyway , but what happens to them here is over the top . See it for the visuals and keep the remote handy . Recommended ( except for the narration . )
Fascinating , unusual short from Iwerks .	While Iwerks was a technical genius in many respects , his strong suit was not plotting or scripting and it seems as though he couldn't care less about any aspect that wasn't visual . Thus , the series of shorts based on tall tales , fables and legends provided ready-made stories that worked to varying degrees . Here , in the short , " The Headless Horseman " , except for the score and some sound effects and laughter , this is a visual cartoon-there is little to no dialog here . There are some suitably creepy visual effects at times , but the cartoon is average at best . Cannot even compare to the later adaptation done by Disney of the same Washington Irving story . Has its moments , but doesn't hold up too well . Worth watching , but Iwerks did better and the Cinecolor process was occasionally jarring . Recommended for Iwerks fans .
Bosko makes music in the " forest primeval "	This short is a fairly interesting early Bosko , with a lot of the typical types of gags found in these shorts . I will discuss some specifics from this cartoon , so this is a spoiler warning : Bosko starts out with the intention of chopping down a tree , but decides instead to spare it when a lot of baby trees plead with him and he plays a harmonica and the small trees dance , the first of several musical interludes ( most of them on the unusual side , which happens a lot in Bosko shorts ) . Bosko turns several small trees into strings and plays a tune on them . Not to be outdone , an old tree makes like Isaac Stern and his playing is so lovely , a goodly number of tree start crying ( particularly a " weeping willow " - the character design here is exceptionally nice , by the way ) . The strangest musical gag involves two mice forming a phonograph and playing a " record " while a tree dances . There really are some nice bits , although the short tends to wander a bit . One of the more interesting Bosko shorts and well worth a look if you get the opportunity .
Foxy's swan song , memorable mainly for the title song and little else	This is the third of the three Foxy cartoons , an obnoxiously , relentlessly cheerful short that probably hastened the retirement of the lead character . Notable for the title tune and for Friz Freleng serving as an animator , this is a curio more than anything else . A few cute bits , but not terribly special or memorable in and of itself . Worth watching and recommended if you really like old black and white animation .
Marginal short which serves as a launching pad for some great characters	This cartoon tries , but it just misses the mark . Something about it simply doesn't quite gel , which is a shame . It has some good moments , but the whole is less than the sum of its parts . Because I want to discuss a few details , this is a spoiler warning : The short starts out promisingly enough , with the pampered cat of a rich dowager making the life of the butler , Meadows , an unhappy one . First , the cat squirts grapefruit juice in his eye and then causes him to slip on a bar of soap , each time laughing hysterically . So Meadows quits . The cat panics and begins searching for food and reads that cats are supposed to eat mice . He and Hubie ( Hubie is a mouse ) spot one another simultaneously and both are terrified . Hubie realizes the cat is frightened and learns that the cat doesn't know what a mouse looks like , so he introduces his pal Bert ( another mouse ) and then clues Bert in on their new " friend's " ignorance . They then convince him that a bulldog is actually a very large mouse . The cat tries to eat the bulldog , in what is probably the best visual scene in the short . Immediately after this scene , the short falls apart , probably because the cat then sees pictures of a mouse and a bulldog and realizes he's been tricked . At this point , the funniest premise in the short ( a cat who doesn't recognize either mice or dogs ) is removed as a plot device and nothing tangible is left to carry the rest of the short . for a good example of a much better use of the same characters where this mistake wasn't made and the short is infinitely the better because the funniest concept wasn't abruptly yanked away , watch Cheese Chasers , done eight years later . The ending to this short partially salvages the cartoon , but it could have been so much better than it finally turned out . Still , it is worth seeing for the characters . This short is available on the Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Volume 4 , which is highly recommended .
Some very effective and rather creepy sight gags are all that save this short .	This is Flip at his sleepwalking best . For all of Ub Iwerks ' obvious technical expertise , his studio , in a bare five years was the birthplace of two of the most tedious , uninteresting continuing characters ever to grace the screen ( up until Pauly Shore and " Dice " Clay came along ) in Flip the Frog and Willie Whopper . All the entertainment value here lies with ABF ( Anything But Flip ) . There are some truly excellent and very creepy scenes that are worth the price of admission and the technical aspects are first-rate , including the music , but that's almost a given . This one nearly sinks under the frog's sophorific performance . A side note : the history of animation is filled with little things which led to big things , like Tex Avery's quarrel with Leon Schlesinger that ended up with Avery at MGM and fantastic things coming about as a result . Iwerks left Disney to start his studio and Carl Stallings left with him . After Iwerks studio folded , Stallings went on to Warner Brothers and the rest is history . Although it could be argued that Stallings might have gone there anyway , it most certainly wouldn't have been under the same timing and circumstances and he would have had different experiences . Stallings may well have not left Disney in the 1930s and Warner Brothers cartoons would never have been the same . Make Flip and Willie worthwhile just for that . Not a bad cartoon , but it could have been better . Glad it saw print . Recommended for Stallings fans .
Pancho Vanilla robs the bank and Speedy gets the money back-that's the " plot " of this one	This short was one of the earliest ones produced by Depatie-Freleng under its agreement with Warner Brothers-I think it may be the first one . Because I want to discuss some of the details , this is a spoiler warning : Pancho Vanilla , a bandit , comes into town to rob the bank and Speedy decides to get the money back . He interrupts Vanilla counting his stolen coins and breaks his concentration , scattering the coins . Speedy races by him , grabs a coin and races out , leaving Vanilla to shoot himself in the foot . It gets no better for Vanilla , who has no more luck catching Speedy than anyone else has had . The bulk of this short is Speedy racing in to take a coin and Vanilla's schemes to stop him doing more damage to their perpetrator than to Speedy . The results are violent and predictable . The final scene is the best part of the short , so I won't spoil it here . The gags all have a very familiar feel to them and the situation really seems forced . Sylvester really is the best and most logical adversary in Speedy cartoons , though the situation makes more sense here than the Speedy and Daffy shorts usually do . This short is available on the Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Volume 4 and is worth seeing . The Collection itself is marvelous and comes highly recommended .
A short starring the Van Beuren team called Tom and Jerry .	This short stars a Mutt and Jeff-like pair named Tom and Jerry , who came and disappeared before the more famous pair debuted for MGM somewhat later . This is one of their shorts-not one of their best , but also not one of their worst either . Because I want to discuss this with some details , this is a spoiler warning : This short starts out with the duo in an airplane and shows a bird being pulled into the propeller and coming out as the in-flight meal . The bird had a last posthumous laugh , however , because the plane goes into a nosedive almost immediately afterward . The tall one jumps out with a parachute , but he has a rougher landing than the short one who rode the plane down . They start walking , only to be trailed by a horse . A bit later , they spot a " Wanted " poster offering a $1000 reward for a bad guy , who just happens to be behind that very tree ! They manage to trick him , pull his hat down over him and ride off on the horse ( though why they didn't just grab him and take him in for the reward is a question for the scriptwriter to answer ) . Tom and Jerry wind up in a saloon in a little town , where there are drinking gags and musical interludes , with Tom and Jerry playing a tune . The bad guy makes an unusual entrance and robs the patrons of the saloon . Riding after the bad guy during a funny chase scene , the little one finally ropes him . knocks him out and takes him back to town to collect the reward-which he promptly leaves outside with his taller partner , who puts it down . The bad guy comes to and switches bags , taking the reward . The tall one , with the encouragement of the horse , takes the bag he thinks has the reward and rides off , leaving the bad guy free to escape . The tall one double-crosses the horse , thinking to make himself even richer . The ending is cute and I won't spoil it here . This short is on the DVD Attack of the ' 30s Characters and is well worth seeing , as is the whole DVD . Recommended .
For fans of Paul Simon's music and Blair Brown	This movie is an okay time-killer , particularly if you like Paul Simon's music and / or you are a fan of Blair Brown . Sam and Dave , the B-52s and Lovin ' Spoonful don't hurt either . Joan Hackett does a good job in her role . At the risk of sounding heretical , while I aways admired Paul Simon's songs , I have always thought Art Garfunkel has a better voice . One Trick Pony proves that Art's a better actor as well . Average at best .
For me , a most annoying cartoon ! ( Rant ahead )	This cartoon almost neatly encapsulates a large part of the problem Iwerks studio had in their work : there is an absolute and almost total disregard for anything not involved with the technical part of animation and backgrounds . Plotting and story are afterthoughts at best ! I don't consider the next commentary to be a spoiler , but it is a rant and thus I will put a space here and you may skip if you choose . This is essentially half a cartoon-just when it starts to get interesting , the plug is pulled and a patch-up ending takes place , probably because the cartoon was long enough for release ! I'd have much preferred that they shorten the setup a couple of minutes and done that two minutes so that the latter part of the cartoon , which strikes me as much more intriguing , was a little stronger . Instead , the best part of the short is just that-short ! Say what you will about Disney-the Mouse got the story down as well as doing beautiful visual work . So did the Fleischers , for the most part . Excellent animation with some beautiful bits and an intriguing premise ultimately wasted . Worth watching , but could have been so much better . A frustrating cartoon .
Only thing noteworthy about this is some stereotypes that would make some people's heads implode !	This is a marginal Willie Whopper short that is largely forgettable , save for about a minute and a half or so at the start that features Boy Scout stereotypes of a mostly ( though not exclusively ) racial nature . Given that the short is nearly seventy years old , a bit of perspective is necessary here . I wouldn't show this without an explanation to children under 13 , but I wouldn't bury it either . Its biggest problem is a boring lifelessness . Okay cartoon , but a historical curio . For Iwerks fans and fans of classic animation .
Notable only as a formative Betty Boop cartoon	While Fleischer cartoons are generally well-animated and thus worth watching from that standpoint , the only real point of interest is the comparatively brief look at Betty Boop-version 1 . 0 . Originally , Betty Boop was conceived as a dog and gradually evolved into the Betty Boop most recognizable today . There isn't much to say about the short itself , as it's nothing terribly special . The gags are occasionally cute , but it isn't especially memorable for anything other than Betty . I've had waiters this bad before , however . Dizzy Dishes is on Betty Boop-The Definitive Collection , an excellent compilation . Maybe Popeye will receive similar treatment on DVD sometime before the heat-death of the universe . For completeists only .
The soundtrack and animation are the best parts of a wildly uneven , episodic movie	To say this movie is uneven is putting it mildly . Tied together very loosely by a framing sequence that provides what little plot there is , this is a series of episodes , some of which are great ( the WWII bomber ) to very good ( Harry Canyon ) to just there ( too much of the rest of the movie ) . To any Steely Dan fans out there who may read this , the following for the few who don't already know : Donald Fagen has a song on the soundtrack , for the Harry Canyon section . The artwork is in the style of the magazine this is named after . That and the soundtrack make it worthwhile , plus two to four of the segments , depending on personal tastes .
The highlight of this one isn't Bosko , but a mouse	This is a rather marginal short-not terrible , but not very memorable for the most part either . I will discuss some scenes from this short , so what follows contains spoilers : Two of the most disturbing words to be combined in a sentence are " Bosko yodeling " ( I shudder at the memory . He's no great shakes at yodeling and he's clearly a very sore loser-just ask the owl who outdoes him here about his sportsmanship . Sadly , Honey joins Bosko in yodeling but ( mercifully ) it doesn't last long . The short then diverges into two story lines-Bosko and Honey at play , with Honey naturally getting into danger so that Bosko has to rescue her and a mouse deciding to brush up on his golf game by playing a few " holes " on a piece of Swiss cheese . This is far more entertaining than the other track and I almost wish they'd just made the last part of the cartoon about the mouse alone , as the peril and the rescue are hardly novel ideas and are all too predictable . At least a mouse putting a pea around on a wedge of cheese is different . This short does have some nice visual gags and a few good moments , so it is worth seeing at least once .
Visually nice , but not terribly memorable	This Disney short is well-executed visually ( as you might expect from Disney in the 1930s ) but isn't really all that memorable or impressive for all that . I'm frankly somewhat puzzled at its nomination for an Academy Award and more puzzled that it won . Perhaps it was more impressive in 1936 than it is today . It isn't a bad cartoon-there just isn't anything exceptional about it that struck me other than the visuals . It runs from time to time on the Ink and Paint Club .
Average short with a few decent gags and some cute bits	This short is mildly amusing , with a main premise which has been done more or less in other shorts , in some cases to far better success . I want to discuss one or two scenes to some degree , so consider this a spoiler alert : Bosko starts out as a hot dog vendor and this actually is probably the best part of the short . His hot dogs dance on the grill and don't seem to be the slightest bit concerned that their ultimate purpose is to be eaten ! One is bought by a dog who is recognized by his intended lunch and realizes that said edible is his " Sonny Boy " and they wind up walking off together to the music of the song " Sonny Boy " . The short unfortunately gets quite uneven from here as Bosko takes far too long to secretly retrieve a mechanical horse from its hiding place in order to enter it into a horse race . There's the requisite bad guy who resorts to trickery and cheating to try and get rid of Bosko and his " horse " and some cute and occasionally interesting visuals , but the ending is a bit too trite and obvious for my tastes . It could have been better , but for an early Bosko , it isn't too bad . Worth seeing at least once if you have the opportunity .
An OK movie nowhere near as good ( or bad ) as it's defenders or detractors think	This is a movie that is okay and has a decent performance by Delaney and Ackroyd and the best role O'Donnell has had yet . There are those who hate this film and some who love it . Since it contains neither Pauly Shore nor Adam Sandler and not a trace of Bo Derek or Pia Zadora , it can't be as bad as so many think . It may not be Olivier doing Hamlet , but it beats Shatner playing Othello . Recommended for Dana Delaney and Rosie fans with the obligatory Hector Elizando appearance though he's done much better elsewhere .
One of the Sing Along series Paramount / Famous Pictures did	As cartoons go , these are average , with some being good and some being poor . They tend to be very formulaic in nature . I will be discussing some details , so technically this is a spoiler warning ( though I'm not spoiling much ) : This particular short is a pretty basic example of a Sing Along cartoon . They start out with about three and a half minutes of gags , mostly sight gags , built around a central theme ( here , it's Indians ) , then a character does a song intro and tells the audience to sing along and " just follow the bouncing ball " . The next roughly two minutes or so has a bouncing ball tracking the song lyrics in time with a chorale singing of whatever song is highlighted - " My Pony Boy " here - with the second verse and chorus having some rudimentary animation in addition to the bouncing ball . When the singing ends , there's a tail end to the cartoon that's usually one lengthy bit between one and two minutes long . In this one , there's the obligatory gag about the " Cleveland Indians " , with a bunch of Indians in baseball uniforms and Big Chief " Rain-In-the-Face " shows up-that's another standard joke . There are a few decent gags here , but most of it would have been trite and repetitive even back in 1949 . The singing bits are the best part of this one . It has a few moments and is worth seeing , but it's just an average cartoon and is most decidedly full of stereotypical humor .
Bosko should have stayed in bed !	This is an average short for the Bosko series , in spite of the presence of Wilber , an obnoxious little brat who recurs from time to time in various Bosko shorts . Since I want to discuss some details from this short , let this serve as a spoiler warning : The short opens with Honey trying to teach Wilber to play the violin . He's ' playing ' " In the Shade of the Old Apple Tree " - mangling it is probably closer to being an accurate description . Wilber is particularly obnoxious here and Honey decides to call up Bosko , who is sleeping , so his dog Bruno answers the phone and then wakes up Bosko so he can talk to Honey on the phone . She invites Bosko over . The best part of the short is Bosko riding over to Honey with Bruno following . The different events which take place on the bike ride are ultimately most of the highlights of the short , so I won't spoil them here . When Bosko gets to Honey's , he hears Wilber's scratchy attempt on violin and then pulls out a saxophone ( watch this scene closely ) and plays the same notes better than Wilber can manage . Honey then comes out and she and Bosko do a number , Bosko playing and Honey singing , until Wilber douses Bosko with a tub full of water . Then comes a sudden shift-the last part of the short is the " date " in the title . It's a picnic , which is essentially rained out . Though there are some decent gags in the last minute and a half or so of the short , it feels almost tacked on in order to justify the title . It's largely anticlimactic and not terribly interesting . I hope this is eventually released on a future Looney Tunes Golden Collection . Worth watching .
Willie Whopper YAWN	After Flip the Frog had proven to be less than what Iwerks ( and more fatally , MGM ) hoped for from a cartoon series , Iwerks turned to Willie Whopper and tried to make him a star . Trouble was , Willie is even duller and less fascinating than Flip ! The basic premise was part of the problem : Willie is a little boy who tells lies-not just garden variety fibs , but big lies , or " whoppers " , a slang term for outlandish falsehoods . Only Willie's lies aren't too entertaining for the most part . Visuals are beautiful in this one , for example , but the story is underwhelming , to put it mildly . To be honest , the main problem with the Iwerks stars is that they are often the least interesting parts of the cartoons . A serious and often fatal flaw in trying to establish a series focused on a primary recurring character . Worth watching for the animation . Recommended on that basis .
Two mice , a bull , a bad guy and a train	This short is rather limited , even for a Mighty Mouse . Though there isn't much that can be spoiled , I will be discussing some details , so here's a spoiler warning : Mighty Mouse and Pearl Pureheart spend over half the short tied to opposite ends of a bull . The bull is running around on a train track . A train engine is chasing the bull . That paragraph basically describes the action in much of this short , though there is a little bit more-Pearl's father strikes oil . . It has some interesting gags in here and it is entertaining for the most part , but after Mighty Mouse breaks loose , things pick up a bit . The best bit is where Mighty Mouse uses the bull to " bat " away various train engines sent against him by Oil Can Harry . Kids will likely enjoy this and it is engaging in spots . Worth watching once .
A later entry in the Heckle and Jeckle series with a few funny gags	This is a short that came out toward the end of the Heckle and Jeckle series . I will be discussing details , so there will be spoilers : Heckle and Jeckle are stunt men who have been told to administer a screen test for one Flint Locke , a cowboy actor who says that he can do his own stunts . They decide to try and make him look bad and / or scare him off , so they set up " scenes " which would make his insurance provider faint dead away-a train wreck , a jump off a cliff and my favorite-an Indian fight which ends up with Locke looking like a cross between a porcupine and a turkey . Locke has more swings taken at him than a piata at a birthday party ! The end result is that they actually make him look good in the eyes of their boss and they get fired anyway . The fade out shows them taking turns kicking each other . Good cartoon , though it's nothing particularly special . Worth watching .
An OK film that could have and probably should have been great	I watched this film after real-life events overtook and passed its thematic content and went into it expecting good things given Barry Levinson Directed and with that cast ! But apart from a stellar performance from DeNiro and a good one from Dustin Hoffman , nothing seemed to click . The supporting cast is more or less wasted and portions of the film are so over the top that the movie lurches from satire to farce and back again . I saw the ending from a mile away . The worst sin is that , for me . none of this was for one second credible . Although outsde events may have had something to do with my reaction , the principal problem was that the opponent isn't even near to being a threat to us on their best day ! I buy the conspiracy theory , but I don't think even H . L . Mencken would think the American public capable of swallowing this and he once said , " No one has ever gone broke underestimating the American public . " While a good movie , it could have been so much better . sigh
Chiefly of interest because it's the only film that Ethel , John and Lionel Barrymore made together	This is a reasonably decent movie , well acted ( particularly by Lionel , who practically chews the scenery as Rasputin ) and the sets and costumes are fairly nice . But the main selling point is that this is the only time the three Barrymores - Ethel , John and Lionel did a movie together . It's a good movie but could have been much better .
Who knew the West was settled by mice ?	This early Mighty Mouse short is actually pretty good , at least by Terrytoon standards . The formula was already fairly well established by this point and this short follows the formula for the early shorts in the series . Since I want to discuss some details , this is a spoiler warning : The short opens with a war dance performed by a tribe of cats in full regalia . Their chief hears wagon wheels and we later see a wagon train rolling along . Naturally , the occupants are mice , the cats go on the attack and the wagon train is besieged . There's a particularly nice and somewhat novel touch to the wagon train's defense which I won't spoil here . This being a western , the cavalry comes riding to the " rescue " and we see , in quick succession , George Armstrong Custer , Daniel Boone , " Stonewall " Jackson and " Buffalo Bill " ride forth with no success . It's reasonably well handled , but it's basically all setup for the ultimate arrival of Mighty Mouse . The cats don't have a chance . The rest of the short is fairly predictable , but some of the bits are very good . It's a fairly good short , particularly for an early Mighty Mouse . Hopefully , it will be released some day . Well worth watching . Recommended .
Well-done , if obviously biased , and thought-provoking .	First it must be stated that it is quite apparent that those involved in the production of this documentary have an agenda and that makes the documentary somewhat obviously biased . It also must be noted that , no matter what the reasons were for the invasion , the people of Panama are certainly no better ( or worse ) for the change in government and worse off because of the invasion . Whether Noriega was involved in drug-trafficking or not ( I would tend to think most governments with large-scale drug production areas within their borders probably are , and Noriega is no exception ) , getting rid of Noriega was like shhoting a flea with a Howitzer : noisy , messy , expensive and ultimately futile overkill . A good piece of work so long as you understand that there is an agenda here . I suspect that if you put the governmental story on one side and this on the other , the truth would be somewhere between them , but closer to the documentary than the government .
Average short in the brief series , but well worth watching and now in print	The Ant and the Aardvark was a brief series of 17 shorts which was done in the late 1960s to early 1970s . The animation was limited and they were basically similar in nature-Aardvark is hungry , Aardvark chases Ant , Aardvark experiences grievous bodily injury . Basically Friz Freleng's version of the Roadrunner and the Coyote , except with hilarious dialog , as voiced by John Byner . There will be spoilers ahead : In this one , the Ant is a lodge brother attending a meeting of his chapter of the brotherhood , complete with his own little fez . On his way home , he sees the Aardvark , who , as usual has designs of a culinary nature towards the Ant and the chase is on once again . This short has a relatively novel premise-when in trouble , a lodge brother may call on other lodge brothers for help , which the Ant does , to his advantage and to the Aardvark's misery . Most of the time , the help is in the form of an elephant , but other lodge brothers get into the act , including a Tarzan wannabe . It's a cute idea and it's effectively handled . The ending is very good , with the Aardvark finally joining the lodge himself and showing up when the Ant gives a test call to make sure his lodge brothers are still available . The short ends with the Ant running and the Aardvark trying to sell him on the " virtue " of lodge brothers becoming much closer . This short has been released , along with all the others , on a single DVD which is in print as of this writing . It is well worth seeing . Recommended .
Average patriotic short , this does have some moments	This short , nominated for an Academy Award , is not a stellar piece of work . The script is average , acting too obvious in spots and there is at least one character who irritates so glaringly that it's clear that the audience is supposed to dislike him . Still , this is somewhat interesting , given that its production values technically are first-rate . Hardly exceptional , but worth watching at least once . Turner Classic Movies runs this as filler and almost invariably airs it during their " 31 Days of Oscar " every March . Not too bad .
An average cartoon using an old device or two to satirize modern life	This cartoon , which has some funny moments , but isn't really terribly novel , uses an old gag about finding an old reel of film that it purports shows " life as it was " , way back whenever . The narrator is a spoof on Dave Garroway , a television personality back in the 1950s and 1960s . If memory serves , he was one of the first , if not the first , to host the " Today " show . What follows are a number of gags ( lots of sight gags ) and a very loose plot , the kind of thing Tex Avery did to better effect twenty years and more earlier . The ending is telegraphed rather obviously . Okay , but nothing special .
Comedy , thy name is vivisection !	This short once again matches Speedy Gonzales against Sylvester , with Sylvester once again coming out the worse in the end-rather painfully at times ! As I want to discuss the short in at least a little detail , this is a spoiler warning : Sylvester is guarding the mice being held in an experimental laboratory and one of the opening scenes reads like the clichd scenes in a jail house picture , complete with a mouse playing mournfully on harmonica-one half expects a little mouse dressed in priestly vestments consoling the next poor soul scheduled to walk the last mile . They wonder why no one on their village is trying to rescue them . Meanwhile , back in their village , their friends and family are looking over a list of the names of the missing ( try and read the names-there's quite a few gags in there ) and debating what to do when a little senorita mouse says that she can get Speedy Gonzales to come all the way down to rescue them . She calls him long distance and says she wants to see him and he runs from point A to point B while she's still on the line . He agrees to rescue their loved ones . He begins by telling Sylvester what he's going to do and then proceeds to do just that-start rescuing the mice , while Sylvester tries unsuccessfully to stop him . The middle of the short is Speedy rescuing mice while painful things happen to Sylvester , the highlights ( at least for the audience ) include Sylvester being pulled through a knot-hole and losing all his fur and a boulder hammering Sylvester into the ground . There's also the old standby gimmick of Speedy ( with an entire " trainload " of mice-and one straggler on a hand-car ) going in Sylvester's mouth and popping out of his tail . Speedy rescues their loved ones and gets his reward , which is a kiss from the lovely senorita mouse , with wild results ! This short is available on the Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Volume 4 and is well worth seeing . Recommended .
Very pretty short , but done more effectively before .	This is Iwerks just biding time until closing down . A typically beautiful short , but it was nothing special or original . Tom Thumb was old hat by the time this was released , so something a bit different than the garden variety adaptation is needed to make this worthwhile . This was not what the studio did well , to put it kindly . So you have the average cartoon from Iwerks-competent , well animated and lovely , but not too special . Worth watching for all that . Recommended .
Decent short directed by Jack King , a mostly forgotten figure in Warner Brothers animation history	This short was directed by Jack King , who has been overshadowed by the bright lights cast by later directors , such as Chuck Jones and Bob Clampett , as well as contemporaneous ones , like Friz Freleng and the incomparable Tex Avery . It's perhaps appropriate that King directed many of the Buddy cartoons ( though the fact that he did so many shorts with the dullest character the studio ever created may be a chief reason King is largely forgotten these days ) . The characters used in this short are all but forgotten themselves . As I want to discuss the short , this is a spoiler warning : The three main characters in this made their debut in the short , I Haven't Got a Hat , as classmates in grade school , with Ham and Ex , the two dogs , singing the title tune . Animation being what it is , Beans is now their " Uncle " ( despite the fact that they are dogs and Beans is a cat-that must lead to so entertaining family reunions ) . Beans is a firefighter and is called on to watch over the two pups , a duty he's given ample cause to regret accepting almost immediately . There is very little that's as destructive as an animated child bent on mischief and Beans has charge of two at the same time . They get into almost everything-a helmet , a pair of boots , a fire hose-with rather predictable and at times funny results . They even trigger a false alarm which sends the station crew out on a run to fight a non-existent fire . For this they are sent upstairs to take a nap , which is the last thing which interests them . They escalate their games until they actually drive a ladder truck through a station wall . Some nice sight gags highlight their ride and they eventually drive right back to the station , run up the stairs ( in full sight of Beans ) and pretend to be asleep . Beans buys the act and starts to leave when one throws a boot at him and they both start to sing and play , at which point he finally punishes them with a spanking . Decent , though average . Worth seeing if you get the opportunity . Recommended .
Not one of Disney's best , but I have a soft spot for this short	This is an average short , nothing special , but Tucson AZ is often referred to as The Old Pueblo , so I have a soft spot , likely one in my head , for this short . Not terribly novel or creative , with some amusing moments . Excellent cactus work though . Worth watching .
Has its moments , but this is my least favorite Tex Avery cartoon .	This cartoon is really atypical of Tex Avery in that entirely too many of the gags are either verbal or sight gags that require verbal assistance to make any sense of at all-a surefire killer for a sight gag . The pacing-largely unavoidable here-is too slow and a few gags just aren't that funny . At least one dies completely . There are moments here , but Avery did this type of short more successfully with other cartoons ( such as A Gander At Mother Goose ) and , while I still don't think he did any really bad cartoons , this is as close as he came to doing one . Recommended for die-hard Avery fans , who'll watch anything he did ( like me ) .
Another mini-musical from Terrytoons	This is another short where much of the dialog is sung , as in an opera . This one is slightly different than the typical musical Mighty Mouse shorts ( but only slightly ) . Because I will be discussing some details , this is your spoiler warning : In this short , Aladdin is a mouse with all the riches one mouse could want and a beautiful daughter who is unhappy ( so unhappy she literally cries like a baby ) . Nothing can comfort her-she wants Mighty Mouse ! A cat ( basically Oil Can Harry in a turban ) plots to make her his and tricks her into meeting him . He steals Aladdin's lamp and makes off with the girl , Mighty Mouse pops up , does battle with various creatures conjured up from the lamp , thrashes the scoundrel and saves the day-and the girl . This is basically a melodrama in " Arabian Nights " costuming . The girl Mighty Mouse saves looks different from Pearl Pureheart , but the basic story is the same . Enjoyable , though certainly not extraordinary . Worth watching .
Entertaining in spots , though wildly uneven	This short has a very good beginning , bogs down a bit in the middle and has an enjoyable ending . Since I will be discussing details , this is a spoiler warning : Bosko is the host / organist of a movie house . He leads the audience in a singalong and at the end pulls two knobs on the organ-one sounds like a duck call and the other pulls out on a chain and you hear a flushing sound ! Next is what has got to be the dullest spoof of a newsreel that I have ever seen in any cartoon I've ever watched-the gag title was very apt : the spoof title was " Out-of-Tone News " and the sole truly memorable bit was where caricatures of the Four Marx Brothers were chasing after a dog with nets . Sadder still is a ( thankfully ) very brief parody of Laurel and Hardy which was painfully unfunny . This middle part drags badly . Then comes the " feature " and the cartoon gets interesting . It's a melodrama , with Honey as the star . She's shown riding a bicycle to the tune of " Bicycle Built For Two " . She's followed by a return of the Marx Brothers on a four-seater . The typical melodrama villain is also on a bike ( I think-it's difficult to say for certain ) and he grabs Honey and rides off with her . They wind up on a train and Honey is calling frantically for help . Bosko is growing more agitated watching this and finally shouts , " I'll save you , Honey ! " and jumps into and through the screen ! This is an enjoyable and entertaining short . I hope it ultimately sees release on a future volume of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection series . Recommended .
The parts are better than the sum , but there are some nice bits here	This short is worth watching for some nice parts , though the cartoon as a whole is just okay , for reasons I will go into below . Consider this a spoiler warning : The beginning basically makes it fairly clear that much of what follows is a dream sequence , as Bosko is in a rocking chair reading tales of yore about when knighthood was in flower and then falls asleep to a song on the radio and we see him in armor ( armor which turns out to have more personality and energy than Bosko himself does ) coming up to King Arthur's castle . There's a nice bit that may or may not be an allusion to Joe E . Brown ( big mouth and all ) and Bosko does a riff on Cab Calloway when greeting the Knights of the Round Table , who include , interestingly enough , caricatures of the Four Marx Brothers ! There's a song , of course , and Bosko tap dances ( along with several suits of armor ) and this allows for some very good bits . The short may have been better had they stuck to this " plot " , but they chose instead to have the requisite bad guy fancy Honey and make off with her ( why so many bad guys try to do this is a mystery , as Honey's " appeal " is on a par with Olive Oyl's ) which sets up the chase and action sequences , the best part of which is Bosko's armor , with two wonderful gags I won't spoil here . The fight to rescue Honey doesn't go well for Bosko , who is fortunate that it's all been a dream . The real ending has Bosko destroy a suit of armor , sing a few lines of a song , jump into bed , pull the sheets up and the bed lifts back up into the wall , where the audience sees a chamberpot which was under the bed . I hope this makes it onto a future Looney Tunes Golden Collection , as there aren't too many shorts which feature caricatures of the Four Marx Brothers . Well worth watching .
This short is probably better than I found it to be , because I can't look at it fresh	This is actually probably a very good short , but I can't help but view it with a bit of a " ho hum " attitude for reasons I'll discuss below . There will be spoilers : Bosko is getting ready for a race as Honey reads the papers about the race . While this is a nice short and it looks very good visually in a number of spots , I can't muster the enthusiasm for it that it probably deserves , because I've seen the basic premise executed much more effectively in other shorts ( most notably in Porky's Road Race ) by Warner Brothers and by Fleischer Studios in a Betty Boop short , the title of which escapes me at the moment . So while there are some nice gags , like Bosko " tuning " his car with the aid of a piano and later on his changing of a flat by first using a cat as a make-shift jack , unzipping the tire and swapping out inner-tubes , too many of the gags are similar to other gags I've seen in other shorts , where they were more effectively done . I like this cartoon very much in any case and think it most definitely deserves to have an audience . I hope it comes out on a future Looney Tunes Golden Collection . Recommended .
Very musical short , even for a Bosko	While Bosko shorts were frequently very musically oriented ( often having Bosko " make " music in unusual ways , with animals and inanimate objects like stepping stones as " instruments " ) , this one is particularly musical in nature . It's actually a fairly interesting short with some very enjoyable and rather quirky gags . I will discuss some details , so this is a spoiler warning : The short opens with Bosko half running , half skipping through a field , pulling petals from a flower and singing " She Loves Me , She Loves Me Not " . Bruno is running after him ( though , strangely enough , Bruno vanishes when Bosko reaches Honey's place ) . The action cuts to Honey's before Bosko gets there , with Honey humming and dusting , which she does thoroughly , down to dusting a fish ! At one point , she does a Mae West impersonation . Bosko shows up and Honey points out a painting of the The Three Musketeers , at which point Bosko pulls out an umbrella and brandishes it like a sword . As Honey sings , " You Might Be a Soldier " , the scene dissolves into a fight with Bosko dressed as a musketeer crossing swords with several adversaries . After vanquishing them , he goes to a pub to meet up with the Three Musketeers ( Athos , Amos and Andy ) and they break out in a song about themselves . There are some very nice gags in this sequence , a couple involving mice and one involving drinking . Then Honey enters , modestly announcing , " Here I am , you lucky people ! " and begins dancing to yet another tune . She attracts the attention of the requisite bad guy , who grabs her . Bosko comes over to defend her and there's a sword fight . Lots of visual gags ( at one point the villain's sword goes from being a rapier to being a cutlass ) in the fight scene , with Bosko eventually coming out the victor . The ending pair of lines are the set up and punchline for an old vaudeville comedy routine . I hope this eventually winds up on one of the Looney Tunes Golden Collections at some point . Recommended .
Unusual " cheater " redeemed by a good ending .	This is the first of three rather atypical " cheater " cartoons , which use footage from three Popeyes produced in the 1930s by Fleischer Brothers Studios but frame the footage with roughly two or three minutes of new animation done by Famous Studios ! As there is less distance in time between this pairing ( Aladdin and his Magic Lamp was the third Popeye " special " , done in 1938 , while this short was one in 1949 ) and , at the time , Famous Studios still had some spark of creativity , the gap between old and new material was not as notable , although the sheer magic of Popeye Meets Sinbad the Sailor makes Big Bad Sinbad slightly better than Popeye's Premiere . This one works better as a unit , though , with the framing material of better quality and with a fairly decent plot . The ending is certainly the most imaginative of the three . By the early 1950s , Famous Studios was going through the motions and it really shows . I think that this cartoon marks the beginning of the end , at least for Popeye . For completeists and major Popeye fans only .
Decent early Cubby the Bear short	This is a Van Beuren studio release . Van Beuren was more or less the basement as far as studios go . With Disney occupying the penthouse at this point in time and really only Lantz and Fliescher providing any real competition ( Warner Brothers and MGM really hadn't hit their stride yet ) . Even Terrytoons wasn't quite as bad ( yet ) as Van Beuren got . I want to discuss some details here , so consider this a spoiler warning : Cubby is a gaucho in this one . His horse actually displays more personality than he does in this one . Cubby goes into a cantina and there follow most of the standard barroom jokes found in cartoons in the 1930s . Bad guys come along and Cubby and his girlfriend wind up being chased , of course . There are some decent visuals here and an interesting bit with Cubby's horse and a tree he's trying to use to stop a runaway coach . But , overall , the whole is a bit less than the sum of its parts . It's a good cartoon-for a Van Beuren , anyway . The ending is a rather disappointing cheat , in my opinion , but the short is worth seeing in any case .
This has got to be one of the most unfortunate cats of all time !	This short is reasonably entertaining and the cat in this one ( if I'm not mistaken ) is the same one featured in Early To Bet . He needs a good medical plan or he needs to retire , because he's singularly unlucky . Because I want to discuss some of the details , this is a spoiler warning : You have a situation which you think would be ideal for a cat-the swallows are returning to San Juan Capistrano-Meals on Wings , as it were . But even with the assistance of radar , this cat hasn't got a prayer-one bird beats him at almost every turn . Instead of dining on a swallow , this poor soul gets a jack-in-the-box and a painted metal figurine , with disastrous and painful consequences ( for the cat-for the bird and the audience , it's hysterical ) . Even when he finally manages to trap the swallow on a piece of flypaper , he still can't catch a break , because then all the other swallows show up to save the first one and bomb the cat with light bulbs and tacks before they pick him up and carry him up to drop him from on high . So he turns to drinking instead . This short is available on the Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Volume 4 and is well worth watching . It and the Collection are recommended .
Interesting , but flawed , as the series was overall	The problems with taking a known source material from one medium and attempting to translate it to another are manifold . Aside from a built-in fan base for the original work ready to pounce with sometimes malicious glee on the adaptation and tear it to shreds with flensing knives , there is the definite prospect that the adaptation doesn't work well between the differing media . From static media to active media ( i . e . , print to film ) the transition requirements are challenging , to say the least . As far as animation goes , Betty Boop and Popeye made the leap successfully and Der Captain and the Kids did not , in part for the same reasons : the Fleischer Studio seemed to understand the source material better than MGM did Der Captain and the Kids , for one thing . But more importantly , Betty Boop and Popeye are more dynamic personalities with greater room to grow in the new medium , while Der Captain and the Kids had characters that were less dynamic and more stereotypical and thus gave the animators and writers less to work with . Ironically , the best proof of this comes from the pre-Code and post-Code changes in Betty Boop . As Betty's personality and trademarks were slowly erased to make her tamer and come in line with the Code , the shorts became more mediocre . Der Captain and the Kids , without that much to work with to begin with ( ethnic characters tend to become one-note quickly unless the writers and directors have an excellent feel for the material ) , forced the studio to resort to other means and materials to make shorts work , as the main characters were limited . The fatal error was focusing all too much on Der Captain , the character who works least well on screen , being more one-dimensional to start with . The horse , Smokey , is a more fully developed character than anyone else in the short and far more interesting than Der Captain , who is more caricature than character and gets what little character he has from Billy Bletcher's voice work . Good , but far from great , short with a few moments . Worth watching , but nothing special .
Notable chiefly for being Chuck Jones's directorial debut-cute , but not compelling	This is a very cute cartoon , but not an especially interesting short on its own merits . The chief point of interest here is as the very first cartoon which Chuck Jones directed . As I will mention some details , there will be mild spoilers : The basic premise of this short is that the regular night watchman , a full-grown cat , is sick and can't make his rounds and so the task falls to his young son . To say that the mice are less than concerned about the new night watchman would be an understatement . They're bigger , meaner and tougher than the little cat and bully him mercilessly . This turn of events means that they have pretty much got free run of the kitchen for most of the short . There are a few cute food-related sight gags , but the short is a bit flatter and less energetic than you would expect , though , to be fair , if you look at it without comparing it to later work by Jones , it comes off looking a good deal better . The ending is all rather predictable , though fun to watch for the most part . This isn't a bad short , it just pales in comparison to the work which would come later , though it does make clear that Jones was interested in the cute and sentimental from the beginning . This was probably the genesis of the Sniffles shorts done a bit later . This short is available on the Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Volume 4 and is worth a look . The Collection , as with the previous three volumes , is most highly recommended .
Has a few moments , but nothing special .	I suspect that this one could easily have been titled , " Hey , we got a contract that calls for so many cartoons , that's why ! " without too much trouble . By this point , they were basically just doing whatever they could to meet quota . This isn't that bad a cartoon , it's just that the early stuff is so much better , it suffers by comparison . They did quite a few worse , as well as some that were very good . Worth watching at least once . Formulaic but okay . Sort of recommended .
Early Woody Woodpecker	This short , also available on a great many public domain tapes under the alternate title of Pantry Panic , is proof that the difference between predator and prey is a matter of who is the hungriest . Entertaining but unexceptional . Fairly easy to find . Worth watching . Recommended if you like Woody .
Has its moments , but just an okay cartoon .	This short is funny and entertaining and is thus worth watching , but really isn't one of the studio's crowning glories . But then , the Lantz studios turned out almost 600 cartoons for theatrical release in roughly 50 years , so not everything could be a jewel . Worth watching , particularly for fans of Woody . Recommended .
While a good cartoon , this is not one of the better ones	The fact that this was nominated for an Oscar puzzles me somewhat , as it wasn't one of the better Tom and Jerry cartoons . It wasn't even the best one that year ( Invisible Mouse was much better ) . The ending , which is creative , makes this worth watching , but that's the most memorable part of the short .
While a decent cartoon , it probably shouldn't have won the Oscar .	This cartoon is done reasonably well , is enjoyable enough and worth seeing , but , although I can understand why it won ( monumentally cute with well-drawn backgrounds and the closest thing to a Disney style short that was nominated ) , I don't think it should have . It's competition included the very first Tom and Jerry and a Bugs Bunny directed by Tex Avery . The Tom and Jerry should have won hands down . The Milky Way has some nice touches , but the other two were more interesting and more novel for the time . Oh , well . The Academy has got more right than wrong in Animated Short over the years . This one shows on The Cartoon Network from time to time .
Average cartoon saved by a very good ending .	This is a very early , formative , Betty Boop and Bimbo . Though it's fairly clear that Bimbo was the character the Fleischers were trying to build a series around initially , it's equally obvious that Betty Boop is a much more effective and engaging character than he could ever be . Bimbo really isn't that interesting , even in support . Though there are some nice gags here ( the type of gags the Fleischers did so well and that became the trademarks of the studio , more or less ) , the cartoon isn't that memorable in and of itself until the ending . It's a good thing that another actress did the voicework here , because her voice suits the song at the end better than Mae Questel's would have . The ending is worth sitting through the rest of the short . Part of the Definitive Collection . Worth watching .
Great visuals , charming ( if dated ) sight gags and jokes .	This is a very cute cartoon that allows Iwerks to make full use of his color system . Charming , if by now overly familiar , sight gags and beautiful detail work make this an entertaining effort from the studio . The colors hold up very well almost 70 years later and match up with Disney for the most part rather favorably . Good to have in print and available . Well worth watching . Recommended .
Sylvester is particularly unfortunate in this short	This short has Sylvester once again trying to catch Speedy , this time in order to prevent him stealing cheese from the store he's protecting . In reality , it's Sylvester himself who needs protection-from himself and Speedy ! As I want to discuss this short in some detail , this is a spoiler warning : The short opens with two mice sleeping in a sardine can . As Jose and Manuel wake up , they begin to ponder where breakfast is coming from , each in turn trying to suggest something , only to have the other shoot the idea down before they even finish . This bit has a beautiful finish , with the two saying ( in unison ) " How about . . . ? " and then simultaneously saying " No ! " They then spot a " Cheese party " being thrown by Mayor Raton , but they are tossed out by the Mayor himself . So they watch from the wall instead . Catastrophe strikes when the " Cheese Committee " comes in looking rather battered and they tell the mayor there's no cheese because there's a new cat . Manuel and Jose offer to summon Speedy to get the cheese-for a favor , to which the mayor agrees . This starts a very bad day for Sylvester . First , Sylvester tries to stop Speedt by simply blocking him , only to have Speedy run under him so fast that it strips him of fur and leaves the words , " Speedy was here ! " spelled out on Sylvester's stomach with what's left of his fur . Adding insult to injury , Speedy does the same thing on his way out , across his behind , this time spelling , " Also Here ! " . Sylvester then tries to lay a series of traps , all of which backfire , including spreading tacks , trying to use a cannon and filling a room with mousetraps . This last is particularly ill-conceived , as Sylvester winds up cornered by his own traps and Speedy then tosses in a ping pong ball to trigger a massive chain reaction . The only one with regrets after any of this is Sylvester . Speedy gets enough cheese to save the fiesta , is given a medal by the grateful mayor and Jose and Manuel get " jobs " as the official " Cheese Inspectors " . Speedy , however , gets the last laugh , as he's been appointed " Chick Inspector " and is last seen with a pretty senorita mouse at his side and a rather large grin ! This short is available on the Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Volume 4 and is well worth seeing . Recommended .
Okay movie , but only one segment works very well	This movie has three storylines brought together by a framing device . The framing device works better than two of the three stories . Only the John Byner segment really works , and that's due to Harold Gould and Nanette Fabray . The Gary Burghoff segment had it's moments , but drowns in an implausible , syrupy ending and the third segment falls apart from the start and is totally uninteresting . Fred Astaire is enjoyable in the framing sequences and the movie is reasonably okay . Watch it for Astaire . Worth seeing once .
A most unusual " cheater " , indeed !	" Cheaters " , cartoons that use stock footage and clips from previous cartoons to form the bulk of a " new " cartoon , usually with new footage as a framing device to incorporate the re-used clips , are not all that unusual . What makes this one of the strangest compilation cartoons is the fact that Paramount Famous Studios uses clips from Popeye Meets Sinbad the Sailor , which was made by Fleischer Studios ( ! ) in 1936 ! Fleischer Studios made three color Popeye two-reel " Specials " in the mid-to-late 1930s . Paramount Famous Studios made three " cheaters " using footage from those three Fleischer shorts . The truly sad thing is , using the older footage makes it crystal clear how much better the old Fleischers were in terms of animations , backgrounds and plotting compared to the 1950s Paramount Famous Studios product . To be fair , cost had a lot to do with the disparity-it was a lot more expensive in the 1950s to make cartoons . But mostly , the 1950s Popeyes were remakes of old Fleischer shorts done in color with a few changes . Here , the framing footage is nice , but 75 % of the cartoon is older material and they re-looped some of the dialogue and changed it , losing some of the charm . This is the saddest of the cheaters , because Sinbad was the best of the two-reel Specials . Big Bad Sinbad isn't that bad a cartoon , actually . It simply isn't that good , either . For completeists only , or people who just like Popeye , period .
A sometimes funny one-joke short redeemed by a great ending .	This is an okay short which starts out interestingly , gets a bit tedious towards the middle and finishes off with a bang . Without the marvelous ending , it would have sunk without a trace . As I intend to discuss some details , this is a spoiler warning : The Pink Panther finds a quarter and sets out to buy something to eat , but can't decide between a hot dog or a hamburger ( easy choice , if you know what they put in most hot dogs ) . As he's deciding , the quarter slips away and he starts after it and so goes the one basic joke of the short-everything which happens ripples out from the chasing of a quarter , like the wake of a pebble tossed in a pond . Parts of this are funny , like the part where a bum sees the quarter roll into one shoe and out the other and join the chase . But a lot of this gets tedious and predictable . The ending of this takes what is , at best , an average short and raises it to the level of good . I won't spoil the ending here , but it is incredibly funny . This short is available on the Pink Panther Classic cartoon Collection and it's well worth a look . The Collection itself is worth getting if you're a fan of the Pink Panther . Recommended .
Some very nice visual gags in what could have been a very good short .	That a short can have no less than four very good visual gags and be largely drab and average for all that is testament ( perhaps even epitaph ) to the problems with all too much of the Flip the Frog series : the Iwerks studios did phenomenal work technically and some of the visuals still hold up well some seventy years later , but they have the misfortune of being encased ( like an insect in amber ) within some of the most lackluster , lame stories and " plots " ever perpetrated on screen ! Flip is a lifeless shell , a prop in all too many of these . More personality is given to the average chair in these than to their star . Worth watching for great visuals , but Iwerks managed to make a boxing match boring even with beautiful animation and several great gags ( even one Tex Avery would have been proud of himself ) . I personally don't watch boxing , but boring it isn't . Recommended .
Decent , if terribly derivative-been there , done that .	There's nothing awful about this one , just nothing really remarkable , save for Pinto Colvig ( the voice of Goofy ) as Bluto . I've seen it all in other ( better ) Popeye shorts . Fleischer almost always did visually fantastic cartoons and this one isn't bad . But I see signs of burnout here . They seem to have lost a bit of steam with this one . Oh , well , they can't all be great . Jack Mercer is fine as usual . Recommended for completeists .
I feel for the motorcycle cop in this one	This short is reasonably good , with some decent gags , though it gets a bit predictable in spots . I want to discuss this in some detail , so here there be spoilers : The Pink Panther wants to build and ride a motorcycle ( there's a recipe for disaster right there ) , but has trouble getting it out of reverse , which helps attract the attention of a motorcycle cop who looks like he could be the " Little White Guy " ( the Pink Panther's usual foil ) or a close relative . From here on in , what happens to the poor cop makes it clear that this just wasn't his day ! The Pink Panther and machinery don't typically work and play well together . Okay-virtually nothing and the Pink Panther work and play well together . But the net loser here is the motorcycle cop ! He gets flattened and otherwise injured throughout this short , until he finally catches his Panther and puts him in a cell . The ending is a scream and makes the whole thing worth seeing . This short is on the five disc Pink Panther Classic Cartoon Collection and it and the Collection are well worth seeing . Recommended .
Notable for the number of characters more than anything else	This short is aptly titled : it is a birthday party for Mickey . Disney released much more interesting and engaging shorts than this , but it is quite a collection of the majority of significant characters in Disney shorts and is at least worth seeing on that score . The animation , as is typical , is excellent . Worth seeing at least once .
Marginal short with a great title !	The Bears were a relatively brief ( thankfully ) series of shorts that featured an irritable ( and irritating ) Papa , a Mama that would have driven Carrie Nation to the Demon Rum for refuge and an obnoxious Baby . Not to be confused with the more enjoyable series that Warner Brothers did somewhat later , this MGM series had a few good moments , but the characters are such a waste of space that the viewer has no reason to care what happens to them and thus doesn't give a flip about anything on-screen . The most notable thing about this is the title , which is a play on words with an alternate meaning that got past the Production Code office , probably because they didn't get the joke . The title gets this one six points alone . The short rates a one by itself . For MGM completeists .
Good Bosko short , with Bosko in law enforcement and apprehension ( with a side of piano ) .	Bosko shorts are very uneven in quality . This one is particularly good , all the more so because it was fairly early on in the series . There are a few gags I want to touch on , so there are spoilers ahead : Something I noticed in watching this and quite a few other Boskos in a brief period of time is that gags are often repeated to one degree or another from one cartoon to another . There are exact copies ( Bosko splitting into several little Boskos after a fall , for example ) and then there are types of gags with some variation in details , but a thematic link . An example of that in this short happens early on-Bosko enters a cabin during a blizzard , with a wind behind him gusting so intensely that he grabs hold of another character's trousers in order to keep from being blown away . the other character's trousers come off with the force of the wind , so Bosko grabs the rear flap on his long-johns , which promptly opens . The lowering of the rear flap on a pair of long-johns for comic purposes occurs in a number of Boskos which I've seen . It was just something I noticed . Bosko is sent out by his superior officer to capture the villain . Bosko travels by dog sled and crashes into a saloon , goes in with guns drawn and sees Honey singing inside . He decides to play the piano for her and the music takes over the short until the bad guy comes in and Bosko has to try and arrest him . Bosko eventually gets the drop on him by spitting out the light and using the darkness to come up with a machine-gun and then cutting him down to size . The villain is vanquished and the conquering hero is celebrated by the crowd until fadeout . This short is well worth watching and is most recommended .
A decent , if somewhat predictable , short with several nice gags	Pink Panther shorts are almost all a bit predictable , in that the character is rather one-dimensional and they usually establish a basic premise and then bounce gags off that premise for most of the short . How enjoyable any given cartoon is largely depends on the execution of the individual sight gags . While this isn't one of the best shorts in the series , it is funny in spots and starts off with an interesting idea . As I want to discuss the short in some detail , this is a spoiler warning : This short follows a rather unfortunate thief-essentially , this is the Panther's primary adversary , the little guy with a temper . Whereas for most people , horseshoes are supposed to be good luck , for him , a horseshoe brings incredibly bad luck , frequently involving the police ( early on , he steals a getaway car , only to have it turn out that he's stolen a squad car ) . I was reminded of the old Keystone Kops films whenever I saw the police . In fact , part of the basic premise reminded me of an old Warner Brothers short , The Blow Out , because the Pink Panther keeps trying to return the horseshoe every time it's throw away , even when it becomes clear that his efforts aren't appreciated in the least . The gags mostly fall into two categories : how the Panther gets the horseshoe back to its reluctant owner and what happens to him when the horseshoe comes back to him . The funniest gags have to do with how the Pink Panther returns the shoe , as there's only so many different ways to show the cops arriving on the scene before the gag stops being humorous . This has a fairly good delayed gag in it and it also has a funny reverse gag where the thief forces the Pink Panther to take the horseshoe at gunpoint , sees the Panther having good luck , then taking it back at gunpoint only to have bad things happen to him again . This short is available on the Pink Panther Classic Cartoon Collection and is worth seeing , even though it does drag in spots . Recommended .
A remake of Scalp Trouble , but not too bad in its own right	This cartoon could be considered a " cheater " because it uses quite a bit of footage from Scalp Trouble , presumably because of material shortages during wartime and because the animators were also doing war-related projects and it saved time . Though Scalp Trouble is better , Slightly Daffy is good enough to see for its own sake . Worth watching . Recommended .
Good movie , but as flawed as the Dark Crystal itself and should have been so much better .	This is I guess something which comes with the territory : the movie you want so much to like but that's flawed to the point that you wish it could be so much better . I compounded the problem by watching this again right after watching Labyrinth , which is everything I think Jim Henson wanted this to be , but that Dark Crystal couldn't manage . The story is predictable , the good guys aren't terribly interesting or engaging and the visuals ( the best part of the movie ) are occasionally off-kilter and a bit jarring . Probably better than I think it is , but not as good as it could have been . Worth seeing once , particularly if you like animated work .
First of a series , this is cute but bland .	This short is visually impressive in spots ( a hallmark of the studio ) , but the characters aren't that interesting and , for all that this was nominated for an Academy Award , it points up the problems with the Color Classics series in general : they tried to be something Fliescher Studios was not , namely Disney Studios . Overall , the Color Classics range from watchable to quite good ( the more Fliescher-like ones are the best ones ) , cute and cuddly was not the strength of the Fliescher Studio . It would be akin to Tex Avery suddenly going saccharine-it just doesn't come across terribly well . The mean prospector is the strength of the cartoon , particularly his predictable but enjoyable defeat . Worth watching , but only average .
OK , but Funny Face is a much better film	This movie is worth seeing for the music and for Astaire and Caron , but the plot is about as believable as a politician's promise and most of the rest of the cast looks disinterested in the whole project . OK , but not great .
The first Tex Avery travelogue spoof and Egghead too !	This short is the first of several spoofs of the travelogue shorts popular at the time that showcased exotic locales for movie audiences . While a good cartoon , not on a par with later ones such as Detouring America or Crazy Cruise . Avery was still finding his range on the material . Still some good stuff here anyway . This one features Egghead in a running gag that has a funny finish . Enjoyable and entertaining , it's well worth hunting down . Recommended
Egghead as a romantic lead . I must have missed something .	This is an excellent cartoon , with the incongruous premise that Egghead is a romantic leading man . I can see it now-first , there was Valentino and John Gilbert , then Gable and now Egghead . Oh , well , he's a Tex Avery leading man ! This is a typical Avery short-sight gags come so fast and furious that they almost inundate the audience and you usually need three or four viewings to catch everything . Well worth watching . Most recommended .
The title says it all here .	The plot here in this early Flip the Frog-Flip opens a barber shop . The rest is sight gags , some very funny , but little else and the pacing is a bit slow . The cartoon is made , however , by an especially good sight gag right at the beginning and by the strangest barber shop quartet in cinematic history , that I've seen , at any rate . Good , but I've seen too much that as better to ever rate it higher than " good " . Worth watching .
An OK cartoon , for Tex Avery	This cartoon is just average for Tex Avery , which means that it's still as good as the best work of some cartoon directors . Virtually all sight gags , many of the gags are familiar from other shorts and most often worked only moderately well here . Still worh watching ( I've never seen a BAD Tex Avery ) even if it's not one of his best .
One of two unusual " cheater " cartoons to re-use Tex Avery shorts long after he'd left MGM	This is an unusual cartoon , in that it's an example of a " cheater " ( a cartoon which incorporates animation from earlier cartoons , in order to save time and money while still meeting the required running time and schedule for animated shorts ) taken to the extreme . Because I want to discuss the short a bit , this is a spoiler warning : This short is , in essence , a cartoon directed by Tex Avery in 1950 , one called The Ventriloquist Cat . What they did was take the original animation , re-use it against new backgrounds , changed the cat from black to orange and shoot it in a widescreen format . Given that a large chunk of the work was already done , they probably did this because the studio wanted to make use of the widescreen process on their animated shorts as well and this was an easy way to get experience at making such cartoons , while keeping on schedule and at or under budget . If you've seen Ventriloquist Cat , you've seen Cat's Meow , at least for all practical purposes . They did this same thing to another Avery short , taking a Droopy short entitled From Wags To Riches , making very few modifications and releasing it in widescreen as Millionaire Droopy . If you really like Tex Avery ( I do ) then this is worth seeing .
Interesting cartoon with some nice scenes , but other studios have done similar shorts and did them better	This short has some interesting plot ideas that more or less work here , but the ideas have been used by other cartoon studios in different combinations and used more effectively . I want to talk about the short a bit , so this is a spoiler warning : This short has a dog who is quite content with his life , until a stray kitten is taken in by the household ( it's not clear whether the human character is the owner or a servant ) . The dog sees the kitten usurping his bowl and his bed and reacts angrily , attacking the kitten and drawing a warning for his actions . He grumbles that he would be better off dead and then gets hit by a vase after lunging for the kitten . You then see his spirit depart his body ( in a rather creative way ) and get in an elevator headed up , to " Dog Heaven " . There are some very nice visual gags showing what dogs might find to be heaven . The dog gets arrested by a heavenly cop ( a bulldog with an Irish brogue ) for not having wings and he's taken before St . Bernard , who sends him " down " because he tormented the kitten . We now get to see " Dog Hades " , which is definitely not someplace you want to go ! The backgrounds are nice and there are some good gags . The dog then wakes up and realizes he's back home and he starts spoiling the kitten ! This is a nice short , but there isn't anything special about it-it's cute and nothing more . Good for kids , though . Worth watching .
Porky is upstaged by a bloodhound and a lynx	This short is one of the milder propaganda shorts done by Warner Brothers during World War II . I intend to discuss specifics , so consider this a spoiler warning : Porky is barely in this short-a fairly long introduction is composed of first a series of sight gags and then the awakening of a bloodhound . Porky is essentially an extra in this short . He and the bloodhound have to find a spy-a lynx with a German accent straight out of central casting . As Porky is telling the bloodhound about their assignment , the running gag is introduced-the bloodhound starts to sneeze , is stopped and then sneezes with tremendous force . They locate the lynx-called " Missing Lynx " and he proceeds to run circles around Porky , who shows the intelligence of a tree stump in this one . It's up to the bloodhound to win this one for the home team . Well , to be accurate , it's up to " Missing Lynx " to lose this one for the bad guys-his bomb was no doubt obtained from the German subsidiary of Acme ! The short irises out on the " V for Victory " symbol in the end and the way it comes about is one of the most interesting aspects to this short . Norman McCabe didn't direct all that many shorts at Warner Brothers , but this is one of the more entertaining ones to come out of his unit . Worth seeing . Quite dated , but worth seeing and I hope it sees release on a Looney Tunes Golden Collection at some point . Recommended .
Fascinating early animation	From the vantage point of 96 years later , this is , comparatively speaking , rather simplistic and quite limited in contrast to work done today . But , also comparatively speaking , so would a certain single engine airplane seen at Kitty Hawk 99 years ago in contrast to a Lear Jet . There's more wit and imagination in any 90 seconds of this short than can be found in 60-90 minutes of some of the animated features I've seen in the last few years . Viewed in context and realizing its age and the circumstances of its creation , you begin to realize just how remarkable and notable this piece of work truly is and that it truly is magic . A very early step , if not the first step , on the path that gave us Felix the Cat , Koko the Clown , Betty Boop , Mickey Mouse , Bugs Bunny , Woody Woodpecker , Tom and Jerry and countless others . Each generation builds on what comes before . But , of necessity , there must be that first layer and the strength of that foundation is key to the growth of the medium . Work like this must be remembered and appreciated . In a world where the past is increasingly no earlier than breakfast today for all too many people ( not that past generations have been all that much better ) , works like this need to be spotlighted and preserved for the future to benefit from . Well worth watching . Recommended , particularly to animators or fans of animation .
Personally , I was cheering for the fish .	This short was nominated for an Oscar . It's principal point of interest today is its narrator , one Ronald Wilson Reagan . There are some nice archery shots and the sword fish scores a moral victory of sorts , but it's only average or slightly above average . Turner Classic Movies runs this as filler and your best bet to catch it is in March during their " 31 Days of Oscar " festival . Worth wtching to a degree . I was rooting for the fish myself .
A short weakened by a running gag which is wildly uneven in effectiveness , with a great beginning and a cute cameo	This short , which I must confess has two characters I find very unappealing , starts out marvelously for about the first 90 seconds , but the action quickly turns almost entirely to a series of setups for a running gag which is repeated ( to varying degrees of effectiveness ) so often that it starts to get tedious . The fact that the dog is a one-dimensional character of limited personality and that Claude Cat is limited here by the running gag only makes things more problematic . To a degree , the cameo by another Warner Brothers character and the ending of the short , along with a wonderful beginning , salvages this short and raises its overall score . This is on Looney Tunes Golden Collection Vol . 3 and is worth watching , though the Collection as a whole is most highly recommended without reservation . Not the best short I've seen , but far from the worst I've watched . Recommended
Man versus nature with nature winning	In this cartoon , Clouseau goes hunting and , given his innate ineptitude , does it badly . He keeps hitting the wrong target , primarily a bear trying to hibernate through winter . One's sympathies lie almost entirely with the bear , who , not unreasonably , just wants to be left alone . Things become increasingly painful ( as well as visually comic ) as a very well-spoken and articulate bear metes out punishment to Clouseau for disturbing his rest . The bear , having troubled no one , is most cetainly the aggrieved party her and it's difficult to feel much sympathy for Clouseau here . Bear in a landslide , no recount needed , winner and still champion . Recommended .
This is Love That Pup , version 1 . 1	This cartoon is an extreme example of a " cheater " , which is a cartoon made by using clips from other , earlier , cartoons , so as to save time and cost in order to make schedule and budget requirements on the contract to provide shorts for the studio and its distribution arrangements with theaters . Because I want to discuss the short a bit , this is a spoiler warning : This cartoon is actually ( for all practical purposes ) the 1949 short Love That Pup , with the animation and some of the backgrounds re-used and shot in a widescreen format . The studio had decided to start doing its animated shorts in widescreen and the animation department like did this and two re-done Tex Avery cartoons as widescreen releases with different titles and some superficial changes , in order to save themselves time and money on their production schedule and budget , time and money they could apply to other shorts in production , which made it possible for them to meet the delivery requirements they had in their contract in terms of number of shorts and total budgetary limits . If you've seen Love That Pup , you've seen Tops With Pops . It's a decent cartoon , but chiefly of interest to cartoon collectors and / or Tom and Jerry fans . Worth watching .
This is an Oswald the Lucky Rabbit which spins its own version of Jack and the Beanstalk	When I saw the title of this short , I thought it might be a play on the Alice in Wonderland story . Strangely enough , it's actually a re-telling of the Jack and the Beanstalk fairy tale , a fairly interesting one at that . As I want to discuss the short , this is a spoiler warning : This short opens with Oswald singing a song about his grandmother sewing a rip in his pants while his grandmother is sewing a rip in his pants-while he's still wearing them ! Granny is being assisted by a rather helpful mouse , who also manages to stick the sleeping cat with the needle at least once . This has all the makings of an old melodrama-the dastardly landlord callously telling granny that if he's not paid the mortgage by six , she gets the boot , complete with maniacal laugh and mustaches . Oswald vows to save the homestead and decides to sell the cow to raise money . A witch materializes from a tree and offers a bag of beans for the cow . There's a really good bit here , where the cow basically becomes a " one cow band " when the sale is completed . The obvious happens-the beans get planted , a beanstalk results and Oswald winds up in a large castle , where he meets a girl who decides to help him . There are some really good visuals , culminating in the two hitching a ride on a spider who doubles as " elevator " - right above the mouth of the sleeping ( and snoring ) giant . They make it over to the chicken ( yes , a chicken ) that lays golden eggs , a rather noisy and complex process . Oswald gets one 14-caret golden egg before the giant wakes up and the chase is on . Why Oswald doesn't grab the chicken and take it is a puzzle , but the chicken disappears during the chase , though the girl remains and she goes down the beanstalk with Oswald , both followed closely by the giant . Meanwhile , back at the old homestead , granny is weeping as the dastardly landlord is cackling that only one minute remains , when Oswald announces his impending arrival . The landlord cuts down the the beanstalk , laughing a somewhat premature victory laugh-the giant hits him and they're both driven into the ground , while Oswald and the girl land safely . There's a victory dance by Oswald , the girl , the cat and the mouse around an improvised maypole and we leave the happy scene , where virtue has once again emerged triumphant-as long as you ignore the fact that Oswald trespassed and stole from the giant , of course . Minor details . This short is available on the DVD Attack of the ' 30s Characters and it is well worth watching . Recommended .
Not the best Bugs Bunny ever , but well worth watching	This short , nominated for an Oscar , is a good , not great , cartoon . It does introduce a bit of Longfellow and any Bugs Bunny is a good cartoon and worth watching . There just isn't anything terribly funny or special about this particular cartoon besides the poem sections read at the beginning and end . But it is worth watching . It runs periodically on Cartoon Network .
Bugs checks out the dog races .	An enjoyable short , though not one of the best Bugs Bunny shorts . It has more than a few moments and an entertaining ending . Because i want to discuss some details , this is a spoiler warning : Bugs winds up at a dog racetrack and decides to check out the dogs . He goes over to where they're being fed and pokes and prods them , going so far as to stop one of them from eating so he can check out his teeth . The dog makes it clear that he doesn't like rabbits . At one point , there's a panning shot of the dogs in the upcoming race , with a very pun-filled voice-over describing the dogs ( for example , " Motorman's Glove will have a hand in it ! " ) and then the race begins . That's when Bugs discovers that a ( mechanical ) rabbit is used to get the dogs to run and Bugs falls in love with this " hunk of feminine pulchritude ! " , but then he realizes that the dogs are GASP chasing his " dreamboat " . Declaring that " Chivalry is not dead ! " , Bugs begins setting out to prevent the dogs from harming his " lady " fair , with disastrous consequences for the track and the dogs . The voice-over is hilarious . Naturally , Bugs has to have a primary nemesis and it's the dog he got into a scuffle with earlier . They have several encounters , most of which go badly for the dog , until the dog surrenders toward the end . Bugs can now join his " dreamboat " , who has been ignoring his advances and running in circles . The ending is cute , so I won't spoil it here . This short is available on the Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Volume 4 and is well worth seeing . Recommended
Tex Avery's take on Cinderella , with Egghead as a most un-Princely Charming fellow !	Anyone who has seen an Egghead cartoon will find the idea of his being Prince Charming quite humorous . If you've seen much by Tex Avery , you know that when he's done , this won't much resemble the fairy tale as you hear it when you were younger . This is not your grandmother's Cinderella ! The sight gags are great , as usual , Egghead is Egghead and the closing line is hilarious . Well worth watching . Recommended .
One of the Sing-a-Long series of shorts done by Famous Studios and a fairly generic short with a few high points	The Sing-a-Long series which Paramount's Famous Studios did in the 1940s and early 1950s was directly patterned after the old Fleischer Studios series with the same basic idea-animation paired with a sing along which had a pointer or a " bouncing ball " moving in time to the lyrics , so that the audience could sing the song in accompaniment to a voice or voices recorded on the film . I'm going to discuss the short at least a little bit , so this is a mild spoiler : In many ways , this is a rather generic short , in that it features the same types of gags that other shorts in the series , though there are some very funny gags ( which I'll do my best not to spoil ) and there is a mix of live-action footage in with the animation . There are the typical visual puns , there's the stock " California versus Florida " joke and other fairly predictable gags . One semi-cute , if telegraphed gag involves a woodpecker and the Petrified Forest . The bird's lines are an old Red Skelton punch line . There are two very good gags , though-the first involving a bit about the highest and lowest points in the United States ( at least at the time , those being Mount Whitney and Death Valley . There's a very funny bit on Death Valley which for me , was the highlight of the short , though it was closely followed by a gag centered around the footprints of Harpo Marx found in cement in front of Grauman's Chinese Theater . Definitely the most unusual " appearance " of Harpo Marx in a cartoon ! The song done in this one is " California , Here I Come " and there's some moderately interesting background art / animation during the sing-along portion . Worth watching .
The bits are greater than the whole .	This is a very funny cartoon , but from a plotting standpoint , it's a mess . The individual gags just happen more or less by happenstance . Ub Iwerks was interested in technique more than content . He was an idea man only when it came to the mechanics of things . A master at what he did and one of the finest animators who ever dipped a pen into an inkwell , but not overly interested in mundane trifles like plots or stories . Tex Avery , master of the machine gun school of sight gags , included something resembling a plot most of the time , even if he simply poked fun at it later . This was Iwerk's Achilles heel and why , at least in part , his studio folded in a few years . His shorts were visually nice , even beautiful in some cases , funny and often just as forgettable as a stale piece of toast . This has some wonderful gags and you may remember the gag for years-but forget which cartoon it was in after two days . The individual parts are better than their sum . Worth watching because the animation is superb . Cotton candy , sumptuous but hardly filling . Recommended with above caveats .
Cute , if not terribly memorable , Goofy short	This short features Goofy going up against Peg Leg Pete . It's cute enough , but thoroughly predictable and not all that memorable . It is well-animated , though . The concept really doesn't work as well as it should with the personality of Goofy for some reason . Worth watching at least once , but nothing terribly notable with this one .
Nice idea , but the sum is less than its parts .	This is an enjoyable enough short , but with the idea they start with , narration by June Foray and this being a Pepe Le Pew , somehow this one sort of stumbles and lurches along . It may just be me , but the jokes aren't that funny and the dialogue is lame for some reason . The base idea is very inventive , but the story seems forced . Not a bad cartoon by any means . Just not all that good either . Still worth watching at least once . Recommended for big Pepe Le Pew fans .
Decent cartoon , with a very good bit concerning a bear	This is one of 17 shorts done in the Ant and the Aardvark series . Since the basic premise of this series was rather limited , the general story lines were somewhat predictable . The enjoyment comes from the dialog ( voiced by John Byner ) and some fairly funny ( if usually painful-for the Aardvark ) sight gags . Who knew just getting a good meal would be so problematic ? There will be spoilers up ahead : The short starts off with a beautiful sunny day , but with a prediction calling for a sudden snowstorm . The Ant and Aardvark have different reactions to this announcement , with the Ant deciding to gather more supplies and the Aardvark scoffing at the whole idea . Naturally , the next day , there's a huge snowstorm and the Aardvark has to try and cope with the snow while trying to find breakfast . There follow a series of winter-related gags , with one semi-running gag as a standout . Twice the Aardvark returns to his home , only to find that a bear has gone to sleep in his bed ( probably in retaliation for Goldilocks's trespass ) and the resulting confrontations come off rather badly for the Aardvark . The ending to the short is very good . This short is currently available on a single DVD collection of all 17 of the Ant and Aardvark shorts and is well worth seeing . Recommended .
One of the " covers come to life " type of cartoon .	There were quite a few cartoons built around the premise of covers coming to life on books / magazines at a bookstore / newsstand . They generally had caricatures of stars of the period and / or fictional characters , as is the case here . There's usually a villan , which allows for good guys and chase scenes and a song or three gets sung . This is an early example and though it has moments , it isn't as good as some of the others . Well worth seing anyway . Recommended to anyone who likes the old black and white cartoons
Mickey and Pluto go hunting	This short is memorable only for the fact that it somehow got nominated for an Oscar in 1939 . It is by no means a bad cartoon-the animation is nice , the backgrounds quite detailed and technically , it is up to Disney standards-it just isn't all that memorable or interesting . Just a good , competent , workman-like short that's as filling as oatmeal and as tasty as a rice-cake . An okay cartoon , but for all that , barely a blip on the radar . They show this on The Ink and Paint Club .
Entertaining short in the Farmer Al Falfa series	This short is largely a re-telling of the Noah's Ark story , with modifications , in the style of Terrytoons . Farmer Al Falfa is basically Noah here . I will discuss some details , so there are mild spoilers below : This starts out with Farmer Al Falfa sitting around and enjoying the day . Then the rain starts and the sprint to get in the ark begins . There are sight gags , often puns ( for instance , lightning strikes a cloud and it begins raining cats and dogs-something that happens more than once ) throughout the short . It's overwhelmingly sight gags , actually . One of the best happens relatively early and has to do with a horse struck by lightning . I won't spoil it here . There really isn't that much of a plot . Lots of different bits play off of lightning bolts , there's a fairly funny bit with a turtle who decides to try and increase his speed in a rather novel way and a very prim and proper female hippo being rowed in a canoe by a mouse ! The ending is cute , if predictable . This short is available on the DVD Attack of the ' 30s Characters and is well worth seeing . Recommended .
This has got to be Bugs's worst nightmare !	This short has a few laughs , though it really drags in spots , which , when you consider that the short is about seven minutes long , is a dubious accomplishment . Because I want to discuss some of the details , this is a spoiler warning : Elmer Fudd receives a crate ( from his uncle ( Judd Fudd ) containing a female rabbit named Millicent , from Slobovia . Elmer's first words on catching a good look at Millicent in strong sunlight are , " Wooks aren't evewything , you know ! " , because Uncle Judd has promised in an accompanying note that he will pay Elmer $500 . 00 for looking after Millicent until he gets back to the US . For $500 . 00 , Elmer is willing to overlook the fact that Millicent looks like she could have played linebacker for the Chicago Bears ! Her manners and her attitude are a matched set , as she's rude , arrogant and obnoxious . She starts wrecking her room and Elmer discovers she wants a date . Since Millicent could pick Elmer up and bench-press him 57 times without breaking a sweat , Elmer wisely goes out looking for a male rabbit . Guess who he finds ? That's right , Bugs . Elmer baits a fishing pole with a carrot and catches Bugs like a trout . Ever the gentleman , Bugs first finishes his meal and the tidies up before agreeing to go home with Elmer , unaware of what fate ( and Elmer ) have waiting for him . Bugs meets Millicent and is a less than enthusiastic swain . When she insists on a kiss , Bugs grabs a poor fish and Millicent kisses it instead . On his return to the fishbowl , the fish pulls out an old-fashioned pistol , marches into his house , you see a large bubble which , after it surfaces , bursts and gives out a large " POP ! " . Bugs tries repeatedly to escape , but between Millicent and Elmer , his attempts at self-preservation fail . He's almost " bunny hugged " into a coma . Then Millicent declares that " Courtship is over ! Name the day and we will be marriaged ! " , which is about as welcome a statement to Bugs as a declaration that he's been exposed to diphtheria . Thinking quickly , he suggests that they elope and he begins lowering her out the window on a sheet which " slips " out of his grasp . As she is pounding on the door , Bugs goes in and wakes up Elmer and tells him Uncle Judd's at the door . He slips a rabbit suit on Elmer in the dark and Millicent sees Elmer dressed as a rabbit and immediately switches her affections to him and soon , Elmer is doing his best Jesse Owens impression , sprinting off over the snow , with Millicent in hot pursuit . This short is available on the Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Volume 4 and is well worth seeing at least once . The set is highly recommended .
Interesting , though average , short produced under the WB studios just before it was shut down the first time	This short was the last short produced by the Warner Brothers animation department . The studio shut down the animation department , only to farm out the production of cartoons to the Depatie-Freleng Studio , which also produced the Pink Panther shorts . I'm going to talk a bit about the short , so there will be mild spoilers below : Though there really isn't anything particularly exceptional about this short , I noticed some things I thought were at least somewhat interesting about it when I saw it today for the first time . For one thing , it had a lot of visual similarities to the shorts produced by Depatie-Freleng-the character design of Senorella , for example , is very similar to female characters in a couple of later Pink Panther shorts . The backgrounds are also very much like the later backgrounds , which I suppose is hardly surprising , given that a number of the people who worked on this short went on to work for Depatie-Freleng . As for the short itself , it's a largely by-the-numbers version of Cinderella , with the nominal twist of it being populated with Hispanic characters . Apart from the narrator's accent and pronunciation , the slant given this short is generally benign and marginal . The short's greatest deficit is that it really isn't terribly funny and there isn't enough variation in the plot to make up for the lack of decent jokes . It's rather predictable to anyone who knows the story of Cinderella . Still , it is worth seeing once and is currently in print on Disc 2 of the Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Volume 5 . Recommended for Looney Tunes completest .
A trifle cute in spots , particularly the end , but has its moments nonetheless .	The Chuck Jones Tom and Jerry cartoons were quite uneven . He and his crew could never quite seem to make up their minds as to whether the pair were adversaries or pals . Here , they start out enemies and become best buddies . But there are some good visual bits and a stunning lack of planning and foresight on Tom's part-following his plans down to their logical conclusion doesn't seem to be his long suit . Enjoyable , even if the ending is a bit too precious for words . Well worth watching . Recommended .
Not their best teaming , but Lancaster and Douglas work well together	This is a rather light comedy , not an exceptional film , but entertaining enough . While Kirk Douglas and Burt Lancaster turn in engaging performances , the movie is stolen by Eli Wallach , whose character is nothing if not persistent ! There are some very funny bits here . If you're looking for something light , funny and enjoyable , this one works . Worth watching .
Decent short with a few good moments , but only average	This short is one of the earlier Porky Pig shorts and falls into the " Porky as a kid " category , which was a fairly frequent gimmick in the first few years . There may be spoilers in my remarks below : In a few Porky shorts featuring Porky as a child , the plot device of " Porky is given money by his dad , with strict orders to do something specific , but something goes haywire " was used . This was one of those shorts , which are fairly predictable . Our hero winds up buying ( by Standard Accident # 43 in the Cartoonist's Handbook ) a horse which would fail the physical at a glue factory . Given that our hero doesn't relish the idea of returning home for a trip to the woodshed , he decides to enter a race to win the prize money , so he can go home covered in glory rather than fertilizer . Our hero lucks out , in spite of troubles , travails and trombones , passes " Go " , collects his $11 and his horse is happy in the end as well and on his way to audition for John Philip Sousa . This short is on Looney Toons Golden Collection , Vol 3 . Though it's largely a routine and by-the-numbers cartoon , it is worth seeing and the Collection is excellent . Recommended .
Well made but terminally cute Oswald the Rabbit cartoon .	This is enjoyable , but overwhelmingly cute . Well animated and quite well done in all other respects , but my tastes run more towards Tex Avery and Bambi Meets Godzilla . It is , however , an Oswald short and Oswald is one of the classic old time characters , one sadly neglected today because the Lantz material is largely unavailable . Worth watching , particularly if you like Cute . Recommended with that caveat .
Watch this for Gershon and Pantoliano	Gina Gershon can act , Showgirls notwithstanding . This movie proves that . While Jennifer Tilly , bless her , earnestly tries to prove ( unsuccessfully ) to prove that Meg didn't get all the acting ability . Joe Pantoliano does a marvelous job playing a character so repellent that you don't care that he's being set up to take the fall of the century . Watch for their performances . That alone is worth the price of addmission . Worth seeing .
This short has a similar theme in common with an Eastern European short entitled Ersatz	This short reminds me strongly of a short which won an Oscar a number of years before-it was an Eastern European short , Ersatz is its title in English , Surogat is its original title . While Ersatz is a more effective short , this has its own charms as well . I will be discussing details , so consider this a spoiler warning : The Pink Panther goes to the beach with a satchel full of inflatable items of various types , including a muscle suit and barbell . He proceeds to upstage a muscle boy , who then becomes his opponent . It's always interesting when the Pink Panther has an adversary other than the " Little White Guy " , as he was called at the studio , because the Panther usually does things which are a bit less predictable to them . The gags generally fall into a category here-it's the " Muscle boy gets upstaged , gets angry and does something that precipitates his own downfall " . There are no sympathetic qualities here for the muscle boy . Even the ultimate comeuppance is his own fault . The ending is quite enjoyable and this is a very entertaining short . If you like this one , by all means , look for a copy of Ersatz . Recommended .
If you dread going to the dentist , Flip's " skills " will only reinforce your current attitude !	This is a fairly nice cartoon visually , with some very funny sight gags , but Flip's talents do not extend themselves to the science of dentistry . While he doesn't come close to the dentist in Little Shop of Horrors ( either version ) , Flip is about as effective here as he is in most of his other endeavors . Not terribly exciting , but watchable and you'll get a laugh or two along the way . Not the best Flip the Frog and not the worst . Worth watching and good to have in print . Recommended .
I found this one a bit too cute without anything special about it to offset the cuteness .	The animation here is good , but not special , the story and script I found too cute by half and I was a bit disappointed by this one . Part of this can be attributed to the fact that I saw Ballet-Oop first , which is far superior and shows how this kind of thing should be done . I saw this a second time and just watched it without watching anything else on the tape that time . It's still too cute for my tastes , but it's a decent short . Worth watching . Recommended with above caveat .
Very cute Speedy Gonzales short , pitting him against Sylvester once again	Speedy's adversary in this short is Sylvester , which makes a great deal of sense , given that he's a cat and Speedy's a mouse . The basic plot is even quite reasonable , which isn't always the case with Speedy cartoons . I want to discuss some details from this short in my comments , so this is a spoiler warning : The short opens with the mice of a Mexican village lamenting a cheese famine and has some fairly nice ( and in one instance , rather morbid ) bits regarding their inability to get cheese . The a mouse begins to smell cheese and thinks he's dreaming . They slowly realize that a ship has come into port with a cargo of cheese . They rush to the boat enthusiastically , only to run from it in terror only a fews moments later . It seems that Sylvester is guarding the cheese . Someone suggests calling on Speedy for help , because Speedy likes his sister . Another mouse makes it clear that Speedy's not the only one who likes his sister ! Speedy comes into the picture and begins to take cheese from the ship while Sylvester tries diligently ( and in vain ) to stop him . Among the gags are Sylvester winding up trapped in a storage room filled with Limburger cheese , Sylvester trapping Speedy with a net only to wind up having Speedy drag him around the ship , Sylvester trying to lure Speedy closer with cheese , only to hit himself with a mallet ( Sylvester's reaction to this is a marvelous bit of character animation ) , Speedy running through a pipe into Sylvester's mouth and running through ( and out ) Sylvester's tail ( a gag they used in more than one Speedy versus Sylvester short ) and a gag with an early setup and delayed punch-line involving a guillotine . Sylvester finally throws in the towel , puts on some mouse ears and joins in on the impromptu fiesta the mice have thrown together . This short is available on the Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Volume 4 and is well worth watching . Recommended .
A cartoon which answers a question that has puzzled mankind for eons : which one is Heckle and which one is Jeckle ?	A largely run-of-the-mill short that has one very notable point of significance-it essentially makes it possible to know which magpie is Heckle and which one is Jeckle . In order to explain this , spoilers are necessary , so be warned : This is a fairly typical " friends become romantic rivals " cartoon with some enjoyable visual gags . But the most important aspect of this short is that there are a couple of scenes that provide fairly decisive indicators of which bird is which . Though the two birds have distinctive voices and personalities , in most of the shorts , their names are not used in such a way that they identify the specific character . Physically , they look the same . Here , however , they are shown wearing different hats and one wears a monocle . On two different occasions , they are shown running into separate living quarters , each marked by name . The one who comes out of the quarters marked " Heckle " is the one who speaks with a New York , Bronx / Brooklyn accent and is wearing a white hat with upturned brim , while the one who exits from " Jeckle " is wearing a straw hat and a monocle and speaks with a British accent . Heckle and Jeckle are probably the most effective characters developed by Terrytoons , certainly of those developed before Paul Terry sold his shorts and the studio . Mighty Mouse is really the only one who can rival them in terms of success . The Terrytoon shorts were , for the most part , pleasant filler . They weren't innovative-they were done to fulfill a contract to provide a certain number of theatrically released cartoons . Heckle and Jeckle were probably the most consistently entertaining series they did . This short is well worth watching . Recommended .
Well-animated , but Tex Avery did this sort of short first and better .	This short is well-executed technically ( what else would Disney do in this time period ? ) , but this short is only average . Tex Avery had already made this kind of short regularly and did them so much better . One character is supposed to have some task or is protecting something against antagonists and the remainder of the short consists of sight gags relating to the conflicting interests involved . The intentions here are good and it is an amusing short , but Avery was a comic genius at this sort of thing . Worth watching .
The first cartoon released from the Ub Iwerks studio , as well as the introduction of Flip the Frog	This is the first cartoon produced by the studio Ub Iwerks started after he departed Disney . This short also features Flip the Frog , who would " star " in roughly half of the theatrical releases done under the Iwerks imprint in its lifetime as an independent studio ( there was at least one short produced that was never released to theaters ) , there being 38 Flips and about 75 or 76 total shorts altogether . This first short ( oddly , in color , when most of the Flips were black and white ) points up the strengths and weaknesses of the series as a whole-technically it is excellent , but the character is drab and void of personality and there is no plot to speak of here . It's a good cartoon and enjoyable to watch , but not truly memorable or special . Ub Iwerks was interested in visuals for the most part and I don't think he had Disney's touch with character or story . When the visuals were paramount and depth of character or plot was irrelevant or even possibly undesirable , you have a masterpiece , such as The Skeleton Dance . When they would be of some benefit , but are somewhat lacking , you get the average Flip the Frog . Given the personnel Iwerks employed-a veritable Who's Who of future talents-and the quality of some of the individual bits and pieces , it's a bit sad when you realize that , with a bit more flair , the output of the studio could have gone from average to good and instead could have been good to outstanding . Still worth seeing and I'm glad that the bulk of it is in print . The animation alone makes it worth seeing . Carl W . Stallings ' music doesn't hurt . Worth the effort to see at least once . Recommended for fans of animation and ( with a few exceptions ) good fun for children .
A turtle wants to fly and gets his wish-sort of .	This is a cute little uncomplicated cartoon about a turtle who wants to fly more than anything . Because I want to talk about a few details , this is a spoiler warning : Herman the Turtle dreams of flying , reads books on the subject and is teased about it by birds , including a bald eagle . He even tries taking flying lessons and building himself some wings . He ultimately winds up underwater , where he finds a treasure chest . He bribes the eagle to take him up in the air so that he can fly . There are some really good visual gags in the sequence where the eagle takes him up , with the turtle always saying " Higher ! " whenever the eagle asks him if the altitude is good enough . Finally , the eagle says , " End of the line " and drops Herman off . Herman grabs two of the eagle's tail feathers and starts flapping his arms furiously . Unfortunately for him , it doesn't work very well for him at all and he drops rapidly to meet the ground . The narrator announces Herman's demise in somber tones as the scene shifts upward to " Turtle Heaven " and we see Herman flying with angel's wings and happy as a clam . This is available on one of the Columbia House DVDs and is well worth watching . Recommended .
Why are the most interesting characters in Der Captain and the Kids cartoons generally animals ?	This is an average cartoon in a decidedly mixed series based on a comic strip . The primary focus and source of most of the laughs and all the best gags is a horse less than pleased to have his most prized fashion accessory " creatively acquired " by Hans and Fritz . The rest of the cartoon basically lays there in a stupor , waiting for the horse to do something to make things funny . Some concepts just simply don't translate well to active media . Worth seeing at least once , but average at best . Lukewarm recommendation .
Early Bosko , very musically-oriented and with a very bizarre segment !	This is a fairly typical early Bosko and is reasonably amusing . There are one or two points I want to discuss in some detail , some " Here there be spoilers " : This short is musically-oriented and lots of things become musical instruments in the hands of Bosko , his work crew ( a bunch of small , strangely familiar mice ) and Bosko's girlfriend . It is to the temporary misfortune of one particular mouse that Bosko is his foreman . The mouse falls off a wall and lands on a saw , which starts making music . Bosk starts bending and warping the saw to get musical notes from it , which tosses the mouse up into the air . At one point , the mouse comes down on the saw-teeth and his head lands on one side and his body on the other . You then see the head and the body moving around on the saw as Bosko bends and warps it to make music as the body and head frantically try to get back together . Later on in the short , Bosko sees Honey in an office and goes across to her window by using musical notes as steppingstones in mid-air . He proceeds to put sheet music in her typewriter and play it like a piano . The capper on the music from unusual sources is Bosko's use of a goat as bagpipes . This has quite a few of the visual gags that would be used frequently in the Bosko shorts , such as Bosko breaking up into lots of little Boskos after hitting the ground and the playing of music when running across steps or bricks where the path is differentiated enough to resemble a keyboard or a xylophone . Good , if rather standard , Bosko short . Worht watching , if you get the opportunity . Recommended .
My sympathies are largely with the dog	This short ( like most of the Pink Panther shorts ) is primarily composed of sight gags , given a singular lack of dialog . The humor in this short most often arises from the interaction between the little man who is the frequent foil for the Pink Panther and his dog , rather than much that the star of the series does . The dog is placed in situations which end disastrously for the little man and it looks as though his dog caused bad things to happen , when in fact the dog has been expertly set up to look that way . Several repetitive sight gags later , typically violent and rather painful in appearance , and the dog has been made Canis Non Grata . The closing gag is cute , though repetitive . Not the best short I've seen and not the worst-about average for the Pink Panther series . This short is available on the Pink Panther Cartoon Collection , along with all the other shorts in the series . Recommended .
Rather fascinating animated sing-along which more or less fits the animated story to the song	This short actually has a story in the animated portion which more or less leads into the song itself . Because I want to discuss the short , there will be spoilers below : The short opens with an animated sequence featuring a dog-like creature in uniform stopping by to see a girl . There are some nice musically-oriented bits ( a piece of gate used like a harp , for one ) and the soldier winds up in the girl's room . Meanwhile , the commander uses his horse to call his unit , the soldier doesn't go and is arrested and put to labor , breaking stones with a hammer , deriving some musical bits there , notes placed in time with blows on the rock from the hammer . He also reduces a rock in size and makes it into the " bouncing ball " to cue the lyrics of the title song , which can be related to the basic story . There's some incidental animation of marching soldiers during the sing-along and the short is quite effective overall . Recommended .
Average short with some hilarious moments	In order to discuss this short , I have to give some details , so there will be spoilers below : This time out , Bugs goes toe-to-toe with a " baby " with a five o'clock shadow and tattoos . Ant-Hill Harry , alias " Baby-faced Finster " , has lost the proceeds of his latest heist down a rabbit-hole . Enter our hero , who believes that this is a real baby at first . The judges ' scorecards give the early rounds to " Finster " , with a knock out saved by the bell in Round Five ( " Finster " swings a mean bat ) . Bugs discovers the truth and wins the later rounds and the fight . " Finster " was fighting out of his weight-class . There are some very good moments in this-the transition from " Finster " wildly swinging a bat to wide-eyed innocence and calling Bugs " Daddy " is beautifully done . Bugs's revenge against " Finster " ( " I do believe I forgot my fudge " ) and his note to the police when he leaves them a " baby " trussed up in a basket is priceless . It almost makes the ending superfluous . This short is on Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Vol . 2 . the Collection and this short are both recommended .
This is technically the first Heckle and Jeckle short-sort of .	This is the short that basically launched the Heckle and Jeckle series-more or less . There will be spoilers : This is basically a formative Heckle and Jeckle short , even though the two magpies are a couple and one is female . The basic style of the shorts is first seen here , the dog in this one is one of the regular foils for Heckle and Jeckle in a good many later shorts and this short laid the groundwork for the idea of a team of two magpies . Call it " Test version 1 . 0 " . The farmer is Al Falfa-the character design is precisely the same for all intents and purposes . He basically wants some peace and quiet so he can get some sleep ( he could , of course , simply close the window-but it would make for a very short cartoon if he did ) . There are some nice visuals in here and the gags are pretty much the kinds of bits you'll find throughout the Heckle and Jeckle series . It was probably a good idea to change the characters from a male-female couple , as that probably would have been too limited a dynamic to sustain for all that long . There's a good caricature of Hugh Herbert early on and some other nice touches . Well worth seeing and recommended .
Flip the Frog gets a face-lift .	Warning : Here Thyre Be Spoilers ( Said Ye Olde Cartographer ) . Flip is trying to impress a young lady , who does not want our young stalwart , not because he has the charm and personality of a day-old bagel , but because he has the face of a frog . She wants a cute , if equally vapid , guy she knows . Flip decides on better looks through surgery and visits a crazed plastic surgeon in an equally crazed office and gets turned into a pretty boy like the one who won the lady fair . Meanwhile , the villain of the piece grabs said lady fair , the choice du jour turns out to be a craven , crawling , cowardly poltroon and it's up to Flip to get on his white charger and rescue her . He succeeds , at the cost of his new face , but the damsel has a change of mind ( and heart ) and all endeth happily . So ends a fairy tale . Reasonably good Flip the Frog , but take it from your old Uncle Dudley : it seldom works this way in real life . Worth watching . In print and available . Recommended , particularly for Flip fans .
An enjoyable little cartoon	I've seen this cartoon a few times . It's cute and worth watching . Nothing too terribly special here , but any cartoon where the hunchbacked assistant is named Trevor deserves some comment ! This is a National Film Board of Canada animation , which virtually guarantees it's worth watching .
With friends like these , who needs enemies ?	This is one of the shorts in David Hand's Animaland series , which centered around a squirrel named Ginger Nutt and his animal friends ( including his girlfriend , another squirrel named Hazel . There will be spoilers below : Ginger Nutt is doing what most males do from time to time-swearing to the love of his life that he'd protect her from anything with his very life . Several of the other animals , being his " friends " hear this and do what " friends " do in such a situation-hatch a plan to scare the daylights out of Ginger and make him look bad in front of Hazel . They take a piece of wood in the shape of a skull and scare Ginger so badly with it that he runs back to his tree . At his home , he begins to fret about his behavior , imaging Hazel's changing moods towards him because he ran , with his imaginings very effectively displayed in an excellent set of sight gags . He resolves to find the monster and run it out of the forest , thus winning back the affections of Hazel , which he's certain he's lost . He goes back out looking for the " monster " and believes he's found it again , but discovers through mere chance just what is up and who's behind everything . Two of the three culprits , upon being found out , immediately run , leaving the ringleader , a crow , to face the music alone . The ending shows Ginger once again attempting to impress Hazel , until his plans come crashing down . But Hazel is a good sport and it all ends well . The surviving Animaland shorts were released on a DVD and are well worth seeing . Recommended .
Not bad , just not a great deal here .	This is a short from Pixar , their first , I believe . It looks it , too . The animation is good , but there's not much here to speak of and it looks more like test footage than a full , coherent cartoon-a dry run , if you will . They did much better work with later efforts . Not bad , but nothing special here either . Worth seeing .
Rarely do I feel sympathy for Daffy , but I do in this one !	Daffy is rarely what I would call a sympathetic character , but here , to a large degree , he is a most sympathetic character indeed . Just looking for peace and quiet and bothering no one , he is bombarded at all turns by possibly the most insipid tune ever heard in cartoons and certainly ever heard in a Warner Brothers short ! Ten minutes of that might have made Mother Teresa commit murder ! Good cartoon with okay animation and an awful score . You have been warned ! Recommended , with the caveat above .
Not terribly memorable save for a good Chaplin impersonation and an almost Keystone Kop feeling in spots .	This is an early , almost plotless ( even for a Flip the Frog short ) that goes over almost the same ground as Felix in Hollywood , but not nearly as well . Visually grea with a magnificent imitation of Charlie Chaplin and a few good sight gags ( mostly chases ) , but largely pedestrian plotting make it average at best otherwise . Still nicely animated and worth having in print . Worth watching . Recommended .
Good later Warner Brothers short	Though there are fans who dislike the Warner Brothers output from 1964 or thereabouts to 1969 , I don't think it was all that bad . It certainly doesn't match the best of the heyday , but a lot of it was entertaining . This one was enjoyable , if not a true classic , but then , there were less than extraordinary shorts in the 1930s , ' 40s and ' 50s also . Bugs Bunny's retirement followed this ( at least theatrically-like many stars of the silver screen , Bugs did television to keep himself in carrots ) until 1990 . You just can't keep a good hare down . Worth watching . Recommended .
Cute and amusing at times , but nothing special .	This is a short that looks at the perils of being overly curious . Several penguins , even after stern warning , get themselves into a predicament , with colorful ( if somewhat predictable ) results . While this has some nice sight gags and is visually nice to look at , it really an average , rather run-of-the-mill cartoon . Nice to watch , but ultimately quite forgettable . Worth watching for all that . Recommended , in a lukewarm sort of way .
Given Willie's glancing acquaintance with the truth , this is his tallest tale .	This cartoon exists only in fragmentary form and is on one of the Cartoons That Time Forgot DVDs . The fragments are reasonably good , though I'm not , truth be told , a fan of the Willie Whopper series . Having seen this , I would very much like to see Hell's Bells , a short Ub Iwerks directed some years earlier when he was first at Disney . Visually impressive , as always . Glad to see it in print . Worth watching . Recommended .
A fair cartoon which has its moments , with the ending being the best part .	This is an average short-nothing remarkable here , but nothing terrible either . It's a competent and cute little cartoon . I'm going to discuss a few details , so a minor spoiler alert is in order : Herman the mouse is in this short , voiced by Arnold Stang . I'm not absolutely positive , but the voice of the rooster sounds like it was provided by Jack Mercer , who received writing credit and often did voice work ( credited and uncredited-Mercer was the primary voice for Popeye for years and , in my opinion , the best voice Popeye ever had ) for both Fliescher and Famous Studios . The rooster of the title is , indeed , " henpecked " , with a hen for a wife who is probably over-qualified to be merely called a " shrew " . She bullies and abuses the rooster thoroughly , until Herman , realizing that the hen is terrified of him , strikes a deal with the rooster to avoid drowning . With Herman's help , the rooster gains the upper hand-temporarily . Mrs . Rooster pens a note to Mrs . Mouse and it turns out that Herman is in the same boat as the rooster is-their wives must have taken " Advanced Rolling-pin 404 " together . The little wife starts to reassert her dominance until the rooster takes his salvation into his own wings and dons a mouse suit . The ending is the funniest part of the short , so I won't spoil it here . As I said , this is nothing special , but it is an enjoyable little short . It's floating around on a video tape / DVD or two , though I have seen copies with audio / video synchronization problems . Worth watching .
Formative Bimbo that has a few moments	Not officially released as a Betty Boop short , but that's Betty and the early Bimbo . Bimbo stayed a canine throughout , while Betty became human . Bimbo comes across as a less than likable sort here , but then neither was Barnacle Bill the sailor ( pay attention to the lyrics of the sea chantey ) . Bimbo was a more or less marginal character , for my tastes , although he was head and shoulders above most of the supporting characters in later years . Koko the Clown was the most effective bit player they used in the Betty Boop series . Bimbo spends most of his time making eyes and sighing at Betty in most of his appearances . The later design on the character was a marked improvement over the original character they show here . This is on the Betty Boop collection that's well worth having . This short is nothing special , but worth a look once .
Nice little cartoon , though a bit too predictable in spots	This is a cute little cartoon , not exceptional , but entertaining enough and quite well suited for kids . I'll be discussing it in a little detail , so this is a slight spoiler warning : Hector is a dog . Hector apparently makes a lot of messes in the house and is threatened with expulsion from the house , into a very snowy and cold outdoors , if he does anything else to damage the house or the Christmas tree . It's also suggested that if he avoids getting into trouble , Santa Claus might bring him a gift . As he considers this , there is a knock on the door and he sees a basket outside . Hector thinks this is his gift and brings it inside . In a way , it is-the pups inside look like chips off the old block . The bulk of the short is spent with Hector trying to undo the damage caused by the pups and prevent himself from getting into trouble . There's nothing all that original here-Hanna and Barbera were doing this type of short years before and did it better . But the short is reasonably funny and there's a nice bit where Hector is wrestling with his conscience when he thinks the pups are outside . The ending is really rather predictable , but it's quite heartwarming and this is a good cartoon for children . It's been on a fair number of VHS releases and has been on at least one public domain DVD . It might take some effort , but it can be found . Worth watching .
Only pairing , as far as I know , of Daffy and Rocky the gangster	This short is the only one I can recall that has Daffy matching " wits " with Rocky . Bugs worked best with Rocky . Daffy just isn't as sympathetic a character as Bugs and doesn't really mesh well here . Decent enough , but not terribly special . Worth watching .
Good , though not great , Frank Tashlin Porky cartoon	This cartoon is another " my old ( fill in the blank ) can beat your new ( fill in the blank ) " plot , in the vein of John Henry versus the mechanical drill . Because I want to discuss some of the details of this short , this is a spoiler warning : This is an interesting little short , though there's very little that's all that special , save for Frank Tashlin using some tricks usually reserved for live-action film rather than cartoons . This is about a race , between Porky and a bully , with Porky using an old , broken-down old engine on its last wheels against a modern locomotive . As Porky is the hero in this picture , it's fairly apparent who will win in the end , but the gags make an obvious trip a fun and scenic journey . Along the way , there are quite a few sight gags , including one which kept the short from being seen in its entirety for quite a while . A bull has a strong supporting role in a couple of scenes and has a hand ( or rather , a couple of horns ) in the final outcome of the race . This short is available on the Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Volume 4 and is well worth seeing . Recommended .
Great cast , would have been better with an equally good script	This movie is entertaining enough and the plot ( once you get past the main premise ) is actually interesting , but in spite of an excellent cast , the script could have been much better than it was . All too often , it becomes cliched melodrama . I do have to admit that the ending is actually inspired and bordering on brilliant . Despite the cast and the occasional nice touch , this is only average , but is worth watching .
Dated and melodramatic , it makes its ' point nonetheless	This short , nominated for an Oscar , has a dated feeling to it and the melodramatic tne common to the CRime Does Not Pay series of shorts , but for all that does have a point and makes it : the operation of heavy machinery while drunk is most unwise and can prove to be very costly . This runs on Turner Classic Movies as filler between films and almost certainly airs in March as part of the 31 Days of Oscar they do annualy . Worth watching .
Average short from Disney featuring Donald versus a lion and his cub over some fish	This short takes a basic premise used often by Disney and others-someone has something another character wants and the rest of the short consists of comical attempts to take away and / or keep said possession . In the hands of Tex Avery , this simple plot can produce The Legend of Rockabye Point , which is a masterpiece . Then there's this cartoon , far more representative of the norm-an average cartoon , humorous in spots , entertaining but not terribly special in and of itself . Which proves the point that it's not the idea that matters , but how it is used . Worth watching at least once .
A most unusual piece of work	This is one of the oddest and most unusual shorts that I've ever seen and I'm still not entirely certain what the point was ( or even if there was one to start with ) in this particular case . Produced by the National Film Board of Canada , this was nominated for an Academy Award and uses a type of stop-motion animation that reminds me of the work of Norman McLaren . Recommended for anyone who likes unusual animation .
Starts well and ends well , though it drags in the middle	This is a reasonably decent short , not the best of the series , but funny in spots . There will be minor spoilers : This short begins with Bosko cooking an egg over an open fire , while singing . He regularly flips the egg into the air , drawing it to the attention of a squirrel , which then eats Bosko's meal . Bosko pulls a shotgun from off-screen and starts after the squirrel ( leaving the campfire burning ) . While chasing the squirrel , he and Bruno see an ad for a dog race , with a prize of $5 , 000 and Bosko tells Bruno he's going to enter and win . Bruno seems doubtful and is markedly unenthusiastic at his prospects . From this point on , until Bruno spots the squirrel again , the short drags a bit . Watching Bruno " train " is kind of dull , as is most of the race . Only when Bruno sees the squirrel again does the cartoon show much life or energy . Bruno excitedly chases the squirrel , only to have the squirrel drop a beehive on him . The rest of the short shows Bruno running from angry insects . The ending is fairly nice and overall , the short is a reasonably enjoyable one . I hope it eventually makes it onto a future Looney Tunes Golden Collection . Well worth watching , at least once , anyway .
Occasionally interesting and it has some nice visual effects	This short isn't the best Bosko short , but it isn't the worst one either . It's a trip to the zoo by Bosko and Honey . There will be some spoilers : Bosko and Honey go to the zoo and it doesn't take long before Bosko starts interacting with the animals in an irritating and unwise fashion . His hat gets eaten by an ostrich , which prompts Bosko to take action to make the bird give it back to him . It obliges by laying an egg . Bosko plays a tune and this gives the animators the opportunity to set the animation in time to the music . Bosko makes an extremely questionable move when he physically disciplines a little ape , as a larger gorilla comes into the scene and is clearly less than pleased with Bosko . Thus begins the chase . There are some rather nice visual gags incorporated into the chase sequence , where it seems that half the zoo winds up chasing after Bosko . Three critters smash into a wall and come out looking like modern art . There is also a rather interesting visual sequence involving an aquarium , with Bosko and Honey watching the antics of various fish . All in all , the visuals make this a rather entertaining short , though Bosko is a rather limited character . The things happening around him are far more entertaining than he himself is most of the time . Hopefully , this will be released on a Looney Tunes Golden Collection at some point in the future . Well worth watching .
Truly . anything can happen in a cartoon !	This is a fairly good example ( good and bad ) of the Bosko series . I intend to discuss some details , so let this be a spoiler warning : This short opens with Bosko selling hot dogs ( again-this bit was used in an earlier short , as were many other bits throughout the series ) and there are some cute gags with the very active hot dogs . Bruno gets a tack in his paw and Bosko pulls it out , only to toss it back on to the sand carelessly . There's a nice bit ( again a repeat from other shorts ) with an octopus making itself a carousel for some seahorses . Honey brings Wilber to the beach and Wilber proceeds to repeatedly venture near the shore , only to run away at the approaching wave . Gags like that were often repeated , maybe because they thought repetition made them funny or maybe so they could just re-use the same drawings and save some work for themselves . Bosko sees Honey silhouetted under a beach umbrella and they go off to play the ukulele and sing " Ain't We Got Fun ? " together , while playing a game of " Fetch " with Bruno ( one of the funniest bits in the short-watch the sticks Bruno brings back ) . Meanwhile , back at the beach , the predictable happens and Wilber gets caught by the tide and pulled out to sea . There are some really nice visual bits with Bosko trying to swim out to rescue Wilber and Wilber has one very good line of dialog , but there's a lot of recycled footage here . Bruno saves the day by grabbing an electric fan ( with a power cord ) , taking it out to the beach , climbing on a log and using the fan as an outboard motor ( there must have been an outlet in the log ) . Nice short in spots , with Wilber much more tolerable than he often is in other shorts . I hope this ultimately makes it onto a Looney Tunes Golden Collection . Worth watching at least once .
Notable principally for Norma Shearer	The movie has a somewhat overheated , strained quality to it , much like a soap opera and is primarily of interest for Norma Shearer's performance , which received a nomination for Best Actress for the 1929-30 Academy Awards , which she lost to herself , winning instead for her performance in The Divorcee , a better role in a much better film . Ms . Shearer was THE actress at the time and did quite well for many years . A good movie that could have been better and largely a curio now .
Decent early Bosko short with Bosko as an over-matched boxer	This short has some good moments and some rather interesting animation in spots , though there's a fair amount of repetition here . I want to cover some of the action , so here is a spoiler warning : The short starts with a rather nice visual bit ( possibly the best one in the short ) tied to Bosko working a speed bag . Ultimately , the speed bag emerges victorious . Bosko likely would have been better off sending his shadow out to fight " Gas-House Harry " , a hulking brute seen punching an anvil . For a short nominally about a boxing match , very little which takes place in the ring is itself noteworthy . Most of the short covers events outside the ring . There's a very nice sequence revolving around streetcars full of fans headed to the fight . It looks like they just re-used the same drawing twice to repeat a gag . The same seems to be the case for a sequence in the ring where the champ gets groggy and also a repetitive shot featuring a loud hippo fan of Bosko's , which is not only repeated several times in this short , but was used in at least one other Bosko short , if I recall correctly . There are two really funny bits inside the ring-Bosko being revived by his trainer after the first round and Bosko and the champ exchanging blows , only to simultaneously knock the referee out of the ring ! Bosko doesn't fare too well in the end , even with a long count by the referee . The ending is cute , though . I hope this will eventually be released as part of a future Looney Tunes Golden Collection . Recommended .
Decent but quite fanciful adaptation of the Hale novella	This short , nominated for an Oscar , is reasonably good , but quite loose and more than a bit fanciful in its treatment of the source material . Ironically , the changes make the short weaker and LESS memorable than the original novella by Edward Everett Hale . By all means , catch the short if possible , but the orignal is far more interesting and satisfying . Turner Classic Movies runs this as filler between films on ocasion and has done so in March the last several years in its 31 Days of Oscar feature . Well worth watching .
Reasonably good short , ostensibly starring Oswald the Lucky Rabbit , though he's not in it very much	This is a black and white short done by the Lantz Studios , part of a series featuring a character named Oswald the Lucky Rabbit . I will be discussing some detail , so this is a spoiler warning : The short opens with a group of ducks-Papa , Mama and five baby ducks-four white and one black-strolling onto the beach . This is followed shortly by a scene showing Oswald and his dog setting up on the beach . Oswald puts his dog in charge of watching their lunch , in a large picnic basket , warning of dire consequences if anything should happen to " the lunch " . The five little ducks spot " the lunch " and decide that they want it for themselves . The little black duck is the one with the most resourcefulness and is the brains of the outfit , with most of the effort and ideas coming from him . Several efforts are made to get the basket and its contents , until they finally succeed in taking the basket out to sea . The dog swims out after them , but the little black duck ( who's doing all the work here ) tricks him into believing that a shark's after him and he races back to shore . Meanwhile , an octopus spots the ducks and manages to catch them and the Papa duck tries unsuccessfully to save them . It's up to the dog to swim to the rescue . After a struggle with the octopus , what has to be the best animated sequence takes place where the dog emerges victorious . I won't describe the gag , which is excellent and probably the funniest bit in the short . As the dog brings the ducks and basket safely to the shore , where the two older ducks and Oswald ( who suddenly re-appears after being gone much of the cartoon ) cheer the rescue . The closing gag is cute , if predictable . This short is on the DVD Attack of the ' 30s Characters and is well worth checking out . Recommended .
Good , but not great , musical version of Cinderella	This is a good movie with a good score , a cast full of recognizabe faces , nice costumes and beautiful sets . While certainly not a wonderful film , it is more than worth seeing . The principal problem here is that the movie drags a bit in spots . A bit of judicious editing to shorten it about ten minutes would probably improve the pacing remarkably . The leads actually complement one another quite . A cut above your average costumed musical with more than a few good moments . Worth watching .
Basically a remake of Broomstick Bunny .	This cartoon is really nothing more than a reworking of Broomstick Bunny with Daffy replacing Bugs and Speedy Gonzales worked into things as well . There's a great visual gag lifted from Duck Amuck as well that fits perfectly and is the best thing about this one , which isn't terribly original , save for how they use Speedy , which is quite hilarious . Worth watching for Speedy fans and the best Chuck Jones cartoon Bob McKimson ever made . Recommended for Speedy fans .
I doubt this is something The Mouse will release uncut anytime soon	This sort , which is okay , not great , is apart of Disney's past they probably try to ignore . The sight of your franchise being chased by cannibals would not make the suits comfortable , if they can't even acknowledge Song of the South or won't release Runaway Brain . I still can't figure that one out . Or not releasing Redux Riding Hood . It played on ABC a few years back ! Oh , well . Mickey's Man Friday is worth seeing if you like Disney or are a completist .
A fairly decent cartoon that holds up well .	This is actually a pretty fair short , for all that it's all but inescapable to compare and contrast with Disney's The Wise Little Hen , given that they have the same fable as a starting point . The Iwerks version is actually as good or better in some respects , but Iwerks was really better off avoiding direct comparison to his once and future employer . They weren't the only studio to make this mistake , as Fleischer Studios also tried to out-Disney Disney , with less than successful results . Still , this is a charming little cartoon with a rather cute little song . Most definitely worth seeing . Recommended .
Enjoyable farce	The reviewer of this film in Leonard Maltin's Guide called this a bomb . While it is not the greatest movie of all time , there are definitely enough moments that make the movie worth watching . It's probably Beau Bridges ' best work , Avery Schrieber is wonderful , Geoffrey Holder is stupendous and to top it off , James Earl Jones is in the movie ! That alone makes it not a bomb in my book . It's a fun , mindless movie that I found delightful .
Cute , but nothing very novel here .	This is a cute cartoon , but the gags aren't especially new or inventive here , as many of them are taken from other Warner Brothers shorts , some as bits and pieces and other lifted whole . Still entertaining enough in its own right and worth watching . Recommended .
More conventional than Richard Condie cartoons generally are and less interesting too	Richard Condie is a master of the odd and unusual in animation . This cartoon is more conventional . I'd have enjoyed it more had I seen it before I saw a few of his other , more bizarre efforts . Slow in spots and essentially one-joke . Tex Avery did one-jokes first and better . Still worth watching .
This is one of only a few cartoons made with a character called Goopy Gear	In the early days for animation at Warner Brothers , like most studios , you had attempts to develop continuing characters . Some , like Bosko and Buddy , had fairly long runs . Others were tried out in a handful of shorts and for one reason or another didn't last long . Foxy is an example of this and this short contains another , a character named Goopy Gear . Goopy is the court jester and the hero here . There isn't anything special about this short or the character , which I suspect is why he didn't stay around that long . Worth watching , but not terribly important or fascinating .
Parrot tries to sneak into show , gets in using a weasel's ticket , causes a disaster	Rather cute and somewhat charming short featuring a continuing cast of animal characters , part of David Hand's Animaland series . Ginger Nutt is a squirrel with a girlfriend named Hazel . There will be spoilers below : Ginger Nutt and the other animals are putting on a show for which they've sold tickets . A parrot tries to go in without a ticket and is promptly tossed out as a " gate-crasher " . He then tricks a weasel into giving him his ticket and uses it to go into the show in his place . The parrot is rather obnoxious and proceeds to cause trouble throughout the show . Meanwhile , the weasel keeps trying to get in the show to get at the parrot , only to wind up getting tossed out for trying to get in without a ticket . The short alternates between the parrot disrupting the show and the weasel getting thwarted in his attempts to get in . There are some nice visuals , but that's pretty much it as far as the plot goes . The weasel ultimately does get more or less even with the parrot . The Animaland series has the surviving shorts available on DVD and the cartoons have a very nice curio quality to them . Recommended .
Watch it for the music but everything else is wildly uneven	The musical performances-especially Jimi Hendrix-make this a keeper . But the other material is of decidedly variable value . Wavy Gravy works for a while , then becomes tedious as hell and most of the concert-goers aren't terribly interesting . I do hope the one young lady who lost her sister in the crowd was successful in finding her , though . The thought that runs through my mind watching this during crowd scenes and interviews is , " How many of these people are grandparents , CEOs of corporations , drive BMWs and the like ? " After all , it has been 31 years since Woodstock . They have become the generation they were warned not to trust . Oh , well . Better luck next time .
Very cute one-shot with some engaging moments .	This is a one-shot cartoon , which MGM did with some frequency , featuring a cat with a voice somewhat reminiscent of John Byner's " duck " voice . While I don't imagine a cat sounding quite like this , it's still quite engaging at times , with a tender moment or two mixed in with the general mayhem . Good animation helps . Well worth seeing and recommended .
This is probably about as good as the last Warner Brothers cartoons got .	In the last two or three years , the majority of the Warner Brothers cartoons were simply there . There was nothing spectacularly good or bad about most of them . The music was almost uniformly horrid , backgrounds were average at best , animation was limited , but some had decent gags . The Coyote and Roadrunner cartoons fared the best , probably because they had no dialog and thus didn't have an additional mediocre element to remind the viewer just how good the earlier work was . The concept also seemed to adapt itself more readily to the economic realities of limited animation , with the static nature of things sometimes actually helping the gags . Not a triumph , but watchable . Not too bad . For completeists .
Bimbo and a prototype pre-Betty Boop in this one	Forget that this is on a compilation of Betty Boop shorts-this is a Bimbo cartoon and the female character bears just a slight resemblance to Betty . Most likely this is a phase of her evolution , very early in the character's develpment . An okay cartoon , but nothing special . WOrth watching .
Decent cartoon , typical Disney , but nothing exceptional	This longish short was nominated for an Oscar . Decent enough and a fairly good adaptation of the tall tale , but fairly routine Disney and with nothing especially memorable or exceptional about it in any area . Worth watching , this runs infrequently as filler on the Disney Channel during " Vault Disney in the wee hours of the morning .
Foghorn Leghorn's first appearance-and his only shot at an Oscar	This cartoon , nominated for an Oscar , was actually a Henery Hawk cartoon . But Foghorn Leghorn-a takeoff on a radio character of the 1930s-1940s-steals the show and launched himself to fame and fortune , while Henery saw his career fizzle . The Foggy in this is the Foggy everyone knows today . Very little change from the first appearance to the familiar figure , unlike Bugs , Daffy , Porky , Elmer or most of the others . Well worth watching .
Somehow , I doubt that the Bard would recognize this one !	Picture a production of Romeo and Juliet with none of Shakespeare's dialogue and sung ( badly ) and you can get a slight idea what goes on here . The lyrics that Olive sings to Bluto are worth the price of admission alone ! A Shakespearian without a sense of humor will be gnawing the baseboards , but I like this one , personally . Well worth watching . Recommended .
Worth watching for " The General Jumped At Dawn " !	This movie in and of itself is only a curio piece , During the war ( WWII ) , there was a Hollywood Canteen staffed by celebrities for military personnel and this film grew out of that effort . What is worth watching are the musical numbers , particularly one fairly early in the movie , called , " The General Jumped at Dawn " by a group called , " The Golden Gate Quartet " . They're excellent and this is the only place I've ever seen or heard of them . I don't know what happened to them . but for me , they are the highlight of the movie ! Not a great movie , but worth your time nonetheless .
Hilarious short starring Porky as a fireman battling more than a fire	This is an extremely funny short most effectively done in black and white and directed by Frank Tashlin . Because I want to cover some of the gags in this , here's a spoiler warning : Porky and company are called out to fight a fire at a boarding house for performers . While the fire is a problem , Porky has at least as much trouble with one of his fellow firemen , a slow moving , slow talking dog whose ideas on firefighting are eccentric , to say the least ! The gags come fairly fast and furious here , mostly having to do with fighting the fire , such as Porky running toward the fire with a water bucket , only to have the fire take the bucket away from him and throw the water on Porky . Among those in the boarding house who come out are an old man with his leg in a cast who says he's okay , but that they need to save Grandpa ! He then jumps and uses his beard as a parachute and an acrobatic troupe which jumps out of the building and land in formation . As for the dog , he has his own theme music which fits his movements and he causes no end of trouble . He goes up to a window where a woman is screaming for help and , when she tells him to " put me on the street " , he picks her up , holds her out and then drops her ! He also plays a trick on Porky involving a fire hydrant and a seltzer bottle . There's a really nice montage of repeated action toward the end which showcases a lot of the funniest gags . The ending is very good , so I won't spoil it here . This short is available on Looney Tunes , Volume 4 and is well worth viewing . Recommended .
Manic short which starts out very well , with an uneven middle and a great ending !	This is a black and white Porky cartoon where Porky is basically an extra , with the dominant characters being a lazy cat and a demented fish . Because I want to discuss some of the details , this is a spoiler warning : The first couple of minutes of this is great , with Porky deciding to go fishing and then asking his sleepy and lazy cat to guess what they will be having for dinner . The cat then imitates several animals , including a very funny chicken , only to have Porky top him by pantomiming a fish ! Imagine , if you will , a cartoon pig pantomiming a fish . To say that the cat greets this news with enthusiasm would be an understatement . He's bouncing around the room and ends up kissing a mouse , who doesn't take it very well ( to say the least ) . Unfortunately , the next bit kind of stops the momentum by having a " counting fish " gag that isn't all that funny . Out fishing the next morning , they meet a fish who is the lunatic prince of all fishdom . He basically dominates most of the rest of the short , giving both Porky and Sour Puss no end of heckling and abuse and periodically looking directly at the screen as if addressing the audience and making some hilarious remark , as the more manic versions of Bugs and Daffy would do , early on in their existence . The ending is very funny and I won't really spoil it except to note that the very end finishes with a parody of Lew Lehr , a comic who would have been very familiar to audiences at the time , but isn't a household name at this point . This short is available on the Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Volume 4 and is well worth watching . Recommended .
Good animation coupled with a sometimes entertaining , occasionally tedious , story	This short was nominated for an Academy Award and is well worth watching , though it was probably about a minute too long or thereabouts . It's often amusing , but drags in spots . Interesting idea with excellent animation , but uneven and tedious at times . Recommended .
A very good short that has the seeds for two great ones planted within its fertile soil ( SPOILERS )	All Nothing was Frdrc Back's first Academy Award nominee and is a very good short which might be more highly regarded if Back had not gone on to make both The Man Who Planted Trees and The Mighty River , the early genesis of which can be seen in All Nothing , as well as Crac ! , one of two Academy Award winners for Back ( the other being Man Who Planted Trees ) . Thus , three great animated shorts make a highly intelligent and thought provoking short disappear somewhat into the background . In print and available on A Tribute To Frdric Back I cannot talk at all about the short itself without getting into specifics and I want to discuss it for various reasons , so the comment from the next paragraph on will contain spoilers . This is all subjective and other viewers may not see it the same , but I was fascinated by the fact that the short shows a creator who , in effect , incorporates evolution into the design for the planet . There are many examples of this , such as birds changing into other species of birds and other animals changing form and appearance , but the most profound use is on the humans , who go through stages-first form to aquatic , then to hairy primates , then avian life and finally to man . Interestingly , in the latter stages , man is also seen as grumbling , complaining and obnoxious . Man then becomes the extreme predator , to the creator's dismay and later anger . Man the predator then kills the creator and proceeds to do whatever he likes to the planet and other life on it without thought or consideration . At the end , man is no more satisfied and is just as empty and unhappy as before , until a final reconciliation occurs , Most recommended .
Excellent Bugs , Daffy and Elmer teaming	This cartoon is one of the better ones using all three that Warner Brothers did-almost as good as the hunting trilogy . The scene where Daffy and Bugs await their fate at the hands of Elmer is priceless ! Daffy is his typical insufferable self and the ending is perfect for both Bugs and Daffy . This airs fairly often on Cartoon Network . Recommended
Entertaining , if not earthshaking	This was the " weakest " of the five nominees for the Live-Action Short category bestowed by AMPAS , which means it was only very good in a field of excellent shorts . Because I want to discuss the short in a little detail , there will be spoilers : The basic premise is that people who work on the clock at a supermarket during the late shift all have different ways to make the time seem to go by more quickly , ranging from just not looking at the clock through simply goofing off to the most extreme , which is pretending that you've cause time and all movement but your own to come to a full stop . Along the way , we meet a female checkout clerk , the overbearing and absolutely tedious supervisor who keeps trying to impress her ( in vain ) , two arrested development cases , who are 22 going on 12 and the narrator , who is the one who makes time pass by acting like he's stopped it cold . Oh yeah-he also likes to sketch the female shoppers ( at least the prettier ones ) in the nude . His narration is generally entertaining and often funny . It's an entertaining short which may actually make a better feature , as it feels a tad constrained by its brevity . All in all , a good short and well worth watching . This short is available on a compilation DVD containing eight of ten nominees for the two Academy Awards Shorts categories ( two of the Animated Short nominees aren't included ) and it's a very good DVD indeed . Recommended .
A battle of wits between Donald Duck and Humphrey-both woefully unarmed !	This short is a battle of wits . To be more accurate , it's a battle of half-wits and largely comes out a draw , though Humphrey could technically be called the bigger loser . As neither would ever be mistaken for a member of MENSA , their schemes and machinations don't go as planned . Delightful cartoon that's well worth seeking out , it plays periodically on The Ink and Paint Club . Recommended .
Every time I watch this , I think of Busby Berkley and Astaire and Rogers .	This cartoon is part of the Color Classics series that Fleischer Studios did when they decided to try and out-Disney Disney , with varied degrees of success . This one owes as much to the lush musicals of the early 1930s as it does to any animated studios and has the typically grand visual effects that were one of the Fleischers best assets . Here , even when trying to be sweet and sugary , there's a little dart or two just to keep things from getting too saccharine . Good effort and one of the better Color Classics . I just wish they'd been more inclined to stick to their own strengths-the odd and wonderfully idiosyncratic shorts they did so well . In print on the Somewhere In Dreamland DVD set . Well worth watching . Recommended .
Good cartoon , but don't expect to see it without doing some serious searching .	This short is one of eleven that likely won't be seen on television any time soon , if ever again . An innocuous little thing , cute in spots and with some good animation , it also has elements that make it unpalatable to some in the present day culture that has developed a mindset that no one should ever get their feelings hurt . Which , in the case of this short , is really unfortunae , because there is a scene with dancing skeletons which , though a bit derivative , is almost as enjoyable as the short it's emulated , The Skeleton Dance . An engaging cartoon and well worth the time and effort to locate . Most highly recomended .
Enjoyable , if unexceptional , Woody Woodpecker short	This is a reasonably decent cartoon , entertaining and fairly funny , but nothing special , with Woody trying to mooch a meal and fairly predictable consequences ensue . Worth watching , but don't go to great lengths for this one alone . Recommended .
An early Mickey Mouse mini-musical	This cartoon has the feel of an old-time melodrama in some respects and has one of the least-interesting Disney villains in Pete . The Mickey in the early cartoons is more prone to mischief and is more frenetic , bearing more resemblance to Krazy Kat than to the mouse that most know and love today . The cartoons were more slapstick early on and Mickey evolved over time . Well worth seeing , it runs on the Disney Channel when the spirit moves them . I wish the shorts would come into print in a substantial way .
My sympathies are entirely on the side of the raccoon in this one .	Amusing , if slight and fairly predictable short from Disney that has Mickey and Pluto hunting a raccoon presumably for some reason undiscernable here . This raccoon , who likely would much rather be indulging in the raccoon equivalent of pipe , slippers and Ye Olde Saturday Evening Post in an easy chair before a cozy fire rather than running to preserve life and / or liberty , gets the best of Mickey and Pluto ( particularly Pluto ) and the hunt ends more favorably for the pursued than for pursuers and there was much rejoicing . Good enough to look out for . Recommended .
Good , but nothing terribly exceptional .	Though this is a good , enjoyable cartoon , they did much better ones later on , like Carrotblanca . This is almost like the first Star Trek feature , which would have been welcomed with open arms and glee no matter what , just for existing . This is really a patchwork of old bits with some nice touches , but nothing special . Reminds me a bit of the hunting trilogy in spots and the ending is priceless . Available and certainly well worth watching just for the novelty and the good bits . Recommended .
Early Popeye short	This is an early Popeye short , if i'm not mistaken , the first official Popeye cartoon ( his first appearance was in a Betty Boop with the title , " Popeye the Sailor " ) and the seams show a bit here . The basic concepts are started here and it's an enjoyable cartoon , but nothing special . Worth watching . Recommended .
The first appearance of Speedy Gonzales , in a markedly different form than the one most people know and recognize	This short is the first short where Speedy Gonzales made an appearance , though he doesn't look much like the version most familiar to the average viewer . This is Speedy , Version 1 . 0 . The redesign is an improvement over the original depiction . Because I want to discuss the cartoon in some detail , this is a spoiler warning : Even though this is Speedy's first appearance , the cartoon is actually centered around an old device used in Warner Brothers shorts ( and MGM shorts , once Tex Avery switched studios ) in that it has two cats modeled after the characters Lennie and George , from Of Mice and Men . Here , they're called Bennie and George . The two are trying to catch mice for dinner and Bennie is asking George if he can help catch the mice . George no doubt will regret agreeing to let Bennie " help " him when the evening is over , as the kind of " help ' Bennie gives can land its " beneficiary " in either the emergency room or the morgue-possibly both in very short order . George asks Bennie if he likes Mexican food , to which Bennie replies , " It gives me the heartburn and I love it ! " , so they head over to a docked ship from Mexico to seek out mice-and meet Speedy , " the fastest mouse in all Mexico " . The rest o9f the short is basically George trying time and time again to come up with a successful plan to catch Speedy and Bennie doing things which very nearly result in George's funeral . Bennie drops a heavy crate of anvils on him , douses him in " petrol " instead of water after a series of dynamite explosions leave him singed ( the results of this are rather grim and obvious ) and also clobbers him over the head . Then Speedy , apparently tired of being a spectator and letting Lennie have all the fun of giving George's insurance adjuster an ulcer , decides to get in on the act and re-routes a pipe so that the dynamite they are trying to use to blow Speedy sky high ends up behind them and they are blown sky high instead . George loses interest in Mexican food at that point . Speedy's presence is just motivation in this cartoon , but he later became the star of his own series of shorts , like Foghorn Leghorn did when he stole the show in Walky Talky Hawky , which started out as a Henery Hawk short . The animators must have seen something in the mouse and took him back to the drawing-board-literally ! This short is available on the Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Volume 4 and is well worth seeing . The Collection , like the three previous ones , is excellent . Recommended .
The Pink Panther becomes a sheepherder in Texas !	This is a fairly funny short with some excellent sight gags and a pretty funny ending . I want to describe some of the gags , so let this serve as a spoiler warning : This cartoon has the Pink Panther as a sheepherder ( literally-he has exactly ONE sheep , though it is a most hungry sheep , as is shown early on when it strips all the ground in its path completely bare of grass ) who finds himself in " Cattle County Texas " . Texas cattlemen view sheep about the same as millionaires view the tax man . The cattleman in this short is a redheaded version of the little guy with a very short fuse . The Pink Panther tries to set himself up in sheep herding and tries to raise a fence , but the rancher drives the posts ( and the Panther ) into the ground with a mallet . The little sheep ( who is something of a crybaby ) generally either eats or whines to the Panther over something the cattleman or one of his steers have done , though he does get angry once and uses some fence wire like a slingshot , with a steer as ammo and the cattleman as the target . It's hilariously executed . The cattleman is neither very bright nor very fortunate , He dams off a watering hole , only to do something incredibly stupid and release the water himself . He clearly isn't the brightest penny in the cash register . He finally does something NO real Texan would even consider-he sends for help from GASP Arizona ! He tells them that the sheepherder is pink . So , naturally , he gets a bucket of pink paint dumped on his head just in time to get blasted by his help . The ending is absolutely wonderful ! I won't spoil it here ! This short is on the Pink Panther Classic Cartoon Collection and is most certainly worth getting . The entire Collection is worth getting . Recommended .
Enjoyable , fun film that has a special plce in my heart	Warm and dark at the same time ( no mean feat , that ) , this is a very well-done production and Jim Henson and his company acquit themselves well here . David Bowie does a good job in his role as does Jennifer Connelly . But the main reason that the film is special to me is , my niece ( then 9 or 10 ) , upon finding out that I had Labyrinth on tape , thought that I was the greatest thing since sliced bread ! I was the best uncle in the world at that moment and that's a most wonderful thing , let me tell you ! Good , entertaining movie and recommended .
Popeye wins the war in the Pacific !	This short was the first short released by Paramount Famous Studios and was one of several done by the studio showing Popeye engaged directly against the enemy , most often the Japanese . While Warner Brothers , Disney and , to a lesser extent , other studios , did shorts often depicting Germans as foils , the majority of Famous Studios efforts focused on the Japanese . Given Pearl Harbor and Popeye's naval ties , this is quite understandable . This is an average short . Seein ' Red , White an ' Blue and Spinach For Britain have aged better . But it's still worth watching . Recommended .
Donald and Chip n ' Dale " celebrate " Christmas together	This is actually a very good short . All too often both Donald and Chip n ' Dale get on my nerves after a very short period of time and , paired together , they're like fingernails on a chalkboard . This one works for some unfathomable reason . Good story , I guess . Nominated for an Academy Award and is a very good cartoon . Well worth looking for . Recommended .
Trash and treasure , like beauty , are dependent on which eye is looking at the time .	This quite charming Disney short depicts a group of discarded and generally damaged toys give spirit and a new lease on-well , not " life " , per se-a new found functionality to do what every toy wants-find a child to join in the vital task of playing . One toy decides that the scrap heap is no place for a toy and gets the others to work changing their lot . Most enjoyable , even if you can see the ending a mile away . Typical Disney quality across the board and great fun on several levels . Well worth watching . Recommended .
Good ( but not great ) animated short	This short won an Academy Award . Not having seen either of the other nominees , I can't say whether it should have , but it is a head-scratcher . The animation is good and it's an enjoyable short , but it isn't terribly special . It may well be suffering by comparison to the shorts that it accompanies on The World's Greatest Animation . The short is a good one , but it really isn't one of the greats . Still well worth seeing .
Visually stunning , but the script is just so-so	The visuals on this movie are just gorgeous and so are the special effects , with well-earned Academy Awards to show for it , but the script is at best average , the romantic leads give new meaning to the term , " lightweight " and most of the performances are lifeless . Sabu is okay in the title role and Conrad Veidt is wonderfully chewing the scenery , but Rex Ingram steals the movie as far as acting goes . Park your brain on neutral , ignore the " plot " and just enjoy the beautiful sets , visuals and effects . Worth your time .
Another Disney entrant in the " celebrity caricature " style of cartoon	Back in the 1930s and 1940s , various animation departments ( chief among them being Warner Brothers ) made cartoons that used caricatures of well-known celebrities ( movies stars , principally ) as characters . This is the best of Disney's efforts and was nominated for an Oscar . The main problem with this cartoon is that , unless you not only remember your nursey rhymes , but are reasonaby up on movie stars and movies of the 1930s , you miss quite a bit of the humor . Still holds up reasonably well after more than 60 years . Recommended to any movie buffs and / or someone reading Mother Goose for whatever reason .
Bugs Bunny joins the Army .	This is a very funny short which plays on a series of coincidences and misunderstandings to put Bugs Bunny in position to be inducted into the United States Army . Because I want to discuss some details , this is a spoiler warning : The short opens with an induction notice being delivered to one " B . Bonny " , only the notice winds up in Bugs Bunny's hole in the ground and he mistakenly assumes it's for him . Thus , we now go off to the physical . The physical is hilarious , with reactions ranging from the nonchalant " So they're inducting rabbits " through nervous laughter to incredulous shock , as when Bugs takes the eye exam and reads the whole chart , fine print included . Bugs obviously passes the physical , because we next see him in boot camp for basic training . His Sargeant looks and sounds like the construction worker Bugs did battle with in a couple of other shorts and he fares about as well here as he did there . Bugs first causes headaches in general for the Sargeant and then gets him into hot water with a Colonel who clearly didn't care much for the Sargeant even before all the problems with Bugs develop . Bugs bowls the colonel over during drill , bathes in the colonels helmet , dresses chickens for the Officer's mess ( he dresses them in tuxedos ) and hammers a nail into the wall using a live shell ! With each passing incident , the Sargeant loses a little more rank , until he's a private . It's at this point that the former Sargeant realizes that Bugs is a rabbit , as it slowly dawns on him that Bugs really isn't " just like all the other guys " . Watching the fog start to lift on the erstwhile Sargeant's comprehension is great ! A compromise of sorts gives Bugs a job at a munitions plant , with a finale that I won't spoil here . This short is available on the Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Volume 4 and is well worth seeing . Recommended .
Good documentary , great music , if a bit too long and somewhat creative subtitles on occasion .	This is a very well done documentary , showcasing some fine Cuban singers and musicians and is worthwhile for bringing them a wider audience if nothing else . It probably should have been about ten minutes or so shorter as it tends to drag in spots and a working knowledge of Spanish is helpful , as the subtitles altered some of the more colorful language used by some of the performers . But , oh that music ! Thanks to Ry Cooder , Wim Wenders and all members , past and present , of the Buena Vista Social Club ! ! !
I found several moments quite telling in this documentary	Let me state at the outset that I come to this film with a different viewpoint than most people . I can understand , to a degree , what it is to be an " other " , as I am disabled ( I have Cerebral Palsy and I use crutches ) , though the advocates of the concept of a " deaf culture " would probably say that the two situations aren't at all analogous , as their world view largely rests on the presumption that deafness isn't a " disability " , but rather provides a sense of community to them . I beg to differ with that position , as they are limited by the inability to hear , whether they like that truth or not . While there is a modicum of accuracy in the proposition that it is the hearing who create some of those limitations , it must also be understood that the world will be designed to the specifications of the majority and the majority can hear . The whole conceit of there being a " deaf culture " in the first place is simply a shield against acknowledging that their deafness is a hindrance to them in a world managed , by and large , for those who can hear . What's happened is that an artificial and insular bubble has been created so that those who created it can pretend that they aren't disadvantaged or limited at all . This documentary is very instructive on this premise , as I will show in my comments below . As I have to use the documentary to illustrate my point , there will be spoilers : Throughout this documentary , the advocates of the importance of maintaining " deaf culture " maintain a hostility towards anyone seeking to do or say anything which they perceive as being in any way an indication that deafness is not a desirable characteristic . The father whose daughter is at the center of one of the two debates openly says that he was happy when he found out his daughter was deaf , because she was just like him . He is opposed to the CI procedure almost every moment from the beginning and he seems more resigned than accepting when his wife says she thinks their daughter should have the operation . When the final decision not to have his daughter undergo the CI procedure is made , he takes the step of moving to a largely deaf community which is truly a kind of enclave , an escape from a hearing world he'd rather shun than deal with . I find it most fascinating that when Heather says she wants the procedure , whenever she's asked why , she has any number of reasons . As things progress and her parents clearly and vehemently argue against their daughter getting the implant , you can see the reaction of her parents is not lost on their daughter . There's a conversation between the mother ( who was at first interested in the procedure , but starts turning against the idea when she learns that her daughter will be encouraged to drop using sign in favor of using speech-the mother then worries that she'll drop out of the " deaf culture " in doing so ) and her daughter where the daughter says , after her mother asks her for her feelings on having an implant , that she doesn't want one . When asked for reasons , the daughter gives none , just restates that she doesn't want one . Having gotten the answer she wanted , the mother doesn't press , instead suggesting that it was her decision , after all , at which point the daughter looks at her and makes it clear that she understood that her parents had made the decision ( which , of course , they did ) and the mother infers that it was a mutual decision . All through this , those deaf people who are unhappy with any suggestion that the CI procedure could be a positive thing react as though it was a personal affront , as if the person making the suggestion didn't think that they were " good enough " . One woman , a grandmother to the baby whose parents opted to have a CI done , openly laments being made fun of by a once deaf and now hearing grandchild . Can anyone tell me that a person can make that kind of a statement and still claim with a straight face ( and be believable ) that they only have the child's best interests at heart ? Let me also state , for the record , that I don't know if I would opt for the CI procedure for myself , though for different reasons-it's a major invasive procedure and I'd have to weigh the risks independently . I probably wouldn't be making a comment on this had it not been glaringly obvious that most of the adults behaved more like children than the children did . The parents of the two children who were the focus of the debate are , after all , the parents and have the right ( but also the obligation ) to make the decisions respectively , but I would have been far more sympathetic to the parents of Heather when they were complaining that everyone was trying to gang up on them for their decision not to go with an implant for their daughter ( the scene with the mother bursting into tears near the end ) had they and the other proponents of " deaf culture " not been ganging up on the parents who opted to have the CI procedure for their son . They expected to be accorded a respect for their decision which did not see fit to extend and they were far more vehement in their comments to the other parents in opposition than the other couple was to them . Any courtesy you demand for yourself you should immediately give to others without any hesitation or qualification . Thought-provoking and generally excellent documentary and well worth seeing . Recommended .
What a difference 60 + years make !	This is a documentary short done by Disney for the Department of the Treasury to encourage people to pay their taxes early . This was nominated for a Academy Award for Documentary and though it is somewhat dated , it is a fascinating look back in time . Consider Donald's income level , for one thing . The amount he owes in taxes is another eye-opener . Even though this is about a serious subject , the standard Disney flourishes are very much in evidence throughout . This is on the Disney Treasures On The Front Lines , an extraordinary collection of work produced by the Disney studios to aid in the war effort . Some of this was commissioned by the government and some of the material was produced as entertainment , but with a war-related theme . An exceptional set , well worth getting . New Spirit is recommended , but On The Front Lines is most highly recommended .
Fun and frolic during wartime	Warfare is not going to get Bosko or Honey down , nosiree ! The title is a play on the film title Dawn Patrol and Warner Brothers made another short 33 years later with the same title . Both are decent , but they started to flesh out the Bosko character at about this point in the series , so this one is better than most , if a bit inane . Well worth watching . Recommended .
I feel sorry for Olive at times in this one .	Usually , Olive irritates me no end . But in this one , there are times when I feel sorry for her , because Popeye and Bluto see her more as a prize to be won in their continual battle with one another , rather than as someone worth having around for her own sake . Excellent animation and good sight gags here . Well worth watching . Recommended .
One of a trio , all of which were very good	There is an absolutely beautiful line that floors me every time I hear it in this short which I want to discuss , so here there be a spoiler or two : This is the last of three cartoons with Elmer , Bugs and Daffy that were similar in theme and attitude . The best of the three was , at least for me , Rabbit Fire . But Rabbit Seasoning and this one were also quite good . Strangely enough , verbal jokes hold their own in the three with very funny sight gags and , even stranger for a cartoon featuring Bugs as well , Daffy has some of the funniest stuff . But that doesn't save him from his karma . Daffy has an incredibly funny line toward the end of the short , after he's been shot at point-blank range yet again by Elmer which sums up the rage and frustration which arise from all the misfortune that dogs him throughout the short . I have to quote it here : " Shoot me again ! I love it ! I love the smell of burnt feathers-and gunpowder-and cordite ! " Clearly , Daffy snapped there and had reached the end of his rope . Very good cartoons , almost uniformly . Recommended . This short is available on Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Vol . 3 and is well worth the purchase price all by itself , though the rest of the set is marvelous .
Amusing short , definitely geared more towards kids , but has its moments	This short was nominated for an Academy Award and is actually fairly good , with an amusing premise about a cat who leads a much more interesting and involved life than his humans realize . While not the best short I've seen , entertaining enough with quite a few good moments and young children will be quite entertained . Good animation . Recommended .
This is an absolutely beautiful cartoon from a visual standpoint	This cartoon is short on plot , but is a visually stunning piece of work . There will be very , very minor spoilers : This short has a " story " that's incredibly slight-gnomes underground are responsible for the return of spring each year , yet must contend with a winter not yet ready to withdraw . Both the gnomes and the storm have their own songs . That's pretty much the plot , such as it is . But this cartoon isn't about the plot-it's about the color and animation . The visuals are exceptional . Back in 1936 , such bright color was still something of a novelty and there's some incredibly inspired work here . My favorite moments of the short surround the movement of the liquefied colors through pipes . At more than one point , there are a series of pipes aligned in a row , from the shortest to the tallest and the colors move through the pipes and the musical track makes it seem as though the row is a pipe organ . The visuals of the battle between the emerging greenery and the winter storm which refuses to leave quietly are exceedingly well executed . These types of shorts were things which Hugh Harman and Rudolf Ising are noted for , but they probably also helped lead to their ultimate departure from MGM , because this cartoon probably went over budget and MGM finally decided that they could control costs better if the animation department were managed by someone a little more conscious of cost than Harman and Ising were . This is truly a beautiful cartoon and is well worth seeing . It's available on the DVD Attack of the ' 30s Characters . Recommended , particularly if you like good animation .
Good later Warner Brothers short	This cartoon is a fairly good and most enjoyable example of the cartoons produced by Warner Brothers after 1966 . While they don't come up to the level of the work done in the 1930s-1950s , they have a certain charm to them and a few are fairly good . Merlin isn't my favorite character from these later shorts ( I like Cool Cat more ) , but he does have his moments . Worth watching . Recommended .
Entertaining take on one of those urban legends floating around .	This is well made , a tad ghoulish and darkly humorous , even if it does have what the late writer Damon Knight called an " idiot plot " , which means that everyone in it has to be an idiot in order for the plot to work . Good cast , though really only two of them have much to do-the driver ( finalist for the Village Idiot of the Year Award ) and the little girl serving as catalyst for events . Everyone else is going for a Darwin Award and are spear-carriers otherwise . Decidedly adult in nature , this reminded me for all the world of Special Delivery , a cartoon done by Allison Snowden for the NFBC-different plot , to be sure , but the same mordant wit . Well worth watching , it's been shown on the Sundance Channel on one of their recent Shorts Program compilations . Recommended .
The type of film Woody Allen does very well	In my opinion , there is more than one type of Woody Allen film . There is the antic lunacy of films like Bananas and Sleeper , the serio-comic " serious " film with " meaning " , like Annie Hall , Husbands and Wives and Deconstructing Harry and then there are what I think are Woody Allen's " love notes " , if you'll bear with the expression , films like The Purple Rose of Cairo , Bullets Over Broadway and Sweet and Lowdown , films as a general rule that are period pieces ( generally the ' 30's or thereabouts ) that are basically mash notes from Allen to something Allen particularly cares about , such as jazz in Sweet and Lowdown ( specifically jazz guitar and Django Reinhardt ) . The score is great , which is typical for a Woody Allen film . Allen does these little films vey well and they are almost always worth watching . Sean Penn plays a self-centered , egotistical creep with talent . I will leave any further interpretations regarding the preceding statement to the Gentle Reader . Why he was nominated for an Oscar escapes me . Samantha Morton , on the other hand , gives a sweet , if almost one-note , performance , which basically sums up the movie : worth the time and effort to watch , but a one-note film . If you like this side of Woody ( and I do ) , this is worth seeing .
Very cute , beautifully drawn and animated and a lot of fun to watch !	This cartoon , with a very basic and not very significant plot , is loads of fun and very nice to look at . Because I do want to touch on the short to some degree , there are mild spoilers : The title basically says it all-the protagonists are the Three Blind Mouseketeers and they are " all for one and one for all " when it comes to finding cheese . Captain Katt ( think of " Pegleg " Pete done up as a cat ) has sworn that , tonight , he's finally going to trap and destroy the Three Blind Mouseketeers , so he sets traps everywhere , hides inside a split barrel-and promptly falls asleep . The Mouseketeers , in the meantime , through fortuitous circumstances , manage to repeatedly slip through and around the traps with nary a scratch on them , many of the gags being excellently timed animation , frequently timed to the beat . There's one particularly nice bit of animation , where one of the mice becomes isolated from the others and Captain Katt is coming toward him when he starts yelling to his comrades as though he's surrounded by an army , which in a sense , he is-he's standing in front of a great many pieces of reflective glass , each of which has a tiny mouse dressed astonishingly like him and brandishing a sword . Captain Katt is overwhelmed and turns to run . Add in a large quantity of exploding corks from bottles and Captain Katt is once again routed by the Three Blind Mouseketeers . This short is available on the Disney Treasures More Silly Symphonies DVD release and it and the set are recommended .
A comment of notable length would take longer to read than would watching the short !	This is a brief ( perhaps a a minute or so ) short produced by the National Film Board of Canada and consists of animation timed to the musical soundtrack . Extremely bright and colorful , this is quite engaging visually . This type of short is part of the dessert cart-sort of like cotton candy , in this case : sweet , tasty and a pleasure while you have it before you . Nothing profound here , just a pretty little bit . Hey , whoever said everything had to be profound anyway ? I liked it very much , thank you . Well worth tracking down . Recommended .
Good , but not great , cartoon from Disney	This cartoon was nominated for an Oscar and , for the life of me , I don't understand why . It's an enjoyable short , but I don't see it s particularly noteworthy , apart from being one of the earliest Chip ' n Dale cartoons ( if not the first ) and I've always thought that Warner Brothers ' The Goofy Gophers were better characters . Oh , well . To each their own . Well worth watching . Runs periodically on the Ink and Paint Club on the Disney Channel .
A very good Speedy Gonzales short , with Speedy facing a rather stupid bird	This is a fairly early Speedy and a fairly novel one , in that Speedy's nemesis is a rather slow-witted bird named Senor Vulturo . As I plan on discussing some details , this is a spoiler warning : The short opens with a large crowd of mice celebrating Cinco de Mayo , which is one of two Mexican Independence Days . The main attraction at the festivities is Speedy Gonzales , playing a game of " Peeng Pong " against himself . Incidentally , if you understand Spanish , you may find one or two of Speedy's comments during the match humorous . You might want to watch the crowd scene , as at least one little mouse is going in the opposite direction of the rest of the crowd in watching the match . As the mice are enjoying themselves , Senor Vulturo sees the crowd and exclaims , " Mouseburgers ! " and decides it's time for supper . As he dives on the crowd , the mice panic and scatter , leaving Speedy to wonder what the fuss is about . The other mice tell him and they see the bird swooping in on one hapless mouse . Speedy races to the rescue , saves the mouse and the bird see , instead of the mouse in his talon , a firecracker in a sombrero , which explodes . Speedy returns , taunts the bird , who then calls Speedy a " Cucaracha ! " and tries to swat and then to catch him with no success and great personal injury . The bird then has a run-in with Speedy and a train and then a run-in with a hand-car . There are just some days when it doesn't pay for a predator to get out of bed . Speedy tricks the bird into following him by promising to take him to find a slower mouse , but all that happens is that the bird flies into a wall and literally cracks his skull . He then decides to get Speedy by using a toy and some nitroglycerin to blow Speedy up . Speedy turns the tables on him and the bird surrenders . The ending is hilarious , particularly the last line , so I won't spoil it here . This short is available on the Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Volume 4 and is well worth seeing . Recommended .
Standard Olive Oyl Plot # 1-good cartoon , though	This is a standard cartoon featuring Olive Oyl , of the most frequent variety-Olive dumps Popeye , typically for Bluto in one of many guises . Popeye , instead of celebrating his freedom , sets to win her back in defiance of all logic and common sense . He and Bluto fight , with Bluto holding his own or even winning until it's spinach time , whereupon Bluto becomes a punching speed bag for Popeye and Olive comes back to him-until the next time ! Oh well , that's life . Good cartoon with nice animation . Worth watching . Recommended .
Slightly uneven , but unsettling film exploring the dimensions of madness	This film is really a two-character effort . Terrance Stamp and Samantha Eggar ( who was nominated for an Oscar ) dominate the film , with the other parts little more than walk-ons . Stamp carries his performance a bit too far over the top at times , but Eggar is spot-on in hers . William Wyler's direction ( also nominated for an Oscar ) is mostly tight and focused , but he should haved reined Stamp in a bit more . Still a very good film . Recommended .
A funny , if ' one-note ' ( sorry , I couldn't resist that one ! ) short starring Krazy Kat and a revolt of the musical instruments	This short stars with one gag and basically plays off it for the length of the cartoon . It's a cute premise and the sight gags make it appealing . Because I want to discuss the short in some detail , this is a spoiler warning : Krazy Kat is playing a viola ( and doing so badly ) as the short opens . He's playing so poorly that all the musical instruments behind him razz him about his playing and his viola finally stops his playing . Krazy and the viola start fencing with a couple of bows and Krazy eventually wins and tosses the viola out the window and then kicks the other instruments out as well . This brings about a musical declaration of war between Krazy and the instruments . A large section of the cartoon is now taken up with the raising of an army of instruments to go do battle with Krazy . We see many of the typical scenes of farewell found in war movies , with a father saxophone kissing mother saxophone and junior saxophone goodbye , a grown cello grabbing a bow and heading off , stopping just long enough to tell a smaller cello it couldn't come along , two clarinets kissing in farewell and so on . The battle is a bit of an anticlimax , with little of it especially interesting . Krazy's house is largely destroyed , but he emerges " victorious " when the instruments get drunk and start playing " How Dry I Am " . Good cartoon with some funny moments , it's available on the DVD Attack of the ' 30s Characters . Well worth watching . Recommended .
Very good , but not great Marx Brothers	This film can really be viewed as a feature-length screentest for the Marx Brothers . It actually has the feel of a stage play thats been filmed for movie release more than anything else . While there are some good scenes and some fairly funny bits throughout , Its reall not in the same weight class as , say , Duck Soup or Night at the Opera . It'sa good , entertaining film . But average Marx brothers is better than some performers ' best and this is better than average . Recommended If you like the Marx Brothers
Two Parodies for the price of one !	In this one , Tex Avery pkes continued fun at his old friends , Little Red Riding Hood and the Wolf , but adds a slight twist-he parodies the tale of the Country Mouse and the City Mouse and of course , in true Avery fashion , stands everything on its ear . Tex also proves an old adage-beauty is in the eye of the beholder . All the old Tex Avery signatures are here-eye bulges , double-takes and sight gags galore . Bring the spouse , the kiddies , old Uncle Erasmus , Grampa and the hermit under the floor boards . Great fun will be had by all ! Recommended .
Visually stunning , with George Pal's wonderful stop-motion animation , but could have used a better script and performance in the lead role .	As with almost any George Pal production , this is visually an eye-catcher and has some wonderful stop-motion animation , as you would expect from Pal . Entertaining at times , the film drags horribly in spots and could have used a better script , which is a bit surprising , as Charles Beaumont was involved . The fact that Laurence Harvey , normally excellent , seems to have phoned in his performance doesn't help matters . Still well worth watching , it just could have been much better . Recommended for the visual aspects and fairy-tale recreations .
A Gandy Goose cartoon which has a number of caricatures and is surprisingly good	I'm not a big fan of the character Gandy Goose . He's okay , but the character is very limited and most of the shorts I've seen don't do a whole lot for me . But I very much liked this short . Since I want to talk about this one a bit , this is a spoiler warning : Gandy Goose is patterned after Ed Wynn , a very talented and funny comic well known at the time . Gandy wants to be an actor and has finally received an acting " kit " in the mail . He runs to show it off for a rooster named Rudy . He first puts on something which looks like a wrestler's mask and scares the daylights out of Rudy . He then impersonates , in quick succession , Groucho Marx , Jimmy Durante and Gary Cooper , before Rudy throws him out . Shortly thereafter , another rooster arrives and Gandy goes to warn Rudy , who rushes out , only to be beaten and humiliated by the other rooster . Gandy then does a marginal impression of James Cagney and gets punched by the other rooster . Rudy then gets the " bright " idea of having Gandy disguise himself like a fox , come in and terrify the hens and let Rudy beat him , so he can be the big rooster again , unaware the other rooster is listening in to the plot . Gandy agrees and goes off to practice-only to run into a real fox . Gandy doesn't realize of course , that he's speaking to a real fox and tells him the whole plot . The fox , probably the most entertaining character in the short , compliments Gandy on his " performance " and then proceeds to beat him up , under the guise of giving him pointers . He then goes off to the farm . Rudy sees the fox and mistakes him for Gandy and tells him to get started , so the fox starts trying to catch hens and put them in a sack . Rudy goes out to save the day , gets thoroughly thrashed by the real fox and leaves , which is noted by the new rooster , who also mistakes the real fox for Gandy ( none of these critters , except for the fox , seems all that sharp ) and hits the fox in his snout . The fox's reaction to this and a subsequent blow is absolutely perfect . While all this is going on , Gandy wanders up and asks the new rooster where he can find " Mr . Rudy " , after which it dawns on the new rooster that he's tangling with a real fox and he suddenly remembers an urgent appointment elsewhere . The fox runs after him , no doubt to issue a dinner invitation . Rudy comes back , sees Gandy , decks him in disgust and becomes the barnyard hero again . Gandy is left with the closing line . Good short worth tracking down and watching at least once . Recommended .
Uneven , but enjoyable and worth watching	This one is hard to describe , Two ballet dancers perform a piece while various visual effect are added to augment the performance . Some of the effects are stunning , while others are very jarring and don't quite work . Intriguing idea that works most of the time . If you've seen " A Chairy Tale " or " Neighbours " and enjoyed them , you'll like this . But it is unusual and somewhat off-kilter at times . Recommended for those who like the unusual or special photographic effects . Bear in mind that it is over 30 years old .
Nice little cartoon .	This is a nice little cartoon . It isn't a ground-breaking piece of animation to catch the eye and impress , it's just an entertaining short and that's good enough for me . Because I want to discuss some details , this is a spoiler warning : Little Pancho wants to be a bullfighter more than anything else , but no one else believes he'll ever make it in the arena . His mother tells him it will never happen and that he's just wasting time dreaming , while all the little girls are swooning over a poster of the bullfighter-who looks a lot like Clark Gable ! Pancho tells them that he's even better and they laugh at him . Pancho tries to sneak in through the door on " Amateur Tryouts " , but is told they need men , not " shrimps " . He sits out in a wagon while the fights go on in the arena . The bull is making short work of the men and tosses one out of the arena , right into Pancho's wagon . Pancho vaults into the arena to land right on the bill's head , knocking him out . Pancho receives the cheers of the crowd and bends over to pick something up-just as the bull comes to and charges ! The bull collides with a wall and is out cold again . Little Pancho is now a bullfighter and a hero . The cartoon ends with Pancho enjoying the fruits of victory , as does his mama . This short is available on the Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Vol . 4 and is well worth getting . Recommended .
Ah , ye olde melodramas !	This short is a takeoff on the old melodramas , where the hero is forthright and true , stalwart and brave , with the IQ of a grape , the heroine bats her eyes and sighs either lovingly or sorrowfully , depending on the scene and the villain is truly despicable and hissable . This is an excellent cartoon for its time . Just don't watch it and also watch The Dover Boys as well , or Love and Curses will pale in comparison . Well worth looking for . Recommended , especially for the ending .
Audrey Hepburn , Fred Astaire and music by the Gershwins-what more can you ask for ?	This is an entertaining , enjoyable movie . Good , but not great , it has audrey Hepburn sigh , Fred Astaire and some wonderful songs by the Gershwins . A touch predictable in spots , but a charmer nonetheless and well worth seeing . Decent script if a somewhat implausible plot and beautiful scenery are also a plus . Did I mention Audrey ?
A very entertaining short , but one thing puzzles me-why are they moving the rock ?	This is a very good short , where the gags mostly revolve around the attempts of the Pink Panther and the little guy who regularly shows up in these shorts to move a very large rock . I have know idea why they're moving the rock . I suppose the answer to that is " Because it's there " . I want to give some details in this comment , so there are spoilers here : This short opens with the Pink Panther and the little guy moving a very large rectangular rock when the Pink Panther has the idea that it would move faster and easier if it were round . Things move quickly-until they hit an incline , when they start moving much more quickly . The little guy winds up in the valley between two slopes . The astute observer no doubt realizes just how unfortunate this position is for him . A suggestion to any future cartoon characters finding themselves in similar circumstances-try moving laterally ! Along the way , the two try using vines to pull the block along , using logs to roll a rectangular block along and putting wheels on an axle ( this last results in a very " Flintstones " type of moment in one scene , which is very funny ) . While many of the gags are predictable , the timing on the gags is good enough for most of them to still be quite amusing . The ending gag is clever and a bit of a surprise initially . A nice touch . The short comes full circle , ending as it began-with the Pink Panther and the little guy trying to move a rock . This short is on the Pink Panther Classic Cartoon Collection and is well worth watching , as is the collection as a whole . Recommended .
Reasonably enjoyable , somewhat predictable cartoon	There's nothing really special or unique about this cartoon , save the fact that the fox wants the duck's down for his pillow instead of duck for dinner ( I wonder , if pork is the other white meat , is duck the other dark meat ? But I digress . ) . The opening sight gag with the fox's pillow is excellent , the rest amusing , if better done in other cartoons . Still a most enjoyable cartoon and well worth seeing .
Tex Avery takes on the circus !	This short is a mixed bag , some bits working , others not working . There are inside jokes referencing animators , including a caricature of Bob Clampett in a bit that is hilarious if you know who Clampett is and so-so if you don't ( Clampett was still primarily part of Avery's animation team , later becoming one of the best directors at the Warner Brothers animation studio ) . The closing gag will strike some as tasteless , but I think it's typical and vintage Tex Avery . Well worth seeing . Recommended .
Not perfect , but quite good and hilarious quite often .	This most assuredly is not a perfect film , but it is a marvelous send-up of the fairy-tale genre and the script is great . This has romance , humor , a talking donkey , no car chases and makes fun of The Mouse . What more could you ask for ? Movie spoofs and karaoke ? It has those too . Most harrowing performance by gingerbread ? You betcha ! The voicework is spot on and even Eddie Murphy is enjoyable . Great fun is had by all ( except Michael Eisner-I'd love to have been a fly on the wall in Eisner's office the morning after this copped the Oscar for Animated Feature ) . Very entertaining and well worth your time . Most recommended .
This short has exceptionally good visuals and is quite good in the main	Bosko shorts generally have very good animation and there are some very nice visual sequences . I want to talk about some specifics here , so there are spoilers : This is the second war-oriented Bosko ( after the earlier Dumb Patrol ) , both using World War I as the setting . While Bosko was an aviator in the first one and it was a good deal lighter in tone and mood , Bosko is an infantryman in the trenches in this one and some of the gags are actually a bit like " gallows " humor-characters get shot and collapse in comically exaggerated manners , weapons are hit and " die " just like the other characters . This being a Bosko short , he and other characters play music at odd times and in unusual ways . There are some very dark and somewhat serious animated bits here , mixed in with the comedic absurdities throughout the short . Bosko has a running bit with his helmet whenever he tries to get out of a trench . Some of the typical gags found regularly in Bosko shorts are here , of course-Bosko is eating from a can when we first see him , in the same exaggerated style the animators tended to use , for instance . There's also a gag involving a pair of long johns and the back flap in this one . That said , there are some stylistic flourishes here that aren't standard in a Bosko and this is a fairly good short which holds up well after roughly 75 years . Well worth seeing . Recommended .
Androcles and the Lion , anyone ?	The plot of this one is similar in some respects to Androcles and the Lion-though far more humorous . As I intend to discuss this cartoon in a bit of detail , there will be spoilers : The primary character opposite the Pink Panther in a great many of these shorts is a little white guy with a mustache , said to be patterned on Friz Freleng , a noted animator / director and one of the producers of the series . He often takes on a role specific to the plot of the short . Here , for example , he is a playboy type . He pulls a nail out of the Pink Panther's foot and thus wins a friend . He rapidly becomes disenchanted with the PP's enthusiastic gratitude and tries to lose him-until he gets home and his wife and mother-in-law are waiting up-bearing a rolling-pin . Enter his new-found friend and now protector , the Pink Panther , who scares the daylights out of the wife and causes the mother-in-law to leave . The middle portion of the short is the little guy taking full advantage of his new " weapon " and his wife's efforts to get rid of the Pink Panther . Finally , in frustration , she nails up a note telling hubby that she's " going home to mother " and walks out . Our hero goes to see if she's leaving and winds up with a nail in his foot , which the wife pulls out , reversing the dynamic . She's now the beneficiary of gratitude and celebrates this by breaking bottles over her husband's head . Ah , the joys of karma ! This short is available on the Pink Panther Classic Cartoon Collection and is well worth checking out . Recommended .
Entertaining , unremarkable short featuring an all but forgotten character	Bosko is largely a forgotten character by most people , if they ever knew of him in the first place . The fact that the cartoons are rarely seen accounts for this and he is rarely seen in part because of a perception that black and white shorts are of little interest and in part because of a feeling that the character is stereotypical in nature and thus offensive . So shorts that are entertaining , if unspectacular , are effectively buried when they shouldn't be . Well worth seeking out . Recommended .
Beware of conveyor belts and guard dogs !	This is a cute , though occasionally predictable , short with some great sight gags . There will be spoilers , so consider this a warning : The Pink Panther is forced , at gunpoint , into helping a burglar ( his frequent foil , the little guy with a substantial temper ) break into a building . This isn't the wisest move he could have made , as the Pink Panther causes him no end of troubles . By the end of the short , he's chased by a guard dog , picked up by an electro-magnet , squashed , squashed and blown up simultaneously and then finally blown up and basically shot through the wall at a police station . The Pink Panther even attempts to rob the burglar ( talk about ' the biter bit ' ) . It's entirely possible that the poor little guy is safer in jail than he is in close proximity to the Pink Panther ! This short is on the Pink Panther Classic Cartoon Collection and is well worth seeing . Recommended .
Good romance and Spader and Sarandon do have a certain chemistry on-screen	I will be frank : if Susan Sarandon had not been in this movie , I would not have watched . I will happily watch almost anything she appears in . James Spader's acting ability is marginal at best , but here , he does a very effective and surprisingly understated job and he and Sarandon do make sparks ( although Sarandon could make sparks all alone in a full-force hurricane ! ) as a couple in this . Very good romantic drama , despite the occasional mis-step . Recommended .
This short features one of the most annoying cartoon brats I've ever seen	This is a very good Bosko short , at least in the beginning . It kind of loses a bit of appeal in some respects ( for me , at least ) in the second half . I'll be discussing this in some detail , so you have been warned : This starts out , understandably enough , with Bosko running a soda fountain . He's busily making sodas and other concoctions for various customers . Early on , there's a very happy little mouse enjoying a soda and jumping up and down with undisguised glee ( that glee is later dampened when Bosko grabs the little mouse and uses his head and ears like an egg-beater ) . A dog , after eating a large stack of sandwiches , is picked up by Bosko and used as an accordion / concertina-like " instrument " ( proving once again that Bosko can get music out of virtually anything ) . There are some fairly good visual gags in the first part , when Bosko is at the soda shop . Unfortunately , the cartoon cuts to Honey teaching ( or trying to teach ) a little monster whose entire presence is like one large fingernail scraping slate ! He's a little cat who would make a few appearances ( thankfully a bit less annoying in most of them ) . He incessantly demands an " ice cream cone " in a voice that would shatter glass . Honey of course calls Bosko and asks him to bring an ice cream cone to appease the little brat , instead of sending the little creep back to his parents . Big mistake ! Bosko bring an ice cream cone and promptly winds up wearing it when the little creep shouts that he doesn't like vanilla and sends it back at Bosko and the chase is on . Bigger mistake ! Bosko has things happen to him that look incredibly painful , even for a cartoon character , including one scene which , as a male , is far too disconcerting for me to contemplate ! . Suffice it to say that the kid winds up making Bosko look very foolish in the end . Some very good animation sequences here and some very funny stuff , but the pint-sized Dillinger leaves a bad taste in my mouth . It's a very funny short nevertheless and most definitely worth watching . Recommended .
Good movie , if you are a James Garner fan , but just average otherwise	This movie is basically a showcase for James Garner . He was nominated ( deservedly ) for an Academy Award for his performance . Sally Field does well in her role and there is a chemistry between Field and Garner on-screen . The script is good , although a sub-plot with Brian Kerwin as Field's ex doesn't really work too well , there is a decent supporting cast , but it's really Garner's movie . There is a beautiful scene where Garner gives a ride to an older gent walking down the road that you have to see and is worth the price of admission alone ! Well worth watching and recommended to anyone who likes James Garner .
The cute mouse cartoon as done by Tex Avery	Tex Avery did a triptych of " cute little mouse " cartoons , but not to worry , gang , they have the Avery backspin , particularly this one . The three , Ain't We Got Fun , A Sunbonnet Blue and this one , were all quite recognizable as Avery shorts and the end gag on this one is prototypical Avery . This one has a fair amount of singing and is more cutesy than usual , but is definitely an Avery short , without a doubt ! Well worth looking for . Recommended .
Good example of the Coyote-Roadrunner series	Nominated for an Academy Award , there is nothing especially novel or intriguing about this short . It's just a good example of the series as a whole . Wile E . spends the bulk of the cartoon trying to catch the Roadrunner and giving his insurance agent the ulcer to end all ulcers . It also serves as a warning not to buy anything from Acme unless you are desperate and / or a masochist . Cartoon Network runs this with some frequency . Recommended .
One of the better Speedy shorts from the 1960s	This short is a fairly good one from the late 1960s , wen they admittedly had dropped a bit in quality from the heyday of Warner Brothers . But even with rising costs and smaller budgets making limited animation necessary , with at best average musical scoring , they still turned out some reasonably good stuff . This is a good one that depends on Daffy basically being Daffy . Speedy makes the cartoon , though , at least for me . The ending is cute , if predictable . Worth watching . Recommended .
This short is a type that the animators called , " cheaters " .	This cartoon is what they call a " cheater " - it uses old footage from previously released shorts along with new footage used to frame the clips . Animation is a very time-consuming and labor-intensive process . Studios contracted to produce a specific number of shorts in a specific time-frame , most often a year . As budgets got tighter and deadlines loomed , in order to work a bit longer on some shorts to do excellent work , Warner Brothers animators ( MGM did so as well ) started to do " cheaters " , which were quicker and cheaper than a fully new short , to stay on deadline and within the allotted budget for the year . The time and money saved on a cheater was used on other projects , to take a bit longer and do it right . Rather than cut corners on every project , like some studios did , they cut corners on a handful of shorts a year . This is one of the better cheaters . Well worth watching . Recommended .
A birthday party for Betty-Fleischer style	This is a cute , if second-tier , short that centers around a surprise party thrown for Betty by her friends . The usual sight gags , many rather bizarre and unusual , to say the least , run throughout the cartoon . Entertaining , if not really among the best of the period . Well worth watching . In print and available . Recommended .
Basically a one gag short , but it's a funny gag .	This cartoon revolves around the consequences of everything being sprayed with rubber and is therefore simply one long running gag . But Betty is Betty , the jokes that " bounce " ( sorry ) off the main premise are fairly good and a good time is had by all . In print and available . Well worth watching . Recommended .
Daffy really should know better by now .	This Daffy Vs . Speedy short works better than the norm because there's a logic behind the adversarial nature implicit in the nature of a chase cartoon . Daffy and Speedy doing battle makes sense here within the context of the short more than is often the case in these later cartoons . Here we see the mean and greedy Daffy . The greedy Daffy is funny , but sometimes the mean Daffy leeches the humor right out of things . A nice balance is struck here and the short works very well . Worth seeing . Recommended .
Be careful what you wish for , lest you get it !	This short , nominated for an Oscar , follows Jack from humble biginnings to his " success " , outlining the steps along the way . The National Film Board of Canada produced this thoughtful and provoctive little short , which is moderately difficult to obtain , unless one is Canadian . In print through the NFBC itself , you can go to their website ( I don't recall the address at the moment ) to find ordering instructions . I found the site by searching for the National Film Board of Canada . Well worth the effort . Recommended .
Fascinating documentary about the history of a mining town during the Klondike Gold Rush	This short was nominated for an Academy Award for Live Action Short , one of two shorts produced by the National Film Board of Canada in the category . Using largely shots of still photography and a voice-over narration , it tells the story of Dawson City , a mining town during the Klondike Gold Rush . It's a fascinating look back at an era long gone and little remembered . Well worth tracking down . Turner Classic Movies ran this once as part of a celebration of the NFBC's 60th anniversary a few years back . Recommended .
Superb Special Effects , courtesy George Pal , but Peter Sellers and Terry-Thomas almost steal the movie	This movie deservedly won the Oscar for its Special Effects . Russ Tamblyn was well-cast as tom . The romantic sub-plot is superfluous and Terry-Thomas and Peter Sellers all but steal the movie as a bumbling pair of thieves . Funny enjoyable puffball of a movie . Well worth watching for the effects and Sellers and Thomas .
Bosko in the Foreign Legion	This is a very good Bosko short , with some very good sight gags and some hilarious segments . I want to discuss this short in some detail , so this is a spoiler warning : Most Bosko shorts tend to have a few really good gags in an otherwise dull and uneven cartoon . Quite often , there will be one notable section which works fairly well . This one , however , is fairly solid from start to finish , with memorably funny gags spread out through the whole of the short . It starts with a view of the sleeping quarters of a Foreign Legion outpost , with some nice sight gags . When reveille sounds , the mean Sargent comes in , to be serenaded with a child-like , sing-song rendition of " Good Morning To You " ! Bosko's uniform stands to before Bosko wakes up to the bugle's call and must wake Bosko itself . They ( Bosko and his uniform ) run out to stand inspection , where Bosko does his morning ablutions standing in ranks ! He's called forward and given the assignment to capture Ali Oop ( no mention is made of a dinosaur ) . The next part has Bosko riding a camel and gets the typical gags in any Foreign Legion cartoon-the oasis , other people comically riding camels , the snake charmer ( with a jazzy snake ) and so on . Bosko sees Honey just in time to be with her when Ali Oop storms the village ( naturally , as it speeds things up when you don't have to hunt for the bad guy ) and the battle sequence starts , with the jokes being sight gags related to people shooting at one another . I won't spoil those , because they have to be seen to be appreciated . The short ends with Bosko getting the girl and capturing Oop . The capture of Ali Oop is effective and funny . I hope this eventually see release on a future Looney Tunes Golden Collection . Most recommended .
Worth watching for the animal footage and scoring in the re-issue	This documentary was nominated for Artistic Quality of Production for the very first Academy Awards . The category appeared only once , apparently to give recognition to works with more critical than commercial success . Chang holds up very well and despite at times being too ridiculous for words is well worth viewing for the shots of animals in the wild and an enchanting musical score added in re-release . Brought to you by the same production team that did the original King Kong .
Great movie if you like Gilbert and Sullivan	Topsy Turvy is an excellent movie if you like Gilbert and Sullivan . I do , so I enjoyed it a great deal . Jim Broadbent steals the show with a wonderful performance as W . S . Gilbert . He should have been nominated for an Oscar . I suspect the reason he wasn't is because they couldn't decide if he belonged in Best Actor or Best Supporting Actor . In any case , his performance is better than Jude Law's in Ripley and head and shoulders above Sean Penn's in Sweet and Lowdown , so it doesn't matter which to put him in anyway . The performances of the musical numbers are good to excellent . Recommended if you like musicals , highly recommended if you like G & S .
Typical Disney sport-oriented cartoon	This cartoon , nominated for an Oscar , is one of the sports-oriented cartons Disney made featuring that graceful soul , Goofy . While this is a good cartoon and is well worth seeking out , there truly isn't anything exceptionally special about this cartoon . It is typical of the series-a narrator talks about the actions , and the consequences rising from those actions , of your " average man " ( Goofy ) while Goofy goes through sight gag after sight gag . This runs on The Ink and Paint Club periodically . Recommended .
A rara avis-a film with a dominant lead performance that also requires very strong work from an ensemble cast or it wouldn't work .	This is an unusual film , to say the least . Most films that require a stong group performance from an ensemble in order to work don't have one central part that basically has the film revolve around it so it doesn't collapse under it's own weight . Here , the supporting players have to do a good job or the movie rings false . But if Tilda Swinton doesn't do the best performance of her career , it collapses into an unwatchable , tedious mess . There are four or five supporting roles that , if they don't work ( even one of them ) then the film is a bust . If Tilda Swinton phones it in , the film collapses . Most movies don't have this large a dichotomy-they are either ensemble casts ( like The Big Chill or Glengarry Glen Ross ) or they have a dominant performance and perhaps one or two roles that need to work and everything else isn't crucial ( like , say , Philadelphia or The Verdict ) . For the most part , the film works , with one or two false steps . Recommended for the open-minded and venturesome .
Another parody taken from Of Mice and Men	This is one of the cartoons where we meet the Abominable Snowman , a parody of Lenny from Of Mice and Men , which became a staple joke at both Warner Brothers and MGM ( courtesy of Tex Avery for the latter studio ) and virtually every less than bright secondary character was modeled to some degree after Lenny . Daffy is his usual charming and affable self and much chaos follows . Good to see that it's available . Well worth watching . Recommended .
The best of a very short and not terribly effective series .	This was the best of a very short series of cartoons that was a misfired attempt playing on the Three Bears , with thoroughly unlikable characters , including Papa , a lazy , mean and obnoxious fellow , Mama , not much better than Papa and Baby , a cute cipher with no real personality to speak of and consequently most irritating . Production values are good and the story is good , with some funny moments , but MGM fared much better with the character of Barney Bear , with some endearing qualities mixed in with the gruffness . This series isn't anywhere near the same league as the considerably funnier Warner Brothers take on the same fairy tale and died quickly . This particular short has a good ending , but I've seen better ( and worse ) in my time . Average at best . Worth watching , but don't try too hard to find it unless you collect MGM cartoons . For completeists .
Bugs versus Taz , Round Two	This is the second encounter between Bugs Bunny and an obviously over-matched Taz . Bugs winds up in Tasmania and almost immediately becomes the object of Taz's gustatory interest ( Taz wants Bugs to come for dinner , but only as the main item on the menu ) and , understandably , our intrepid hero is reluctant to oblige . Taz has some good lines here , but he is clearly out of his weight class against Bugs . Bugs nails him in the end with a decidedly low blow , but when you're in danger of being remembered with fondness as a belch , you don't fight fair . Recommended .
An Out of the Inkwell short and quite well done	The character of Koko is likely recognized from his appearances in Betty Boop cartoons , if he's recognized at all . But he started out as a character in the Out Of the Inkwell series as a silent character ( actually , he " spoke " by word balloons , but the shorts were silent ) with a dog . These cartoons more or less followed a pattern-a live action sequence where either one or both of the Flieschers ( or occasionally some other person ) would bring Koko " out of the inkwell " ( i . e . , draw him , usually with a creative entrance ) and the bulk of the cartoon would have Koko and / or Fitz the dog acting and reacting to a specific set of circumstances . Here , Max draws his characters with heated ink , which is obviously not comfortable for them , as they spend the time mainly trying to cool off , with comic results , if little success . Intensely visual ( for obvious reasons ) and often surreal . Fascinating to watch . Well worth tracking down . Recommended .
Very good movie highlighted by the acting performances	This movie is basically carried by the two leads ( particularly Asia Argent , daughter of Dario Argento ) and by Rupert Everett in a supporting role . The script is average and the plot a tad too obvious at times , but Argento catches fire on camera and does a very good job . If you like action-thrillers , by all means watch thi one . Recommended .
This is another Screen Song where the animation is almost treated as incidental .	As far as Screen Songs go , this one is fairly interesting and reasonably good . But I can't help feeling as though the cartoon was an afterthought . It's a decent job , but I suspect it would have been much better if it got the full treatment , instead of being an addition for time requirements . The animation and the song don't fit well together at all . Worth watching nonetheless . Ethel Merman is in fine form here and the cartoon portion is fun . In print and available . Recommended .
Good short with some excellent lines and I'm glad to see it in print !	This is a short which I haven't seen in ages , as it was declared off-limits by Ted Turner when Turner acquired the rights to the shorts . While I can understand his trepidation , I'm grateful to finally see the short again , because it has one of the funniest scenes I remember from watching these close to 40 years ago . As I want to talk about the short in a bit of detail , this is a spoiler warning : The short starts with a scene which likely helped pull it from circulation for years-blacks working in the cotton fields , one of whom grabs Bugs's " cotton " tail and tosses him in the sack . We then watch Bugs make his way from field-sack to cotton bale bound for the Southern Star , a paddle-wheel on the Mississippi , bound for all sorts of ports , including " Cu-cka-mong-a " ( an old inside joke Mel Blanc has fun with in quite a few shorts ) . Bugs happens to observe what happens to stowaways on board and so " borrows " a gentleman's suit ( and presumably his ticket as well ) . This scene is hilarious . Bugs then winds up in a card game with Colonel Shuffle ( think Yosemite Sam with a Southern accent ) . Bugs puts up $100 , which buys one half of a white chip , Col . Shuffle deals and the scene fades out . The fade in shows Bugs with a mountain of chips and Shuffle with half a white chip . Bugs wins the hand , with both players cheating . Shuffle contrives to be insulted and challenges Bugs to a duel . A few very funny bits later , Shuffle winds up in the Mississippi River to start a running gag and the chase is on . In a short with some very funny bits , my personal favorite comes after Col . Shuffle has set his pants on fire in the ship's furnace . He races to a water dispenser which takes only pennies and turns to Bugs , asking in very courtly speech if he might have change for a " tenspot " , adding that " I would prefer a profusion of pennies ! " . Bugs slowly checks the bill over ( he bites it at one point ) and slowly begins counting change . When he reaches $1 . 21 , Shuffle grabs the change , thanks him , tells him he can keep the rest and buys a cup of water and finally puts himself out . Bugs disguises himself as a Southern belle and begins whacking Shuffle with an umbrella , with Shuffle apologizing abjectly ( and futilely ) until he discovers it's Bugs . Bugs as a belle persuades a Southern gentleman to kick Shuffle off into the river again . When the gentleman realizes the " belle " is a bunny , he exits jerkily , stage right , into the river himself . The closing line is perfect . This short is available on the Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Volume 4 and is well worth seeing . Recommended .
Marc Anthony tries to make a " mouser " out of Pussyfoot-with limited success	This short stars the duo of Marc Anthony and Pussyfoot , an unlikely pairing of a bulldog and a kitten . Because I want to talk about some of the gags , this will be a spoiler warning : The people who give Marc Anthony and Pussyfoot a home are having a disagreement over whether or not Pussyfoot is carrying his own weight around the house , with the husband feeling that he should be ridding the house of mice . Marc Anthony , worried that his friend might lose his home , tries to make Pussyfoot a fierce and effective mouse-catcher . Unfortunately , what happens is that the mouse turns him into a draft animal , in harness and pulling a cart full of food back from the refrigerator . Other attempts to make Pussyfoot look good backfire as well and there are some hilarious sight gags in the middle portion of the short , including the sight of Marc Anthony as a ballerina ! After the mouse sends a ransom note as a " katnapper " and Marc Anthony gets walloped for shoving a wheel of cheese , piece by piece , into the mouse-hole , a solution comes to our hero . He gets a powerful magnifier , places it in front of the hole , sits Pussyfoot down in front of it and shapes his face into a ferocious expression . This sends the mice scurrying from the house and the day is saved . The final scene is priceless . This short is available on the Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Volume 4 and is well worth seeing . Recommended .
A better movie than many think , its primary weakness is the apparent disinterest of Malcolm McDowall in much of the movie .	This movie , while by no means a masterpiece , is actually a fairly decent movie that is seriously undercut by the fact that Malcolm McDowall seems to be totally bored by the whole thing and it comes through in his " performance " . Given that he has one of the lead roles , this is something of a problem . Kinski and O'Toole do excellent work and the cinematography and score are wonderful . Not a great movie but better than many people think . Worth watching .
Od , but interesting , sing-along short from Fleischer	This is an odd little entry from Fleischer in their Screen Song sing-along series . About half animation , half sing-along and a little hard to describe . Because I want to discuss some details , this is a spoiler warning : There really isn't all that much to this one . It starts out with mice taking buckets of water and splashing them on an elephant bathing behind a screen and just kind of goes on from there . Either mice are scrubbing other animals or the animals are washing themselves . There are two bits which I particularly like-one where a mouse is bathing cats using a tub and washboard , like a laundrywoman and a bit where a mouse , trying to get a sleeping dog to continue cranking a water-pump , pulls a pair of dice from his pocket and they morph into a bone ( a slang expression for dice is " bones " ) . After the cleaning finishes , a rather odd rabbit assembles the animals into an orchestra and then very exaggeratedly tells the audience that they will be playing the title tune and encourages the audience to sing along by following the " bouncing ball " . There follows the standard lyric display , though the last part features the rabbit in place of the ball and the words change as he steps on them . The animation is nice , though the song is rather melancholy and the singing is uninspired . Worth tracking down .
Reminiscent of the old Warner Brothers " college " musicals of the 1930s	This is a cute , rather charming musical short patterned after things like Along Flirtation Walk and Varsity Show . The lead character , Johnny , might as well have " Dick Powell " stenciled on his forehead and the professor reminds me of Kay Kyser . The music is infectious and entertaining , even if the plot is as thin as a piece of gauze . Come to think of it , the plots of those old musicals this is patterned after are pretty much just as thin and this is much shorter than those were ! Warner Brothers made a fair number of these musical cartoons , because the animation department had access to the entire musical catalog for the studio and the studio big-wigs saw the shorts as a way to remind people of Warner Brothers features and music ( sheet music was popular and the sheet music for songs made a pretty for all involved in the loop-composers , film studio , etc . ) by keeping songs fresh in the public's memory . This is on Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Vol . 2 and is well worth seeing . Recommended .
The best of the Chip ' n Dale series , But I still prefer The Goofy Gophers	This short , nominated for an Oscar in 1947 , is probably the best Chip ' n Dale cartoon done . It helps that Donald Duck is the antagonist , giving the cartoon personality the title characters largely lack . The Warner Brothers creation of The Goofy Gophers is far more lively and entertaining for me . Worth watching
If seeing Elmer playing Cupid and shooting Daffy with suction cup-tipped arrows is your idea of fun , this is the cartoon for you-and you need to get out more !	This is a very funny cartoon , pitting two of the Looney Tunes stars against each other in a somewhat unusual battle of wills . Because I want to discuss some of the details of this short , this is a spoiler warning : The opening shows a very cherubic-looking Elmer Fudd , flitting around and shooting animals with arrows to make them fall in love . All goes well ( at least from " Cupid's " perspective ) until he comes face to face with Daffy Duck , who launches into a particularly inspired rant about his life before and after his last encounter with the arrow-aiming menace to an orderly society , which he feels ruined a carefree single life . He closes by punctuating his point , using Elmer himself to do so . Obviously , at this point , the gauntlet has been flung down . Elmer shoots Daffy and Daffy starts chasing after a very unsettled hen . Said hen is married , to a large and very disturbed rooster , who pointedly wants to know why Daffy is after HIS wife . Daffy explains to the rooster and his " charming Mrs . " that his behavior is the fault of that " stupid Cupid " , explains that he's also a family man-complete with a carload of his brood as evidence and generally grovels shamelessly ( which is infinitely better than picking up your beak from the floor after a jealous rooster punches you into next Thursday ) until the rooster allows that it might just all be an innocent misunderstanding . The rooster lets Daffy go and Daffy goes out gratefully-only to be shot by Elmer again and interpose himself between rooster and hen in the midst of their reconciliation . The visual scene here is marvelous and Daffy is in trouble again ! This short is available on the Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Volume 4 and is well worth seeing-and so are all four of the Looney Tunes Golden Collections which have been released thus far . I truly hope that all of the remaining Warner Brothers shorts eventually find a home on future Golden Collections . Recommended .
Cute , well animated cartoon .	This short , nominated for an Academy Award , is a very cute ( almost too cute in spots ) , very well animated cartoon . Given its title , an excellent use of music is to be expected and that's precisely what you have-the animation and score going hand in glove smoothly , like a single unit , a strength of the Lantz studio in particular , although they were hardly alone . All of the major studios did the same , but Lantz and Warner Brothers were probably the best at matching music and animation rhythms . Well worth watching . Recommended .
Second short done by UPA for Columbia and the second Academy Award nomination for UPA !	In the late 1940s , Columbia decided to farm out the production of their animated shorts and UPA offered to do them . Columbia had visions of just continuing along the same lines as before and do cartoons heavily weighted towards the standard talking anthropomorphic animals and made it clear they wanted the Fox and Crow characters to continue . UPA really didn't want to just do the same old thing , but needed the contract , so the first two shorts they made were Fox and Crow , but both were atypical of the series Columbia had done previously . This is the second ( and last ) Fox and Crow UPA made and both are very good . The third short UPA made proved so popular ( and more lucrative for Columbia ) that they saw the light and gave UPA their head and let them do pretty much what they wanted , as long as it made a profit . The third cartoon ? Ragtime Bear , which featured the first appearance of one Quincy Magoo and the rest , as they say , is history . Magic Fluke is a funny , well animated marvel and worth watching . Recommended .
Technically fascinating short starring Koko the Clown	Fliescher Studios ( or more accurately , Max Fliescher ) created a number of memorable characters , with Popeye and / or Betty Boop the most well-known these days . Come to that , Popeye isn't theirs , but that of a comic strip artist named Segar . But I digress . For my money , in many ways , the best and most memorable of their stars was Koko the Clown . He was the first continuing character they had , starting out in the silents as a lead in shorts like this one and getting a second chance in sound cartoons as a secondary character in quite a few Betty Boop shorts . Koko was a fascinating character tailor-made for silents , as the clown persona was perfect for the surreal nature of the early Fliescher shorts . Bubbles is a very good example of the early efforts . Nothing else is even remotely similar to an early Fliescher cartoon . Bubbles is a relatively simple story with great visual imagery and holds up well some 80 years later . Well worth watching . Recommended .
Early Disney , with Oswald the Rabbit	No doubt , some people believe Walt Disney started with a certain mouse and , in one sense , they'd be right-Disney started working more or less as an independent in 1928 and Plane Crazy , the first Mickey , was his first effort . But Disney actually did shorts for a number of years under contract , until Charles Mintz basically offered Disney a deal he had to refuse , that Mintz probably intended he refuse from the beginning . The character of Oswald the Lucky Rabbit was the principal character and series Disney was doing for his contract with Mintz , but Disney didn't hold the rights to Oswald and lost him when the deal didn't renew . Had the deal renewed , while Mickey would likely have developed anyway , the attention would have continued to be with Waldo and Disney would have taken a different road . Of such things is history made . Exit rabbit enter mouse . As for this cartoon , it's a very good early Disney silent . Fairly good sight gags and good imagination from the animators to make the short funny even with no sound and the inherent limitations ( and advantages ) that lack caused . Good fun and you could see glimpses of the Disney touch . Well worth seeing . Recommended for animation fans .
Bizarre , episodic and somewhat uneven short , but hilarious in spots and worth watching	Rejected is a short composed of short bits that are basically animated " blackout " gags that sometimes leave you rolling on the floor and occasionally will have you blinking and scratching your head . The ending plays with the concept that an animated film is only as stable as its animator's mind and is probably the best section of the short . Inexplicably , the Cartoon Network contracted for the US broadcast rights , sat on it for roughly a year before putting it on their schedule and then yanked it shortly before the scheduled airing with no real explanation . I wonder if anyone at Cartoon Network even saw the short before they bought the broadcast rights . I saw the short as part of The Animation Show and also got the DVD release that Bitter Films put together . There's supposed to be another DVD release later this year containing all of Hertzfeldt's shorts , including Rejected . The short is most definitely worth seeing , though it is most definitely for adults more than children . Recommended .
A very good Avery short which is now available on DV	I don't think Tex Avery directed a bad cartoon . While this one isn't one of my absolute favorites , it's still a very good cartoon ( which basically makes it a cartoon that a lot of directors would be pleased to have considered as one of their best ) . I want to discuss some of the specific details here , so here there be spoilers : The title strikes me as a play on the movie title Angels With Dirty Faces , the main caricature is one of Edward G . Robinson and the short is a very good send-up of the gangster movies that were popular in the 1930s . But it's clearly a Tex Avery short first and foremost . When a police officer is shown in silhouette appearing to strike someone and saying , " Take that you rat ! And that ! And that ! " and the picture becomes clear that he's actually throwing cheese to a rat sitting on a stool , that's an Avery moment . Then the officer says , " That's all you get-I need the rest for my lunch ! " and the rat begins to throw a tantrum and cry ! This short is full of those types of gags , from beginning to end , though they don't quite come quite as fast and furious as they would later on in his career . Call it a formative Avery-he was beginning to find his style a bit more around this time . Throughout the cartoon , he takes various conventions of film in general and the gangster genre in particular and turns them on their ear . Newspaper headlines spin in with headlines which are usually funny while ostensibly advancing the " plot " , a movie theater patron who came in in the middle of the picture tries to get up and leave , only to be ordered back to his seat by " Killer " and then informs the police what the " Killer " has planned because he's already seen the ending ! The final newspaper headline and closing gags are priceless ! This short is available on the Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Vol . 3 and is well worth getting . Recommended .
" Could you possibly make any more noise ? "	This is an excellent short featuring the hapless Wally Walrus butting heads with the manic Woody Woodpecker . Since I want to discuss details here , this is your spoiler warning : Wally is going to bed at just about the same time that Woody is waking up-Wally is a day sleeper and Woody is a night sleeper . Thus , Wally wants quiet while Woody is up and about-which is like asking for snow in Death Valley for the Fourth of July ! Most unlikely in the extreme . Woody is awoken by a cuckoo clock figurine splashing water on him . He decides he's going to mow his lawn and so sets off down the hallway pushing his mower and singing an aria at the top of his lungs . Understandably , this gets Wally's attention and he grabs Woody and asks him the question I used in my subject line . Woody proceeds to show him that he can , indeed , make far more noise than he had been and the battle is joined . Woody begins mowing his lawn and Wally has a bit of bad luck with a hand grenade . Woody gathers up his cuttings and proceeds to build a bonfire , the smoke from which infiltrates Wally's bedroom in various way , with predictable ( and comic ) results . Finally the smoke starts coming out various parts of Wally's bed-frame , making it sound for all the world like a pipe organ . Eventually , the little redheaded noisemaker must go off to sleep and that's when Wally gets even in the funniest part of the short , so I won't spoil that here . This was released on DVD at least once , so it may be located with some effort . Highly recommended .
Mickey was a somewhat different character in his early days	This is one of the early Mickey shorts and Mickey has a bit more of an edge to his personality in these early shorts than does the mouse most people would readily recognize as Mickey . The backgrounds and other things in the scenes are different too , such as the hot dogs Mickey sells . Very good and entertaining short , this runs on Ink and Paint Club and may wind up on DVD in the not too distant future . Well worth seeking out . Recommended .
Wally Walrus makes a good foil for Woody .	Of the various characters Woody has run-ins with , Wally Walrus is probably the best foil for him , as the funniest situations arise when Woody makes a pest of himself for whatever reason and Wally is the perfect character for such antics . The personality lends itself well to a good slow burn . One of the better shorts with Wally and fairly typical . Well worth hunting up to watch . Recommended .
Excellent Speedy short .	With this Speedy cartoon , almost everything just clicks . This is one of the better ones made in the 1960s . Sylvester is an excellent choice as a foil for Speedy and Speedy , who is really kind of bland when you think about it a bit , actually is kind of interesting in this one . Though the best Speedys have an ancillary character that makes the cartoon special ( like Slowpoke Rodriguez , for example ) this one is good enough without one to be memorable . But if Daffy were the adversary , it would have died of boredom inside of the first three minutes , tops . Worth the time to track down . Recommended .
The more obvious attractions aside , watch this for the Australian flora and fauna as well as Tara Fitzgerald's performance .	While much has been made of the three models appearances in this film ( particularly Elle MacPherson ) , it's actually reasonably good , although Kate Fischer's socialist - with - a - chip - on - her - shoulder gets tiresome quickly . The scenery ( Australian flora and fauna , of course . Whatever did you think I meant ? ) is beautiful and is really featured to advantage . But you should see this for Tara Fitzgerald's performance . Hugh Grant is OK , Sam Neill seems bored with it all , but Tara Fitzgerald as Grant's oh-so-proper wife steals the show ! She's marvelous ! ! Recommended .
Good use of limited-animation , but the dialogue becomes tedious after a while .	This cartoon deservedly won an Oscar for Animated Short in 1959 . It came about in an intriguing way-John and Faith Hubley taped their two sons at play and structured the animation around the conversation between the two . Fascinating though this is ( and the animation is excellent ) , toward the lattr part of the short , the dialogue starte to become tedious and distracting , at least to me . This technique would be used again to quite good effect in later shorts . Still an excellent short and most recommended .
Visually excellent and reminiscent of Skeleton Dance .	This is a very good cartoon in many respects , but it's virtually impossible to avoid comparing it to Skeleton Dance , which is a shame , because this cartoon is lessened in the comparison ( almost anything would be-Skeleton Dance was the first Silly Symphonies and is one of the great animated works of all time ) . Part of the problem is the " star " of the short-all too often , Flip the Frog has all the charm and personality of wet mulch . Here , he's principally a prop , a target for sight gags . The short would have been better served with no Flip , no dialog and more sight gags , but then the similarities to Skeleton Dance would be even more pronounced . Besides , Iwerks was trying to develop a recurring character , like Disney had with Mickey . Without Flip , the cartoon wouldn't exist . Still , making Flip more interesting ( as they were able to do in other shorts ) would have differentiated it from Skeleton Dance more and thus made it an even better short . Visually a treat in any case , even with Flip's blandness as the trick here . Well worth watching , glad it's in print and most recommended . Happy Hallowe'en !
Typical early Woody Woodpecker short	This short , nominated for an Academy Award , is pretty much standard for an early Woody-put Woody in a normal locale ( as here , a circus / carnival ) , introduce a nemesis and watch the manic antics of your star drive them to distraction . Good , but the personality of Woody is still a bit too one-note at this point . Worth tracking down . Recommended .
This cartoon has the distinction of being the first from the NFBC nominated for an Oscar	This short is the first to be nominated for Cartoon Short for the Oscar that was produced by the National Film Board of Canada . Fairly funny and well-done ( I doubt I'll ever see one produced by the NFBC that's actively bad ) , it has a certain charm , but is really not terribly significant otherwise . Worth Watching .
Good , but not great , short about Father Damian	This short , nominated for an Academy Award , is a look at the true story of a Belgian priest who went to tend to lepers in Hawaii and contracted the disease himself . At least one film has been made about Father Damien and it's a fascinating story . Thi short is good , if a bit melodramatic at times and the narration is sometimes a bit droning . Turner Classic Movies runs this between movies regularly and almost invariably runs it in March as part of their " 31 Days of Oscar " feature . Worth watching .
Some great visuals and a few really funny sight gags make this worth watching .	This is a really funny early Popeye , with some really excellent visual effects . Swee ' Pea is making life most unhappy for all concerned-himself , Popeye and all the poor souls Popeye silences in order for the little noisemaker to stay asleep ( a consummation devoutly to be wished ) and thus to be silent . Costello is okay as Popeye here , though he never really did very well in my view . I'm not sure he understood the character terribly well . All in all , a fairly good cartoon largely consisting of sight gags of a fairly violent nature . Good early effort and worth seeing . Recommended .
Interesting film that points up the need to sometimes face temporary personal risk in return for the greater good	This film , an early William Wellman , has an important message , particularly today . It posits the notion that sometimes there are things more important than your own personal safty or well-being . The film , which has Walter Huston as the lead , is stolen by the performance of " Chic " Sales as Grampa . He's the most completely drawn character in the film and a joy to watch . You'll recognize some familiar faces if you watch many movies from the ' 20's and ' 30's . Wel worh your time to watch if you get the opportunity . Recommended .
Popeye fights a Nazi submarine ; guess who wins .	This short , one of a handful done by Paramount Famous Studios in black and white , is fairly effective propaganda and uses the black and white to best advantage with shadows and shadings . While the overall value of even a rowboat full of spinach versus , say , munitions , to Britain at that time and place is an open question , Popeye's patriotic fervor is not . An excellent use of Popeye for the war effort . Well worth tracking down . Recommended .
An early example of a good Paramount Popeye " cheater "	This is one of the early color Popeye shorts done by Paramount and is a " cheater " - a cartoon made that uses footage taken from an earlier short in order to save time and / or money . Give the shortages in mateial and manpower ( WWII was still going on ) , it was probably done to save both . Although the clips are taken from two of the three color two-reelers done by Fleischer Studios , they are short and the surrounding new material is good enough that it can hold its own with the clips . Later cheaters done by Paramount don't fare as well . Very good cartoon . The ending is a bit trite , but it's still worth watching . Recommended .
Mickey and Minnie go steppin ' out	This short is by no means a classic , but it is entertaining and has a cute and ( for me ) an offbeat ending . Sight gags for the most part , this is amusing , if light , occasionally popping up on The Ink and Paint Club . Well worth watching . Recommended .
One of my personal favorite Tom and Jerry cartoons	Granted , this is not an exceptional Tom and Jerry . I just happen to like it a great deal . It's a cute , exceptionally violent ( and therefore standard ) Tom and Jerry . The little mouse who shows Tom and Jerry around Naples is an interesting ( and formidable ) character and it is a bit different from the average Tom and Jerry . Besides , how many times to you get to see Tom scolded by a mouse in Italian ? ! Recommended
Excellent musical cartoons	This is actually two cartoons inside a framing device and the two cartoons are basically animated songs . In fact , in my opinion , the song for Jamaica Daddy is more memorable than most of the Best Song nominees for the 1957 Oscars ! The cartoon is on one of the Columbia Classics Series although not listed on the box . The one in question also has Robin Hoodlum and The Tell-Tale Heart among others . The whole tape is excellent and Trees and Jamaica Daddy are delightful .
A cute and enjoyable movie-almost to cute	This is a very cute and enjoyable movie , quite possibly the only one in a very small sub-genre in the genre of gangster films-a musical gangster movie cast entirely with children . The cast is notable principally by the presence of Jodie Foster ( as a side note , this was released the same year as was Taxi Driver ! ) and Scott Baio , the musical score was done by Paul Wiliams ( who was nominated for an Oscar for his efforts here ) and the costumes are quite nice . One thing about the music : I've seen this several times and I still can't be sure if the cast is singing or if the singing is dubbed . I think it's dubbed , as the numbers are almost stiltedin nature . Still fun-just put your brain on neutral and enjoy . Well worth watching .
Good cartoon built around classical music	This short features Rubinoff , who was on the Eddie Cantor radio program , basically the equivalent of a cross between what Ed McMahon and Doc Severinson were for Johnny Carson . The animation is good , even if the storyline was a bit long in the tooth even in 1933 . Enjoyable for the sight gags . Well worth watching . In print and available . Recommended .
Very good cartoon , even with William Costello as Popeye	The early Fleischer cartoons were visually superb for the most part . They were still more or less breaking in the Popeye series at this point and still just getting by with William Costello as the voice of Popeye . This one is a very good cartoon that would have been made better if the voice actor had given Popeye a bit more energy or life . The sight gags are great in this , but without visual action , Popeye voiced by Costello would have trouble convincing people to buy $5 . 00 bills for a dime , much less convincing young children to eat spinach . The kids make the short in any case . Good ending makes this worth watching . Recommended .
One of Tex Avery's most sight-gag oriented cartoons	This cartoon is almost entirely sight-gags and is about a cat willing to go to great lengths to have a bird join him-as dinner ! Only there's one minor inconvenience-a rather large , if somewhat dim , dog watching out for the bird's welfare . Delightfully funny and the ending is just perfect . Personally , I think the cat would have been better off ordering a pizza ! Most recommended .
Excellent example of a Tex Avery Droopy	This short is an excellent example of Tex Avery's handling of Droopy : Droopy is very quiet , passive and sedate ( almost sedated , actually ) as Spike tries to win a job competition through ways nefarious that never work out as intended . Droopy is just there to provide something to set up the sight gags . You still can't help but like him ( I can't , anyway ) because he's Everyman ( or should that be Everydog ? ) and he generally comes out on top . Good to see it's in print . Well worth seeing . Recommended .
The further adventures of Gerald McBoing Boing	Gerald McBoing Boing is probably the second most recognizable continuing character created by UPA , after Quincy Magoo . There were only four theatrical shorts made , but there was also a television series done , which is the likely reason there were only four theatrical shorts . While all are good , they're uneven , with this one being somewhat predictable in a sense , to anyone who saw the first cartoon , at any rate . Fascinating and fun to watch anyway , which is the point of making the shorts to begin with . Well worth watching . Recommended .
Enjoyable follow-up to Christopher Crumpet	Christopher Crumpet has the most remarkable imagination ! This is a very amusing and quite gentle little cartoon and is well-animated in the limited-animation style of the UPA studio . Not their best short , assuredly , but quite good in any case . Worth watching . Recommended .
Visually a very nice cartoon which has little in the way of a plot	Given that this is a short which was directed by Ub Iwerks and it's an early sound cartoon , it's hardly surprising that this is , first and foremost , a very visually oriented short . It has some excellent animation and some beautifully rendered creatures . Because I want to discuss the short a bit , this is a spoiler warning : The basic conceit here is simple : a rather comical rendering of Hell , at least for the most part . The beginning is very striking , with sequences showing a dragon and the three-headed dog out of Greek mythology , Cerberus , which shows up on two occasions . They are vividly shown and one of the highlights of the short . Then Satan and his imps start to throw a rather raucous celebration , which is a good showcase for the musical efforts of Carl Stallings , best known for his work for Warner Brothers on the Loony Tunes and Merrie Melodies cartoons . This is an enjoyable sequence , culminating in imps bringing Satan flaming hot " milk " from a dragon , which he drinks with gusto . As a " reward " for their efforts , Satan proceeds to feed one to one of the heads of Cerberus , with one head getting the imp , the second swallowing and the third licking its chops . Before he can feed a second imp to his hungry guard dog , the imp , perhaps not wishing to go the way of his comrade , suddenly recalls an urgent appointment elsewhere and takes off , with Satan in " hot " pursuit . The imp gets the last laugh by sending Satan tumbling off the end of a cliff . This short is available on the More Silly Symphonies set fro the Disney Treasures series of DVD releases which saw release in December 2006 and it and the DVD set are highly recommended .
Enjoyable cartoon , with Bruno the Bear the comic attraction	Bugs Bunny always works best when he has a suitably obnoxious opponent and he has one here in Bruno the Magnificent , a vain and egotistical bear who most definitely wants the spotlight all to himself . Enter our hero , stage left , and a series of standard sight gags and some good lines . I loved this cartoon growing up and I'm glad it's in print . Cute short that's worth looking for . Recommended .
Very bloody , equally funny , take on vampires and crime .	This is not something I would typically enjoy , but it was recommended to me by someone I trust , so I watched it and was happily surprised . Citizen Kane it isn't , but we already have one of those and not everything has to be Great Cinema anyway . This is a very bloody ( not my cup of tea , so to speak ) , very funny take on vampires and criminals . Good script , good performances , particularly from Parrilaud , Loggia and Don Rickles ( ! ) , playing a lawyers that even other lawyers would give a wide berth to in distaste . What happens to him is hilarious and proof that there can be justice , at least in films ! Watch for the scene with the ambulance attendant and for the blonde nurse in the hospital . Check out the credits for some familiar names . Don't expect Art here , just sit back and have some fun . Recommended .
Not for the easily offended or the permanently indignant .	There is a great deal about this short to potentially offend almost anyone . Racial stereotypes , drug humor , it isn't a kid's cartoon . It also features some fairly nightmarish images that border on the surreal . Good enough to transcend its star's lack of charisma . Iwerks cartoons are generally visually appealing and they usually managed to be spooky when that was intended . Very good short in a wildly uneven series . Worth watching , unless you have a thin skin . Recommended .
" She wants a guy who looks like me and talks like you . "	The line I quoted as the subject line fair rips my heart out every time I hear it in this film , because it is , sadly , all too true in real life . Leaving aside the somewhat improbable romantic outcome ( rarely outside of film does life work things out as it concludes here ) , there is much to recommend this film-the " duels " between Martin and several rather moronic clods , particularly the verbal one in the bar . As a side remark ( semi-spoiler-but only a small one ) : Martin's character has to come up with 20 more creative insulting remarks , but he actually does 25 instead . Not that I'm complaining , mind you , as it's one of the funniest scenes in this film , possibly of Martin's film career . Says a great deal about tolerance , vanity , our own inability to see what's right in front of us while searching for happiness and the value of dreams ( even small ones ) . Not a masterpiece , but a nice little movie in its own weight-class . I like it , for all its implausibility at the end . Recommended .
Good , though a trifle familiar , short from Disney	This short is an entertaining , very cute bit of animation . It uses a lot of bits used in other shorts , so it's all quite familiar even though I don't recall ever seeing this before . The animation is up to Disney's standards for the time and this is well worth the time to get and watch . Good to see it's in print . Recommended .
Entertaining early Warner Brothers short	This is an early Warner Brothers black and white , more charming than funny . It more or less did what the studio wanted-it showcased a song from their music library . Not much was expected from the early shorts . Because I want to talk a little about the short , this is a spoiler warning : A little orphan trudges " home " to a beaten up shack , hoping to find something from " Santy Claus " , only to be disappointed at finding nothing . But all is not lost , for who should come up to the door and burst into the title song ? That's right - " Santy Clause " , who , after doing most of the song , invites the orphan back to the North Pole for Christmas . There , we see the standard " toys come to life " , with at least one caricature , of Kate Smith . There are one or two scenes featuring ethnic humor . The close of the short has the orphan saving the day by putting out a Christmas tree fire . During the Depression , there were quite a few such orphans and such an ending would have been enjoyed by audiences of the day . This short is well worth seeing at least once . Recommended .
See Woody . See a motorcycle cop . See Woody slowly drive the motorcycle cop nuts .	This is an exceptionally manic and entertaining early Woody Woodpecker short , where the voices were done by Mel Blanc . Because I want to discuss some details , this is a spoiler warning : This short has a fairly basic plot-Woody is driving along and comes up on a motorcycle cop hiding and watching for " SPEEEEEDERS ! " . The voice will be familiar to anyone who has watched a few shorts from Warner Brothers , as Mel Blanc used the same voice for a giant in a Bugs Bunny short and one very similar for other rather dense characters . Woody being Woody , he has to mess with the poor cop . There's a speeding gag early on where Woody and his car become a colorful blur with no distinctive outline . The cop and Woody go back and forth about his speeding , with each one making a different and distinctive noise to represent speeding . Most of the rest of the cartoon is spent with the cop trying to catch Woody and the antics of our feathered lunatic in avoiding capture . Ultimately , the poor cop has a nervous breakdown and is hospitalized , where Woody renews his acquaintance with the unfortunate man and reminds him who he is by making his speeding noise once again . This short is available on one of the DVDs released by Columbia House , under an alternate title , Woody's Jalopy . It's well worth seeing . Recommended .
One of Tex Avery's George and Junior shorts and possibly the best of them .	Tex Avery only created a few continuing characters . This short features a team he developed , George and Junior , patterned after the lead characters in Of Mice and Men , which was a fairly frequent source for inspiration for not only Avery , but other cartoon directors as well . George and Junior aren't too funny in and of themselves , but rather they serve as foils and / or victims for situations and sight gags that are thrown at them . Characters weren't terribly important individually to Avery , what happened around and to them was . Thus , the closest he came to doing a popular character and using them over and over himself , was Droopy . Somewhat ironic , given his role at Warner Brothers in the early years in developing many of the mainstays of the animation department . This is a very good short and fortunately , it's in print . Well worth watching . Recommended .
Excellent action-western with a great ensemble cast	This film has a terrific script , a great cast that works well together ( particularly the four lead , Lancaster , Marvin , Ryan and the wonderful and much-underrated Woody Strode ) , excellent production values and fine direction . I don't personally care for too many action movies and can take or leave westerns , but this is a most engaging film . Most recommended .
One of the few enjoyable Chip n ' Dale shorts	Chip n ' Dale are rather static and boring , to me and the Warner Brothers Goofy Gophers are much more entertaining , but they did do a few good shorts , of which this is one . I suspect this is because the rivalry here is realistic and the situation much more interesting . This one's well worth looking for . Recommended .
" I have more fun than people ! "	I couldn't resist including one of my favorite lines from an animated short as the subject line of this comment . Since I want to discuss one or two of the scenes in this in a little detail , be warned : Here may be spoilers . Bugs is minding his own business when Elmer arrives with less than gentle or friendly attentions , Bugs flees , with Elmer and his shotgun not far behind . One semi-running gag features Bugs and / or Elmer going around and over people seated in a movie theater row , all the while saying , " Pardon me-excuse me . " The funniest bit is when Bugs is dressed up as a little old lady and when Elmer realizes the little old lady is Bugs , he grabs him and Bugs yells for the usher and says , " This man is annoying me ! " . The usher then calls Elmer a " masher " and throws him bodily out of the theater ! My favorite scene is the one where Bugs utters the line I used as my subject line : Elmer is standing out in front of the doors of the screening room when Bugs turns on the " Intermission " light and the audience streams madly out , trampling Elmer under foot in the process . As the audience smokes in the lobby , Elmer picks himself up and brushes himself off-whereupon Bugs then changes the indicator to " Curtain " and the audience rushes madly back to their seats , running Elmer over again . The pattern repeats , each succeeding series coming more rapidly than the last and somewhere in the middle is when Bugs utters his line , as he is busy throwing the switch that leads the audience to stampede back and forth , with Elmer always underfoot by this point . It's a priceless bit , exquisitely timed . This short in available on Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Vol 3 and is well worth seeing . The Looney Tunes Golden Collections are themselves well worth purchasing . Recommended .
Intensely moving short with an ending which I'll never forget	This short is a deliberately paced character study , following an older , clearly independent and very stubborn man as he shuts down his farm . His daughter has prevailed upon her parents to move into a retirement home , likely more because she thinks they should rather than because it's the best move for them . No doubt she means well , but good intentions are paving material . Because I can't talk about this without giving some details , even obliquely , consider this a spoiler warning : The short opens with the old man , who says only what he has to ( to call him " taciturn " is putting it mildly ) finishing his meal as the phone rings . It's his daughter , checking on the planned trip to a retirement community her parents are making that weekend . Their farm is on an island and they are finally going to move from their home , go off the island into a home . The man's feelings are clear by his facial expressions and his reactions . He finishes talking to his daughter and goes about his day . Quickly , it becomes clear with each task that something is going on . The man's activities are focused and he is intent on a purpose . I got the impression that this single-mindedness was second nature to the man . To fix on a goal and push through until it's completed would be standard behavior for this fellow and we watch him complete each task he has set for himself , mentally checking each off before moving to the next on on his list . With each scene , as the short progresses , a comprehension of certain realities begins to dawn on the viewer , as pieces drop into place and you are slowly figuring out just precisely what the old man's plans are and the ending becomes clearer as the short slowly , methodically and inexorably reaches the climax . This is a beautifully rendered and very well-crafted cinematic dagger and the director pushes it frame by frame into the viewer's brain . It is included on a compilation DVD which holds eight of the ten shorts nominated for the Academy Award in the Animated Short and Live-Action Short categories in 2005 . The compilation is very good and it and this short are highly recommended .
A very funny and understandable cartoon	This is a very amusing and entertaining short , though I'm at a loss to understand some of the comments here regarding the behavior of the mouse toward Sylvester . They seem to be missing the point to the cartoon . There may be spoilers ahead , so consider this a spoiler warning : The cartoon begins with Sylvester realizing , belatedly , that he's been left inside when his pet humans have gone on a trip . The point of the cartoon is set up extremely well-the whole purpose here is to have Sylvester panic at the thought of being left alone , trapped inside and left to his own devices . The gags are extremely well executed and this is a hilarious cartoon . Sylvester ( like most of the Looney Tunes characters ) works best with a foil-the short wouldn't be half as funny if Sylvester was by himself , slowly losing his marbles . Enter the mouse , along with an obvious motivation for Sylvester to contend with the mouse within the context of the short . This isn't just the standard " cat chases mouse " plot . The mouse possesses something Sylvester desperately needs-a can opener . The point of the cartoon-Sylvester placed in a situation where he completely falls apart-is completely blown if Sylvester resolves his principle dilemma easily . It's also weakened without some tangible source of aggravation . Thus the mouse's refusal to give Sylvester the can opener . If Sylvester gets the can opener and resolves his difficulty , the tension is gone and the short has nowhere to go . If the mouse is kind-hearted , there goes the plot of the short . It would make very little sense to have the mouse play nice and give Sylvester the can opener anyway . Cats and mice are , at best , adversarial in nature and , at worst , natural enemies , which makes sense , much as Tweety and Sylvester have an adversarial relationship . Tweety does things to Sylvester as bad or worse than what happens to Sylvester here and Tweety is the hero in their shorts . While it may perhaps have been wiser to establish that there was no love lost between the two early on in the cartoon , that's beside the point . The focus here is completely on Sylvester . Though I can't prove it , it's my opinion that it was intended to make Sylvester a sympathetic character here-that's why Tweety isn't here . The mouse is in no way , shape or form a sympathetic character and makes Sylvester a sympathetic character , which is not something which happens as a general rule . The short is more enjoyable because of that comparatively rare change in sympathies . Excellent cartoon which can be found on the first Looney Tunes Golden Collection and is well worth watching . Recommended .
This " Grocery store comes to life " short uses relatively few caricatures or references to people or characters	While caricatures and / or references to entertainment industry people or things or even brands of products is usually a staple in shorts like this one , they aren't used in quantity here . Most of the individual gags are rather generic . As I'm going to give examples , there will be spoilers below : There are only three ( well , technically four-there's a quick one at the very end of the cartoon ) caricatures that I spotted , which is kind of low for this type of short , though one is a featured character with a fair amount of activity . They are Jack Benny ( as Jack Bunny ) , Leopold Stowkowski and the inimitable Ned Sparks ( as a crab on a can-chances are very good that , if a crab was involved in a Warner Brothers short in the 1930s-1940s , the caricature used would be Ned Sparks ) . There are also references to Billy Rose's Aquacade and a riff on a radio show character called " Henry Aldrich " ( Coming , mother ! ) , a play on Superman ( Superguy here ) and the villain is a take-off on " King Kong " . That's it for that kind of gag . The products themselves are mostly generic and the gags are more plays on basic items in unusual situations , such as turtles coming off of cans of soup to attack the villain as tanks , tomato soup cans doing " The can-can ' , gingerbread men who turn into paratroopers , using tissues for parachutes and so on . The gags are very good and it's an excellent example of a Bob Clampett cartoon . Clampett had hit his stride as a director by this point and while it isn't anywhere near his best work , it's nothing to sneeze at either . This short can be found on Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Vol . 3 , which is an excellent set that I highly recommend . This short itself is also recommended .
Try to see the longer , unedited version , though both are good .	This is an excellent film based on a scandal that brought down a British Prime Minister . John Hurt is great and most of the other performances are good as well . I've seen the full version as well as the slightly shorter release . Both are worth seeing , but the longer one is the better of the two , so if you have a choice , opt for the longer version . Either way , it's a good film . Recommended .
Though not as good as the first one , still enjoyable and with one of Daffy's best lines ever ! Semi-spoiler	In honor of the 34th anniversary of , " One small step for man , one giant leap for mankind " , I bring forth a comment on Duck Dodgers . Daffy matches wits ( ? ) with both Marvin the Martian and Gossamer and is found largely wanting . Porky virtually steals the show , but the best line is actually Daffy's . While fleeing as only Daffy can flee from certain dismemberment ( as well as duck feathers flying everywhere ) at the paws of Gossamer ( the large , hairy and very orange monster ) , Daffy comes upon Porky and first tries to bribe him with a meagre promotion and then , in the true fashion of cowards everywhere , declaims , " Back , underling ! How can I be a craven , crawling , cowardly poltroon with you in the way ? As a past President ( three times running-they caught me each time ) of the Cowards Guild , that line fair brings tears to my eyes every time I hear it issue forth from his yellow beak ( either that , or I have a rock in my shoe-I can never tell which ) but I digress . Not the best ever done , but I like it well enough . Well worth watching . Recommended .
The performance of the title song-by frogs , yet-is great !	This is another of the shorts the animators at Warner Brothers made taking a song to use as a title and to build the animation around . The rendition of the title song as sung by frogs is priceless . Given the fact that they had access to the Warner Brothers song catalog and the studio saw the use of the material as a good investment , music was a key element in the animation department's work and also led to some wonderful shorts . Well worth seeking out . Recommended .
The background details are the best part of a very good " one shot " short	This is a black and white short from Warner Brothers . It's a " one shot " cartoon , meaning it wasn't part of a series . I don't know if there was ever any intention to use the firefly again , though I doubt there was-it seems like this was just done to give Chuck Jones and his crew an opportunity to experiment with perspective and they did so effectively . This is a gorgeous cartoon and a very exceptional use of black and white . I intend to discuss some details , so consider this a spoiler warning : There really isn't a " story " , as such . It's basically a firefly looking around in a human-sized enclosure-a tent , complete with sleeping human . My favorite parts were a bit with a twitching eyelid and the attempts of the fly to walk across a saltine cracker , which is particularly nice . The level of detail in this short is remarkable-it's just a very visually fascinating short . The man's wristwatch , which is gigantic to the firefly , is a nice example of the extent to which they went in designing the look of this short . It's just a beautiful cartoon . The one line of dialog is right at the end and very funny . I very much hope that this is ultimately released on a Looney Tunes Golden Collection in the near future , perhaps with a commentary . It's a marvelous piece of work . Most recommended .
A very good cartoon in an uneven series	The Clouseau series of cartoons was somewhat uneven , but most were at least decent and some were very good . Generally , if the villain or situation was well done and there was a balance between good dialogue and the sight gags , the cartoon worked better . Without an interesting opponent , it's just Clouseau the bumbler and that isn't enough to carry a cartoon . In Crab Louie and his nervous oyster henchman who breaks out in pearls , you have a good foil for Clouseau and the cartoon is very funny and worth watching . Recommended .
Porky in the Foreign Legion-scrubbing camels .	This short has Porky as a military man , with the job of scrubbing camels and not much else . Because I want to discuss this in a little detail , this is a spoiler warning : Porky Pig is a soldier in the Foreign Legion , though he isn't a terribly good one . He's given the assignment of scrubbing the Commandant's camel and the camel outwits him badly ! When the command is ordered out to track down and capture the dreaded Ali Mode , Porky is contemptuously left behind as a " camel scrubber " . Naturally , once the command rides out , where do Ali Mode and his men decide to attack ? If you said " The fort where Porky is " , you get a gold star for your paper . Ali Mode first tries to trick Porky and when that fails , starts issuing orders in Pig-Latin to his followers . What follows is a very well animated series of combat gags , including a few repeat gags ( one poor guy really needs to move away from his spot next to the well ) and culminating in the capture of Ali Mode by Porky and the camel , who work in tandem for once . The dialog coming from Ali Mode is hilarious ! The cartoon ends with Porky and the camel getting their well-earned reward . This short is available on the Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Volume 4 and is well worth having . Recommended .
Daffy does Hollywood	This short by Tex Avery lampoons Hollywood and the filmmaking process and does so quite well . Daffy wants to be an actor in the worst way , but can't manage that , so , by cutting and splicing clips from film archives , he " directs " his own movie . As a personal aside here , one of the saddest things here is that his " movie " is better than some of the product being turned out in recent time that has separated entirely too much of my money from my pockets with little benefit for me ! Hilarious gags abound here . Well worth watching . Recommended .
One of the most unusual , atypical Disney cartoons I've ever seen	This cartoon was nominated for an Oscar in 1959 . The animation style is stop-motion , almost a Puppetoon type of animation . This is the only cartoon from Disney that I recall ever seeing . It certainly is not your typical Disney cartoon . The music is all over the board-there's even some pretty good blues in here . Worth chasing down to see at least once . Runs infrequently on the Disney Channel during " Vault Disney " in the wee hours of the morning .
The funniest part of this short plays off of an old radio " feud " between two caricatures	This is a very funny short which gets virtually all its laughs by playing off the personality of W . C . Fields ( here represented in caricature as a pig names W . C . Squeals ) . The few gags which don't center around this central joke are relatively minor and mostly pale in comparison , though the new lyrics set to " The Blue Danube " are interesting . Because I want to discuss details , this is a spoiler warning : W . C . Fields was frequently used as a source for caricature because he was such a colorful character , both as part of his act ( that being a cantankerous and cynical horse thief and a fair man with the bottle ) and , to a significant degree , in reality ( he really was a heavy drinker ) . Even the title of the short is a double-edged play on words , as the cartoon features a figure-skating contest and cracked ice is frequently used in mixing drinks . Here , caricatured as a pig , named W . C . Squeals , he's seen a short time into the short , after some perfunctory gags which principally serve to set the atmosphere ( it's cold , animals are skating , etc . ) Squeals sees a crane fall through the ice and frantically calls for help . A St . Bernard shows up , rescues the bird and pours spirits into him , at which point Squeals develops a notable thirst and a need for " medicinal " help that only the keg can provide . Alas , the St . Bernard ignores his comically " heart-rending " appeals for the kindness of a stranger and Squeals decides that a feigned drowning and rescue is in order . The St . Bernard comes out , mixes a drink and then downs the toddy himself and leaves ( a bit unsteadily ) . So Squeals resorts to a complicated scheme , involving a magnet and a metal dish filled with dog bones . All through this sequence , Squeals is heckled from the audience by a disembodied voice patterned after Charlie McCarthy , Edgar Bergen's primary ventriloquist's dummy . Fields and Bergen were both prominent on radio for a good number of years and Fields and McCarthy carried on a " feud " for some time , where they would trade insults . The two caricatures here follow suit in trading the same types of insult . Audiences of the time were well familiar with the whole thing and it gave the animators a solid frame of reference which made the gags even funnier . Squeals tries to get the St . Bernard to chase the dish , but things don't go as planned and the magnet and a fair amount of alcohol wind up in the water , where the magnet winds up stuck on a fish who then gets drunk . The magnet attracts Squeals's ice skates and the fish lurches drunkenly under the ice , dragging Squeals into the middle of a figure-skating competition , which he wins . Squeals wastes no time in filling the cup he receives as his prize with the remaining alcohol from the dog's keg , all the while gloating to the McCarthy caricature in the audience-until the cup , with its precious cargo , comes into the grip of the magnet and starts careening across the ice , to the sounds of laughter from a very satisfied McCarthy . This short is available on the Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Volume 4 and is well worth seeing . Recommended .
On adaptations , the creative process and individual tastes .	While there will be a discussion of the film , this will mostly cover other points that bear on the creative process in general and Roald Dahl in particular and related observations . Abandon all hope ye who enter this comment . WWAtCF is a reasonably good film , with weak spots , to be sure , but Gene Wilder does a great job and delivers some rather acid lines . The script is decent , even good in spots . Not a great movie , but not future guitar picks either . Has more than a few moments . Enjoyable , but has somewhat sharp teeth in spots . End of film review . Now as to film adaptations of work done in other mediums . Gather ' round , children , as the next few points are moderately significant : One : a film and a book are different critters . They have different requirements , strengths and weaknesses and some of these are almost diametrically in opposition . Thus , an adaptation ( in either direction ) HAS to be different . Both can be good , bad or mediocre . But anyone expecting them to be the SAME is mistaken , as they can't be . Two : any work that is released into the wider world and is intended for an audience has two sensibilities involved-the creator ( s ) and the audience . Every person reading , hearing and / or viewing anything brings themselves to the table . You bring your own viewpoint into the equation . Who you are has a great deal to do with how you see things . Bear this in mind when reading anyone's opinions ( including mine ) . Most commentary says as much ( often more ) about the commentator as it does the purported subject . In other words , you see what you largely expect to see . Now , as to Roald Dahl : from all reports , Dahl was less than enthralled with the adaptation . I suspect that it's because Dahl's work had teeth to it , generally speaking , and the incisors here have been blunted and softened a bit . I read an interview a good many years ago and came away with the impression that Mr . Dahl thought much more highly of children than he did most adults , whom he viewed as incompetent at best and malign at worst , particularly most parents or surrogate parents . The core of this runs through his work . The hardest job anyone can have is that of parent , the entrance exam to become one is all too easy , the effects ( good and bad ) are far-reaching and too many people botch it up in spades . Watch Willie Wonka again or read Dahl's book . One other thing : when viewing , hearing or reading something , think about your reactions . Everyone has hot buttons . It might help if you can recognize what yours are . After all , it's only a movie , isn't it , now ?
Variations on a theme by Mouris and Mouris .	This short , arguably a sequel to Frank Film , certainly a companion effort to that remarkable film , is a much more playful and humorous turn than the first one was . Almost as visually arresting as Frank Film , this uses the same collage effects to have Caroline Mouris make a film about herself , but it quickly evolves into good-natured banter between Caroline and Frank , making this very funny to hear and intriguing to watch . Entertaining from start to finish . Credits at the end are done , like Frank Film , in voiceover . Well worth watching , I saw this on the Sundance Channel the other night . Recommended , but not your typical animated film .
Surreal , quite unusual and not at all typical of what Warner Brothers was doing at the time .	This is an animated short produced by an independent studio , not by Warner Brothers itself . Somehow , Warner Brothers acquired distribution rights to this odd little bit of film , which someone , told that it was , " a cartoon " ( and likely without even watching it first ) , just had it inserted in the studio's regular short animation package . What reaction theaters and audiences had when they expected a Warner Brothers cartoon and saw this instead , I can only imagine . This is 180 degrees opposite what the studio was turning out at the time . It would , however , have fit perfectly as a lead-in for Stanley Kubrick's 2001 : A Space Odyssey . At times , it becomes obvious and it's a bit of experimentation that doesn't work very well in spots , as it bogs down ( no small feat for a sex to seven minute short ) , but it can be visually arresting . IT is most definitely an acquired taste ! My tastes in animation cut across a pretty broad range and even I thought it a bit odd . Not for every taste , but worth a look . If your idea of animation begins and ends with Bugs and / or Mickey and the like , you may not like this . But if you like the Hubleys , Bill Plympton and some of the folks further out in left field , this may suit you quite well . Recommended with those caveats .
Unusual but effective piece of animation	This short is almost impossible to describe . It's a rather unusual and definitely an atypical form of animation . It throws you off at first , but it is oddly effective and is rather fascinating to watch when you get used to it after a bit . Well worth watching . Recommended .
One of the more successful Captain and the Kids shorts	One of the few Captain cartoons done in color , this was a parody of the travelogue shorts popular at the time . The narration is a large part of the success of this short . Funny , pointed and often sarcastic and / or irreverent , the narration is the funniest aspect of this particular cartoon , part of a series MGM did based on the comic strip featuring Der Captain and the Kids . The Captain is his typical bumbling , ill-mannered self , of course . Well worth watching . Recommended .
This is a good short in an excellent series	The Roadrunner shorts are an example of a " formula " series-a very well done " formula " . My comments about this short in particular will be a relatively small portion of this comment , because I want to talk a bit about the series itself . This short is actually fairly representative of the series and why it works so well and why the shorts are generally very good , even though they follow a formula . The viewer knows going in that certain things will ( or won't ) happen : The two primary characters , as a rule , do not speak . They will occasionally hold up signs , but they don't talk in these shorts-unless you stretch a point and call the Roadrunner's " Beep Beep " dialog . Each short shows ersatz Latin " names " for both characters . The ones for Wile E . Coyote usually revolve around hunger and the Roadrunner's usually revolve around speed and his edibility . No matter what happens to Wile E . in a scene , after fade out , in the next scene , he's fine and plotting again . His equipment generally comes from Acme . Here it's dehydrated boulders , among other things . His attempts to capture the Roadrunner ( at least in the theatrical releases ) always fail . They invariably end badly for the Coyote . Some attempts are very brief , lasting seconds , like a dehydrated boulder which expands almost instantly , crushing Wile E . Sometimes , Wile E . doesn't think his plots through to their logical conclusion , which invariably hurts him . In addition to these basics , there are things which occur in most of the shorts which are a large part of the success of the series , in spite of its predictability . The reactions by Wile E . make him an incredibly sympathetic character . There's a melancholy air about him that is conveyed by his facial expressions as his well-laid plans explode ( often literally ) in his face . There are a number of set situations which are made successful because of Wile E . ' s reactions . First , there's the " astonishment piece . Wile E . almost always gets very close to the Roadrunner ( usually in the first minute or two in a short ) and seems close to his goal , only to have the Roadrunner kick in an extra gear and leave him eating dust and gaping in surprise and astonishment . He then begins plotting out how to catch his prey . Then there's the occasional " relief which transmutes into horror " which happens when Wile E . either thinks he's been successful or thinks he's escaped disaster , only to discover that he's in deep trouble . There's a " puzzlement turning to horror " plot device which follows the same arc . There's the long and intricate trap that either fails to work or unfolds slowly which starts in the middle of a short which comes back later with spectacularly devastating consequences for its initiator . In this short , for example , a steamroller used to trick the Roadrunner into a trap has negative consequences for Wile E . later on . Most importantly , there is often a moment where a situation develops where Wile E . has advance knowledge that he is soon going to suffer something calamitous and very painful , with enough time for it to register that this really was a day he should not even have bothered waking up that morning . It is these situations where the animators knock one out of the park , as the expressions and body language shown in these moments almost always convey a mixture of resignation , sorrow and the dawning realization that he's failed-again-and must pay some cosmic penalty . It's a look of doom , sometimes accompanied by a sign which is both poignant and heartbreakingly funny . These moments make Wile E . a character the viewer can actually care about , because we all understand that sinking feeling in the pit of our stomachs we get when something goes WRONG and we're powerless to stop it , or even slow it down . A mix of persistent and dogged futility . This short is available on the Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Vol . 2 , along with a number of other Coyote and Roadrunner shorts . It and the Collection are well worth having . Recommended .
Foxy , we hardly knew ye .	Foxy's hour upon the stage was a brief one , perhaps three cartoons , for reasons both obvious and not so clear . The Foxy cartoons are entertaining enough , but not overly so . I suspect Foxy was a wee bit too much like a certain rodent for the studio's taste and comfort for him to continue on for very long . Rumors persist that Foxy left Warner Brothers and struck it rich wildcatting in the Texas oil fields , but this has not been confirmed . It is hoped that his life was a happy one once retired from the screen . Worth watching . Recommended for fans of black and white cartoons .
Enjoyable short , with the exasperation meter on Donald hitting the red zone for Daisy !	This is an entertaining little short , nothing special but enjoyable . Donald , under the best of circumstances , is rarely charming and often a handful . Here , he's quite seriously irritating and irksome . It is truly a tribute to the patience of others that he is not under glass and coated with and orange glaze , surrounded by peas and carrots ! Many a Chinese restaurant should put " Peking " in front of him with the full treatment . Worth trying to find , Disney runs this on Quack Attack on Toon Disney and Ink and Paint Club on The Disney Channel . Recommended .
Quincy Magoo is at it again in this one	The title of this short is a play on the title of the feature film Destination Moon ( which itself has an animated sequence made by Walter Lantz and starring Woody Woodpecker ) and once again Magoo and his myopia take an adventure , hand in hand , off to the " Moon " . The life that man leads ! Excellent animation and great sight gags make this one worth finding . Most recommended .
Sad and quite disturbing look at what happened to a photo-journalist after he won a Pulitzer for a controversial photo	This short , nominated for an Academy Award in the category of Documentary Short , is a look back at the life and death of South African photo-journalist Kevin Carter , done some ten years after his suicide shortly after he won a Pulitzer Prize for a photo he took of a skeletal girl who was struggling to reach a feeding station , all the while being shadowed by a vulture . The photo is very stark and disconcerting . Controversy erupted when a great many people attacked him for not putting down his camera and personally getting her to the feeding station himself . After seeing this documentary , I can only say this : I wasn't in Kevin Carter's position . I do not know with any great certainty what I would have done in his position and I cannot condemn him for not forgetting his job , dropping his camera and helping the girl , because I don't know the circumstances . At the time , he was in an unstable area in the midst of a war . I do not know what was going on , I don't know how near the feeding station was ( if it was close enough for Carter to be expected to get her safely there , then do the same people who accuse Carter of failure to render aid also hold the staff at the feeding station equally guilty for not trying to have someone sweep the area to help starving people nearby reach the station ? After all , if it's safe enough for Carter to take the time to help the girl , is it not safe enough to patrol the area to help those in need as well ? ) and I cannot say for certain that he could have done anything to save the girl in any case . If nothing else , this documentary will haunt me because of something Kevin Carter's daughter said regarding her father's death . I will not repeat her remarks here , as they should be seen and heard directly . Very troubling piece and well worth seeing . Recommended .
Moody and unusual , somewhat morbid short	This is a somewhat atypical short ( if there is such a thing ) produce by the National Film Board of Canada . The title is a reference to the string game called Cat's Cradle and the short is a moody and evocative work . One of Driessen's better works , it should be better known than it is at this point . Well worth hunting up . Recommended .
A character study featuring fine performances by the leads	This film is essentially character-driven and features excellent performances throughout , particularly the four principals-Laura Dern , Diane Ladd , Robert Duvall and Lukas Haas . Ladd and Dern mother and daughter in real life ) give especially fine performances and deservedly received nominatins for the Academy Awards In the Actress and Supporting Actress categories . The film has a good script and is well done technically . But it is first and foremost an actor's movie and the acting carries the movie along . Well worth your time . Recommended .
If for no other reason , watch this for the music	I can readily understand why this one is not being broadcast . However , it should still be available regardless of the objectionable content . I still contend ( and likely will to my last breath ) that anyone over the age of 14 who allows their sensibilities to be damaged to any great degree by a cartoon has much more serious problems to contend with . Last time I looked , there were situations and realities in the world far more dangerous and harmful than drawings made on a series of cels more than 60 years ago . I don't like or agree with a lot of what I see here and elsewhere , but no cartoon ( or movie , song , book , et cetera ) can hurt me without my consent . That is something I choose , not a long dead producer . I save that concern for things that matter a bit more . The music in this short is excellent , as is often the case with shorts produced by Lantz . The material is a bit coarse in spots , but this is worth watching . Recommended .
Formative Tweety cartoon which has a great many funny bits , with a dog nearly stealing the show with one very funny bit .	This is a very early Tweety ( before he and Sylvester were paired together ) and Tweety's personality and physical appearance were still in the development stage . One of the cats chasing Tweety ( they are the " Gruesome Twosome " referenced in the title ) is a caricature of comedian Jimmy Durante . I want to discuss certain portions of the short , so there may be spoilers from this point : The early part of the short shows the two cats competing for the paw of a cute , though perhaps not terribly bright , female cat . At one point in this early section , when the two have temporarily taken each other out of the picture , a dog enters the frame and has a beautiful bit involving the female cat . It's the funniest gag in a fairly funny short . Eventually , the two cats are told that whichever one brings the object of their affections a bird can , in her words , " be my fella " . They'd have been better advised to have attempted to defuse a land-mine , because the early Tweety was a bit less sweet and " innocent " than he became . He has a flair for mayhem and gets extremely violent and vicious , as a bee and bulldog can attest ! The short closes with a very nice little turn quite fitting for the short . This short was released on the Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Vol . 3 and is well worth getting . I highly recommend the Golden Collections themselves , as they are of exceptional quality and well worth the cost ( at least the first three released so far have been-a fourth volume is scheduled for release in November 2006 ) . Recommended .
Flip has a unique style of milk delivery !	Very funny sight gags and beautiful presentation overcome the limitations of Flip's almost non-existent personality . There is a pesky little kid who at moments seems like the evil twin of Dennis the Menace and in the end a happy ending ( well , I guess it depends on point of view as to happy or not ) . It's a wonder Flip has any customers left , though , as his delivery methods remind one of Cy Young . Visually stunning in spots , it's a good thing this is available on DVD . Well worth watching and recommended .
Can you say , " The Ants and the Grasshopper " ? I knew you could !	This short is a rather manic re-telling of the fable , " The Ant and the Grasshopper " , with Woody Woodpecker as the grasshopper . It's actually very well done , if slightly predictable . I want to discuss details , so this is a spoiler warning : Woody Woodpecker more or less has two modes of operation in this one-sleeping and eating . Early on , he's scolded by a busy little squirrel for not industriously getting things stored up for winter . But work is a four-letter word to Woody . We see alternating scenes of various creatures gathering and storing food or otherwise working ( beavers building lodges , etc . ) while Woody mostly occupies himself by eating their food and snoozing . One day , a little bird tries to get Woody to join the rest of the birds in flying south for the winter , but Woody comes up with excuses not to and slams the door in the little bird's face . While he's snoozing , the first snows hit and everyone else ducks in and settles down for a long winter . You see scenes of warm , cozy and well-stocked living quarters . Woody wakes up and decides it's time to eat again , only to be buried by the snow . He realizes that it's winter and runs to the cupboard , only to find it emptier than a politician's promise . He literally sees Starvation staring him in the face . He gets outside and makes the rounds of his neighbors , begging for food , only to find absolutely no sympathy . Each stop brings false hope which is shattered by an action appropriate to his earlier abuse of their efforts at working towards storing up for the cold . The beavers fix him a cake made of ice and he turns blue after eating it and freezes into a block of ice . Winter passes and with the coming of spring , the animals venture out to find Woody , frozen solid . They thaw him out and he immediately starts the same things over again-stealing food and acting crazy and there the cartoon ends . This short is on one of the Columbia House DVD releases and is well worth watching . Recommended .
This Flip the Frog short mostly hits on all cylinders .	This is a most entertaining , almost surreal , cartoon . The visual detail and movement are exceptional and the sight gags are great . The one thing that generally puzzles me about Flip cartoons is why animators had little difficulty giving just about everything else more personality than they were able to give to Flip-the putative star of the shorts ! Oh well , such is life-or the lack thereof . It's good to see this is on DVD . The output of the Iwerks studio was usually visually excellent and of sufficient interest to be worth watching . Recommended .
One of Barbara Stanwyck's best performances in a very funny film and role	This film ( remade in 1948 as a musical with Danny Kaye and Virginia Mayo with the title , " A Song Is Born " ) is a hilarious vehicle for Barbara Stanwyck , who was nominated for Best Actress for her performance here . Anyone who has only seen Ms . Stanwyck in film noir such as " Double Indemnity " or in television's Big Valley should watch this or " Christmas In Connecticut " to see a fine comedic talent at work . She blows Gary Cooper off the screen ! Most Recommended .
Quite politically incorrect , with the irony being that the funniest bits have little to do with the stereotypes !	This is an exceptionally funny cartoon , in spots , but it will never see print , for many reasons , not the least of which is the fact that it uses what are commonly referred to as " racial stereotypes " . Never mind the fact that the title character is for all practical purposes , Bluto with a headdress and no beard . There is a hilarious line by Popeye that makes no sense if you have no knowledge of an old-time radio show popular in the 1930s nd a visual gag that calls to mind the more surreal days when literally anything could happen in a Fleischer cartoon ! Very good short ! Catch it if you can ! Recommended .
I just love Audrey Hepburn ! ! !	I cannot possibly be objective about Audrey Hepburn ! The movie also stars Peter O'Toole at his most charming and also has a delightful performance by Hugh Griffith as Audrey's father and a good performance by Eli Wallach . The script is quite witty and Hepburn and O'Toole work quite well together in this charming movie . Well worth watching .
Visually impressive , with excellent voice work by Billy Bletcher .	This is a visually impressive cartoon , which should be expected from an Iwerks cartoon . As plots go , this was actually a pretty intricate one for the Iwerks studio , with a great villain voiced by a Disney regular , Billy Bletcher , who did Pegleg Pete , among others . The funniest bit for me was the town's " alarm " system . The Pincushion Man is really the most interesting character in the short , but it does offer some entertaining moments and is genuinely tense and frightening in spots . Iwerks deserves more notice and credit for what he had a responsibility for at Disney . His stint running his own studio wasn't as successful as he would have hoped , but he did produce ( with an incredibly talented team , as a glance at the names of his employees will attest ) some very good shorts . Balloon Land is one of the best that the Iwerks Studio created . Well worth watching . Recommended .
Delightful short aimed at children that works very well for adults	This short was nominated for an Academy Award and deservedly so . The good doctor is a dentist . He also happens to be a mouse . The short revolves around how he manages to treat a fox's tooth without becoming the main course ! Good script and voice characterizations make this an enjoyable effort for not only children but adults as well . Worth the effort to track down . Recommended .
Good ( but not great ) Droopy cartoon that treads very familiar ground	This cartoon , while it has its moments and is very good , is really not that exceptional and really isn't much more than a redo of two earlier Droopy cartoons directed by Tex Avery ( Senor Droopy and Homesteader Droopy ) and while Michael Lah does a good job , why it was nominated for an Oscar is a trifle puzzling . There were certainly better cartoons in 1957 that weren't ( Touche and Go , Mucho Mouse and even Blackboard Jumble , another Droopy ) , so its nomination " is a puzzlement " , so to speak . Recommended .
The character of Henry Higgins is greatly misunderstood by many and so is the film .	I have read in a great many places ( including the IMDb ) that Henry Higgins is a misogynist . It has also been said that the film is a misogynist's fairy tale . Anyone saying this has clearly not watched this film too closely . First , Higgins is not a misogynist . A misogynist hates women . What Higgins is , in reality , is a misanthrope . A misanthrope basically dislikes and distrusts everyone ! Watch the film and you'll notice that Higgins treats everyone with the same disregard-Col . Pickering , Eliza's father , his own mother-everyone receives his rather cynical disdain . Some of the minor characters come off being treated worse than the principals do . It's simply more noticeable with Eliza because it's more frequent , it's newer with Eliza because the other principal characters have known Higgins longer and thus take it in stride . The myth that Higgins is a misogynist is perpetuated by the song , " Why Can't A Woman Be More Like a Man ? " . Second , it can hardly be called a misogynist's fairy tale . If that were the case , I doubt Alfred Doolittle would have cause to sing , " Get Me To the Church On Time " , as he'd hardly be getting married . His life is just as " ruined " as Eliza's by his encounters with Higgins , just as altered as her life has been . This is a great musical , a good movie and it was even better as the original play by Shaw . Well worth seeing . Recommended .
Not the best Mr . Magoo , but entetaining anyway	This cartoon , nominated for an Oscar , is reasonably good , but not one of the better of the series . Well worth watching , the series is more noted these days for the furor generated by people who consider it an insult to the blind and those whose sight is impaired . I'm disabled and it is my considered opinion that 1 ) way too many people are too thin-skinned 2 ) far too many people are entirely too concerned about either hurting someone's feelings or having their own feelings hurt and 3 ) anyone who feels offended by a CARTOON neds to get a life . End of sermon . The Mr . Magoo series is essentially a one-note affair that at its best is marvelously funny and is usually at least well worth watching . Trouble Indemnity has its moments and is a fairly good short on its own merits .
Early Tex Avery short that is infrequently seen these days	This short is a fairly typical Tex Avery short that is one of two spoofs he did of the book Uncle Tom's Cabin ( the other was Uncle Tom's Cabana for MGM ) and while this short really is rather innocuous and there isn't anything that bad here , it would probably offend some sensibilities and is consequently rarely seen in this day and age . Which is too bad , as it is a very good cartoon . Placed in context , it could probably be shown , but the reaction would be loud and immediate enough that it likely won't happen . Worth seeking out . Recommended .
The music is great , but this one will not be in general release or broadcast for quite a while .	This short , an Academy Award nominee , has great music , mostly the title tune , the animation is very good and it's a fairly decent effort . But most people will never see this , for understandable reasons . The cartoon is one large string of racial jokes and stereotypes from start to finish . If someone ever does a project to collect and release the music from the Lantz material , as was done with the Warner Brothers shorts , this is at the head of the list . Otherwise , you can forget about this one being made generally available anytime soon , if ever . Worth tracking down , but not for everyone . Recommended for the less easily disturbed . This one was over the top , folks .
Nudnik is a character created by Gene Deitch and is something of a curiosity	This short was nominated for an Academy Award . It can be found on Rembrandt Films Greatest Hits . Since it is amost impossible to talk about individual shorts , I'll remark on the Nudniks in general . They are quite short ( the ones I've seen are less than 30 seconds in length ) and the humor is visual in nature , showing Nudnik in some situation , generally mixing pathos with humor . Nudnik is someone of indeterminate age and gender with a life that runs none too smoothly . The Nudniks are recommended as a class , as describing individual shorts would be self-defeating .
Entertaining short from the 1930s with some very nice animation	This is a short starring some lesser-known characters , namely Beans and the duo of Ham and Ex . It's a mostly effective , though somewhat uneven , black and white cartoon directed by Jack King . As I want to discuss the short , there will be spoilers : The short starts off with Ham and Ex reading that their " Uncle " Beans is going exploring for " Haunted Treasure " , so they stow away on his plane and off they go . Beans spots a wreck and lands , to see a spooky bat fly off the side of the Phantom Ship . Naturally , Ham and EX jump out to surprise him just then , which scares him . They go on the ship and Ham and Ex see skeletons , get under a sheet and scare skeletons themselves . I would have liked it had this sub-plot continued , but the short diverges , with Beans finding two frozen pirates near a stove and , inexplicably , starts a fire in the stove . Following a train of thought to its practical and logical conclusion is clearly not his long suit . He finds the treasure and starts loading it on his plane , while the pirates thaw out and take a dim view of theft when they are the victims rather than the perpetrators . The chase being on , one pirate goes after Beans and the other goes after Ham and Ex . After some nice sequences in the chase scenes , Ham and Ex jump in the plane and take off , while Beans gets blown up with the ship , goes skyward and is caught in mid-air by Ham and Ex in the plane and our heroes exit , stage left . Very good early short from Warner Brothers . Well worth watching if you get the opportunity . Recommended .
Very early Betty Boop and a very earthy performance from Rudy Vallee	This short is actually part of the Screen Songs series that were done by Fleischer Studios as part of the once extremely popular sing-alongs that were part and parcel of a night out at the movies , long before television . Think of them as early forms of today's music videos . Listen to the song Rudy Vallee sings , in particular to the spoken jokes between choruses . Some of the may surprise you ! This is very early Betty Boop , so she doesn't look quite the same as she did later . This could accurately be described as a formative cartoon for Betty Boop . Well worth watching . In print and available . Recommended .
Ah , the wonders of technology !	This is the next to last theatrical Gerald McBoing Boing short done by UPA , with this being the third of the four that the studio produced . It's a cute , clever cartoon , but the novelty factor is beginning to wear off and there's not enough other solid material to sustain extending the series . It's brought to a resolution of sorts here , as Gerald and his parents turn to science and technology for a communication breakthrough . Enjoyable and with enough moments to make it worth watching , even though it pales in comparison to the first one , Gerald McBoing Boing . There was also a television series that featured the character , as well as other material done specifically for television . Well worth watching . Recommended .
Good cartoon with some funny bit , but not a gem	Even Tex Avery's lesser work is enjoyable and this short is a case in point . Avery was still feeling his way here and his style was still in its formative stages . Porky was still being developed as a character as well . Some good sight gags here . Not the best short I've seen , by any means , but I've seen worse . Worth looking for and recommended if you like Tex Avery .
Very nice computer-generated animation	The story ( or stories , I should say ) are pretty much secondary here . This is very visually effective and quite impressive . A very nice piece of work . The piece isn't something I would recommend that you hunt up on its own , but is well worth watching , particularly if you can find Spike and Mike's Festival of Animation Vol 1 , which is an excellent compilation . This short is well worth watching .
Sylvester really needs to take birds out of his diet !	This cartoon ( without Tweety , presumably because of that well-documented fight over billing ) was nominated for an Oscar . Sylvester just can't catch a break ! It's a wonder he's not skin and bones by now ! A cat can only go on french fries and ice cream for so long before he needs a bird or a mouse or he goes Looney Tunes ( sorry about that-nah , not really ! ) . This is one of the better Sylvesters-without-Tweety , although he and Porky do make a good team . Mighty persistent ( if unfortunate ) lovebird . This shows on Cartoon Network fairly often . Recommended .
A double parody-sending up both newsreels and travelogues in one short	Tex Avery did quite a few shorts lampooning the travelogue shorts that were prevalent in the 1930s and one or two satires on the newsreels pre-television visual accounts of news of the week / month . Here he does a short presented in the form of a newsreel that pokes fun at travelogues . Very nice figureskating sequence using rotoscoping - the shooting of live-action footage that is later animated-that is one of the better bits . Good short , but Avery did better in the same vein . Still worth seeking out ( I personally think that even Avery's less successful shorts are better or as good as some other directors best work ! ) . Recommended .
The first of a series called Musical Miniatures produced by Walter Lantz	This short was nominated for an Academy Award and marked the launching of a new series that replaced the previous Swing Symphonies series , which was called Musical Miniatures . It's an Andy Panda short and essentially , this is The Band Concert redone and it does not compare to the Disney short , though it is reasonably good in it's own right . Andy Panda is an incredibly bland character with limited scope . The story has to be engaging or the short falls flat . The Poet and Peasant is entertaining but nothing special . Worth watching .
Unusual even for John Weldon	John Weldon has a tendancy towards the odd and unusual when it comes to his work , but even for him , this is off-the-wall , to say the least ! I've seen this several times and still don't quite understand it , but it's entertaning and enjoyable nonetheless . Indescribable . Words do not do it justice , it must be seen . Recommended .
A very humorous cartoon visual in nature	This Cartoon consists of a great many sight-gags and is one of at least three cartoons that feature both Marc Anthony and Pussyfoot . While the concept of a bulldog becoming the protector of a kitten is too cute by half , this one has found a soft spot in my heart ( or is it my head ? ) because it principally covers what happens to another cat who tries to bully Pussyfoot and suffers , in consequence , Marc Anthony's wrath in return . I will always root for a bully to receive their comeuppance and the gags , while more or less standard , are reasonably good . Worth watching .
Oscar nominee from the year of my birth .	This short , most accurately titled , was released the year I was born . About a man who plays the violin with great enthusiasm , if with limited ability . Charming and engaging , with a good story and dialogue to go along with a limited animation style . Ernest Pintoff had a light touch with comedy and made some very delightful shorts in the late 1950s and early 1960s . I wish he'd done more of them . Well worth tracking down . Most recommended .
A nice " little " film about real characters and their growth as people	This film isn't a classic movie for the ages . It's probably not gong to be considered in any discussions of the " best " of all time . What it is , is a nice , charming delightful film about two people who have their nice routine lives changed by a little event-WWII ! Over time , they change , they grow as people often do . The main question is , will their marriage grow and change , or will it flop around and expire like a fish out of water . The fact is , you come to truly care about them over the course of the film , in no small part because Robert Donat and Deborah Kerr deliver good peformances in what is a character-driven film . Well worth watching .
An Oscar nominee , it has a few moments	This cartoon actually has more energy before its ' main premise begins . The idea of playing " The Mexican Hat Dance " on a flute to mezmerize mice is marginally funny , but the chemistry really isn't there with Sylvester and Speedy like it is with Sylvester and Tweety and the chase scenes aren't really that novel . It has enough moments in it that are enjoyable enough to make it worth watching ( even good enough to recommend , if you like Speedy ) , but the cartoon isn't that special in it's own right . It's not too easy to find , but it has been on VHS in the past . Recommended , particularly if you like Speedy .
Early Flip the Frog-excellent cartoon !	This is one of the first half-dozen or so shorts from Iwerks and is exceptional . Flip is actually interesting and has a personality-what happened later on ? There's a discernable plot-not Shakespeare , but decent enough . The music ( not all Ragtime , but why quibble ? It's good ) is a primary component , the characters are well-executed and it's just an all-around success . If Iwerks had produced more shorts like this , the character ( and the studio ) would have been more successful . Great cartoon , good to see it in print , available on DVD . Well worth watching . Most recommended .
Porky the trainer and the jockey in this one	This short is similar to Porky and Teabiscuit in some respects and wildly different in others . As I will be discussing details here , consider this a spoiler warning : In this short , as in Porky and Teabiscuit , the action takes place at a racetrack and both feature very unlikely horses in a race . Porky is the jockey in both shorts . Otherwise , except for a few other relatively minor points , they are quite different . For one thing , Porky is a child in Teabiscuit and an adult here . For another , Porky is definitely second fiddle here to the horse . My favorite bit in here is when Porky is singing different lyrics set to the tune to " We're In the Money " . The lyrics are actually quite good . The race itself is very well animated , with some very nice detail work . At one point , the speed lines for Porky's horse coalesce themselves into the outline of a locomotive ! Much of the short is taken up with sight gags arising from the horse trying to convince Porky that he really can be a good steeplechaser ! Things generally go comically awry with the horse's attempts to impress Porky . All in all , some really nice gags make this an enjoyable short . Porky and Teabiscuit has been released on a Looney Tunes Golden Collection ( Volume 3 , if I remember correctly ) and hopefully this one will make one in the future . Worth finding . Recommended .
Cute short with more than a few gags with a " nudge , nudge , wink wink " subtext to them	This is a cute , though somewhat limited , cartoon which is one of the earliest ( if I recall correctly , the very first ) Warner Brothers cartoons done in color . Because I want to discuss some of the details , this is a spoiler warning : The short begins with three billboard painters painting the lyrics ( with one straight , quick brush-stroke putting the lyrics down in readable form ) to the song they're singing , which is all about Bugville . It's a nice little lead-in to the main plot line , which is about two bugs who fall in love , get married and go to the Honeymoon Hotel ( watch for a funny gag involving their car as they enter the Hotel ) . They go to the front desk , where they sign in by using a rubber stamp indicating that they are " Mr . and Mrs Smith " , the first of a number of arch jokes directed more toward the adults in the audience than the children . Along the way , we see a house detective with a fondness for looking into keyholes , with very unfortunate results ( from his point of view , at any rate ) , a household staff with a significant interest in the goings on in their room and an inquisitive ( if bashful ) moon . As the happy couple begins to celebrate , the heat in the room causes the thermometer to explode and sets the hotel ablaze . Some nice sight gags involving the Bugville Fire Department and the rescue efforts at the hotel are next , with our couple trapped in their room by some quite lively flames-so they jump in their Murphy bed and it folds back into the wall . Later , after the hotel has been leveled and the fire is out , they emerge , the husband puts a " Do Not Disturb " sign on the door and they go back into the wall again and we see the closing sight gag on the exposed underside of the bed , which I won't spoil here . Cute short , well worth watching , if you can find it out there . Recommended .
Visually nice , this looks like a kinder , gentler variation of Tulips Shall Grow	This George Pal Puppetoon is somewhat similar to Tulips Shall Grow , albeit a good deal more whimsical in tone than the later short was . Some of the figures used in Rhythm look like figures Pal used a couple of years later in Tulips without much modification . The next paragraph contains mild spoilers . This short is visually quite nice and has a playful feel much of the time . Boy meets girl , boy fouls up , boy loses girl , boy gets punishment detail , a war starts and boy saves the day , boy gets girl . The ending on this is a bit unusual . This short was nominated for the Academy Award for Animated Short and is well worth seeing . Recommended .
Nothing really new about this one , but it's a Tex Avery !	The basic themes and elements are nothing new-it's basically The Shoemaker and the Elves revisited . But Tex Avery had a tendancy to take the conventional and stretch and twist it into something quite odd indeed ! This is not your grandfather's fairy tale ! Chuck Jones once quoted Rafael Sabbatini to describe Tex Avery and I'll close with that here : He was born with the gift of laughter and a belief that the world was mad . That , my friends , I submit , is a description of genius and fits Tex Avery quite well . Well worth watching . Most recommended .
This is just one short bit after another-just a series of quick blackouts	This is a very difficult short to describe , because there isn't a plot here and there isn't a story-line as such . It's just a bunch of short comedic sequences ( the term generally used to describe them is " blackouts " , which is where they got the title for the short ) which in most cases share only one unifying factor , namely the Pink Panther . There is a running gag with a handful of the shorts centered on the Pink Panther and a lawnmower . It's a very funny cartoon which benefits from the fact that the main character rarely speaks . The gags are often obvious , but they still work , for the most part , because the timing on the short is very good . This short is available on the Pink Panther Cartoon Collection recently released in a five disc DVD box set and is well worth seeing . The set itself has a very nice design to it and the shorts themselves generally look very nice . Recommended .
Atypically sweet and cutesy Tex Avery	This short is a somewhat cute and cuddly early Tex Avery short . Not typical of his later work , although there are flashes of his standard sight gags here and there . Good cartoon , if not a " normal " ( in other words , antic and screwy ) Avery effort . Well worth watching . Recommended .
History through the eyes of the Hubleys	This short was done in 1976 , the year of the Bicentennial and is a trip through history , with something of a focus on America and its history . Done in the animation style the Hubleys used for much of their later work , it's quite good and all too overlooked . It deserves much more attention than it seems to get . Worth looking for and it was part of The Cosmic Eye . Recommended .
Charming ( and more than a touch odd ) little short produced by Columbia	This rather unusual little cartoon featured two rather strange men and , from what I gather , there were hopes that the short would be successful enough to turn into a regular series , but I don't think that happened . Because I will be discussing some details , this is your spoiler warning : The two lead characters are Professor Small and Mr . Tall , a Mutt and Jeff team , with Small being the tall one and Tall being the small one ( there's a notable confusion based on this quirky situation about midway through the short ) . Professor Small is a scholarly skeptic and Mr . Tall is an affable , more easygoing sort . They work on a train . Tall finds a horseshoe , which he proclaims to be good luck . Small contemptuously tosses it to one side , thereby breaking a mirror and starting a run of bad luck . First , they wreck the train and wind up underwater ( watch out for a cute bit with a fish and a banana ) . Then they find themselves on a handcar , when they roll into a ghost town ( complete with a ghost who sounds a lot like Ed Wynn ) . After their run-in with him , they wind up in the desert . Throughout their " adventures " , Tall keeps trying to glue the mirror back together , with Small ridiculing his efforts . In the desert , after a well turns out to be a mirage , Small finally puts the mirror back together and their luck changes-a cloud forms overhead and deluges them with water ( and money ) and they're picked up by a limo with two girls in the back . As they ride off , Tall mentions the mirror and Small grabs it and tosses out of the car , shattering it ( again ) . Everything , of course , vanishes . The closing shot has both men working to put the mirror back together , with Small still holding forth on how silly superstition is-as he glues pieces together ! Enjoyable short , well worth seeing . Recommended .
Surprisingly good sort for a rather bland series	At the risk of sounding heretical , I've always found the character of Mighty Mouse rather bland and , wel , boring . This short is actually rather creative and one of the better entries in the series . It was nominated for an Academy Award and has fairly good music and the production values may just be a hair better than typical Paul Terry standards . Check it out if you can find it anywhere . Worth watching .
Very cute cartoon by Ernest Pintoff	This short was done by Ernest Pintoff for Terrytoons studios and is an example of how good the medium can be even on the cheap , which is the only way Paul Terry did anything-as cheaply as possible . Pintoff did excellent work with animation early in his career and Flebus is one of his best . The main character is a terminally nice guy who likes everyone and it's hilarious ! Well worth watching . Recommended .
Proof that anything can happen in a cartoon	This is an entertaining short which openly acknowledges that it's a cartoon . There will be spoilers : In the very beginning , Jeckle points out to Heckle that , as they are cartoon characters , they can basically do anything they care to , with just a bit of thought . He then proves it , by changing into a dog and then changing back into himself . He then becomes a " one magpie band " , rapidly moving from one instrument to another . This being a Heckle and Jeckle short , they need an adversary and thus find one-the bulldog who is often their opponent . Here , he's a cop , which he frequently plays . The bulk of the short is basically sight gags , consisting principally of Heckle and Jeckle harassing and irritating the bulldog , with seeming impunity-until he has " some brains knocked into my head " , as he puts it , by a hammer materializing in thin air . He then turns the tables on the two magpies , because ( after all ) he is also a cartoon character and anything can happen in a cartoon . Enjoyable short , well worth the effort to find . Recommended .
Disney does a Cliff's Notes version of a story from Greek mythology .	It should come as no surprise to anyone who has followed Disney to any degree that this short took some ( in this case , understandable and legitimate ) liberties with the original source material . Based on the story of how Persephone came to become the wife of Hades , god of the Underworld , this is a truncated version , leaving out any reference to Demeter , Persephone's mother ( and sister to Hades ) and leaving out the detail of why Persephone must return to the Underworld and stay for a specific duration . It's a fascinating story , but the changes made were reasonable ones and the short itself is quite good . Because I want to discuss the short in a bit of detail , this is a spoiler warning : As the short opens , it is made abundantly clear that the " Goddess of Spring " is well nigh universally loved and adored by all creatures , great and small . The opening sequence shows a lush , verdant paradise over which she reigns with tenderness and warmth , which is returned many times over . Then the ruler of the Underworld appears and basically kidnaps her , taking her below to make her his wife . He seems absolutely certain that the idea of marrying him and of becoming his queen is so clearly a desirable thing that her disinterest and continued sadness first confuse and then disturb him . She continues to plead with him to allow her to return to her world above , because she fears that , if she never goes back , both she and every creature are doomed to die . He reluctantly agrees-on the condition that she spend part of each year in the Underworld , as his queen . There are three predominant visual contrasts-the eternal spring before her kidnapping and at the end , when she returns to the surface , the visual depiction of the Underworld and the depiction of the winter cast over the world by her departure to the Underworld . While all three are quite good , the contrast between spring and winter makes those sequences a bit more impressive . The colors used in the Underworld were a bit too bright at times and I think a bit more use of shadow and darkness would have made for a sharper juxtaposition of the two radically different realms . This short is available on the DVD set , More Silly Symphonies , part of the Disney Treasures series and both this short and the DVD set are highly recommended .
Early Porky Pig , mainly battle-related sight gags	An early Porky war cartoon , with Porky as a doughboy in World War I . This one also has Beans , an early character who was in a few shorts , but didn't pan out as well as they probably wanted him to at Termite Terrace . Decent cartoon , moves fairly fast with very good animation . Worth looking for . Recommended .
This is one of the more successful Flip the Frog shorts .	Usually , the Flip cartoons have the aerodynamics of a rock-they don't fly well because Flip is a cipher . Here , it isn't necessary for our young stalwart to have much charm or personality , because he's a football player ( American style football , that is ) and the plot is basic-he's playing a football game . Technically exceptional , as the Iwerks shorts generally were , this one is actually entertaining . Sure , a lot of the gags are familiar . But this cartoon predates most of the other shorts with similar themes from other studios . Enjoyable , if not as good as Football Toucher Downer ( Fleischer ) , How To Play Football ( Disney ) or the Warner Brothers entries . Good short nonetheless . Well worth watching and good to see in print on DVD . Recommended .
This proves that sometimes it's better to beg forgiveness than to ask permission	This is a very good short directed by the forgotten director , Dick Lundy . Most people remember Hanna and Barbera and Tex Avery . But very few remember Lundy , who chiefly directed Barney Bear cartoons in the early 1950s . Lundy wasn't the greatest director MGM had , but he did some very good work . In this cartoon , the focus is on an extremely annoying little duck . Visions of an orange glaze come to mind whenever I see this cartoon . I don't generally go for hunting as a rule , but I'd make an exception here . I'd shoot first and worry about breaking rules and paying fines later ! Well worth watching . Recommended .
Good , but derivative , later cartoon	This short shows Daffy in all of his obnoxious glory . While entertaining enough , the gags are old-hat and much of what happens is predictable and almost telegraphed . By no means a bad cartoon , but not terribly exciting either . Worth watching , it shows fairly often on Cartoon Network . Recommended .
Fleischer Studios did a decent job on a series of Superman shorts	This is the first of a series of Superman shorts done by the Fleischer Studios and the only one of the series nominated for an Oscar . The animation style is different and recognizable as Fleischer work and the cartoons hold up reasonably well , but there's nothing terrifically remarkable or special about this particular cartoon . Worth watching .
Mostly animated strips from Larson's " The Far Side " .	The cartoon is a series of strips that have been animated or in one or two cases , individual strips have been expanded from the original single panel and extended somewhat to draw out the gag . Anyone who read " The Far Side " pretty much knows what to expect . All of Larson's basic standards-cows . bears , et cetera-are here in all their glory . If you like Larson , you'll like this .
A tender , thought-provoking romance in an okay movie	This movie could have been a lot better , but it could also have been worse . With a fine performance by Helen Shaver , a good one by Patricia Charbonneau and gorgeous locations but with a weak script and a way over the top performance by Audra Lindley that detract from the movie overall . It's a tender and affectionate look at falling in love when you'd never expect to . Worth watching for the two leads .
Tex Avery's wolf character complete with echo effect	This is a very good Tex Avery short that features his down-home wolf with Southern accent with an echo all his own as he tries mightily to handle an EXTREMELY ravenous sheep named Billy . As funny as the sight gags are , the dialogue ( rather , monologue , by the wolf ) is hilarious . Well worth tracking down . An unheralded and underrated short . Most Recommended .
Flip watches over a baby-oh , the humanity !	This is actually a fairly good short . Warning : I more or less have to discuss some parts of this in order to comment in a comprehendable manner , so consider this your spoiler warning . Flip is having a really bad day . Said bad day leads our hero to take on the job of watching a baby for a whole quarter ! Flip's misfortunes continue and the cartoon revolves around his attempts to retrieve his fee . He really needs that quarter badly , to judge by what he puts himself through to get it back . I don't think I'd go through what he does for a quarter ! Great sight gags abound and Flip actually has something of a personality in this one . He evokes sympathy at points here . Well worth watching . Recommended .
Sometimes , getting what you want isn't such a good thing !	This has a lot of noteworthy points . First , it's a cartoon featuring Mammy Two-Shoes . Second , as a short made during World War II , there is a visual political joke in the early going . Third , and most significantly , the two stars speak , something generally avoided , for good reason , the characters are funnier and less complicated silent . There is a nice touch of enlightened self-interest , when Jerry helps Tom get back inside , because he finds life less exciting without the mayhem . The temporary truce / partnership ends when gluttony rears its porcine head . But that's okay-there has to be a rivalry , doesn't there ? That's the whole point to this one in the first place ! Very good short and worth watching . Recommended .
Two fights for the price of one !	If you like to watch Popeye for the fights , you'll love this one ! You get to watch not only Bluto and Popeye mix it up , but two dogs get into the act as well . Bluto's dog has his charming personality and social graces as well . Actually , the dog angle is what makes this cartoon work ( that and Jack Mercer , who made all the Popeyes he voiced better-he was great ! ) and the ending is quite good . Well worth watching . Recommended .
This is basically a public-service effort done by the NFBC or the Department of Health and Welfare	This short was nominated for an Academy Award , which is quite a feat , considering that it was produced for the Department of Health and Welfare in Canada by the National Film Board of Canada . The NFBC has done a fair number of similar projects , which can be expected , as it is a government-funded entity . It's actually quite well-done and worth tracking down . The subject ? The health risks of smoking . Recommended .
Entertaining short about an unusual household	This short , a nominee for the Academy Award , was adapted from a story by Harry Allard , a children's author . Meant primarily for children , like all good animation , it can be viewed with enjoyment by adults as well . The title tells the basic story and this cute and charming short is well worth seeking out . Recommended .
Daffy at his insufferable best !	This cartoon parodies the old Ralph Edwards show , " This Is Your Life . " and does quite well at that . Daffy outdoes himself this time . Granny engages in wish-fulfilment for a great many people in her methods of dealing with someone sitting next to you who does not understand the basic fact that you did not pay good money for your seat to listen to them talk ! Daffy gets what he deserves ( as usual ) and it couldn't happen to a nicer duck ! Worth your time . Reccomended .
Excellent visuals and magnificent camera work , but the narration almost put me to sleep	Disney deservedly won an Oscar for this mostly well-executed documentary . Visually breathtaking , the narration has a kind of monotone , almost flat-lined quality that would practically served as a cure for insomnia in most instances . This is an Achilles heel for a great number of Disney documentaries-narration . All too often , it either drones or is too cute by at least half . Still quite good here for the visuals . Recommended . Edit : I've been meaning to get back to this comment for some time now , for more than a couple of years now , because I watched it again back in 2003 or so , when watching the tape I recorded it on from a broadcast off the Disney Channel and realized ( to my embarrassment ) that I'd been mistaken in recalling it as having narration-it has only a musical score with no voice-over . I want to correct the mistake , but I choose to leave the original comment in place , as I made the mistake and it's been here for five years . Wiping it out would be self-serving . An explanation and addition is called for . I will say that I've seen this in widescreen on the Special Edition release of Sleeping Beauty and it's even more impressive in the proper ratio than it is in pan-and-scan . It isn't perfect , but it is one of Disney's better live-action short films and deserved to win its Oscar . It and Sleeping Beauty are well worth getting . Recommended .
Good cartoon based on the series of children's boks that have become popular again recently	This short from the UPA studio was nominated for an Oscar . Based on the Madeline series of childrens books that recently received a boost and have led to a feature-length live action movie as well as an animated series , UPA did this short back in the 1950s and it captures the books ' flavor very well . This short can be found on one of the Columbia Classics series of tapes released some years ago and is well worth watching .
Atypically serious Pete Smith short subject	This Pete Smith Specialty , nominated for an Academy Award , was not the standard Pete Smith effort . Serious in tone and subject matter , this tells the story of the discovery of the diagnostic and curative powers of radium . The more subdued , less humorous , narration is a departure for Smith and is not entirely successful , but it's still a fascinating work nonetheless . Worth seeking out . Turner Classic Movies runs this between movies periodically . The best chance to catch this is probably in March , as part of the " 31 Days of Oscar " festival . Recommended .
Cute , if whimsical , look at dinosaurs and evolution	This short is geared towards children , but is enjoyable for adults . From the National Film Board of Canada , this is not a great short , it is enjoyable and well worth a look . If you get an opportunity to see it , do so . Recommended .
My second-favorite Pepe , after Touche and Go .	This one , like all the best Pepe Le Pew cartoons , depends principally on verbal humor rather than sight gags for most of the laughs ( though the last gag is a sight gag that ends this one perfectly ) and some of the jokes are obvious , while a few are subtle word play , such as the " ze bonds of slavery " line , when Pepe " frees " Penelope , to her horror . Pepe , like a great many folks throughout time , deludes himself . His delusion , charmingly enough , is that he is " ze great lover " . That he continues his efforts in spite of his massive lack of success is either a tribute to perseverance or an indication of greater psychological trauma and detachment . I prefer the former theory . After all , to paraphrase Freud , " Sometimes a cartoon is just a cartoon . " Good to excellent jokes make this a must see . Recommended .
Some of the funniest lines of dialogue in any Pepe Le Pew	This short is of interest mainly for the dialogue . There aren't many sight gags and the biggest laughs come from Pepe's lines . I have to quote one or two : Did you know that when you are in love , it is almost impossible to get insurance ? But then , security isn't everything . Very funny short . Not the best of the series , which is Touche and Go , at least so far as I'm concerned , but very good and runs fairly often on Cartoon Network . Recommended .
Full of sight gags as well as renditions of " La Cucaracha "	This early Porky as done by Tex Avery is early Avery form-sight gags that play with the conventions of the animated short . Porky as bullfighter . Listen for the singing of " La Cucaracha " , as Mel Blanc does the vocals on it at one point . It's a wonderful song anyway , particularly if you understand Spanish . Well worth seeking out . Recommended .
Very visual and quite funny Avery short .	This is an intensely visual and quite hilarious cartoon directed by Tex Avery starring a silent Spike waging war on a marauding gopher laying waste to a vegetable garden . Spike , of course , doesn't stand a chance in this fight . Typical Tex Avery sight gag rapid-fire delivery that works marvelously well . Well worth seeking out . Most recommended .
Funny , but an odd cartoon , even for a Tex Avery	This short is quite funny , but it's an odd one , even for Avery . Part of a series of shorts featuring two characters called George and Junior , most of this centers around the activity of a very small pygmy , somewhat reminiscent of Inki from the Warner Brothers shorts . Unlikely to be in general release due to caricatures , it is worth hunting down nonetheless . Recommended .
Popeye the Sailor enlists !	This is the first Popeye to show him in navy whites as Popeye enlists in the navy and discovers that there are four ways to do things : the right way , the wrong way , my way and the Navy way , with the Navy way being the way the Navy wants things done , naturally . Popeye has trouble with this at first , but gradually comes to loathe it in time ! Great fun and well worth watching . Recommended .
Early form of the Tom and Jerry characters .	The characters went through several different design changes from the early 1940s through to the 1960s , most often as a result of different directors . The most dramatic changes were made between the original design in the first cartoons and the characters ' form that most would instantly think of as Tom and Jerry . This short is one of the earliest ones and things were still in flux . This also has an appearance by Mammy Two Shoes and has Tom and Jerry going at it furiously , each trying to come out ahead , though Jerry is probably also trying to get some peace and some breathing room as well . Good fun and amusement all around . Well worth looking for . Recommended .
Very intricate , somewhat confusing plot that's well worth the time and effort	A very good movie that brings a number of people together around an atypical focal point-a strip club . The story takes some rather odd and occasionally bizarre twists and frankly , at times I was completely confused . But everything comes together and makes sense and the film is well worth watching .
Early Tex Avery finger exercise	I admit I'm biased in Tex Avery's favor and never saw an Avery cartoon I didn't like . In this one , Avery was still finding his style . There are a few more coughs and sputters here than is typical of Avery , but even with that said , his average work is as good as or better than some directors ' best work . Even Rembrandt had his off days . So did Shakespeare , I like this cartoon myself , but others may not . Worth watching . Recommended for Avery fans , certainly .
Droopy as sheepherder	This is a hilarious take on the range wars between cattle ranchers and sheepherders , although I suspect Droopy's sheep have been cross-bred with piranha ! The scene where the wolf finds out about the sheep is priceless . " Fetch me my Winchester , Sam-I'm a-ridin ' fer Red Rock ! " Tex Avery near the top of his game . Good to see that it's in-print . Well worth watching . Recommended .
" One of these days , I'm gonna have to get me a mouse-trap ! "	This is a cartoon about an incredibly lazy cat who puts far more effort into avoiding work than he'd likely put into doing the work in the first place ! I'm going to discuss specifics , so consider this a spoiler warning : The short opens with a shot of a large , disinterested cat gorging itself on sardines while mice generally do as they please , one even taking a sardine and contemptuously snapping his fingers at the cat , whose name is Dodsworth . Dodsworth has tried the patience of his owner to the point that she tells him that if he doesn't get rid of the mice , she'll get rid of him and find a cat that will . Dreading the idea of stooping to physical labor , Dodsworth hits on the idea of advertising for a pupil to whom he can teach the fine art of catching mice . The first ( and only ) interested party is a little kitten . Dodsworth , in his best imitation of a used-car salesman , launches into a spiel about experience , ties a fishing line around him and casts his " sucker-er , pupil " into the kitchen like a bass fisherman casting into a lake . The kitten chases a mouse around furniture and finally catches him using a piece of cheese as bait . When Doddsy sees he only caught one mouse , he scolds him and launches him back into the kitchen . The kitten hits on the idea of filling a large hunk of cheese with metal bearings and leaving it in the open , where the mice eat it and scurry away . The kitten tugs on the line again and is retrieved by Dodsworth , who starts scolding-until the kitten pulls out a magnet and hauls in the mother-lode of mice , filling the cage . Hearing his mistress calling , he hastily gives the kitten his " diploma " ( from " good old Acme ) and hustles him out the door . Dodsworth takes credit for the capture of the mice and the kitten overhears him . The kitten then goes back in the house to revive and release the mice , who raise havoc , tie up Dodsworth and terrify the lady of the house , when in comes the little kitten to save the day , routing the mice . Only the kitten has learned too much from Dodsworth and by the short's end he's behaving much like Dodsworth did . This short is available on Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 4 and it and the Collection are well worth having . Recommended .
Good use of music in what is a largely routine short	This is a typical Bosko short : put him in a situation , some means of playing music , introduce a predicament or three for him to largely ignore blithely , usually singing as he does so and fill with sight gags . Here , Bosko has a partner in song , a pig rather than Honey . The use of music is the best thing here in an otherwise average cartoon . Worth watching . Recommended for fans of Harman and Ising and the old black and white cartoons .
Cute enough , with some charming points , but it's been done better elsewhere	This short is about the trials and tribulations of a star-crossed couple , one of whom is ( you guessed it ) a frozen logger . This is a good little cartoon , but it isn't a terribly novel idea and variations on theme have been done earlier and / or better by other studios before and since . Entertaining enough and mostly it works well , but Rembrandt Films did much better work . This is on the compilation , Rembrandt's Greatest Hits , which is still available . The compilation is marvelous and this is most enjoyable , if not earthshaking . Worth watching even if it could have been better . Recommended .
Bugs Meets Taz , Take Four	This is the fourth and last Bugs versus Taz done in the 1960s and is almost as good as the first one was . Although most of the gags are visual ( including the closing one , a very good one indeed ) , there are verbal jokes as well and the dialogue is good . They made relatively few of these , I suspect because Taz's motivation was limited and therefore there wasn't anything they could do here that wasn't being done ( to better effect ) with the Wile E . Coyote and the Road-Runner series of cartoons . This one's very good and the ending is very funny ( unless you're Bugs Bunny ) . Recomended .
Actually , for the Fleischers , this is a comparatively " normal " cartoon .	The Cobweb Hotel is a cute , somewhat dated , cartoon with some very good moments . Strange thing is , I keep reading and hearing comments from other people that range from " scary " to " weird and strange " , which tells me people haven't seen a whole lot of the output of Fleischer Studios ! Though the Fleischers did do some more sedate work than this one , compared to some of the earlier shorts , this one is downright " normal " ( whatever that is , anyway ) . Part of the Color Classics series ( where Max Fleischer tries to out-Walt Disney , instead of being Max hisownself ) , this is on the DVD release Somewhere In Dreamland , which is an excellent purchase . Try and chase down a copy , if you can . Well worth the effort . Recommended .
Good-not great-Disney Oscar-winning short	This Oscar winner is a rather sweet , gentle , charming cartoon that , from another studio , probably would not have won the Oscar . While it's a good cartoon , it certainly isn't my choice ( of those I've seen , I prefer Rhapsody in Rivets myself ) . This is the best one that prominently features Pluto and it cetainly does not make you scratch your head and wonder what they were thinking . A good , but by no means great , cartoon . Like most of the shorts ( with some lamentable exceptions ) , this shows periodically on The Ink and Paint Club . Recommended .
Another of Avery's looney looks at the " future " , this time farming	This cartoon is a fairly funny look at the " future " of farming-a future that most farmers are probably grateful hasn't come in a great many respects ! Typical of Avery , sight gags galore are fired at the viewer non-stop , with more puns than normal and more lunacy than usual . Good Avery , though not great Avery , even for the series of shorts this fits in with . Worth watching .
Another day , another dollar .	This short is mostly sight gags . Poor Ralph ! The things a wolf has to go through to earn a living and possibly to get a square meal on occasion . This one most obviously and conspicuously indicates the basic premise-that both wolf and sheepdog are just a job , you do your shift and go home . It's a living , I guess . Quite funny and well worth watching . Recommended .
The Saga of Louie and Heathcliff , a poor man's George and Lenny	There are quite a few shorts which have been made that were modeled on the characters of George and Lenny from Of Mice and Men and this cartoon is along those lines-with a modification in the standard riff played in such cartoons . As I want to talk specifically about parts of this short , this is a spoiler warning : Heathcliff is possibly the most moronic character to show up in cartoons-and that's saying something . Heathcliff has to be told to BREATHE at one point by his " friend " , a parrot by the name of Louie . Heathcliff is a very large cat . Why Heathcliff doesn't introduce Louie to his digestive system can only be blamed on the fact that he clearly has only one active brain cell . The start of the cartoon has Heathcliff rushing in to have Louie solve various problems , much to the exasperation of Louie . Then Louie reads to Heathcliff " what is on this pretty paper " Heathcliff brings to his attention-it's a will leaving a million dollars to Heathcliff , with an addendum which gives the money to Louie if something happens to Heathcliff . Greed jumps on Louie's head and he decides to make something happen . Louie isn't exactly a Rhodes scholar himself , because all he has to do is just stop helping Heathcliff and the cat will give up the ghost inside of two hours , tops . There are a bunch of hilarious sight gags involving Heathcliff and eating ( and cracking ) nuts . Louie's attempts on Heathcliff's life are as funny as they are unsuccessful . He tries to electrocute him by having him play a game of " Radio " , tries to bribe a bulldog into taking Heathcliff out and so on , with zero success . Finally , he tells Heathcliff it's his birthday and gives him a cake with three candles and a stick of dynamite . Heathcliff decides he's only three years old and gives Louie the stick of dynamite . There follows a lengthy tug of war between the two regarding his age until Heathcliff finds his birth certificate and it says he's four . The ending is hilarious and I won't spoil it here . This short is available on Looney Tunes Golden Collection Volume 4 and is well worth seeing . Recommended .
Tex Avery-flea wrangler !	This is a typical Tex Avery-start with a premise and turn it on its ear , firing sight gag after sight gag until the premise surrenders unconditionally . Here , the owner of a flea circus loses his livlihood when a dog comes backstage ( in violation of a sign that says , " NO DOGS ! " ) and the fleas ( and dog ) have appropriate reactions to this fortuitous circumstance . So , as has been stated by another , " Fleas run away from the circus to join a dog . " Tex Avery was the greatest friend acting fleas in Hollywood had , doing at least three cartoons featuring fleas prominently while with MGM-What Price Fleadom , Dixieland Droopy and this one . Given that Avery once voiced a spider in a short at Warner Brothers , perhaps his affinity for insects is understandable . Funny cartoon with lots of good sight gags . Vive la France ! Well worth watching . Recommended .
One in a series of shorts designed to show what other peoples and cultures are like .	This short ( winner of Documentary Short at the Academy awards for 1958 ) focused on a Japanese village and a fishing method used as a livlihood in Japan . Disney had a series of shorts focusing in on other places and cultures and this is one of the better ones . Most of them were less than thirty minutes long and were cinematically beautiful to watch . They run very sporadically , when they run at all , on the Disney Channel's Vault Disney . sigh Disney is sitting on a treasure trove ! Recommended .
Tom is clearly a cat of parts !	As is clear to those who follow the exploits of Tom and Jerry , they are both quite artistically gifted . Tom himself has played piano and bass and here sings opera . While I personally prefer his rendition of " Is You Is , Or Is You Ain't , My Baby ? " ( in Solid Serenade whilst playing the afore-mentioned bass ) , I freely admit that Tom is in fine voice here ( that of Terrance Monck , to be precise ) but Jerry still steals the cartoon . There is a sequence featuring a lemon in two sight gags that is absolutely priceless ! Even those who aren't especially fond of opera will enjoy this take on the artform . Not " What's Opera , Doc ? " , but good enough in its own right . Well worth watching . Recommended .
Betty Boop sells patent medicine from a wagon-this is a odd one !	There is a marked difference in the cartoons starring Betty Boop before and after the censorship code and the arrival of the Hays Office . The obvious changes aside , like her hemline , the manic , zany quality seems to fade away in later shorts . That quality is what makes cartoons like this one special . In print and available . Recommended .
Exceptionally strange little short from Aardmann	This is a very odd little duck ( even for Aardmann Studios ) and is very well executed . It reminds me a bit of Beetlejuice and of Tim Burton's short Vincent . It features a very single-minded and quite determined lady who will stop for no reason-even death-in her desire to remain proper in all things . Well worth seeing , it's on a compilation of shorts from Aardmann called Creature Comforts . Recommended .
Just plain bizarre !	This is the strangest Betty Boop I have ever seen in my life ! Bit and pieces make a strange kind of sense here and there , but it has to be easily the oddest Betty Boop made . Hard to describe , as it must be seen if it's to make even marginal sense at all . The ending is obvious to me-at least I think it is . I can't be at all certain . If you like Betty , then you'll probably like this one . Worth watching . Recommended to fans of Betty Boop .
Good , but can't help but be compared to a much better earlier effort by Disney	This short is nothing terribly unusual for a Betty Boop from the early 1930s-not the best they did , but enjoyable . The main problem with this short is that it pales in the almost guaranteed comparisons to The Skeleton Dance , a Disney short that is one of the best animated shorts of all time . Interestingly enough , the best part of the cartoon is the beginning , when Koko is taking Betty to the museum . There are a few cute bits after that , but the sequences in the museum vary quite a bit in quality . Cute ending , though . Well worth watching . In print and available . Recommended .
Entertaining and good for a few laughs	This one is quite strange , but then again , the same can be said of most of the Betty Boops in the early 1930s . This one plays around with the idea that the Earth is for sale and does a gag about gravity or the lack thereof . While not the best one produced , this short has more than enough going for it to be of interest . Worth watching . Recommended .
This is sick , twisted and depraved-in other words , very funny !	This short , brought to you by the man who developed Courage the Cowardly Dog , no less , is like what I would expect a collaboration between Tex Avery and R . Crumb to look like , if they were both doing copious amounts of caffinated beverages , that is ! It's even lewder than Avery and moves about as fast ( nobody does Avery as fast-or as funny-as the man himself , though countless animators have tried . This is perfect for Spike and Mike's Sick and Twisted , but I got it on the generally tamer Festival of Animation , Vol 3 . It's an excellent tape , well worth getting . As for Dirdy Birdy , if you are easily offended , you may want to pass on this short , because your head might explode ! Recommended to anyone who likes Spike and Mike's Sick and Twisted . Anyone else , it may be too much for you to handle !
A bit dated now , but entertaining nonetheless	This short has a lot of topical humor , which is the case with most of the work produced anyway , but this is topical to World War II and to many people alive today , that seems like eons ago . References to Wendell Wilkie and " A " cards and the like will sail by many in the audience , but sight gags and the overall wackiness will be enjoyable enough . Check out the title of the book Bugs is reading at the start-it's a great gag ! Well worth watching . Recommended .
The third time is most decidedly not the charm for Taz against Bugs	It's Close Encounters For the Third Time and , if anything , Taz comes off even worse this time . I guess his taste for rabbit is exceptionally pronounced . Anyhow , the jokes are more sight gag oriented than verbal here , although the close is very amusing . Taz is really all too limited a character in these cartoons to really be a good foil for The Rabbit . Good cartoon and worh watching but not the best .
Interesting and entertaining one-shot " Special " from Disney	This short was one of the cartoons made by Disney which wasn't part of a defined series-though there is a loose connection of sorts . There will be spoilers below : Morris is a small moose with regular-size antlers . He's largely ignored and those who do not ignore him laugh at him . He lacks the size necessary to make a favorable impression . Then he meets another moose ( Balsam ) with the opposite predicament-he has a full-size body but very small antlers . They decide to " put their heads together " ( literally ) in order to make an effort , jointly , to defeat the dominant moose of the herd , the rather large and intimidating Thunderclap . The decisive contest is actually fairly dull for the most part . It has a few good moments , but it could have been less predicable . But the character development is good and it's all rather charming . This short is on the Rarities volume of the Disney Treasures series of releases and is well worth seeing . Recommended .
Amusing sequel to the incredible Gerald McBoing-Boing	This short , nominated for an Academy Award , is a decent effort , quite amusing at times , but in comparison to the first short in the series , it suffers somewhat . Entertaining and quite creative in and of itself and well worth watching , but not a terribly special animated short by comparison to the other ground-breaking work that UPA turned out through the years . Recommended .
Good short which was re-vamped some years later as Back Alley Oproar	This short , done in black and white in the early 1940s , was later re-visited and another short ( Back Alley Oproar , done in color ) , which took the same basic idea and even some of the same gags , but embellished on the concept substantially , was the result . While Back Alley Oproar is the better of the two , Notes To You is also a very good short in its own right . I will be discussing some details , so consider this a spoiler warning : Porky Pig has gone to bed for the night when we see a cat climb up on a fence with a music stand and lots of sheet music . He uses a harmonica to get his " voice " in the correct pitch and then begins singing " Figaro " . Porky takes issue with the " caterwauling " , so to speak , and throws a vase at the cat and returns to bed . The cat then switches to popular tunes ( perhaps under the impression that Porky merely objected to an aria ) and Porky throws a book ( Fu Manchu ) at him . When the book comes back and hits Porky , it reads The Return of Fu Manchu . Porky and the cat go several rounds , with the cat generally getting the better of their exchanges . Porky finally shoots the cat , which sings a farewell , " Aloha Oe / Farewell To Thee " and Porky tries to go back to bed , only to be " serenaded " by nine ghosts , who are singing more opera , thus bookending " popular music " with opera . A number of the gags in this are repeated , some with minor variations , in the other short , though the other short has some exceptionally nice bits which were new material . Back Alley Oproar has Elmer Fudd in Porky's stead and Sylvester is the cat in place of the cat here . This is a very good short and I hope that it gets released on a Looney Tunes Golden Collection at some point . Most recommended .
A serious case of role reversal here .	This is one of perhaps a dozen or so of the post-Fleischer Brothers Popeyes that I like . Most of them are nothing special . I think the older cartoons were better animated and better written for the most part . But I like this one , because it's clever and funny . This time , Popeye has to fight off the most unwelcome advances of a woman bent on matrimony and Olive must come to his rescue ! Engaging and entertaining with a hilarious premise . Well worth watching . Recommended .
The cutest Tom and Jerry short	This short is reasonably good , has good background art and detail work and is a staple on The Cartoon Network around the holidays . It has to be the cutest Tom and Jerry that I've seen . It almost becomes a little too cute in spots , but just hits the right grace notes at the end . Tom and Jerry were still new as characters and were just beginning to develop as characters . Traces of what they would become are shown here and there . Not a great Tom and Jerry cartoon , but entertaining and a good Christmas cartoon . Recommended .
Interesting , if somewhat pat and predictable	This short is fairly good , if a tad obvious in spots and about a subtle as a baseball bat in revealing plot points . Even with the predictable nature of the short , the performances make it quite gripping . Because I want to discuss the short a bit , there are mild spoilers : This short starts with a man who is having " one of those days " - you know , the kind of day when you feel like you're the punchline of a really bad joke that everyone but you is laughing at all day . The biggest strangeness that happens to him is a little boy who comes up and says , " You need to take me to school , papa " , ( at least that's the gist of it-the subtitles have a hair-trigger and don't stay on the screen long and I don't follow German well ) . This surprises the man , because he doesn't have any kids . You guessed it , along with 75 % of those watching-the kid is his , he eventually helps the kid get to school and ruins the rest of his day . One thing that happens I found particularly amusing-he gets possibly the most insulting and humiliating job rejection in the history of humankind , without an interview , all delivered as the man he was scheduled to be interviewed by is meeting his mistress and speaking to his wife on the phone ! Though I'm not generally a vindictive type , I'd have gotten his address and phone number , followed him around with a camera , gotten photos and mailed them to his wife ! The basic plot points of the short stand out a mile and the ultimate ending is telegraphed early on . In a feature length film , this would be a bad thing much of the time . But in a short only 23 minutes long , figuring out the ending halfway through isn't as troublesome , as long as the other aspects are good enough . The performances keep this engaging . While I doubt I'll watch this too many times , it was worth seeing . This short is included on a DVD of the Academy Award nominated shorts for the year 2005 , which includes all of the live-action nominees and three of five animated nominees . The disc is highly recommended and this short is recommended .
A very atypical Tom and Jerry .	Not your everyday Tom and Jerry short for many reasons . One , there's a voiceover narration by Jerry , which is odd , because Tom and Jerry rarely speak . Two , the two are friends , which was also rare and seldom works as well as the more adversarial shorts do . Third , and most importantly , the cartoon is rarely humorous ( by design ) and the jokes here are dry chuckles with a little cough and a bubble of blood at the end . Think a Tom and Jerry cartoon directed by Tim Burton . Not wholly successful , but it largely does work . The creepiest ending for an MGM short that I can recall . Not for everyone and proof that these shorts were never intended solely with children as the target audience . Well worth watching . Recommended with the caveats above .
Excellent film that turns on a wonderful performance and great makeup	Unusually for a Geore Pal film , this movie does not have at its core the special effects , but rather a wonderful performance by Tony Randall ( or more accurately , performances ) and the makeup , which received the first Oscar ( a special one ) ever given for makeup . A good cast and script are also plusses . Read the original novella by Charles G . Finney if you can find it-it's well worth tracking down . Recommended .
Good , enjoyable , but not among the best Warner Brothers produced	This is a good , if average , short that is worth watching , but it's not going to have you rolling on the floor . Bugs has a few good lines , but the sight gags are predictable and the jokes are mostly retreads . You've seen it before and likely done better . Fun cartoon , but nothing special . False Hare is funnier . Worth seeing at least once , though . Recommended for die-hards and completists .
It looks as though the Pink Panther took kite flying lessons from Charlie Brown !	This short is a very good Pink Panther cartoon . The series pretty much has a limited number of plots it used , with most of them having to do with the Pink Panther doing something ( or at least trying to ) and having it backfire , usually on his main foil , a character who was apparently loosely patterned after Friz Freleng himself . The only name I've heard used for him is " The Little White Guy " . In this one particularly , I feel sorry for the poor guy . As I intend to discuss specifics , please consider this a spoiler warning : The Pink Panther makes several attempts to fly various kites . To say that he isn't overly successful would be an understatement . Most of the misfortune , naturally , befalls the poor little guy who has done nothing to deserve what happens to him , at least not in this particular lifetime . The absolutely worst thing to happen to him is a sequence of events heartbreaking to behold-the Pink Panther , on one of the only occasions when he actually gets a kite significantly aloft , passes it over the grill where the poor guy is cooking in his yard , catching the tail of the kite on fire . Eventually , the flaming kite crashes earthward-right onto the roof of the guy's house . The look on his face as he watches his house burn down is priceless-you can read various emotions in the look on his face . In the end , the guy snaps and comes after the Pink Panther and another kite with a World War I biplane , looking for all the world like the Red Baron ( yes , the second " Peanuts " reference implied here is intentional ) . The final sequence is quite nice and the short itself is fairly funny . This short is available on the Pink Panther Classic Cartoon Collection and is well worth seeing . Recommended .
This family put the " dys " into " dysfunctional " .	This is really the little movie that could . It is a very good film that likely got made only because Robert DeNiro co-produced it and thus had the clout to raise financing . With a script at different turns funny and wrenching and an exceptional cast that by and large does a great job playing a family that occasionally makes the Addams family look mundane , particularly Diane Keaton and Leonardo DiCaprio . Am I the only one who's noticed that DiCaprio does his best performances in little films ( read : small-budget ) that make up for limitations by , wonder of wonders , good scripts and perhaps more challenging roles . He can act ; all too often he doesn't seem to want to from his selection of parts . Yes , I am talking about Titanic . Good movie , even if it isn't going to save the ozone layer or bring about world peace . It is an entertaining way to pass not quite two hours and it does have Hume Cronyn , whom I'd gladly have watched reading a newspaper and drinking coffee , he was so good . Well worth seeing . Recommended .
One of many takes on the old fairy tale , Little Red Riding Hood , done by Tex Avery and others	Tex Avery and other animators must have liked this fairy tale , because it was used frequently as the basis for a number of cartoons . Avery himself did more than one , this one and a couple he did at MGM , as well as using it as a brief gag elsewhere in other shorts . Fairy tales were commonly used by animators as the jumping-off point for cartoons . This one features Egghead in a running gag seen throughout the short . Well worth watching . Recommended .
The first official Looney Tunes release and a rather good ( if a bit odd ) short	This is the first official Looney Tunes short ( there was a demonstration short , called Bosko the Talk-ink Kid , that served as a pilot and got the ball rolling and is actually a more interesting short than this one is , in some respects ) and it has the first recurring character , Bosko . As characters go , Bosko is average-not the best , but not the worst either . The main problem with Bosko shorts is the sameness of them . They have some very amusing and occasionally clever bits , but a lot of the gags are repeated ad tedium . I want to talk about some of the things happening in the short , so there may be spoilers below : Almost anything can be a musical instrument in a Bosko short ( and often is ) . The short begins with Bosko in the bathtub , with Bosko humming the song , " Singing In the Bathtub " and playing various " musical " instruments and eventually dancing , where the bathtub also starts dancing as well . Bosko gets dressed and goes to his garage to get his car , which is in the out-house . He drives over to his girlfriend Honey's place and she too is humming the same song in her bathtub . I'm curious to know just how much sheet music for " Singing In the Bathtub " was sold after this short came out . But I digress . After turning various items ( including steps ) into musical instruments , they go off in Bosko's car . After a misadventure or two , Bosko falls out of the car and breaks into several tiny versions of himself ( a gag they would often repeat in later shorts with Bosko and other characters ) eventually " pulling himself together " and chasing after the car . In the end , everyone goes off a mountain cliff and Bosko and Honey wind up " Singing In the Bathtub " again-a lake ! This is on the Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Vol . 3 and is well worth seeing . The Collection itself is highly recommended .
By and large , a vehicle for Kitten Natividad	This adult feature is a girl-girl movie that apparently was either done to capitalize on the fame of Kitten Natividad or to augment it , which one I cannot tell . She basically does her strip routine and talks about herself in addition to introducing the segments featuring the other girls . Okay , but really only impressive if your a fan of Ms . Natividad . X-rated .
This is a good short , but the Oscar nomination puzzles me	This short is a very nicely animated , occasionally funny and very cute cartoon-with just a bit of teeth at the end . When I first saw it on-line , it put a smile on my face , though I wasn't sure just why it was nominated for an Oscar for Animated Short . I didn't really have that big a problem with its nomination-and I really still don't much mind the nomination , but I'm even more puzzled since I got the collection of 2005 Academy Award-nominated shorts , which also included two non-nominated animated shorts , presumably to augment the disc because two of the animated nominees aren't included here ( Pixar presumably declined to include One Man Band because they placed it on the Cars DVD as an extra and 9 has been optioned for expansion into a feature ) . Trouble is , at least in my opinion , both of the non-nominated shorts included deserved a nomination more than Badgered did . Don't misunderstand me-I like Badgered and , again , I have no problem with its nomination , but The Fan and the Flower and Imago were even better , at least to me . Now onto my comments on Badgered . As I plan on discussing some details , this is a spoiler warning : This is a deceptively simple tale of a badger simply trying to get some sleep . That attempt is frustrated , first by a pair of rather raucous crows and then by the incursion of man into the badger's burrow , in a very disturbing manner-they turn the area around and under his burrow into a missile silo . It's a very short film and the ending is basically " gallows humor " , but the badger does ultimately get his wish-he gets the world to leave him be to sleep in peace . I particularly like the final shot of the crows . A good , if rather pat , piece of work , though overshadowed by The Sun and the Moon , which deservedly won the Oscar and is on the collected 2005 Academy Award nominees disc . I highly recommend that disc to anyone who really likes shorts , as most of the live-action shorts are quite good as well . This particular short is well worth seeing and is recommended .
An enjoyable , light comedy	I admit this is not the best thing Paul Newman has done . But it's an entertaining little comedy that is charming and quirky in its own special way . There are plenty of familiar faces , particularly if you watched lots of television in the ' 60's and ' 70's . A move that's a bit rough around the edges but still well worth watching on it's own merits .
A very unusual short , even for Norman McLaren	This short was nominated for an Academy Award and is absolutely one of the strangest works to be produced under the auspices of the NFBC . It's actually three very brief pieces with a framing sequence-at least I think it is ! Norman McLaren's fingerprints are all over this one ! Known for very odd work , it's an acquired taste . I happen to like McLaren's work , but even I find this one a bit far out . If you like McLaren's very eccentric stop-motion , you'll probably like this . Otherwise it may be a bit too strange for you . Recommended if you like the unusual or Norman McLaren .
How do I describe The Little King ?	This is one of a relatively small series of shorts done by the Van Beuren Studios which starred a comic strip character named The Little King . It's a reasonably good short , but it's difficult to describe . Because I will be discussing some details , this is a spoiler warning : The Little King is a difficult character to describe because , in many ways , he's very bland and unexciting . In general , he doesn't speak ( the only short I've seen where he does speak was a Fleischer Studios appearance in a Betty Boop short and the voice is a bit ridiculous ) . He's very child-like , almost to the point of being annoying . In this short , he has a trip scheduled to visit the state prison . The funniest part of the short is his preparations to go to the prison and the trip there . He's aided by a butler to get ready and then slides down a long bannister , at one point getting off to allow the butler to get ahead of him in sliding down in order to catch him when he reaches the bottom ( the butler misses him ) . On the way to the prison , the Little King gets distracted by flowers and winds up falling out the window of the carriage . He tries hitching a ride , finally finding a bicyclist who carries him on his head until they reach the carriage , where the coachman and footman are searching under and around the carriage in vain for their king . Everything-Little King , bike , cyclist-goes into the carriage and off they go . When they reach the prison , the Little King is allowed to wander off on his own and he finds two inmates playing a game of checkers . He suggests a move to one which naturally causes him to lose the game immediately , whereupon the inmate breaks out of his cell and begins chasing the king , who timidly gives him the keys to the prison . The obvious happens and a riot breaks out . The ending is a bit predictable , but still cute anyway . This short is well worth seeing and can be found on the DVD The Attack of the ' 30s Characters . Recommended .
Good , but not great , Andy Panda , cartoon	I'm at a loss to understand just why this short was nominated for an Academy Award . It's cute , Andy Panda is somewhat less bland than usual and certainly worth watching . But there isn't anything terribly special about this one . Oh well . Check this one out anyway . The cat is hilarious , particularly when he tries to use logic to get what he wants : dinner . Recommended .
This short , done by Disney , this was an Oscar nominee	This short , which technically was not listed as part of the True-Life Adventures series , but has the look and feel of those shorts and features , was nominated for an Academy Award and was extremely well shot . because I want to cover this in some detail , this is a spoiler warning : This short covers some of the wildlife ( predominently birds ) on four islands-the Galapagos , Guadelupe , Falklands and an island in the Midway chain . While touching very briefly on the turtles of Galapagos and a bit more in-depth on two varieties of iguana and a species of crab , the documentary focuses primarily on birds , including several species of penguin on at least two of the islands , cormorants , frigate birds and the albatross . I found the sections on the various penguins fascinating , because penguins are typically thought of as belonging to colder climates than you would find around the Galapagos or the Falklands . There's just something about penguins that interests me , I guess . There's at least one moment of tragedy shown , which is to be expected in one of these Disney releases . For anyone who's seen many of the Disney wildlife productions , the usual flourishes are here-they show albatrosses , which are also known as goony birds , trying to land after a flight and mainly crashing . They also show a few aborted takeoffs , adding sound effects ( screeching brakes ) at least once , presumably for comic effect . The thing about these shorts is that , even after the passage of decades ( more than 45 years in this case ) the quality of the camera-work is still exceptional and can hold its own . Say what you like about Disney , but they did excellent work from a technical standpoint and were clearly ahead of the curve-which is understandable , as they were frequently creating the technology which pushed the curve forward . This short can be found on Volume 2 of the True-Life Adventures DVD sets issued under the Disney Legacy label and the DVDs are most absolutely recommended .
The manic Daffy makes life miserable for an occasional minor character named Conrad	For all that it's entitled as " Conrad the Sailor " , this is a Daffy Duck short-Conrad is just a rather unfortunate foil for Daffy in this one . As I want to discuss some of the cartoon , this is a spoiler warning : The cartoon opens up with a rather jolly Conrad swabbing the deck and singing ( as only Pinto Colvig can ) " Shoving Right Off For Home Again " , though some needling from Daffy turns his mood rather sour . Daffy being Daffy , he proceeds to take great delight in harassing Conrad ( who had a small part in Porky's Cafe and was in a few shorts all told , including this one-eh , it's a living ) . He swaps a paint bucket for the bucket of water Conrad is using and then points out the resulting mess by impugning Conrad's abilities . Before long , the chase is on . Most of the rest of the short features Conrad trying to catch Daffy , with rather painfully funny results , though the chase is intermittently interrupted by the running gag , which is Conrad's Commanding Officer moving across his path , causing Conrad to come to attention and salute him . The biggest ( and best ) gag in the short has Daffy climbing into one of the deck guns , belatedly noticing it is loaded-with a wryly tossed off , " Big bullet " remark from the duck-and his attempts to first elude , then ride and finally elude again , the shell when the gun is fired by Conrad . There are some really nice visual gags in this section , which finishes with a hilarious ending . This short is available on the Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Volume 4 and is well worth seeing . Recommended .
Best viewed in the original black and white version	I've seen both the original black and white version and the later , colorized , version and the shadings in the original version look much nicer than they do in the colorized one . I will discuss some details , so consider this a spoiler warning : The cartoon starts off with Porky singing , " Start the Day Right " while Conrad the Cat is flipping pancakes . Porky spends much of the cartoon waiting on one rather odd little man who has some very strange orders . At one point , he orders a sandwich with everything on it but the kitchen sink and , after Porky has taken his order and leaves , the little guy says , " Hold the onions ! " , which is a semi-regular gag in Warner Brothers shorts . Some very nice visual gags surround the preparation of the little man's orders , like a very " Rube Goldberg " type of device to prepare poached eggs on toast and a fairly predictable but still funny aftereffect when the little man eats his sandwich . A sub-plot involving Conrad and an ant he manages to cook inside a pancake kind of slows the momentum down , but it's mildly amusing . There's a beautiful end to this , which has a great bit with Porky in the last scene-look at him very closely as the camera pans up at the end , as it's hilarious ! Excellent short which I hope to see on a future Looney Tunes Golden Collection ( actually , I want to see everything wind up on the Golden Collection series at some point ) . Most recommended .
Jack Mercer made Popeye funnier	The character of Popeye was entertaining enough early on in the Fleischer Studios days , when William Costello was doing vocal duties . But the real spark that made Popeye special was when Jack Mercer took over . Mercer started as part of the animation team and then became the voice of Popeye . The choice of Mercer was perfect , because Mercer basically created Popeye's personality , particularly with the mutterings and under the breath asides Popeye would make that were usually funnier than the principal dialogue . Plumbing Is a " Pipe " is an excellent example of this aspect of the Popeye shorts voiced by Mercer . Listen for Mercer's remarks throughout the final four or five minutes of this one . That , and the fact that Wimpy is a " plumber " , are hilarious and make this worth tracking down . Most recommended .
Excellent short rarely seen these days	This is an excellent cartoon with a great score that is not aired on television these days because 1 ) it has the temerity to be in black and white and 2 ) Porky imitates Cab Calloway at one point and that's considered offensive , or so some think , anyway . That's a shame , because there's a beautiful caricature of Paul Whiteman as well and it's just a great short all around . Well worth the effort to track down . Highly recommended .
One of Paul Newman's best and one of Jessica Tandy's last performances .	As far as the film is concerned , it's a nice , charming nugget of gold that might possibly be overlooked . That would be a mistake . Paul Newman does a fine performance ( although I'd go watch Paul Newman read the Uniform Code of Military Justice ) but it is an ensemble film and the performances of just about the entire cast fairly dance off one another , particularly the principal players . Jessica Tandy , in one of her last performances , gives a magnificent effort and the interplay between she and Newman is perfect . Bruce Willis plays Newman's foil , part friend , part rival and Melanie Griffith gives one of the best performances of her career . I suspect that making this movie was probably as much fun as watching it was and is . See it for the performances , but the script is also excellent . Well worth your time . Very much Recommended .
A morality play that is still quite powerful today	This movie , which is part silent and part talkie , is a tale of one man's disintegration , his actions which help to destroy an entire culture and his growing horror at what he has helped to bring about . The movie is still quite effective even now , more than 70 years later , largely because its concerns have probably been part and parcel with humanity's existence since we stopped being nomads and started building cities-greed , the struggle for control , the individual penchant for being your own worst enemy at times . A most memorable and compelling film , the cinematography is beautiful ( it justifiably won an Oscar ) and the film is one you will remember for a long while .
One of the better of the UPA releases , it obviously influenced at least one later Disney short	Rooty Toot Toot is one of the best of a very good run of cartoons from the UPA studios . A stylized take on Frankie and Johnny , it has a great jazz score and uses its limited animation to great effect . Excellent blend of music and visuals , it clearly had influence on at least one Disney short , Toot , Plunk , Whistle , Boom . The cartoon isn't the best UPA did ( Unicorn In the Garden was ) but it's real close . You can find it on one of the Columbia Classics series of tapes . Highly recommended .
Excellent ensemble cast and worthy script make this a must-see	This film has much to recommend it-set design , cinematography and so on - but what makes it truly shine is a marvelous script and an ensemble cast that almost uniformly turn in excellent work . The characters live and breathe and fair jump off the screen at the audience . You come to care about them , even the ones you don't like . It's an entrancing , riveting journey through the 20th century as it was lived by one family . Don't miss this one . You'll laugh , you'll cry , you'll even be nice to that cousin you can't stand or your daughter's current boyfriend , who you swear is from Pluto ! Most exceedingly highly recommended ! ! !
Proof that Private Snafu's long suit is not intelligence !	Another episode in the saga of Private Snafu-the dimmest bulb in the Army . This Rhodes scholar is more dangerous to his own unit than he is to the enemy ! Entertaining series of training films done during World War II . Here Snafu comes agonizingly close repeatedly to well-deserved destruction , only to be saved by the good fortune the universe seems to extend all too often to idiots . Hilarious ending which is quite apropos . The sad thing is there probably were Private Snafus in real life . I know people who make Snafu seem like Einstein ! Well worth watching . Most recommended .
Some of the funniest dialog in a Warner's short can be found here	This is a very funny short and very dialog-centered , with visual gags relatively scarce . The verbal gags are beautiful , for the most part . Because I want to discuss some details , this is a spoiler warning : We see all kinds of signs in the beginning that strongly prohibit poaching anything ( including eggs ) on the King's property and then we see Bugs try and pick a carrot from the Royal Garden , only to trigger an alarm attached to the carrot itself . He's then caught , " crimson-fisted " by the Sheriff of Nottingham and manages to fool him and get away when we come up on the running gag-a gargantuan Little John showing up to declaim , " Don't you worry , never fear-Robin Hood will soon be here ! " , only no sight of Robin Hood is to be seen . The sheriff catches up to Bugs , only to be given a high-pressure sales pitch which has him buying a piece of royal ground ( rather than lose it to " a couple from Kansas City " . The sheriff starts building a house , until it dawns on him what he's doing . His slow burn is probably the best visual bit in the short . Bugs drops into Little John's arms for an installment of the running gag and escapes the sheriff by introducing the two men to one another over and over again and then sneaking off . It's a funny bit . The best gag in the short , hands down , is Bugs tricking the sheriff into thinking that Bugs is the King . Bugs announces that the sheriff is to be knighted for his service to the crown . With each " title " granted the sheriff , Bugs belts him on the head with an imposing scepter which progressively becomes more and more dented with each blow . The " titles " include Baron of Munchausen , Essence of Myrrh , Milk of Magnesia and Quarter of Ten . Bugs then observes of the sheriff that he's " Got lots of stamina ! " and at the end , the sheriff thanks his " Majesty " . While the sheriff is singing " London Bridge " , Bugs elaborately ( and rapidly ) bakes and frosts a cake-so that the sheriff has something to fall face-first into when he finally collapses . Once again , we see the running gag , to which Bugs launches an inspired rant , about " helping the needy and the oppressed " and " skipping through Sherwood Forest " , when Robin Hood finally shows in a beautiful close which I won't spoil here . This short is available on the Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Volume 4 and is well worth watching . Recommended .
This is one of the best pairings of Yosemite Sam and Bugs	This is an extremely funny short , from Bugs crooning to a carrot to his closing line , which is marvelous . Sam has some limitations as a foil for Bugs generally , but here the situation is perfect and the character is used to best advantage . Wonderful cartoon . Good to see it's available . Well worth watching . Highly recommended .
An Orson Welles finger-exercise and quite a good one , as well	This short , nominated for an Academy Award , was adapted from a ghost story Welles once heard and was filmed during a financially-enforced sabbatical during the filming of Othello . It is remarkably moody and quite creepily atmospheric . It is essentially a finger-exercise for Welles , but it is a comment on Welles ( and , sadly , on other directors ) that his finger-exercises are more interesting and worthwhile than some director's magnum opus . Glad to see it's available . Recommended .
This is a SPOILER WARNING ! ! ! I can't review this one without details . Sorry .	I've debated reviewing this one because I generally don't like to discuss significant details , instead preferring to go into atmosphere and general discussion . But this cartoon has one pint that I have to discuss directly , and since there is no plot outline , it can be considered a spoiler . You are forewarned . The cartoon is principally given over to Daffy as nightclub performer to an audience straight out of Universal , for the most part : Dracula , Frankenstein and others . Spraying his throat with Eau de Torme ( yes , Mel Torme ) , Daffy , voiced by Torme , sings , " Monsters Lead Such Interesting Lives " . An otherwise unremarkable cartoon is made noteworthy by the voice of the Velvet Fog ! The idea still enchants me some twelve years later ! It's also why I gave it a nine rather than the seven it would have had otherwise . Mel Torme , I salute you !
Oscar winning two-reel short that's quite good	his two-reel short won an Oscar in 1940 and is a fairly good look at Teddy Roosevelt and reasonably historically accurate , for Hollywood . Sidney Blackmer actually looks like TR ( thanks to a good makeup job ) and it suffers only sligtly from melodramatic excess . The performances are for the most part good and it's a good example of an all but lost form-the 20 minute short film . Turner Classic Movies runs this occasionally as filler and it generally runs as part of their " 31 Days of Oscar " feature in March . Recommended .
Holds up well despite the passage of time	This short , done under the auspices of the National Film Board of Canada , holds up quite well in an area that can date in an instant . The animation effects are exceptional and my only real problem was with the narrator who came perilously close to becoming a cure for insomnia . Very well done , it was nominated for an Oscar for Documentary Short . Recommended , with the caveat that later information renders some of this less useful on technical points .
Christopher Crumpet is a very unusual little boy-to say the least ! ( Spoiler warning )	SPOILER WARNING ! This short , nominated for an Academy Award , concerns a little boy who , when he doesn't get his way , is a bit more creative than most children . No breath holder or pouty face is he , oh no . He turns into a chicken . His poor suffering parents are at a loss as to how to handle this and the consequences are funny and far-reaching . Well worth looking for and recommended .
A most frenetic , energetic and unusual cartoon !	This is an extremely odd cartoon to describe . The premise is that a harmonica playing quartet essentially destroys a general store by virtue of rather energetic playing of their instruments . The sight of the poor shopkeeper as he watches his livelihood disintegrate ( despite his best efforts at damage control ) before his very eyes is both comic and a bit sad at the same time . The running gag features a rather wizened old bird in Confederate gray popping up and trying to choose the next song on the program by force of his own fife-playing . He's clearly single-minded and carries a grudge a long time ( no doubt against Yankees ) . Hilarious , particularly the running gag . Well worth tracking down . Recommended .
A very effective blend of live-action and animation that is sadly unavailable in the US .	I saw this on one of it's re-releases when I was very young and it has stayed with me . It is one of Disney's best efforts and I'd love to see it again . Unfortunately , Disney is loathe to offend anyone and it therefore seems that this film will be consigned to the vaults because Disney is unwilling to risk any heat . It's too bad , because the film teachs tolerance among other lessons . Recommended , if you can see it at all .
Be careful what you ask for-you just might get it !	This short is a remake of a Fleischer Studios effort , the title of which escapes me at the moment , and is impressive enough that it can hold its own against the earlier cartoon , not often the case with Famous Studio work . Lots of sight gags , but the voice work is excellent . Beck was the best of the voices for Bluto over the years and Mercer and Questal were always marvelous . Bluto and Popeye fight over Olive and , as usual , Popeye wins-or does he ? You decide . Well worth tracking down . Recommended .
Starts charmingly enough and suddenly turns much more serious	Mild spoilers This cartoon begins , engagingly enough , at breakfast . Using animals instead of people as characters reminds viewers of those cute , lovable cartoons of yesteryear . Right . Life is what happens while you're making plans and sometimes life throws a curve or two-and sometimes , life throws the baseball bat at your head . Such is the case here , in a short which starts with a morning straight out of Norman Rockwell that veers into Bosch all too quickly for the primary characters . Memorable , with images that will stick around for quite a while . I'll never see eggs , bacon or produce quite the same way again . Nominated for an Academy Award and produced by the National Film Board of Canada . Recommended .
Football was possibly the most popular sport for cartoonists to parody .	For the majority of the major studios , sports were a frequent source of fun . Disney did a whole series of sports related shorts featuring Goofy . Baseball and football were the most frequent subjects and offhand I think football was slightly more often the target . There were two or three Disney ( of course , there were also the Casey at the Bat shorts ) , several Popeyes and a fair number of others . While this isn't the best football cartoon or my favorite , I'd call it the most creative one I've seen . A beautifully executed idea , funny and inventive . Jack Kinney was an excellent and far too overlooked director . Hopefully this will make a Disney Treasures DVD collection at some point . Well worth looking for . Recommended .
The special effects are still remarkable after more than 40 years !	This is a very well-done adaptation of the H . G . Wells novella , with an Oscar for the special effects that are still impressive more than 40 years later . Good performances by an ensemble cast and a good script also help . One interesting side note : character actor Whit Bissell was in both the 1960 version here and the version done for television in 1978 , playing essentially the same part with two different character names ! Recommended .
The Pink Panther enlists-with obvious consequences !	This is an exceptionally funny short where the Pink Panther does for the Army and his Sargeant ( " The Little White Guy " ) what Gomer Pyle did for the Marines and Sargeant Carter . I'm going to go into some detail in this comment , so this is your spoiler warning : The scene is set when the Pink Panther sees a recruiting poster and decides to join the Army . At boot camp , enter " The little White Guy " as a basic training instructor . He takes one look at our stalwart hero and hands him a broom instead of a rifle , which was a wise decision . The Pink Panther makes for a less than exemplary soldier . Before long , the Sargeant decides that he wants to get rid of the worst recruit he has and tries a number of different ways-land-mines , a grenade , an obstacle course , et cetera-which all naturally backfire on him without so much as breaking one of the Panther's toenails . The funniest part of the short revolves around the camp mascot , a large , rather ill-tempered ( though not without cause ) bulldog which takes a pronounced dislike to the Sargeant . The funniest gag , hands down , mostly takes place off-screen . The obstacle course the Sargeant sets up for the Pink Panther to run is shown briefly in all its painful and potentially deadly glory . The pistol he fires as a signal to the Panther to start running unfortunately happens to be pointed at the dog when he pulls the trigger . The little guy runs headlong into the course , while the dog ( sensibly ) stops . The sound effects used to indicate the run through various obstacles are perfect and hysterically funny . This is repeated , of course , when he comes out at the other side only to have the bulldog " greet " him and he runs back the way he came . The close of the cartoon has the Pink Panther winding up shipped to the Navy and coming back in Navy whites and the Sargeant deciding that a change of scenery ( and branches of service ) is an excellent idea . This short is on the Pink Panther Classic Cartoon Collection and is well worth watching . Most recommended .
Beautiful artwork and backgrounds , if occasionally too cute for words .	This cartoon's use of color and background detail is excellent . Sometimes , the story and the action is just too cute for my tastes , but it more than makes up for this visually . The dragon is great ! Nominated for an Academy Award for Animated Short , this runs on Cartoon Network occasionally and , when TCM does its annual " Salute to the Oscars " in March , this has been used as filler between features in years past as have other shorts , both animated and live-action . Recommended .
This short is one of the better " Sing-a-Longs " done by Famous Studios	Fleischer Studios did a regular series of shorts with a mix of live-action and animation with featured " sing-alongs " , where the audience would sing along with a musical performance . The lyrics would appear on the screen and a guide would pace the audience in time to the music . When Paramount switched their animated shorts to an in-house production studio ( called " Famous Studios " ) , one of the things they kept , at lest for a time , was these types of shorts , which followed the same type of format , but were entirely animated and used a " Bouncing Ball " as the cue . This short is one of the better ones they did . As I will discuss a little of the detail in this one , this is a spoiler warning : The cartoon opens up with a farmer going out to his barn and setting up a music stand to conduct an animal symphony orchestra . There follow brief snatches of familiar tunes with animated gags more or less tied to the music . For example , a mouse playing a trombone is playing " Three Blind Mice " , while a cat tries to catch the mouse by using a violin bow . In another bit , three lambs sing " Mary Had a Little Lamb " while a pig tries to play a stovepipe as if it were a tuba . These bits are very clever and the timing on the bits is very good . Then , the farmer talks to the audience , inviting them to sing along to " Old Macdonald Had a Farm " . The sing-along takes almost half of the short's running time , but there's some nice animation as background in spots . The short finishes up with a short animated sequence , as was typical for the Famous Studios series and this is almost the highlight of the cartoon , as the farmer is in a tuxedo and the various animals form a Conga line and sing until the end of the short . This is available on at least one low priced DVD that I know of and shouldn't be that hard to locate . Well worth watching .
Lantz , like Disney and other studios , made music the starting point for a series of cartoons	This short was one of a series of shorts Walter Lantz made which were built around either a musical piece or a musical style , with classical and jazz predominating . Here , a very familiar piece of classical music was used to show the " workings " of an orchestra . I plan on discussing some details , so there will be spoilers : In a fairly rare short featuring Wally Walrus without Woody Woodpecker around to give him problems ( I can't think of another one at the moment , so this may be the only one ) Wally conducts an orchestra in a performance of " The William Tell Overture " . Much of the orchestra appears to be either dozing or disinterested , even while they're playing ! There are various sight gags having to do with rather odd playing styles and with musicians startled from slumber . Some are actually playing while they're asleep . Then comes a " dramatic " effect-a stagehand actually creates the conditions of a thunderstorm in the concert hall . Lightning strikes one horn player with a nice visual gag as the payoff , various musicians take shelter from the rain in different ( usually very humorous ) ways and the climax comes when the stagehand pulls the plug ( literally ) to drain the water out . You now see musicians drying out their instruments and sheet music . The end of the short comes , rather incongruously , when a horse is struck by a musical instrument and a rather indignant horsefly comes out and starts annoying Wally Walrus . Wally's efforts to get the horsefly result in the destruction of the performance and the orchestra . Excellent use of classical music to time the movement of animation . Well worth watching . Recommended .
Splendid use of stop-motion animation and live action	This short is an extremely effective use of the stop-motion technique of animation blended with live action footage about a very determined chair and a young man who wants nothing more than to sit and read . I personally negotiated a deal with my chairs : if they perform some basic function , they can remain . If not , they either pay rent like I do or they leave . So far , it seems to be an equitable and acceptable arrangement for all concerned . Most recommended .
Leprechauns , a Sidhe ( Banshee ) and Sean Connery with an Irish brogue ! What more could you want ?	This is a charming film with warmth , tenderness , tragedy , love , drama , betrayal and nobility all rolled into one and seasoned with humor . Albert Sharpe , who plays the lead , is a character actor whose face wll probably be familiar to movie fans . Sean Connery with an Irish brogue is worth the price of admission alone , but the story's entertaining , the performances good and the special effects are very good indeed . Recommended .
One of the more satisfying shorts Iwerks made .	This one works-at least for me , it worked . One of the most unusual singing quartets you'll ever see . Some exceptional backgrounds and very good animation here and also fairly well-developed characters ( not usually a hallmark of Iwerks studio ) make this an entertaining short . The farmer looks a bit like Al Falfa from Terrytoons , but character design wasn't a long suit for the studio either . They tended to draw things pretty much the same over and over . They may have had five or six basic variations on kids and used them interchangeably . The animals come off better than the humans do . Very good cartoon , an example of what Iwerks could do and if they'd done work like this more often , who knows what might have happened . Well worth watching . Good to see in print and on DVD . Recommended .
In a war between Speedy and the other male mice for the affections of all the senorita mice , the loser is Sylvester !	I can't really discuss this cartoon without including at least some details , so consider yourself warned as to spoilers : The male mice in a small village have something of a problem-his name is Speedy Gonzales . Every little senorita mouse is far more interested in the dashing Speedy than they are in anyone else . In a brilliant display of vigor and young mouse-hood , they decide the solution to their problems is by arranging for someone else to do their dirty work - " El gringo pussycat " , for instance . So they make it look like Speedy's insulted Sylvester and the chase is on . As you might expect , Sylvester gets the worst of Speedy and things don't end terribly well from his point of view . Pairing Sylvester and Speedy up in a cartoon is an obvious and effective teaming , when you think about it a bit . It does have the same obvious limitation the Sylvester versus Tweety shorts have-you know from the outset that no one will be lunch , even if one character does consider the other a part of their basic food groups . The reason these shorts work ( when they do ) is because of the gags involved and the background material . You hear a character singing a couple of lines of " La Cucaracha " ( which are particularly funny if you understand Spanish ) , or you see the physical results of Sylvester trying to catch Speedy and it doesn't matter that Sylvester has a better chance of hitting the lottery than does of catching his prey du jour . This is available on Looney Tunes Golden Collection Vol . 3 and is most definitely worth getting . I recommend the Collection without reservation . Highly recommended .
One of the most interesting and humorous concepts developed by Chuck Jones	Chuck Jones , in addition to both working with solidly established stars such as Bugs Bunny and Daffy Duck and doing one-shot cartoons like Martian Through Georgia , did some thematic groupings of short using continuing characters in a small number of cartoons . Ralph and Sam , a sheepdog and wolf , were one of these . The series is one of the better ones as far as I'm concerned . The concept of protector versus predator as a 9 to 5 job just amuses me no end . This particular short isn't the best of the lot ( there were seven all told and I believe this was the first of them ) but all of them are quite fun and are well worth watching . Recommended .
As with all the True Life Adventures , the camera work here is simply fantastic , particularly the time lapse sequences	This short , which won an Academy Award for Live-Action Short , is one of the most fascinating things that Disney has ever released . It follows one particular natural area for an entire year , from one spring through to the next . Because I want to discuss some details , this is a spoiler warning : The short begins by explaining that " nature's Half-acre " can be found anywhere , including your own backyard . It then focuses in on the life cycle for one particular " half-acre " , with a predominant emphasis on birds and insects , with a couple of reptiles given a brief introduction . As always , the photography is breathtaking and the narration , though still occasionally to precious , is excellent . There's only one gimmicky sequence and they don't seem to have played around with the footage , but simply inserted musical scoring to something they caught on film , in an attempt to inject a comical note . There might be a good reason to add some levity , because the overall point which is reinforced repeatedly in this one is that , in nature , most , if not all , creatures are on someone's dinner menu and predator can quickly become prey . Birds eat insects to survive , insects eat insects to survive , plants eat insects to survive and the list goes on . What matters to nature is that species continue and that the natural life cycle also continues . There's a great deal of focus on death here , with caterpillars being kept in check because there are birds which thrive on them , spiders who thrive on flies and bees , chameleons who eat just about any kind of insects-almost everything is vulnerable . But there's also an emphasis on the " life " part of " the life cycle " , with scenes of flowers in bloom and the emergence of a butterfly from its chrysalis . A lot of this is shown through the use of time lapse photography , where something which may actually take hours or even days to happen can be shown in seconds or minutes . There are some exceptional sequences here . This is one of Disney's best . This is available on Volume 4 of the True Life Adventures Series , which made up the first wave of the new Disney Legacy series of DVD releases . I recommend all four of the titles .
Excellent short , just beautiful and it has a ( gasp ! ) PLOT ! ! !	Alright , so it isn't a terribly complex plot-but it is more of a plot than Iwerks usually had for its cartoons . This one features the same Old Man Winter as did the short Jack Frost , another cartoon from the same studio . Backgrounds and animation are incredible , but then those always tended to be hallmarks of the studio . They'd be more notable in their absence . Plots were not so frequent in appearance-Ub Iwerks didn't have much interest in anything that didn't require animation by way of a pencil or paint . Which was unfortunate , because that was a major reason why the shorts weren't more popular with audiences . Incidentally , Iwerks did a series of thematically similar shorts for Disney in the early 1930s as part of the Silly Symphonies on each of the four seasons , as well as one entitled Night . This series has five of the most beautifully animated shorts I've ever seen . I wish they were in print , but the Iwerks studio short is on DVD . Well worth getting . Highly recommended .
Extremely well-conceived and executed animated short on public health programs	Although somewhat dated in a few details , much of what this details regarding public health and safety , such as inoculation versus disease and the need for good sanitation is still of importance today . I saw this in Cartoon Network on a special ToonHeads featuring rarely seen or little-known animation . This won an Oscar for Documentary Short ( actually , it tied with another short ) and was well deserving of its award . The animation is superb and worth watching . It was also quite disturbing to learn that , apparently , a bare fifty years ago the infant mortality rate in the United States was as high as it was . Five of every 100 births . While we have made progress , we can still make a good deal more . Most recommended .
Yet another episode in the saga of Wallace and Gromit	This short , which won an Academy Award , is the one I enjoy slightly less of the first three , which makes it only great ! A sheep named Shaun steals the show here . Wallace is marginally more lively in this one . All in all , well worth seeking out and fairly easy to get . Highly recommended .
Every time I see this one , I wonder if Art Carney ever saw this one .	This cartoon has Spike and Tyke of Tom and Jerry fame , without said cat or mouse . Sort of giving the supporting players a shot at the brass ring , as it were . Their problem child here is a dog clearly modeled after the pre-eminent second banana , the Ed Norton character from the show The Honeymooners . I half expect the words , " Ralphie boy " to glide through the air , a punch line in search of a set up ( or vice versa ) . A great short , with gags aplenty . Good script and great voicework by Butler highlight this one . Well worth looking out for . Most recommended .
Popeye creates his own nightmare here , but solves the mess in the end .	In this one , Popeye " teaches " Olive how to drive . I'm curious as to who taught Popeye , as he neglects to impart Important Rule # 1 : Pay attention to the road when navigating any vehicle anywhere . It isn't that Olive is totally inattentive . She's just not attentive to minor trivialities-like steering or the traffic around her . The title here shouldn't be " Wimmin Hadn't Oughta Drive " but rather , " Don't Let Olive Oyl Have Control Over Anything More Complex To Operate Than a Toothpick " . Though I must confess that Popeye is no great mental heavyweight either , as he permits Olive behind the wheel in the first place ! Great sight gags make this loads of fun . Jack Mercer was as great as always and the ending is fittingly apropos . Worth seeking out and most recommended .
One of many movies done after Grand Hotel with all-star ensemble casts , but unlike most of the others , this one works !	In the wake of the success of Grand Hotel , there were a number of attempts to duplicate its formula . Where this one succeeds admirably , others failed . Much of the credit goes to the cast and the script . Jean Harlow is wonderful , as are Wallace Beery and the Barrymores ( who , unless I'm mistaken , never have a scene together ) and most of the others are very good . The Academy totally ignored this one , for whatever reason . I hope most people don't make the same mistake they did . It has at least one classic exchange between Harlow and Marie Dresser regarding Harlow's recounting of a book she'd read . Dresser's reaction and rejoinder are delightfully done and delivered . You'll laugh , you'll cry , you'll enjoy . Most heartily recommended !
Very good Droopy cartoon	This short is a very good Tex Avery Droopy . Droopy is the cartoon " Everyman " who somehow manages to come out on top whatever the odds are or the forces arrayed against him . Tex Avery's principal continuing character while at MGM , I wouldn't be at all surprised if Droopy was the character appearing in the most Tex Avery shorts of any continuing character Avery ever worked with . Given the characters he worked with at Warner Brothers , that's saying something ! Good to see that it's in print . Well worth seeing . Recommended , particularly for Lina Romay sigh
One of my favorite Tex Avery shorts .	This is one of my favorite Tex Avery cartoons . It's Tex in full stride and typical of his Warner Brothers work . It even has Tex doing voice work ( appropriately , because he was a big man ) as a walrus . There are celebrity caricatures sprinkled here and there , but the music is what sets this apart . Just a bit of trivia : Warner's caricatured many famous stars , most of whom didn't seem to mind terribly , at least not out loud . But Bing Crosby did mind and once apparently talked of suing . I doubt he would have . Likely , he would have lost and he would have come off looking more than a bit foolish . Great cartoon and a very rapid-fire , almost manic delivery . The closing line is a scream ! Most definitely worth tracking down and watching . Most recommended , particularly for anyone who likes Avery or swing / jazz ( and we do mean you ! ) .
How Courage the Cowardly Dog started	This short was made for the Cartoon Network as a part of their Cartoon Cartoon series , aired in theaters and was nominated for the Academy Award for Animated Short . The rules have been changed to preclude nominees from being part of a series or conceived originally for television from being eligible . I personally think this is an excellent short and while I understand the logic behind the rules change , I consider it a shame nonetheless . The success of this short led to a series called Courage the Cowardly Dog , one of the better series in a line-up of series that is widely variable as to quality ( some of it quite good , all too much of it poor indeed ) and is well worth watching . Cartoon Network still shows it occasionally . Recommended .
Will Vinton Studios stretches its muscles a bit .	While Will Vinton and the studio carrying his name are best known for Claymation ( a term coined and either copyrighted or service marked by Vinton , but also a good general description of the animation style ) , the studio and / or Vinton does occasionally produce works directed by others in other styles . The Creation is an excellent example . Mr . Resistor is yet another . Using stop-motion , this is a much more serious piece than the typical Vinton release , though there are some humorous touches . Anyone looking for a pile of giggles is apt to be disappointed . But the short is engaging , the animation is top-notch and the production values are up to the usual high standards . As Vinton was shown the door ( abruptly and rather unceremoniously ) earlier this year , by the partner who recently acquired a larger interest in the studio , also this year , it's highly unlikely that much effort will be expended on less profitable things such as short animation , which is sad , because you can test out ideas and techniques in short films first , without the financial risks inherent in features . Part of the reason Disney was so financially successful early on was the success they had in training crews on shorts and learning what worked ( and didn't ) an the smaller ( comparatively cheaper ) projects . I hope I'm wrong , because animated shorts are an art form in and of themselves and the Will Vinton Studios were very good at them . Recommended .
The most musically-oriented Heckle and Jeckle I've seen	This short has Heckle and Jeckle running a diner . Since I want to discuss some details , there will be spoilers : While there have been other Heckle and Jeckle shorts which have featured songs ( such as Hair Cut-ups and House Busters ) , they really weren't what you would call musical cartoons . This one is a little different . At one point , Heckle and Jeckle " conduct " an " orchestra " composed of some of their customers , who " play " their utensils and even their food ! The sounds that issue forth are tonal more than strictly musical , but a distinct tune can be heard . There are other nice bits in here , like a customer who has a bit more difficulty with an order of Mexican " jumping beans " than he probably expected when he ordered them . In the midst of all this , two robbers come upon the diner and expect it to be easy pickings-not terribly bright , these two . There's a particularly entertaining bit which uses a dishwasher as a weapon toward the end of this cartoon , the culmination of Heckle and Jeckle's defense of their property . The short closes as it opens-with Jeckle singing the opening line of a song - " Come to our diner , let us fill your platter . We guarantee that when you leave , you'll be a whole lot fatter ! " Very good short and well worth the effort to find . Recommended .
Quite funny , as well as a bit wistful and bittersweet .	Given the nature of its premise and the country of origin being Russia , it's a fairly logical guess that the title is a reference to Yuri Gagarin , the Russian cosmonaut who became the first man to climb into a glorified tin can and be shot into orbit around the Earth . This is a very cute , often funny and sometimes poignant cartoon about getting what you wish for . That it doesn't always turn out as you wish it to is the ironic twist here . This can be found on one of the Spike and Mike Festival of Animation compilations and is well worth looking for . Highly recommended .
One of the funniest Donald Duck shorts Disney made .	This short is clever and very funny , as it follows Donald through the process of building and flying a plane he makes entirely from plastic ! I ask you , how secure would you feel riding in a plane made of plastic constructed and piloted by a very impatient and short-tempered duck . Parachutes , anyone ? Sadly , this is not in print . It does occasionally air on The Ink and Paint Club and is well worth tracking down . Recommended .
Very good later Woody Woodpecker	This short is one of the better ones that the Lantz studios produced in the 1960s . There are echoes reminiscent of Tex Avery's short Sh-h-h here , but this one has an energy and charm all its own . I feel extremely sorry for the poor guy here . The ending is perfect ! This one is worth tracking down . Most recommended .
After 65 years , this film is still all too timely	This film deals with the Irish rebellion in the 1920s and more specifically one man's life after he informs on a friend for the bounty on his head and the subsequent consequences . Watching the film , I got the feeling that you could take the script and with just some minor updates , do it again and it , sadly , would still fit contemporary events . But te remake wouldn't be nearly as good . A magnificent performance by Victor McLaglen ( for which he deservedly got an Oscar ) and a fine ensemble cast that includes most , if not all the actors with brogues in Hollywood at the time , most of them recognizable character actors either established at the time or just starting out . A very good film well worth watching . Highly recommended .
Excellent cast , but an even better script	You have here a situation that is rarer than you might imagine-a top-notch cast with an even better script . This is a delightful film with fine performances all around and some of the best dialogue ! Strangely , none of the cast were nominated for their work here , although three were nominated for other performances in other films they did that year . The script deservedly won an Oscar as did the director . This is a joy to watch and the voice-over narration is perfectly handled throughout . Highly recommended !
Cute , well executed short about a ballet school	This cartoon is a humorous and rather charming look at a ballet school , rather overeager management and its harried but able instructress . Well animated and with an engaging story , the ending is quite appropriate and hilarious . Well worth watching . Recommended .
Tim Burton , eat your heart out !	On the whole , I actually think that Tim Burton would find this one amusing if it ever crossed his field of vision . I think James Whale would probably have loved it too . Not your typical Christmas cartoon , by any means . Sentimentalist that I am , I like to think that when Frannie grew up , she got an appropriate job , like working for an HMO or something like that . Macabre little short with a heart ( pulsing madly in a jar , no doubt ) of at least bronze , if not gold . It's on Spike and Mike's Festival of Animation , Vol 3 , I think . Well worth watching , this one gets an " A " for sheer chutzpah alone . Recommended .
Very strange short with a small part for an early take on Betty Boop .	This is a BImbo cartoon and quite an odd one it is too . Betty Boop makes a relatively brief appearance towards the latter half of the short and at the end and her look is slighly different in this early short . Exceedingly strange things happen throughout to say the least ! Great fun but definitely an acquired taste . In print and available . Well worth watching . Recommended .
Some days , it just doesn't pay to get up in the morning .	Poor Barney ( in more than one sense , at that ) , he goes to a great deal of trouble to find a treasure , only to run into a gopher that makes his life miserable ( the Marquise de Gopher , perhaps ) and thus we are treated to a raft of sight gags almost painful to watch executed with obvious glee ( I wonder if the scriptwriter disliked Barney ) for everyone but the victim . The ending of this one reminds me of a quote attributed to Charles Beaumont regarding success in Hollywood that it's " like climbing up a mountain of ( fertilizer ) to pick a rose growing on top , only to discover when you've reached your goal that you've lost your sense of smell . " To say that poor Barney is the butt of a cruel joke from the universe is an understatement . You can almost hear the rimshot at the end . One of the better late Barney Bear shorts , which didn't always work , because the second set featured a " nice " Barney without the offsetting gruffness that made the first incarnation entertaining . Well worth watching . Most recommended .
The Old Woman Who Lived in the Shoe-Fleischer style !	Like Disney , the Fleischers took fairy tales and adapted them for cartoons . But the Fleischers added their own twists to these cartoons . They weren't Disney , never could be and their weakest work is when they tried to out-mouse the Mouse . The highlight here is a great rendition of the song , " Mama Don't ' Low " as essayed by Smiley Burnette , a character actor most associated with westerns , principally as Gene Autrey's sidekick . His voice is almost unmistakeable and the energy of the cartoon , which starts slowly , picks up considerably once he starts singing . Visually nice with a few other moments , notably the ending . This short can be found on the Somewhere In Dreamland DVD compilation in a separate section as one of four shorts considered too poor in condition to fully restore . While not as beautiful as the restored shorts , it is most certainly watchable . Well worth seeing . Recommended .
Time-honored and well-tested conceit .	Tex Avery used a plot device here that he used in several cartoons : A character or characters want to avoid being heard by another character . Another character does their level best to cause them to disturb the character , setting the stage for his much-beloved sight gags fired rapidly at the audience . Cartoons are an artform and animated shorts have differing limitations and requirements from longer works . Conventions , plot devices and gimmicks have been developed over the years . Tex Avery developed and / or refined many of these over the years and is , in my view , the most seminal creative force in the history of the animated short . He was an extraordinary artist . This is a funny , engaging , delightful short with a hysterical ending and one of his better efforts . Well worth watching . Recommended .
An excellent , if somewhat flawed , look at the life and work of James Whale	I've always been fascinated by James Whale , if for no other reason than the fact that , in one career , he directed Frankenstein and The Invisible Man on one hand and also directed the 1936 version of Showboat and The Great Garrick ! That kind of dichotomy is not something you see every day . All four films are at least very good and two are exceptional . Gods and Monsters is very much a film about people and Ian McKellen does his best work that I've seen to date . But Lynn Redgrave's performance is even better and probably her best ever . Make no mistake , this is McKellen's film . Aided by an excellent script and with most of the performances top-notch , McKellen delivers a fine portayal of Whale . Brenden Fraser is the one somewhat of a clinker here . He has his moments , but for the most part , he is barely adequate and at times isn't terribly believable . Had he done a better job , Gods and Monsters could have been in the Best Picture race instead of The Thin Red Line . But even at that , this is well worth your time .
Woody's first appearance , but it's an Andy Panda short .	Happens all the time-a seasoned pro gives a young unknown a break and it makes the unknown a star ! Woody went on to eclipse Andy Panda in popularity and was the top draw for Lantz studios in the years that followed . But the two always had a cordial , if somewhat bizarre , friendship , appearing in a number of shorts together . They were often seen vacationing together in their off-screen time , unlike well-known rivals at two other major studios and retired together with their families somewhere in California . Great short that's lots of fun . Well worth tracking down . Highly recommended .
Visually striking short with a rather old premise	This short , deservedly nominated for an Academy Award , shows off what CGI can do to far better effect than using them to save money on large crowd scenes in epics ever will ( or can ) . Here there be mild spoilers : Having characters arguing with the person who created them is an old idea . But most ideas are old and have been , probably since the days of Shakespeare . This animated short acquits itself quite well in that regard . But the delight here is the visuals . This short is ten years old . As far as computer animation is concerned , that's dinosaur time . It's still visually impressive now . This is included on the Canadian DVD release Ryan Special Edition and , to judge by the running time listed , is probably on the US release coming out August 2nd . The DVD is worth it for Ryan alone . To have the end as well is icing on the cake . Recommended .
Excellent silent mix of live-action and animation .	This is along the same lines as the Alice shorts Disney did in the 1920s , only the star isn't the live-action little girl but Ko-Ko the Clown , the first animated star Fleischer Studios had . Here , Ko-Ko has a series of adventures with a little girl who shrinks in size and goes with Ko-ko . Very well-executed and the ending is rather charming . At this point in time ( up until The Skeleton Dance ) , it could easily be argued that the Fleischers were Disney's equal and in some ways , his superiors . They were certainly the principal competition until Warner Brothers and , later , MGM leapfrogged ahead of them and Fleischer Studios lost some steam . The Production Code and tunnel vision on their part played significant roles in their slow disintegration . But when they were hitting on all cylinders , they achieved great things . Well worth finding . Most recommended .
Hubie and Bert doing what they do best-causing no end of trouble	This cartoon short , an Oscar nominee , features Hubie and Bert ( " Yeah , yeah , sure , sure " ) tormenting poor Claude for the first time . Poor Clude didn't fare terribly well in any of his cartoons , either with Hubie and Bert or in other cartoons , but this is by far the most devastatingly funny appearance by any of them . You really get to feel quite sorry for poor Claude after a while here . He just happens to be in the way here . He doesn't do anything to deserve this nightmare . He's simply there . Recommended .
Bizarre , quirky , outlandish animation-in other words , a Bill Plympton cartoon	Bill Plympton is an acquired taste , one I have acquired . This short is outrageous , strange and at times unnerving , to say the least . Which is pretty much the norm for his work . This is an excellent , if somewhat bizarre , short , although those who harbor the mistaken notion that animation is strictly for children are likely to run screaming from the room before the first minute has run in the one ! Well worth finding . Recommended with the caveats expressed above .
The best of Tex Avery's cartoons giving human characteristics to inanimate objects	This cartoon was nominated for an Oscar , which is welcome although a bit puzzling , as this is a prototypical Tex Avery cartoon-take something ordinary , twist it in some odd or extraordinary way and fire sight gags at the audience for the bulk of the cartoon . Avery often gave inanimate objects human traits , as he does here and this is a marvelous cartoon , but he did at least a dozen that were as good or better that weren't nominated . Which proves that the Academy Awards process is as much chance as anything else . This shows on Cartoon Network often . Recommended
Porky's sole Oscar nod and it took a battle of crooning fowl to get it for him !	This cartoon , nominated for Oscar , was Porky's only shot at the gold . It's a marvelous cartoon and parodies Sinatra and Crosby , among others . Watch particularly the audition , when Porky is trying out singers to get his hens laying eggs again . The guys at Termite Terrace loved parodies , not only actors , but singers as well . The auditionees are all parodies . It's a scream and great fun figuring out who's who . Reportedly , Bing Crosby hated it when he was parodied in cartoons . How Frank Sinatra felt about it , I have no idea . Recommended .
More talky than normal for Tex Avery , but it's largely successful .	This is a cartoon that was made in a format Tex Avery wasn't always successful with-a series of loosely connected blackouts , which are little comic set-pieces . Avery didn't always do these well because each distinct piece had its own setup , joke and punchline , usually requiring more dialogue and a slower pace than Avery liked to use . This one works better than others he did because the gags are funnier and there are some sight gags here that have Avery written all over them ( in Humpty Dumpty and Jack Be Nimble particularly ) and the pacing is a little better . As I said , this type didn't really suit Avery very well . One sub-class of this type Avery did have success with , though , and it was the travelogue cartoons , I suspect because they were parodies of the often mind-numbingly bland and sophorific travelogues that were popular in the 1930s and 1940s , thus making them sitting ducks for the antic lunacy that was Avery's long suit . Decent , but not up to his better work . Worth watching once . Recommended for Tex Avery die-hard fans ( like me ) .
A fun and lively cartoon that I find very entertaining .	Through most of the mid to late 1940s , Paramount's Famous Studios did some fairly good work . Sometime in the 1950s , they kind of seemed to surrender to a rising tide of mediocrity and just turned out shorts virtually indistinguishable from each other and started strip mining the old Fliescher Studios shorts for ideas ( particularly the Popeye shorts ) . But in the 1940s , they actually did some really nice work . This short is a case in point . Because I want to talk about the short in some detail , this is a spoiler warning : This is a short focusing on a sheep named Blackie . It starts out with three lambs dancing to a jazzed up version of " Mary Had a Little Lamb " until a wolf comes along ( the characterization of the wolf and the voice all seem very familiar , but I can't quite place them ) . The wolf grabs two of them , but they get away and all three run for help to their Uncle Blackie . There's a really nice bit surrounding the sack the wolf tried to trap the lambs in that I won't spoil here . Uncle Blackie manages to get rid of the wolf in a creative ( and likely painful ) way . The lambs , of course , don't learn anything and wind up in trouble again when the wolf pretends to be " Little Boy Blue " blowing his jiving horn . The wolf lures them back to his place only to have Blackie save them at the last instant . There follows the longest section of the short , where the wolf goes after Blackie himself , with predictable ( but hilarious ) results . There are elaborate bits involving a magnifying glass and Blackie tending a bar and serving the wolf a " mint julep " made of hot sauce . Some really funny stuff in this part of the cartoon . Finally , the wolf manages to get lucky and actually catches Blackie . Not being the shiniest pebble in the pond , the wolf allows Blackie to trick him and get away , leading to the final gag and a very funny close to the short . You can find this short on the occasional VHS cassette or DVD . It's definitely worth tracking down . Most recommended .
Beautifully shot , watch this for the visually glorious surroundings and try to ignore the occasionally silly narraion	This documentary is one of the best ever produced by Disney and has both the strengths and weaknesses of most Disney documentaries-excellent visually and technically but with narration that is all too frequently vapid , silly and boring , with the added difficulty that the narrator's droning monotone almost puts me to sleep . The visuals more than make up for any shortcomings . Recommended .
The changing of Egghead	This short is , so far as I'm aware , the first ( and only ) time Egghead is called Elmer . The similarities between the two are peripheral but notable : style of dress , a lack of hair , etc . At some point , Egghead stopped appearing and Elmer started getting paired off with Bugs and Daffy instead . Was it a deliberate decision ? Possibly . Egghead was a useful , but limited , character . It makes sense that Egghead morphed into Elmer . This cartoon is a hilarious collection of bits strung together within a framing device loose enough to permit the gags but tangible enough to have a story , something which allowed Avery full rein while giving enough to the audience that they could follow along for the ride . Well worth watching . Recommended .
Droopy gives Spike a bad case of double vision	This short is an energetic little cartoon that introduces a twin brother of Droopy's for the first ( and only ) time to hilarious , if predictable effect . Good effort that makes Droopy a more interesting character . Well worth watching , even if it isn't one of Avery's best . Recommended .
Ub Iwerks closed his studio with a bang !	At least one source lists this short as the last release from Iwerks studio . If that's so , then their swan song was a most impressive finale . The sad thing is , this cartoon is better than the overwhelming majority of the shorts that preceded it , but likely got booked in far fewer theaters , because by that time there was no major studio distribution contract . A beautiful cartoon that's inventive , entertaining and has a cast of characters capable of engaging audiences and sustaining at least a short series , particularly a little wisecracking twerp who has more life and wit in an eyebrow than Flip the Frog and Willie Whopper combined ever did or probably could have . A good script helps out here too . What could have been . Ah , well-that's life . Perhaps it's just as well , as Ub Iwerks eventually wound up back with Disney , where he could work on the technical aspects of animation , virtually to his heart's content . Excellent cartoon , very much worth seeing . Highly recommended .
Ah , the pre-Code cartoons , he waxed nostalgically .	Prior to the creation of the Hays Office ( named for Will Hays , the first official censor , who left Washington just ahead of the posse , having been part of the Harding administration , the most corrupt administration pre-1968 ) and the installation of the Code in the early 1930s by these paragons of virtue , films were more free-wheeling and cartoons were no exception . The Mickey of this timeframe was closer to Dennis the Menace than the Mouse he came to be just a few years hence . In some ways , this Mickey was more interesting and more fun . Music was almost always large part of cartoons in general and in the early days of sound , was hugely important just as something of a novelty . Excellent score here and hilarious almost from first frame to last . Well worth tracking down . Most recommended .
One of the better shorts with Bugs and Yosemite Sam	This is a very engaging and humorous short with Bugs engaged in a battle of wits with Yosemite Sam . Sam makes an ideal foe for Bugs , as his temper lends itself to all manner of situations . Elmer makes a good foil , as it makes sense why a hunter would want to shoot a rabbit , but Sam opens up many more possibilities . Interestingly , one of the more effectively utilized characters in the more recent shorts made in the 1990s is Sam . Here the action centers around a property dispute and sight gags and verbal wordplay are both in abundance and a great time is had by all . Good to see it's available . Well worth watching . Most recommended .
This was made early in the Paramount Famous Studio's existence , when they were still funny !	This short was a marked contrast to much of the later output of the Famous Studios for Paramount , which was hackneyed and trite in comparison . Famous Studio was a pale successor to the Fliescher Studio and couldn't even come close to the " Big Three " - Disney , Warner Brothers and MGM-but this cartoon is actually clever , creative and funny . I want to discuss it in a little detail , so there will be spoilers below : Herman is a mouse and wants cheese-he wants it badly . The only problem is , there is a cat and that cat is best friends with the dog . The upshot is , Herman has to get past both of them to get cheese . His success in this effort can be measured by the fact that he hasn't eaten in 29 days ! He decides that his only chance is to make the dog and cat enemies , so that they'll wipe each other out , leaving him a clear and uncontested path to the refrigerator . He tries this by rather crude methods and it briefly looks like he'll succeed , but the cat and dog tumble to his schemes and trick him ( the best laid plans of mice and men often go awry and all that ) . They fake a final , mutually fatal , battle and Herman strolls to the refrigerator , only to find he's been tricked . The last part of the short is fairly good and I won't spoil it here , but it is in keeping with the overall mood of the short . Warmer Brothers did similar work and did it better , but this is a very good short , particularly when measured against the later work of the same studio just a few years later . Well worth tracking down and not that hard to find . Most recommended .
An exceptionally fine film with a great script and fine cast	This film , nominated for an Oscar , was eligible the same year as the film Z , otherwise it might have won for Foreign Language Film . The script is fantastic , the cast does superbly and the direction is as good or better than either . The principal female roles are very well-executed . The male lead is a dithering , uncertain fellow who can't seem to make up his mind about breakfast , much less anything more complicated . It's difficult to feel any great sympathy for him and I think this was intentional . Highly Recommended .
The archetype Tex Avery cartoon .	Tex Avery loved sight gags piled on top of one another , coming fast and furiously at the viewer . This short is simply one long string of sight gags in a battle of wits between a dog ( usually named Spike , but not to be confused with the Spike found in Tom and Jerry cartoons with some frequency . Same name , different dog ) and a rooster with a Type A personality . Great cartoon , but the unrelenting and unbroken chain of sight gags begins to wear on you . They almost come too fast . It's still great fun and a wonderful cartoon . Well worth watching . Recommended .
Excellent footage with an unnecessary , tacked-on , prologue	This Oscar-winning documentary features some spectacular battle footage and is generally well-done , except for the Hollywood hokum grafted onto the beginning , for who knows what reason . It's ridiculous and boring . just ignore it and watch the documentary . The documentary , sans lead-in , is recommended highly .
A bit dated , but holds up well after seventy years .	While the cartoon does have a dated feel to it in spots , the animation is excellent ( a Disney strength during the 1930s ) and it still largely works for the most part , although probably not as well for the age group raised on jump-cut , fast-pace edits and Matrix style special effects . Well worth watching . Recommended .
A satiric comedy with humor and sadness , dark with the light .	This film is an intelligent , sardonic send up of several genres that pokes fun ( affectionately ) at fairy tales , swashbucklers , love stories and basic conventions of film . One of my favorite scenes is where Inigo Montoya first confronts his quarry after years of searching . His adversary does the unexpected-and what most villains in real life WOULD do under the same circumstances , with hilarious results in the scene . Basil Rathbone probably whirled in his grave ! Not by any means Citizen Kane ( we already have one of those , anyway ) but a champ in its weight class , with a perfect score , a fine script and good performances . Far more true to the flavor of the original fairy tales that it spoofs than even the best of Disney's takes . I loved it the first time I saw it and love it more now . Well worth watching . Recommended .
An Oscar nominee and entertaining because of Speedy's two amigos , Pablo and Fernando	Speedy Gonzales was essentially a one-note character ( kind of like the Roadrunner ) so the quality of a Speedy cartoon is largely dependent on the surrounding characters and situations they get themselves into rather than Speedy himself . The two mice Speedy is rescuing frequently , Pablo and Fernando are excellent characters . The songs they sing in this are very funny and the situations that arise from their actins are what makes the cartoon . Not easy to find and rarely aired on Cartoon Network , but well worth digging up and Recommended .
Excellent cast , script in a tale of ethics vs . ease	This film features an excellent cast , ably led by Robert Donat in a performance that is superior to his marvelous performance one year later in Goodbye , Mr . Chips . As a young doctor , he begins with the highest intentions , gradually becoming cynical and disillusioned . He decides it's better to have money than scruples , with predictable results . Outstanding work as well by Rex Harrison and Rosiland Russell and a very good script . Most recommended .
Cartoons as propaganda during wartime .	This sort of cartoon was made during World War II by most , if not all , the studios as a form of propaganda . The major studios were turning out training films for the military , doing live-action propaganda and the animation departments did their share of work in that vein as well . Some had merely passing references and others , like this short , were all-out propaganda . These wartime propaganda cartoons are all too rarely seen because they often contain images that are now not considered acceptable . While I can understand the desire to not show these to children , they were never actually aimed at children in the first place . They deserve to be seen and remembered as part of our history . This one is just as well animated as the rest of the Paramount Famous Studios cartoons and is fascinating to watch . An excellent cartoon and one of the few times Popeye and Bluto worked together . Well worth seeking out and getting . Recommended .
Very funny entry in a very good series of cartoons from Warner Brothers	This cartoon was part of the " Goofy Gophers " series of cartoons and is one of the better ones . It features two of the most laughably , almost painfully polite , characters ever seen . Although Disney's " Chip ' n ' Dale " preceded them and are probably better-known , I personally like The Goofy Gophers much better because I find their manner far more appealing . Such impeccable Manners and refined behavior in the types of situations in which these two find themselves . Although sight-gags are plentiful , the dialogue is hilarious . Well worth your time . Recommended
The penultimate short from an artist who is already missed	Faith Hubley produced animated shorts with her husband John right up until his death in 1977 and continued producing and directing a short a year up until she died in December 2001 . This was her next-to-last one and has aired on the Sundance Channel . Even the more commercial work they did to help pay the bills has a special quality to it and I've yet to see anything that wasn't interesting to watch in some area , even the one or two I didn't care for . They had one Oscar winner I haven't seen and dearly wish I could ( Herb Alpert and the Tiajuana Brass Double Feature ) and I hope her last short airs on Sundance or some other location as I'd love to see it sometime , Recommended .
An enjoyable cartoon with a great closing scene	This cartoon is one of the better Clouseau cartoons . Clouseau and his sidekick are in pursuit of a mystery man , chasing him over a great many different terrains , in different weather conditions and usually with rather painful and visually comic end results for their efforts . The final scene , in which Clouseau learns the identity of his quarry , the reasons for the chase and comes away with a measure of payback , is hilarious ! Recommended .
Deep down , do all things , great and small , dream ?	The folks at Pixar do a wonderful job here . While this isn't their best short , it is definitely a fine one and the hero here is a surprising one : a little red bike , an inanimate Walter Mitty ! I got caught up in this short . Pixar really should re-release their collection of their short films . The short work they do is all at least interesting and most of it is magnificent ! Well worth hunting up and most highly recommended .
Seeing this in the original black and white is best .	While I have not seen a colorized version of this , I understand one does exist . But I hope never to see a colorized version of this , as I would never want to see The Skeleton Dance colorized and for the same reason : the cartoons make excellent use of shadows , light and dark contrasts and visuals which would be severely weakened or destroyed outright by the use of color . The spooky atmosphere of this cartoon makes black and white a perfect fit and Tex Avery and his team use this remarkably well . This excellent , if under-rated and somewhat unjustly overlooked , short deserves more attention than it seems to have gotten . While cartoons like The Skeleton Dance have clearly set the bar high for cartoons that venture into the spooky corners , cartoons like The Haunted Mouse deserve notice . This is a Tex Avery cartoon and as such is very funny , as well as technically interesting , if hardly novel by 1941 . Well worth watching , in black and white . Recommended .
Very good but typical Pink Panther cartoon	This cartoon was nominated for a Academy Award . It's a fairly good cartoon , although it is quite similar to The Pink Phink in conception , tone and execution . Not really a terribly novel cartoon by any means , but great fun and very entertaining . Recommended .
The best of the whole series , with a hilarious ending !	This is just about the only genuinely funny Captain and the Kids cartoon they made . A few were reasonably good , if not terribly memorable . But this one deserves to be seen and remembered . I suspect that the fact that , despite the title , The Captain makes but a cameo appearance has something to do with its success . The focus here is on the pirate John , a much more interesting character . John's attempts to make amends for his thoughtless actions are the bulk of the cartoon . The caroling scene is beautiful ! ! ! Suffice it to say that I've never quite heard " Hang Up the Holly in the Window " in the same way before and it will always remind me of this cartoon whenever I hear it in the future ! Painful , but effective ! Well worth tracking down . Most recommended .
A mouse named Jerry as the " Mama " to a baby woodpecker ! How charming !	This Tom and Jerry , nominated for an Oscar , concerns an egg , Jerry mouse and the joys and headaches of unexpected " motherhood " for a very surprised mouse when the egg hatches into a baby woodpecker . Tom gets involved and typical sight gags ( most rather painful to Tom from the looks of things ) abound with great rapidity , resulting in an enjoyable time for all , except for Tom , of course . Recommended .
Too bad none of the shorts in this series seem to be in print	This series of shorts was brief ( seven in total ) , but it's one of Chuck Jones ' best concepts and , sadly , not a single one appears to be in print at present , which is a pity , because they are hilarious . Sam and Ralph are an interesting combination and the idea that forms the core to these is great ! The ending to this one is particularly good . The ending to the last of the shorts ( Woolen Under Where ) is the best of them all , but this one's is a very close second . Cartoon Network runs the Sam and Ralph shorts fairly often , but they really should be in print . Well worth watching . Recommended .
One of a series of cartoons describing the future of a particular aspect of everyday life	Tex Avery did a series of cartoons describing the future-here he describes what the " Car of Tomorrow " might look like-in typical Tex Avery fashion , it is the starting point for some sight gags galore fired rapidly , one after another . There is some verbal humor in the narration , including one joke reminiscent of Death Race 2000 ! The best of the " Tomorrow " series , it's an often hysterically funny short . Runs on Cartoon Network fairly often . Recommended .
Excellent cartoon with Daffy's best exit line ever	This cartoon parodies American television in the latter 1950s in general and several shows in particular ( like Art Linkletter's " People Are Funny " ) and provides opportunities for gags galore for Bugs and Daffy in the process . The cartoon pricipally plays on Daffy's greed to set everything in motion and takes off from there . It ends with the best exit line spoken by Daffy ever ! Excellent cartoon well worth watching . Highly recommended .
Until fairly recently , Goofy has been all too overlooked .	Walt Disney and his animation staff gave the world a great many fascinating , entertaining and memorable characters over the years , but one of the best has also , paradoxically , been largely given short shrift by far too many people-Goofy , who was and is , in many ways , far more interesting than Donald Duck ever was or could be and even gives Mickey a run for his money at times . Where Mickey and Donald needed foils to work exceptionally well , Goofy works quite well simply placed in a situation and having jokes bounce off him ( sometimes quite literally ) without needing a Pluto or a Chip n ' Dale around to provide a source for tension and / or interaction . Besides , in a pinch , every character in a cartoon could resemble Goofy ( like this one , for instance ) if need be . This is a marvelous short from the mid-1940s that holds up very well indeed . Typically superb animation ( a Disney hallmark throughout their history , as a general rule ) and hilarious premise and narration . Well worth watching . Recommended .
Lewis Carroll meets Disney , with remarkably good results .	One of the better marriages of a classic book ( actually , books-both Alice in Wonderland and Through the Looking-glass were adapted in part ) to Disney adaptation . Just about everything clicks here-the animation is top-notch , the music is very good , the voice casting was inspired , in some cases . All in all , it's one of Disney's best efforts . Most certainly a feather in their caps . Recommended .
Good film , but overlong and with a surprisingly tepid performance by Peter Finch	The Nun's Story is a good film , well worth watching . But it's at least half-an-hour too long and at points Peter Finch seems almost bored with his role . Audrey Hepburn is very good and excellent work is done by most of the cast , particularly Dean Jagger and Edith Evans . The standout performance , however , is by Coleen Dewhurst , who is incredible as a mental patient . Good cast that , Finch being the exception , does good to great work . Well worth watching .
Somewhat fanciful , but engaging , Hollywood dramatization of history	Hollywood is known to take liberties with fact in its productions and certainly did so here . But for all that , this is a visually beautiful and very engaging short that won an Oscar ( deservedly ) . The short runs as filler on Turner Classic Movies on no set schedule along with tons of other shorts . Recommended .
" You make me want to be a better man . "	How Titanic beat both this and L . A . Confidential for Picture is unfathomable . There is more romance in the line I quoted from As Good As It Gets in the subject line than Titanic has in the whole of the movie . This film has more ( and better ) quality performances from its cast ( even the bit roles ) , a better script , equally good or better production values ( save for special effects ) and will likely stand the test of time more solidly than Titanic . Jack Nicholson chews the scenery ( so what else is new ? ) , but the character is off-the-wall in the first place . Helen Hunt gives the performance of her career . The script is intelligent , funny , tender and biting-a solid piece of work . Big overblown epic beats solid character study most of the time , sadly . Well worth seeing . Most recommended .
Tex Avery's other Chilly Willy cartoon	This is one of the two Chilly Willy cartoons that Tex Avery directed , the other being Legend of Rockabye Point , where Chilly is basically an extra in his own cartoon . Chilly's front and center here , but the gags are courtesy of a trademark Avery dog . By all accounts , Tex saw nothing inherently funny in the penguin in general or Chilly in particular , so he created the dog to get some laughs and Chilly was basically along for the ride . A good cartoon with lots of sight gags , per the Tex Avery style . It's too bad he only did four shorts in his second stint with Lantz . One wonders what might have been had he stuck with Lantz . Worth hunting up . Recommended .
This is one of those rare occasions when Donald is a semi-sympathetic characters ( sort of ) .	I generally spend my time waiting for Donald to get his well deserved comeuppance in most of his cartoons . This one , nominated for an Oscar , is one of the few times Donald even comes close to being a sympathetic character . Oh , Donald is his usual considerate , affable self , alright , but at a point in the cartoon toward the end , he actually becomes a bit more likable ad I almost felt sorry for him at times ( almost ) . Very well done . This is shown from time to time on the Ink and Paint Club . Recommended .
A very charming little cartoon !	This is a short that features an incredibly odd and quirky character named Duton Lang . No description could adequately do Lang justice . I can't really do justice to the cartoon . Duton Lang is quite a character-but the same can also be said of the narrator as well . Quirky , far too neglected short . Worth tracking down . Most recommended .
An intensely visual cartoon , pay attention to the viewing stands particularly !	This is possibly the second-most caricature laden short ( after Mother Goose Goes Hollywood ) that Disney ever did and they aren't just playing polo , either . Half the fun is spotting familiar faces ( cartoon characters and caricatures of celebrities ) , while the other half is watching the strangest polo match ever put on celluloid ! Every time I've seen this one , I wonder what various celebrities thought of this one , if they saw it at all , particularly what Clark Gable may have thought ! Very visual , with the gags principally being sight gags and the Disney principals taking a back seat to the caricatures . Well worth watching . Most recommended .
Early Tex Avery , before he had his style fleshed out completely	This is an early Tex Avery short that is not done quite in the style that would mark his later efforts . An early Porky Pig adventure , Avery more or less cut his teeth as a director helping to develop Porky , as well as playing a major role in the development of Bugs Bunny , Daffy Duck and Egghead / Elmer Fudd , before leaving Warner Brothers after a dispute with producer Leon Schlesinger and moving to MGM in 1942 . Well worth looking for , it was originally in black ad white . Recommended .
Marvelous script and great performances by the leads make this an excellent film	I saw this movie when it first came out and I remember it vividly from over thirty years later . I recently saw it again , expecting the passage of time to have dimmed my fondness for it somewhat . It was just as wonderful as I remembered it , but I understood things at the age of 39 that I did not at ten . Melvyn Douglas and Gene Hackman deservedly got Oscar nominations for their splendid work here . There is also a marvelous script , also nominated for an Oscar . I expect I will remember the last line until I die . Most Highly Recommended
The screwball comedy of all time and one of the biggest head-scratchers in Academy Award history ! ! !	This film is an absolute joy to watch ! With an exceptional cast , four of whom were nominated for Oscars ( one in each of the four categories , although I personally think Eugene Pallette should have been nominated instead of Mischa Auer for Supporting Actor ) , a delightfully witty script that was also nominated for an Oscar and with excellent direction by Gregory LaCava , who made it six nominations all told for the film . Here comes the head-scratcher : no nomination for Picture in a year when TEN films got nominated ! ! ! For one nominee ( libeled Lady ) , Picture was the only nomination it got ! ! ! All in all , one of the more peculiar actions in Academy history . Ironically , William Powel was in both My Man Godfrey and Libeled Lady . Bells and whistles go off and cannons roar and peace and joy reign all throughout the land ! Most Recommended ! ! !
Would never be confused with Barney !	This short is beautifully realized , with excellent animation and good production values . Sort of a fairy tale , but not a traditional one . Sort of Gary Larson meets the Brothers Grimm . I thought it was marvelous ! Well worth the trouble to track down . Recommended .
One of the musical cartoons that Warner Brothers usually did quite well and a very worthy effort	A nominee for an Oscar , this cartoon has excellent artwork , a great musical score and an entertaining premise to make it a most worthy effort indeed . A very cute cartoon that uses artwork to provide a counterpoint to the premise on occasion . The music alone would make it worth watching this one . Some of the jokes are rather dated , but it's still a very well done cartoon . Recommended .
This is Grampy's cartoon-Betty Boop is secondary	The Betty Boop series of shorts were wonderful Grampy is probably my favorite secondary character . Koko was probably the strongest supporting character in the series , but I like Grampy more . This is his cartoon , hands down . He did that more than once in the series . While not the best of the series , one of the better ones certainly . The bulk of the series is in print and available and well worth having . Recommended .
The evolution of Elmer Fudd	The major Warner Brothers characters , at least the early ones , evolved over time into the characters best known today . Bugs , Daffy , Porky and Tweety all started out looking quite different in the beginning . But perhaps the most involved and extensive changes were made by Elmer Fudd . He started out as Egghead , got a name change to Elmer and then a physical change of appearance not once , but twice ! This is the early , more rounded Elmer . Probably one of the best of the early Elmers and an excellent short . Well worth watching . Recommended .
The second of Tex Avery's " adaptations " of Uncle Tom's Cabin	Tex Avery paid an earlier visit to this territory , a mostly benign cartoon called " Uncle Tom's Bungalow " that is rarely seen due to some of the caricatures . This is a more full-blown Tex Avery cartoon-vintage Avery sight gags from start to finish . It also is seldom seen for fear of offending people . Somewhere along the line , possibly with the advent of television , it was decided that cartoons were for children . They are not , at least not solely , but in the United States , they are treated as such . This is a good cartoon . Not the best I've seen , but a good cartoon that should be seen . A bit rough in spots for kids , but no reason to bury it as though it were radioactive waste ! Well worth hunting down . Recommended .
One of a series of very short cartoons made as training films for the Army by Warner Brothers during WWII .	This is one of 28 short ( three to four minutes each , typically ) cartoons showing how NOT to be a good soldier and the potential consequences of doing or saying the wrong things . Targeted solely at servicemen , the language was far more graphic and animation more adult in nature on a few occasions . Censored is about the need to censor correspondence home so that the enemy doesn't pick up vital information from the seemingly innocuous , casual remark ( i . e . , troop movements , location , unit number , et cetera ) . Private Snafu is the world's worst soldier and the name is an acronym-Situation Normal , All Fouled Up being the kinder , gentler meaning given in polite parlance . Excellent series , well worth seeing . Highly recommended .
Although clearly influenced by Disney , also different enough to succeed on its own merit .	This short shows clear influences on the animators by the Disney short , The Band Concert . The styles of the two studios , however , were so markedly different that the two cartoons are both quite different and can both be enjoyed on their own merits . Excellent short well worth the time and effort to track down . Most recommended .
" Oh , this is the story of Dangerous Dan , "	I will be discussing some of the details of this short so there will be mild spoilers : This is one of my favorite Heckle and Jeckle shorts . One of the things which makes this cartoon special , at least for me , is the song that Heckle and Jeckle sing about the villain , Dangerous Dan , the first line of which opens the short and is also the summary line for this comment . The lyrics and the visuals on the screen often match up ( sometimes rather loosely ) , but the song itself is hilarious . There are also some very good visual gags , such as Dan riding up in a cloud of dust and when the cloud settles , you see he's pedaling a bicycle . Dan also eats a miniature barber pole in the manner that a child might eat a candy cane . Dan wants our heroes to " make me look pretty ! " and fires a shot to emphasize the point . Naturally , since this is a Heckle and Jeckle cartoon and not a Dangerous Dan short , he starts out at a disadvantage . Since he's also clearly the " bad guy " here , he's doomed , as Heckle and Jeckle almost invariably come out on top against the really bad guys in their shorts . The cartoon ends , appropriately enough , with Heckle and Jeckle singing the last verse of the " Dangerous Dan " song , with Dan considerably the worse for wear and quite unhappy . This is a thoroughly marvelous short and is well worth making the effort to try and find . Too bad that the Terrytoons aren't in print , so far as I know , anyway . Most recommended .
Spooky proof that the old cartoons were aimed at adults by adults .	This is a fascinating cartoon-sort of a cross between Skeleton Dance and the much later Brave Little Tailor . A dramatic , rather scary short in spots , with some incredible visuals throughout , but most particularly a long scene set in a tunnel . Disney did some exceptional work in the early 1930s and the quality is still clearly evident even some 70 years later . There is apparently a computer-colorized version skulking about . I haven't seen it and , to judge by the colorized early Mickey Mouse black and whites that I have seen , I hope I never have it inflicted on my retinas . Part of the scariness here is the use of shadows in the black and white background . Colorizing this lessens the impact of those shadows . Excellent cartoon with an early appearance by Pluto . Well worth watching . Recommended .
Thoroughly charming and engaging cartoon	This is one of the most delightful cartoons Disney made in the 1940s , as well as being a very effective showcase for Pluto . Good use of music as well . Nominated for an Oscar in 1947 , this shows up every so often on Disney Channel's The Ink and Paint Club . Recommended .
An example of Disney's neglect of a treasure trove .	This marvelous film , while occasionally being run in the wee hours on the Disney Channel , has been otherwise shoved to the back of the vault and for being woefully neglected , has suffered a much better fate than much of Disney's output in the 1940's and 1950's . Disney regularly put out one and two-reel shorts and documentaries back then and the majority probably haven't been seen in decades . Ben and Me is a case in point-not in print and rarely shown , while we get the umpteenth replay of Cosmic Capers-a good short , but with so much material available , why not air some less-seen stuff ? This film , for example , a funny take on Ben Franklin and why he accomplished so much . One wonders what Edison must have consulted with . Most recommended .
Wonderful film with a marvelous cast and an even better script	This film is an absolute delight from start to finish . Starring Audrey Hepburn sigh , who is perfect in the lead role of Sabrina , with excellent performances by William Holden and Humphrey Bogart as well and an absolute gem of a script to boot . Quite possibly the romantic comedy of all time ! Won the Oscar for the costumes , which are gorgeous ! I love this film ! ! Most recommended .
Who cares about a strike with Popeye and Bluto around ?	This is much cheaper than attending a major league game and more entertaining to boot , although at times it bears little resemblance to anything drawn up by Abner Doubleday . Olive has the best scene , right at the end . Great fun and worth watching . Recommended .
Nothing can catch the fastest mouse in all Mexico !	This is one of the better later shorts from the DePatie-Freleng years . Sylvester goes high tech in his attempts to catch Speedy with no more success than he had chasing Tweety for so many years . Sylvester's not a terribly skilled predator or so it appears here . Fun , entertaining short with mediocre musical score , but worth watching . Recommended .
Excellent adaptation of the fairy tale with the vocal talent of the great Hans Conreid	This is a wonderful adaptation of the Hans Christian Andersen fairy tale , done with typical attention to detail by the UPA studio and featuring the voice of Hans Conreid . Given his rich and distinctive voice , it is hardly surprising that Conreid did quite a bit of voice work in animation , both narration and character acting . While never identified as the primary vocal talent for a studio , Conreid did work for most of them , particularly Lantz and Disney . He's perfect here , appropriately gullible and smarmy by turns . Well worth the effort to track down . Recommended .
I actually feel sorry for Brodie on more than one occasion here !	This short would be very difficult to discuss without talking about specific details , so there be spoilers here : This short has far more funny lines than it has visual gags ( though there is one beautiful bit with a little dog expressing its opinion of Steve Brodie in a very visual and hilarious manner ) , with even Brodie getting a few good lines . Bugs is everywhere here ( literally ) as he makes Steve Brodie a very unhappy man through the course of the short . One of the funniest lines here is spoken by a disembodied voice , when Brodie first visits Swami Rabbitima : " Enter , O seeker of knowledge . . . ( pause ) . . . That's YOU , fathead ! " and Brodie is then struck on the head ! Brodie then drops into his very own nightmare-The Land of a Thousand Rabbits ( or perhaps just one a great many times ) . Along the way , he's bounced by a gorilla ( and not just any gorilla , but one wearing a starched collar ) called a masher , beaten by a cop and baked in an oven . Just one of those days , I guess ! There's a framing sequence which bookends the body of the short that's rather cute as well . This short is on Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Vol . 3 and is well worth getting . Recommended .
A character-driven movie , with Julie Walters easily in the driver's seat	This film is primarily character-oriented , although the script is quite good . As such , the leads must perform well or the film will die . They pull it off admirably . While Michael Caine is marvelous in his role , the part is one he could do in his sleep . Rita is the linch-pin role and Julie Waters carries the film , playing the role exceedingly well . Without a dynamic performance from her , you migh as well turn this into bookmarks . Recommended .
A very low-key and surprisingly effective animation from the National Film Board of Canada	This short , nominated for an Academy Award , at first blush , seems rather simplistic and a trifle trite and ordinary . Amusing but minor , which is atypical of the NFBC as a general rule . But it benefits from more than one viewing and its very low-key nature works in its favor . The sense of the ordinary that permeates the whole short makes the situation even more amusingly absurd each time you see it and you begin to find layers-kind of like peeling an onion . Definitely worth the effort to seek it out . Canadians have somewhat easier access to NFBC's productions than others do . There is a website that sells videos , but only persons residing in Canada can order online , though they do sell elsewhere . Most worthwhile . Highly recommended .
Delightful short in the Heckle and Jeckle series	This is a very good short in a series where the shorts tend to fit one of two basic categories-either Heckle and Jeckle are troublemakers and their adversaries are put-upon good guys , or Heckle and Jeckle are the good guys and their adversaries deserve the rough treatment they receive . This is an example of the latter type of short . There are a few exceptions , but that's how most of the shorts work out . I will be discussing some details , so this will serve as a spoiler warning : Heckle and Jeckle are in the demolition business . The house they are scheduled to wreck is the current hideout of a bad guy hiding from the police . As doors start disappearing and bathroom fixtures are being pulled from the walls , the crook begins to realize something is making his hiding place disappear around him . Eventually , he crosses paths with the two magpies and they start seriously trying to ruin his whole day ! They start doing things to a flight of stairs , among other things , until the crook winds up where he belongs and they drive off in their truck , singing , as they were when the short started . There are at least three shorts which have a " theme song " , if you will-this one , Hair Cut-ups and Blue Plate Symphony . All three are rather catchy tunes and the three are among the best the series has to offer . A most enjoyable cartoon and well worth hunting down . Recommended .
Marvelous short . One of his best .	This short is wonderful ! Take a pilgrim that sounds a lot like Droopy , add a turkey who sounds like Jimmy Durante , add a bear wearing a sandwich sign , let Tex Avery stir it all together and you have a great cartoon . Sight gags everywhere , especially the bear ( typical Avery running gag ) but beware ye old edited print off ye Cartoon Network-this is a classic . Most definitely worth looking for . Most recommended .
Excellent variation on Jack and the Beanstalk	George Pal did a series of shorts centeing on a character named Jasper . This one was nominated for an Academy Award and is a delightful re-telling of Jack and the Beanstalk . George Pal's shorts have all but vanished from public view , which is unfortunate , because they deserve to be seen . The disappearance of the Jasper shorts really saddens me , because they most likely have ( incorrectly ) vanished because of the racial content . Ironically , the Jasper shorts present blacks in a largely positive , non-stereotypical light for the most part and are very well done . Most recommended .
The very first appearance of Private Snafu , the unwitting best weapon-for the enemy .	The Private Snafu series was composed of training films made by various animators , directors and writers working for the Warner Brothers animation department ( I think MGM did a couple , but mostly it was the boys from Termite Terrace ) and they revolved around the worst soldier in the Army . The name Snafu is derived from an acronym of the phrase , " Situation Normal-All Fouled Up " ( this is the more socially acceptable variant ) and quite aptly describes our " hero " . This short serves as an introduction to the series , which was shown solely to the troops and is thus more risqu and the content quite often coarser and more colorful , like the standard version of the above-mentioned acronym . Excellent series well worth watching . Most recommended .
The trapper becomes the trapped !	This is a very well done short which was directed by Frank Tashlin , who had the distinction of directing both animated shorts and live-action features . He did quite a bit , yet , to the general public , his name probably isn't as familiar as Chuck Jones's is , or perhaps Friz Freleng or Bob Clampett . His work was very good . As I will be commenting somewhat on this short , this is a spoiler warning : Porky Pig is the guardian of the animals in the woods and he puts up sign after sign , making trapping , fishing , hunting , fires ( and just about anything else ) illegal . So , of course , a trapper comes along , finds all the signs incredibly funny and does everything he isn't supposed to do . Here come two beavers ( probably brothers-they fight too much with each other to be friends ) who both try and get some fruit off a string placed above a trap . One of them gets caught and the other rushes off to find Porky . Porky frees the little beaver and quite a few other animals from various traps . There's a scene where the various animals go in one door of Porky's cabin with obvious injuries , only to come out another door with their injuries healed . The trapper discovers that all his traps have been sprung , but are empty and goes looking for whoever emptied his traps . He finds Porky and starts beating on him something fierce . An animal spots this and sends out a distress signal . Animals pour out of every corner of the woods to return the favor and rescue Porky . This is not a good time to be the trapper . He gets attacked from all sides by all kinds of animals and winds up trying to flee them on skis , with no luck ( he's even attacked by turtles-in snow , no less ! ) . He finally winds up buried upside down in the snow and there is much rejoicing . The final gag is cute . This short is available on the Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Volume 4 , which is a very good set , just like the three earlier releases . Recommendations for both this short and the whole collection .
Iwerks near his best on his own .	Ub Iwerks was a technical genius , but often plots and story were afterthoughts . Exceptionally visual cartoons not needing much plotting work splendidly , while those needing strong characterization , story or plot fare less well as a rule . This one is an exception to that . Visually excellent and technically superb , this is also engaging and has fascinating characters and a good plot . Iwerks was creative in his own area of expertise and one of the reasons that Iwerks and Walt Disney worked so well together was that their strengths were complementary to one another . This is Iwerks Studios near their best . Absolutely beautiful short , it's good to see this in print . Well worth getting . Recommended .
Visually very impressive , particularly Olive cheering on the sidelines .	Fleischer Studios , particularly in the early years , did some extremely visually well-crafted cartoons . Most of the more unusual ones were Koko the Clown and Betty Boop shorts , but there were a number of Popeye shorts that are notable for great visual bits too . The most interesting ones here are Popeye giving new meaning to the nickname " Crazylegs " and Olive doing a cheer on the sidelines for Bluto ( yes , Bluto-Olive is fickle , remember ? ) that reveals she's a contortionist . While not as good as Football Toucher Downer , this has its moments and a running gag that features Wimpy . What else can you ask for ? There is a colorized version . The black and white is superior . Well worth watching . Recommended .
The best of the Barney Bear cartoons-it's hilarious !	The Barney Bear cartoons were more silly than funny for the most part . The most interesting thing about them is the fact that the character was purportedly inspired by actor Wallace Beery , a big star in the 1930s and early 1940s . You can see similarities between the two . This is the best of the series and is wonderfully done . It was deservedly nominated for a Oscar for Animated Short . Poor Barney goes through a basic training concocted by de Sade ! Probably not that far from real basic training at that ! Highly recommended .
This one is unusual even for Richard Condie !	Richard Condie has made a living from rather strange and eccentric ( to put it mildly ) shorts . This one , nominated for an Academy Award , is the strangest one I've seen to date . Sung as an aria , in Italian , I think , the subtitles are often hilarious and the short is excellent , if quite bizarre ! Look for it , by all means . Highly recommended .
Probably more laughs per second than any other film ever !	Seeing as this cartoon is very short ( I wouldn't be at all surprised if the opening title and closing credits run longer than the body of the cartoon itself ) , there are probably more laughs per second here than anything else ever done . The music is perfect , the credits are hilarious and if I write much more , this comment will come dangerously close to taking longer to read aloud than the running time of the cartoon . Bambi should have prepared more for this meeting . Highly recommended .
Excellent animation style which suits the story being told very well .	This short , which was nominated for an Academy Award , is a form of stop-motion where the figures are primarily shot in silhouette to make them darker and to heighten the overall mood of terror and suspense . The technique is perfectly suited to the story being told , which has so many literary and cinematic influences that its hard to know where to begin . In addition to the more obvious suspects ( Poe , Verne , Wells , et cetera ) I would also add Bram Stoker and a sub-genre of Science Fiction / Fantasy called " steampunk " , which Lucas himself has cited as an influence . Novels like The Difference Engine by William Gibson and Bruce Sterling and Lord Kelvin's Machine by James P . Blaylock ( both highly recommended , though not as dark as Morello , if you like the basic idea of a high ( er ) - tech Victorian England ) are excellent examples of " steampunk " and I would be a bit surprised if Lucas hasn't read at least one or both . The feel is certainly there . One warning : this is NOT a short for children , especially young children . There are at least two scenes unsuited for anyone younger than 12 or 13 . This is available on an all-region DVD made in Australia . Most highly recommended .
One of Disney's better shorts from the 1930's	Although this short lost the Oscar to another Disney cartoon ( Three Orphan Kittens ) , it's actually got a lot more going for it than the winner . An adaptation of the old nursery rhyme ( very loose adaptation , as is typical of Disney ) , there's a lot going on here . Mae West isn't the only parody here . Hollywood would be parodied quite a bit by both Disney and Warner Brothers in cartoons . Well worth your time . Recommended .
Imagine-Mister Magoo as baby-sitter !	This short was nominated for an Oscar and is one of the better Magoo cartoons produced by UPA for theatrical release . A typical Magoo short , it places Magoo in a situation that makes his nearsightedness an issue and a series of comical circumstances arising from that shortcoming ensues . The Magoo cartoons have lately been targeted as being insensitive and degrading . Somewhere along the way we've lost our senses of perspective and humor . I'm glad to see some of the Magoos in print . Recommended .
Really a two actor tour de force	This film is really all about Michael Caine and Sir Laurence Olivier . While the script is excellent and with fine direction , if the two leads aren't dead spot on , the film dies . Despite a tendency to ham it up a bit on occasion , Caine and Olivier are solid most of the film . The ending is a real shocker as well . The byplay between the two is worth watching all by itself as they try and steal scenes from each other ! Most recommended .
I wonder if Uncle Walt knew what he was starting ?	When Disney did the first The Three Little Pigs , I wonder if he knew he was starting a cottage industry at the very least and The Animators Lifetime Employment Act at most . I suspect more different animators have taken a turn at the Pigs than any other characters in the history of animation . There have been military takes ( Blitz Wolf ) , Pigs as con artists ( a meeting with Bugs Bunny ) and musical takes , like this one . This is one of the better uses of classical music tied to animation ( the best short to do so is Rhapsody in Rivets ) , with the action on screen fitted to the corresponding musical scoring . This was nominated for an Oscar and periodically plays on Cartoon Network . Recommended .
Proof that Thoreau was right !	This cartoon , a product of the National Film Board of Canada , tells the story of a family living contentedly on their own until the outside world mistakenly believes they need " help " . Watching this cartoon , I remembered something Henry David Thoreau once said , " If I knew that a man were coming to my home with the fixed intention of doing me good , I would flee for my very life . " Good deeds are often a mixed blessing for all parties . First , above all , do no harm . Highly recommended .
Darwin made funny !	This short , nominated for an Academy Award , is admittedly not incredible . You will not be awed by it nor will you be stirred or moved . That said , it is screamingly funny ! ! I found it delightful and a pleasure to watch ! Another excellent production of the National Film Board of Canada ! Most recommended .
The updated story of the Nativity-with a little Christmas Carol twist tossed in .	This short , which won an Academy Award , is a modern day variant on the Nativity , complete with a Scrooge , wonderfully done by J . Carroll Naish . This short was a marvelous vehicle for this veteran character actor and he shines in the spotlight . This short runs on Turner Classic Movies between films , with Christmas Eve and Day as natural opportunities to catch this at least once . It's a longish short , but most definitely worth the time and effort to catch . Most recommended .
The tale of the biter bit .	The whole premise of the Pepe Le Pew cartoons is based on a whopping bit of irony-a French skunk styling himself as " the great lover " ( think Charles Boyer squared ) but , for reasons obvious to everyone save himself , he finds it difficult to get a date on Saturday nights . Like a great many would-be Lotharios , when the tables turn , Pepe turns chicken and runs . A very funny cartoon , with a joke that will be particularly enjoyable for horse racing fans , at least older ones anyway . One party-pooper note : by law ( unless it's been changed ) French nationals cannot join the French Foreign Legion , which , given the name , should be stunningly obvious . Well worth tracking down . Recommended .
Formative Porky cartoon-formative Avery too	This is an early Tex Avery , with Avery still feeling his way . The cartoon is actually more cute than menacing and Avery seems to have more fun with the villain than with our hero , the rather hefty Porky ( this was a formative cartoon , when they were still fiddling around with character design and Porky carried a good deal more weight then ) , with Porky's role limited to one running gag and the payoff at the end . This is a cute cartoon and there are quite a few sight gags , but pacing is slower and the gags are more repetitive in nature and form than later Avery shorts . Avery taking baby steps . But I like this one a lot , personally . The original black and white is far superior to the later colorized version ( usually true , but in this case , the use of shadows originally makes colorizing this one an especially bad idea ) , so try and catch the black and white . Well worth watching . Recommended .
Very good and quite disturbing	This short , produced by the National Film Board of Canada , was nominated for an Academy Award . Once you've seen it , you'll see why . Not easily forgotten , although you may wish to . The choice of animation styles was made , I suspect , deliberately , in order to keep viewers off-balance . It's a perfect choice . A thought-provoking , extremely unsettling look at hunger in many forms . If you are easily disturbed or offended , this probably isn't for you . Otherwise , highly recommended .
Mickey , we hardly knew ye !	The early Mickey Mouse cartoons show a Mickey different from the solid , dependable mouse we've grown to know in his later years . Could it be that , in his formative years , Mickey was a scamp and a rapscallion ? Actually , Mickey displays the same irreverence the Marx Brothers display and The Chain Gang is a prime example . Very good cartoon and one that will see print again . It surely deserves to and soon . Well worth tracking down . Recommended .
Music by Gershwin , dancing by Astaire and Rogers , with Edward Everett Horton and Eric Blore in tow	This film ( one of the better ones Astaire and Rogers did ) probably doesn't get quite the praise it merits because Top Hat and The Gay Divorcee are so widely praised ( rightly so ) . But this movie is equally well executed and any movie that has in it's score the songs , " Shall We Dance " , " Let's Call the Whole Thing Off " and especially " They Can't Take That Away " deserves to be warmly remembered . There's a score by Gershwin , dancing by Astaire , Rogers and others and Edard Everett Horton and Eric Blore in support ( they appeared in so many of the Astaire-Rogers films that their casting must have been legally required ! ) . Well worth your time . Recommended .
The very best of the Screwy Squirrel cartoons and vintage Avery	This is the best of the Screwy Squirrel shorts . I am convinced that Tex Avery wanted to design the prototypical Avery character , did so , then revved it up about 180 RPM faster and Screwy was born ! Screwy's motto seems to be , " Let's not push the limits-destroy them instead ! " To say he is outside the rules is to mistakenly believe that he admits the rules even exist ! Sight gags come fast and furious with Screwy and even the form and nature of conventional cartooning isn't safe ! Tex Avery was a mad genius ! Actually , that last is a redundancy or there is no such thing ! The final frame and it's a strike ! A perfect game ! Most recommended .
Early Pete Smith Short	This short , nominated for an Academy Award , is a very early short narrated by Pete Smith . It is fairly representative of the style of short he would become noted for : broadly comic narration , good camera work and effects for a short subject and covering a somewhat offbeat topic in a comical , somewhat jocular manner . Turner Classic Movies runs this as filler between features occasionally and virtually every March for the 31 Days of Oscar . Not his best but well worth catching . Recommended .
Very funny , quite verbal short with possibly the lowest wattage bulb Bugs ever crossed carrots with !	The giant in this one has got to be the dumbest adversary Bugs has ever faced . Even Beaky Buzzard is brighter . However , lost in all this is the fact that the giant is actually the aggrieved party here . Bugs is stealing from his garden in the beginning . Granted , Bugs is our hero and the giant isn't the shiniest pebble in the pond , but there are property rights to consider . This is mostly verbal gags , with a few sight gags involved for timing purposes , I'd expect . Lots of very funny gags here , with the obligatory reference gags to World War II here , naturally . The duel between Bugs and the giant is beautifully executed and the closing sequence is great ! Well worth watching . Most recommended .
One of the rare shorts with Donald versus Chip an ' Dale that worked for me	Normally , Donald and Chip an ' Dale in a short together is like nails across a chalkboard for me . They just don't mesh well as far as I'm concerned . But this one works for me . It's funny and a plausible conflict between them exists here for a change . Entertaining and engaging . Well worth watching , this runs on The Ink and Paint Club periodically . Recommended .
Tex Avery's importance to Warner Brothers ( and animation ) is evident	This cartoon was the start for Daffy Duck . So Tex Avery played a significant part in the development of Bugs Bunny , Daffy Duck , Porky Pig and developed the character ( Egghead ) who grew into Elmer Fudd . This is a good short to watch to see how Avery and Clampett worked together . Not a seminal cartoon , save for Daffy , but well worth watching . Tex Avery was a very successful man , who by all accounts , was never really sure he ever managed to do much of lasting importance . Most assuredly , he did quite a bit . Recommended .
Excellent cartoon from the National Film Board of Canada	This short , nominated for an Academy Award , is a very funny and very pointed satire that really deserves to be more widely seen than it has been . Produced under the auspices of the NFBC , it scores points in quite a few areas , lampooning aspects of modern culture . Produced in 1967 , the points it makes are just as cogent and valid today . Until recently , Cartoon Network showed this occasionally on the very late-night series , O Canada , which , sadly , is not currently airing . Cartoons are not just for children and much of the output from the National Film Board of Canada shows that they understand this . Try and catch this somewhere if you can . It's most definitely worth seeing . Most recommended .
A much better film than it's generally thought to be	This film , though by no means a masterpiece , is quite a bit better than most seem to think . The cast is excellent , particularly Depp , Quinn and Platt . Masterson is quite good , although at times , her character is treated as an afterthought . I suspect that part of the reason this is less well thought of than it deserves is that it's a quiet , off-beat romantic comedy with characters a bit too odd for most people's comfort . Most people don't react well to " different " in real life , let alone films . Very well-done and worth watching .
One of the best Droopy's and a somewhat atypical Tex Avery cartoon	This short by Avery is somewhat different from his normal approach of firing as many sight gags at the audience as possible as rapidly as possible . There is actually something of a story here and the jokes principally flow from the premise of a dog who loves Dixieland jazz . There are some beautiful scenes hee and the connection of music and animation is great , particularly in one portion of a chase sequence ! Most recommended
Worth watching for the music and Eric Blore	This short won the Oscar for 2-reelers and its understandable . The concept is a trifle cute but the music is worth the price of admission and Eric Blore ( familiar to anyone who's watched just about any Astaire and Rogers film ) does a marvelous job here . Entertaining , if lightweight and well-executed for the most part . Turner Classic Movies runs this occasionally as filler and runs it in March as part of their " 31 Days of Oscar " festival . Recommended .
The most unusual short I've seen yet from the National Film Board of Canada ( possible spoiler )	This short is difficult to discuss with a possible spoiler , so I give you fair warning and thus proceed . Nominated for an Academy Award , this short is most aptly titled . It consists of several people walking . This is one of the oddest productions I have yet seen produced by the NFBC , which is quite a statement in itself . An interesting work and quite well-animated and worth watching if you really like esoteric animation . This will either bore you silly or fascinate you . With that caveat , most recommended
Sylvester , Tweety up a tree , surrounded by a do pound full of bulldogs-it isn't pretty for Sylvester !	This is a series of set pieces called blackouts , all revolving on Sylvester's increasingly outlandish , generally painfully futile , attempts to get to a supremely well-guarded Tweety . I doubt Fort Knox is much safer than Tweety is from Sylvester in this one . Animals in cartoons are certainly an inventive and quite resourceful lot ! Mostly sight gags with a couple of funny lines . The closing gag snatches defeat from the jaws of victory with a cameo from a prominent member of the principal stable of characters who is definitely more than Sylvester can handle . The final line from Tweety is a groaner , but this is a wonderful short . Well worth watching . Most recommended
Amusing takeoff on Holmes and Watson	This cartoon , while not as funny as Boobs in the Woods , most certainly has its moments . Pay attention to the drink orders in the pub and watch Porky in his scenes . Daffy is even more of a twit here than normal , but that's part of his charm . The cartoon is an affectionate takeoff on the Sherlock Holmes stories with an achingly bad last line . All in all , a very enjoyable effort . Well worth watching , although I'm not sure Sir Arthur or many Baker Street Irregulars would be as amused as I am .
After seeing this , a few points need to be made	This documentary ( and it is a documentary , not a docudrama ) won an Academy Award for Documentary Feature and deserved to win . There are a number of things in this documentary which could be most unsettling to the faint-hearted , so not only is this a spoiler warning , but some of what I cover may be disturbing , so be forewarned : This documentary covers the trek of a scientific mission to try and map the uncharted area of the island of New Guinea . It starts out with the team flying in and features the only bit of forced drollery in the beginning with a comment about one guy's evident interest in the air hostess . In the main , the narration is on point and informative . Evidently , some do not grasp a basic and essential reality , to judge by some of the comments I've seen , so I have a few observations to make here . One , the company numbered over seventy when they met up with their porters . They initially planned to make as much of the trip to the base of the mountains ( the climbing portion of the expedition ) by water , which would allow them to carry more supplies , including food , for a longer part of the trip , but had to change plans and go on foot , trying to carry as much of their equipment and supplies as they could . It is practically impossible for enough food to be carried by men traveling on foot on a journey of that length for a period of five to seven months , even if all they carried was food . So they either have to be able to live off the land ( which they did , to a degree , though when anything you don't recognize could prove lethal if consumed , this has practical limits ) or someone has to drop supplies like food and medicine to you . That's just a practical reality of this kind of project . Second , on a trip like this , everyone pitches in-no one , unless they are ill , is dead weight . It's just a practical necessity . Everyone had to carry their own weight . Third , they were encountering tribes which could as easily decided to kill them as interact with them . The skulls and bones weren't decorative props on a movie set . They were very real . They faced danger most of the time they were out there , in one form or another-from sheer drops in the higher elevations to wild animals to being swept away in the rapids when attempting to cross the rivers . This was not a walk in the park . I am in awe of the individuals who took this trip , both for their physical efforts and the hardships they ( willingly ) undertook ( which I could not do ) and for their behavior towards the tribes they encountered there . They weren't condescending and , apart from the understandable and ( at least to me ) justifiable horror at the clear evidence of cannibalism , the observations of the customs were remarkably free from judgment and were respectful . This is available on DVD , along with the film Black and White In Color and the DVD is well worth having . Most recommended .
Sick , twisted and hilarious short !	This has got to be one of the sickest cartoons I've seen in my life ! It's also hilariously funny . Our " hero " is repulsive to an extreme and at times I was cheering for the thing referred to in the title . But this is a very well-done piece of animation . Just bring your sense of humour . Those easily offended by the coarse ( i . e . , Andrew " Dice " Clay ) should avoid this by all means . Recommended to those with a fondness for animation AND with a strong stomach .
Excellent and very funny short	This short won the Academy Award for Animated Short and probably deserved to win . The detail is impressive , but secondary . The plot is marvelous and the character of Geri is well developed . If you've seen Toy Story 2 , Geri makes a " cameo " appearance as the toy repairman . All in all , a remarkable piece of work . Available on some copies of A Bug's Life VHS and DVD and well worth seeking out . Recommended .
Wherein the honorable oversigned discusses a favorite short and also his philosophy on comments .	This Popeye is one of my favorite shorts and my pick for one of the better ones in the series . My favorite character , one J . Wellington Wimpy , is prominently featured ( with an amusing twist on his own well-known catch-phrase ) and Bluto is smarmy , rude and surly , even for Bluto . A little something for almost everyone in this one . A little gem . Well worth watching and most recommended . I've heard from a fair number of people about some of my specific comments , but also occasionally on my comments in general . So I decided to put down my approach to comments in general : As a rule , I confine my comments to things I have ( though there are exceptions ) and to things I have liked ( also with exceptions ) . Thus , there will be very few killer comments . Even when something I want to review doesn't quite work for me , I will say what I liked as well as what I didn't and leave it as an exercise to the reader to decide if it interests them . Different people like different things . Finally , I tend to review animated shorts , as animation tends to get short shrift , even here at the IMDb . There you have it , ladies and gentleducks . For any who are curious ( all three of you in the balcony ) , that's my policy on comments .
Brotherly love , as only Popeye could teach it , in all his glory .	Somehow , I doubt that Gandhi would recognize the conclusion of this short as a good example of brotherly love ! A very funny cartoon , well executed and true to the character's nature . Olive is in her typically " fine " voice , as is Popeye , in the singing of the title song . Very good cartoon , if a tad obvious in spots . Well worth watching . Recommended .
Tom and Jerry conduct an orchestra with typical hi-jinks .	Tom is conducting an orchestra when Jerry , complete with tuxedo and baton , comes out and wants to do some conducting also . Typical Tom and Jerry chaos erupts periodically amidst the classical music wafting around them . The blend of music and mayhem is inspiring ! An excellent cartoon , for the most part . Cartoon Network runs this one reasonably often . Most recommended .
The first of two where Bugs is bothered by a construction worker	This is the first of two cartoons where a thoroughly obnoxious and unlikable construction worker tramples on our stalwart hero , with generally hilarious results ( though the construction worker was probably less than happy about it all ) . The second of the two , No Parking Hare , is slightly better , but both are marvelous and are well worth watching . This one is happily available . Recommended .
One of a handful of Popeye shorts where Olive's affections are not a point of contention to fight over .	This is a comparatively rare short , in that Popeye and Bluto aren't fighting over the " honor " of having Olive Oyl for a girlfriend ( a battle which never ceases to amaze me-Olive is a vain , shrewish , flighty and not terribly intelligent woman . But then Popeye and Bluto aren't prizes either . C'est le vie . ) but rather Bluto's questionable business tactics . Window washer Bluto creates work by splashing mud far and wide . Popeye one ups him at his stock and trade and the battle for the ages has another , very funny and quite creative installment . Having temporarily de-commissioned the U . S . S . Popeye and ever the gentleman , introduces his hands to her neck , but Popeye eats his vegetable and rides to the rescue . Excellent short , well worth watching . Recommended .
A very funny short-particularly the ending-slight spoiler .	This short is a very good example of the 1950s Bugs Bunny cartoon-a mix of sight gags and verbal jokes . Bugs is still having problems with primates . Here , they're a bit farther down the evolutionary ladder than , say , Elmer or Yosemite Sam . The best line in the short is at the end . Trivia note : slight spoiler here . Petrillo was the president of the American Federation of Musicians at the time , which was a major union , probably THE union for musicians .
Koko and Bimbo just can't win here at all !	This short had to be done pre-code , because it wouldn't have been worth doing if you have to change much to make it " decent " . Koko and Bimbo both try to impress Betty , but they make an unfortunate error and try to give her what she says she wants-a dangerous move to make with most women . This is the place where a comment about fickleness in general and Betty Boop in particular , would belong , but visions of irate women armed with torches and pitchforks descending on my residence like extras in Frankenstein give me pause and , as with all noble cowards , discretion is my chosen course , so instead , I'll make an observation about people in general saying one thing but changing their minds about it later . Koko and Bimbo are in for something of a surprise in the end here . The moral here , kiddies . is to always have a backup plan for when things ( almost inevitably ) go differently than you planned . In print and available . Well worth watching . Recommended .
Very good Bosko short featuring a little monster named Wilber !	This is one of the better Bosko shorts , with some very good sight gags and a slight wisp of a plot . There will be a discussion of some details below , so this is a spoiler warning : Bosko is working in his store and virtually all of his movements are in time to music . He actually dances through much of the short . The cartoon essentially is in two halves-before the advent of Wilber and after him . The short has some funny gags after Wilber comes in , but the most enjoyable part is before his appearance . Bosko has to contend with a bologna eating dachshund that becomes like a concertina and a little mouse making a prank telephone call . He dances with a broom as he sweeps the walk in front of his store . There's some very nice stuff in the first three minutes or so . And then comes Wilber . Wilber is the prime argument in favor of birth control . He makes Damien from the Omen look like Buster Brown . Wilber comes down to the store with Honey and proceeds to cause trouble , first with a rude remark to Honey and then by systematically trying to destroy Bosko's store ( and probably Bosko into the bargain ) . Bosko must have the stamina of Wile E . Coyote in this one . Gags involving bananas and molasses figure prominently and the final gag ( involving barbed wire ) looks painful and is priceless . I truly hope this short eventually makes it onto a Looney Tunes Golden Collection in the future and the sooner the better . Most recommended .
Funny short with some cute bits surrounding the attempts to hide for a surprise party	This is a very entertaining Bosko short , centering on a surprise party for Honey . I want to talk about some of the gags below , so this will serve as a spoiler warning : Bosko shows up at Honey's house , where a surprise party is being planned . Honey is dressing upstairs ( delicately moving behind a screen-with a mirror reflecting her while she changes ) . Honey's dog greets Bosko so enthusiastically that Bosko is afraid he'll tip off Honey . Much of the early part of the short deals with the attempts of guests to hide . A large pig tries to hide under a bed , in the process revealing what looks like a mouse hiding in a chamberpot . Bosko deflates the pig so that he'll fit under the bed . The little obnoxious cat ( Wilber ) keeps trying to hide in places which are already occupied-Bosko finally covers him with a flowerpot . Intercut with scenes of animals trying to hide are shots of Honey strolling down the upstairs hallway heading downstairs . Honey is surprised by her guests and given her gift by Bosko-a ukulele , which leads to the almost obligatory musical number ( I don't recognize the song and the lyrics aren't too clear ) . The final gag has Wilber managing to turn everything upside down . I hope this makes it onto a future Looney Tunes Golden Collection . Well worth finding . Recommended .
Very good Bosko short , with a fair number of really good gags involving animals .	This is one of my favorite Bosko shorts . It has some nice animation , a lot of nice visual gags and the timing is fairly good here . I want to discuss some of the bits in this one , so there will be some slight spoilers in my comments below : As the title suggests , the first part of this short takes place at a lumberjack camp ( either that , or it's an ax lover's convention ) and the first scenes have various critters chopping and / or sawing down trees . There are some nice visual gags in the first minute or two . We first encounter Bosko in silhouette ( which is more impressive than Bosko in person is ) . He chops down a small tree , which has a very elaborate death scene-aided and abetted by Bosko . Bosko ( who seems almost to dance instead of walk in almost every short ) then is seen having encounters with a moose and a skunk before Honey brings him his lunch , which Bosko eats with an exaggerated gusto which is faintly disquieting . Enter the villain of the piece-another lumberjack , first seen eating a sandwich made of two pieces of wood and nails for the filling . He spots Honey and decides he wants " a big kiss " , so he hauls her up a rope . Bosko notices she's gone only after she screams and we're then treated to gags involving Bosko's failed attempts to rescue Honey . Eventually , the bad guy makes a run for it ( figuratively and literally ) in his canoe , leaving Bosko to give chase on a log which suddenly sprouts a sculling crew of mice with oars and Bosko starts calling out the stroke count ! There's a really nice visual bit toward the end of the water chase that I won't spoil here . The bad guy takes Honey to his cabin , where a moose head mounted on the wall as a gun rack acquits itself better in defending Honey's honor than Bosko has so far . Bosko comes in and doesn't initially do any better at the cabin than he did back at the camp , at one point sliding across the room and under a bed , to emerge with a " crown " which looks suspiciously like the top of a broken chamberpot ! In the end ( as Bosko is , of course , the star here ) he beats the bad guy and Honey calls him her hero and there is a suitable closing gag . I truly hope this one makes it onto a Looney Tunes Golden Collection in the very near future-I really like it and think it's one of the better Bosko shorts . Most recommended .
Very good movie with some excellent performances and good scriptwriting ( great ending ! )	Let me start out first with a bit of a disclaimer : I am disabled , so I was either going to love this movie or hate it , depending on how real things seemed to me . So my comments have to be seen in that light . Here goes : This is a very good film , with a good cast , some excellent performances and I love the script . But the thing that impresses me the most about this film is its portrayal of the disabled . They come across as average , normal people-sometimes they're jerks , like most people and sometimes they're nice folks , like most people . There is nothing inherently heroic about being disabled . Conversely , the disabled should not be hermetically sealed off from society for their protection ( or yours ) . All too often , peole make assumptions about people and far too many are made about the disabled . End of sermon . The other thing I like about this film , although it is admittedly a bit too pat , is the ending of a couple of plot threads . Suffice it to say that Several of the characters get what they deserve , good and bad . I love the poetic justice ( or karma , if you prefer ) at the end , in the basketball arena . Most recommended .
Well-done , fascinating documentary about following your heart and a dream .	This documentary follows Paul Pena , a blind blues musician ( and the songwriter behind Jet Airliner , a hit for the Steve Miller Band ) and a group of friends to a place called Tuva for a competition in " throatsinging " , which Pena had come across and decided to learn . The documentary is a fascinating look at Tuva ( part of Mongolia now under Russian control ) , " throatsinging " ( an acquired taste , but worth hearing at least once ) and Paul Pena's adventures on the trip as well as his feelings about the whole thing . Most recommended .
Easily one of the most . . . unusual shorts I've ever encountered and well worth seeing	This short is a puzzlement . Words fail me here , as this is almost indescribable , Technically exceptional after more than 90 years ( the visuals are remarkable and even occasionally amazing ) , this is not something you watch if you like things that are mundane or " normal'-because it most certainly is not either . This be an odd one , gang . Well worth checking out , but if things like Ren and Stimpy make your head hurt , you may want to skip this . Recommended .
Most excellent comic turn on the Sherlock Holmes saga . The game's afoot !	This is one of Michael Caine's funniest performances and he and Ben Kingsley worked quite well together . The supporting cast is top-notch as well . Jeffry Jones as LeStrade is very good and Peter Cook has a fine supporting turn . As for the premise-that Holmes was a front for Watson , given the fact that Sir Arthur Conan Doyle was himself a physician and that he grew so sick of Holmes he tried to kill him off , I suspect he would have enjoyed the whole thing enormously . Twists and turns throughout , as a good mystery should and enough comedy to keep you laughing . Some interesting twists at the end . Poor LeStrade ! Recommended .
This short starts out in a humorous vein , turns bittersweet and then has a tender , touching ending	I recently saw this film on the DVD released by Rembrandt Films , The Best of Zagreb Film-Nudity Required . I want to talk about the short in some detail , so there will be a spoiler or two-consider yourself warned : I wasn't quite sure what to expect from this , so I went in expecting nothing at all , to be honest . After the first minute or two , I figured it would be a comical farce detailing one slightly brow-beaten little man's misadventures with a blow-up doll . Much of the short , we watch the poor man's life disintegrate because of his interactions with a doll which seems to have a mind of its own . The guy pretty much loses everything , at one point , except the doll and we see him establishing a " relationship " of sorts with the doll . That's when tragedy strikes and the final indignity is administered to the man by three punks . The fight between the man and the three punks is beautifully done , by the way . The doll is damaged beyond repair and the man is desolate . Enter the final twist and some of the funniest bits in the short , as well as the most touching and charming part of the short , at the very end . Watching the end , it's easy to see why this was nominated for an Academy Award for Animated Short . As others have commented , it resonates with the live-action short The Red Balloon . A delightful ending , to say the least . While this isn't Bob Godfrey's best short ( that honor goes to Great ) it's certainly well worth watching and is recommended .
Cute , charming and humorous take on the 1890s	This short is a delightful look at the 1890s-a time not so far removed chronologically from 1941-and the use of Mickey and Minnie as a courting couple is a perfect fit for the whole concept . Enjoyable now , back then , large segments of the audience back then probably could recall the timeframe from personal experience . Well animated , as is generally the case with Disney at the time , it's good to see this in print . Well worth watching . Recommended .
Smile when you say that , pardner !	In the unlikely event that someone out there doesn't realize this already , this is a very strange parody of High Noon . One of the better Woody Woodpeckers . the nemesis here is Buzz Buzzard , who gave me nightmares as a child . That may be why I rarely like cartoons involving Buzz . This is , happily , an exception . Well worth the time and trouble to track down . Most recommended .
Great short with interesting concepts	This short was nominated for the Academy Award . It introduces us to Wallace and Gromit . Interestingly , the stars are less appealing than one of the supporting characters : the little whatever-it-is they run into on their jaunt to the moon for cheese . This little critter apparently wants to be Jean-Claude Killy when it grows up . The best parts of a very fine short are with this odd little entity , whatever it happens to be . Fine beginning to a great series that's gotten better as it goes along . Recommended to those few souls who haven't seen it yet .
Lots of visual gags in this one .	This short has a different villain , a different voice for Olive Oyl and is toward the latter stages of the Fleischers ' run doing cartoons for Paramount . The gags are more visual than verbal here as Popeye once again must save Olive from a fate worse than death . Great animation and well worth watching . Recommended .
Watching this , you really feel sorry for Popeye .	This short revolves around a winning sweepstake ticket bought by Olive . Popeye winds up chasing all over town to retrieve it , with hilarious results . The scene where Popeye is pretending to read a newspaper while trying to figure out just how to get the ticket off a very statuesque young lady without getting slapped into next month is priceless . The ending of this just goes to prove that true love is a most problematic thing and surely Popeye must be in love , to go through all this for that payoff and not run like the wind far away from Ms . Oyl . The black and white print is better . Recommended .
cute early Tex Avery cartoon	Although it may be hard for anyone who's seen much of his output , Tex Avery did turn out a few cute cartoons . This was one , but you needn't fear . A Tex Avery cartoon is still a Tex Avery cartoon . One word of advice : don't get ol ' Dan Cupid riled at you . He has a mean streak and sures knows how to get even ! Entertaining cartoon with the usual sight gags and more dialogue than is typical in a Tex Avery short . Well worth watching .
Sort of a cross between Frankenstein , King Kong and Indiana Jones and loaded with " inside " jokes !	This short was nominated for an Academy Award when it came out and I can see why . It's hilarious , exciting and the pace is frenetic and unrelenting . There are also quite a few gags pointed at heavy-duty Disney and / or movie fans , starting with the opening shot of Mickey playing a video game . Look at what he's playing . This is not your grandfather's Mickey . The visuals are great and the gags come almost as fast as the average Tex Avery cartoon . This was recently released on the Disney Treasures Mickey Mouse In Living Color , Volume 2 . If you haven't already got it , you probably better hurry . I doubt they'll last too long . The cost on the secondary market will be considerable . The set is great , as are the other Disney Treasures releases . This short is definitely recommended and the Disney Treasures sets cannot be more highly recommended !
Wile E . Coyote-a study in singlemindedness .	Wile E Coyote is a study in blind perserverance . He pursues one quarry with total fixation and even a failure rate of stunning perfection deters him not a whit . If the concepts of reincarnation and karma are at all valid , then you have to wonder just what horrible sin lies in a past life to cause Wile E . Coyote such agony and misfortune . The only thing I can figure is that he was the first politician in a previous life , possibly a lawyer , ( or both ) as that is the only thing that would remotely consign him to such a karmic fate . Excellent cartoon . Well worth watching . Most recommended .
One of the better Speedy / Daffy pairings	One of the biggest problems with the Speedy versus Daffy cartoons is that they aren't really natural adversaries , so it's hard to sell Daffy as really a believable nemesis , unlike Sylvester ( a natural pairing , obviously ) , so the cartoons aren't terribly logical , even for cartoons . Add to that the fact that Daffy seems exceptionally mean and nasty , even for him , in one or two . This one , however , is logical and effectively executed . Well worth watching . Recommended .
Another successful combination of classical music and animation	This short , nominated for the Academy Award , is another in a long line of shorts that take music ( in this case , classical music ) and set animation to the music . Music and animation in concert ( sorry ) with one another . While all the studios did this , with varying degrees of success , Walter Lantz , with his Swing Symphonies ( set to jazz ) and Musical Miniatures ( classical ) was most successful in doing these types of shorts routinely . As usual , Woody Woodpecker quite outshines Andy Panda , but the short is great fun and well worth hunting down . It's a pity that the Lantz material isn't in wider circulation than it is at present . Recommended .
Excellent period piece , well adapted and with a witty script and fine performances .	This is a remarkable film that does a very good job of depicting a rigid and quite hidebound society that often made India's caste system look reasonable and moderate by comparison . One of the more enjoyable points for me was the fact that the " sense and sensibility " of the title had a most definite 19th Century feel and yet still remains very timeless and does not attempt to force Twentieth Century mores ( probably by use of a crowbar ) into a script where they do not belong . Modern day viewpoints do not belong here . If you want a modern day version , fine . But it would be , at best , only a glancing and quite loose adaptation of the novel , so why do an adaptation at all , then ? Not all films have to reflect present day sensibilities . This is a very human and compelling story with a fine cast and wonderfully witty script . Look for a very dry and understated performance by Hugh Laurie as Mr . Palmer , the long-suffering husband of the daughter of Mrs . Jennings . Were I Mr . Palmer , I'd have long since invested in earplugs or opened a vein . Very fine film and most highly recommended .
A delightful and enchanting film about love and growth	The true measure of any fictional piece of work is whether or not the characters grow from their experiences and emerge from the experience altered in some significant way ( note that this change need not be positive or beneficial ) at the end . By that measure , Enchanted April is a resounding success . As a film in general , it succeeds quite well-excellent ensemble cast , well-developed characters you come to care about , wonderful script and beautiful sets and locations . In short the film is , well , enchanting . Although all the performances are first-rate , three must be mentioned-Josie Lawrence , Jim Broadbent and Joan Plowright . It says something when Miranda Richardson does her usual fine work and yet is overshadowed by so many others in the cast . Most highly recommended , particularly if you are a romantic at heart . Further Deponent Saith Not .
If you get a chance to get this one , do so ! You'll be glad you did .	This short is part of the Warner Brothers contribution to the war effort , here trying to encourage the purchase of war bonds and stamps . The relative scarceness of this short today has less to do with the datedness of its connections to World War II than it does to Bugs's appearance in blackface parody of Al Jolson , which is now frowned upon by a culture ignorant of the context and for whom the past is breakfast that morning . Historically significant for many reasons , this one is well worth the effort to obtain and watch . Most highly recommended .
A lesson in the effective use of animation to achieve an end .	This cartoon is a very effective piece of propaganda and demonstrates the strength and effectiveness of animation as tools for generating propaganda . The initial project of UPA studios , it was undertaken because the outcome of the Presidential election was in doubt in 1944 and a great many people saw the continued presence of FDR in the White House as vital to the prosecution of WWII . As has been said before , " Anything can happen in a cartoon " and that freedom allows for images much more striking and powerful than words alone can be to be used to make the point forcefully that Roosevelt was far and away preferable to Thomas Dewey . What makes this propaganda is the fact that , while undoubtably FDR was best suited to continue the fight , if for no other reasons than continuity , Dewey wouldn't have been nearly as bad as this indicates he would have been . The most telling attack , the " Jim Crow laws " car on the Dewey train conveniently overlooks the fact that , in the 1940s , the South was largely in the hands of the Democrats and " Jim Crow " laws received broad support from both parties . Propaganda is exaggerated for effect , for the purpose of motivating people , often out of fear , to a particular course of action . This is a most effective piece of propaganda . You can see both the fine hand of Chuck Jones and John Hubley all over this cartoon . It also shows what would later become known as the UPA style in its infancy . Though obviously quite dated ( by its nature , it would have to be ) , this holds up very well and is well worth seeing , particularly for those with an interest in politics and / or animation . Well worth getting . Most highly recommended .
Excellent underwater camera work	This won an Academy Award for Documeentary Feature and most definitely deserved to win . The whole project is well-executed and the underwater camerawork is particularly worthy of mention . Holds up very well after almost fifty years . Turner Classic Movies usually shows this a few times a year . Highly recommended .
A great score in a jazzy take on Goldilocks	This short is just wonderful , with a jazz soundtrack and with the three bears as a jazz combo that takes a break ( takes five ) because their instruments get too hot from their playing . This is another short that will probably never see broadcast or commercial release because it's politically incorrect . Which is truly a shame , because there's nothing here that would offend anyone , unless it's someone that sees racist overtones in their breakfast cereal . It's fast paced , infectious and totally delightful . Well worth seeing . Most highly recommended .
A marvelous look at one of the most important turning points in American history	Shot on location at the battlesite , this short , which was nominated for two Academy Awards , uses visuals from what is now a national landmark and monument to tell the story of a critical moment in American history . Visually arresting and impressive , the cinematography is incredible for a short . The narration doesn't always flow , but it doesn't have to . This shows periodically on Turner Classic Movies and almost certainly will be run in March for the " 31 Days of Oscar " festival they run each year . Most recommended .
VERY nice cartoon , with some great sight gags and an excellent musical bit !	Though , for the most part , Terrytoons releases are limited , though fairly competent and enjoyable , the studio did do some very good work . This short is an example of the kind of thing that Paul Terry's studio could do far more often than a lot of people give them credit for ( including , I must admit , myself ) . As I want to talk about this short , this is a spoiler warning : The short starts with a goat , which eats the fenders and running board from one side of a car . It develops hiccups with an unusual side effect-every one produces an elephant-presumably the pink elephants of the title ( I say " presumably " , because this short was done in black and white ) . The elephants frighten the little goat so badly that it runs into the house and upstairs , running under Farmer Al Falfa's bed . One of the elephants materializes in the bedroom and shakes up Al Falfa as well . The next part of the short consists of a lot of sight gags , culminating in an extended musical riff on Cab Calloway . Al Falfa actually winds up dancing with one of the elephants at one point . This musical section , at least from my point of view , is the highlight of the short . Just when all looks like it is lost , Al Falfa discovers a weapon . Never underestimate the power of an old man with a vacuum cleaner ! The elephants start falling like pins at a bowling alley , until only one is left and it leads a merry chase until it , too , disappears as a puff of smoke into the bag . The end is very nice and I won't spoil it here . This short is well worth tracking down and watching . Recommended .
Odd but entrancing look at a most thorough streetsweeper	This short is beautifully drawn and animated . Depending on your point of view , the title character is either immaculate or insane . Personally , I think he just believes in doing his job extremely well . There's no dialogue here and none is needed . How this failed to be nominated for an Academy Award puzzles me . It would never have won , of course-that was the year of Creature Comforts and one of the Wallace and Gromit shorts . Wonderful use of black and white . This can be found on two of the Spike and Mike's Festival of Animation tapes and is most definitely worth getting . Most highly recommended .
Great mix of Jazz and animation in a re-telling of the Pied Piper fairy tale .	Walter Lantz used jazz music to score quite a few cartoons because the head of his music department liked jazz and knew some musicians personally . Jack Teagarden was one of the musicians who appeared on the soundtracks to at least two of the better musical shorts , the magnificent Sliphorn King of Polaroo and this one , that's almost as good . Here the Pied Piper plays swing on a trombone to rid the town of rats and the mayor sounds like Lou Costello . Wonderful cartoon that should be available . Well worth tracking down and getting . Most highly recommended .
One of the best in the rabbit's career .	This is an excellent cartoon . While by their nature , cartoons are a visual medium and sight gags are a major part of most Warner Brothers shorts , Bugs Bunny is probably the most verbally oriented character they created and the best gags here are verbal in nature , rather than visual . This should be out on video and / or DVD . Hopefully , the much anticipated , long-overdue release on DVD will happen soon . It is much deserved . Well worth watching . Most highly recommended .
Yet another triumph from the National Film Board of Canada	This documentary , which won an Oscar for Documentary Short , shows a dance class in session with the students being shown how to dance flamenco . Interspersed between shots of the students practising steps and dancing , the instructors are interviewed . It's a fascinating view of a beautiful style of dance as well as proof that some people are most fortunate to be able to do something they love for a living . The National Film Board of Canada was involved in overseeing this production and has consistently produced excellent work for more than sixty years .
This is a filmed jam session with some of the best Jazz musicians around . Excellent !	This short was nominated for an Academy Award and I wish it had won ! Basically a filmed jam session between some very talented musicians , including Lester Young and Joe Jones , the music is incredible ! Hollywood quite often embraced Jazz ( particularly animation , believe it or not ) but this is a rare look on film at an improvisational jam . This has been added to the Film Preservation list and deservedly so . TCM runs this as filler periodically and runs it every March sometime for its ' " 31 Days of Oscar " tribute . From downtown at the buzzer , swish , nothing but net and the shot's so smooth , the net barely moved . Most solidly and highly recommended ! ! !
The funniest of a very good triptych of cartoons	Rabbit Fire has some of the absolutely funniest lines and sight gags that have ever been seen on film . It is one of three cartoons done as more or les a series and is , in my opinion , the best of them . From Elmer's opening line to the hilarious final line , this is an unalloyed delight . There's also a beautiful gag with an elephant . Much as I love Tex Avery , Chuck Jones's work here and elsewhere is the equal ( and , sometimes , superior ) to Avery's best . Very much recommended .
One of the best of all time !	This is a masterpiece , a veritable classic ! Bugs is cast in the perfect situation with the bull as a perfect foil . Sight gags galore , including a bit with a rifle that is absolutely priceless ! The ending is gloriously funny ! Catch the look on the bulls ' face in the last part of the closing bit , it's wonderful ! Good to see it's available . You have to see this . Most highly recommended !
A thouroughly moving , tour de force and the best thing Spike Lee has done to date	This is an incredible documentary ! How it failed to win the Oscar puzzles me , although I must confess that I haven't seen the winner . Be that as it may , Spike Lee put together a moving ad compelling tribute to four innocents . The incident covered here , ironically , probably gave much needed impetus to the civil-rights movement , particularly with people in the North , a bittersweet point not lost on many of the interviewees . See this documentary ! Most highly recommended !
One of the best Claymation cartoons I've seen	This is an absolutely marvellous animated short , with the most unusual cast of characters that I've seen in quite some time . It's also about as apt an example of the old line by Robert Burns , " The best laid plans of mice and men . . . " . The short is quite bittersweet in its ending . Very much worth more than one viewing . Most highly recommended .
Simply put , one of the all-time classics !	This film is an incredible piece of work and will stand the test of time-actually , it has already stood the test of time by this point , given that it is 70 years old . A remarkable film that , along with Dracula , succeeds not only as horror , but as cinema . If imitation is the sincerest form of flattery , then this is one of the most flattered films in cinemtic history . One of the all-time greats . Most totally , wholeheartedly and completely recommended .
This did not win the Oscar in 1984 , but I think it should have	Contrary to the summary of the other reviewer , this excellent short did NOT win the Oscar ( Charade , another excellent short that year , was the winner ) but I think it should have won . An exceptionally beautiful and fascinating animation , the colors are breath-taking and the detail is incredible ! A production of the National Film Board of Canada , this is a wonderful short and well worth the efforts to locate . Most highly recommended .
My absolute favorite Tom and Jerry	Just to hear Tom slapping that bass and singing , " Is You Is , or Is You Ain't , My Baby ? " makes this one priceless ! All the action flows from that serenade . Jerry either needs his sleep or is making an editorial comment on Tom's musical talents when he frees the bulldog . There is also a very important object lesson here : be very careful when closing your eyes in a romantic interlude ! There was general merriment and joy overflowed the main environs and flooded surrounding areas ! Highly recommended .
Monty Python meets Orson Welles over the body of Franz Kafka with spectacular results !	Franz Kafka is probably still spinning over this one almost ten years after the fact . There are echos of suspense in this one , but mostly it resembles Python at its full-bore , full throttle best . In fact , if I'm not mistaken , the costumer here also did costumes for The Python series . Too many moments to pick anything out , but it is absolutely wonderful . The incredibly serious among you will probably gnash teeth and pound thy breasts over the violation of Kafka , but the sufficiently twisted will love this ! This won the Academy Award for Live-Action Short ( in a tie with Trevor , he noted for accuracy's sake ) and it's good to see this in print and available . Most highly recommended .
I've read the play , heard the original Broadway recording and seen the movie and loved them all !	This is one film I can never see too often ! I love the film , particularly Howard De Silva as Ben Franklin ( another actor-Ray Everhart , I believe , was in the cast on stage , but was replaced ) and he very nearly steals the film from William Daniels . My one quibble with casting is Martha . Blythe Danner is quite good , but Betty Buckley should have made the transition from stage to screen . I suppose the fact that she was married to Ken Howard made it to great a temptation for the powers to be to resist casting them as Tom and Martha Jefferson . I first read the book and lyrics for this in 1973 in my 7th grade Speech class and got hooked then . I saw the film a few years later and heard the Broadway cast recording in college 20 + years ago . I have got to upgrade to CD and DVD some day ! A joy to watch . Recommended .
Stone wall may not make a prison , but a snowglobe works fairly well here !	This has got to be one of the most delightful animated shorts I have ever seen in my life ! It was once said that a man's reach should exceed his grasp . Watching this , I wondered if that includes snowmen ! The ending of this was magnificent ! I didn't know whether to laugh or cry ! Pixar did a grand job here . While I know features are their bread-and-butter , I fervently hope they continue producing these little darts that score bullseyes most of the time . Pixar , please put your shorts back in circulation ! Pardon me , but I need to get a certain snowman something that will cut through plastic ! Most joyously recommended . A grand slam !
Tom's " how to " book must have been written by a mouse !	This cartoon won an Oscar in 1944 and it's easy to see why . Tom tries to use a book's advice on how to catch a mouse . Which works out very well for Jerry , but not for Tom ! I suspect that the book was written by a mouse-maybe even Jerry himself . Tom certainly comes out the worse for wear here . I almost feel sorry for Tom . Almost . A very funny ( and violent , even for a Tom and Jerry ! ) cartoon that runs frequently on the Cartoon Network . Recommended .
Possibly the funniest film of all time !	I am tempted to just put in the summary and go on about my business , because anything I might say about this gem of a movie will do it precious little justice . But if this isn't the funniest movie ever made , it's in the top three ! The mirror sequence , the running gag with the motorcycle and the side-car , Groucho's song outlining the " rules " of his administration-I could go on and on and I haven't even quoted my favorite line ! The Marx Brothers were comedic geniuses . I love this movie to death ! Greatly , highly , certainly recommended .
Termite Terrace at its best !	This is one of the top five cartoons Warner Brothers did , which is saying something . When Warner's really hit one out of the park , they could match anyone , Disney included . As usual , poor Daffy is upstaged by Porky , who steals every short they're in together . Porky's only competition is Marvin the Martian . Porky even has the best two lines , including the last words . Daffy does match up well with Marvin , though , in terms of character chemistry . The Cartoon Network has developed a new show revolving around Dodgers , Porky's Space Cadet and Marvin , which premiered today . It's reasonably good but this is a masterpiece ! Well worth watching . Most highly recommended .
Phenomenal performaces make this a memorable and haunting film !	I will not forget this movie for the rest of my life ! Although the direction is excellent with a very good script and good production values , the performances are the standout aspect of this remarkable film . Alan Arkin and Sondra Locke make the film work and were both nominated for Oscars for their work here . Their scenes are magic , but Arkin is easily the stronger performance of the two . The supporting cast is very good , but Chuck McCann deserves special mention here . A comedian who's work has mainly been very lighthearted , he plays a straight dramatic role here and does a excellent job . A very human , very touching , very emotional film , the last 15-20 minutes will stay with you a very long time . Turner Classic Movies runs this on occasion and it is currently in print . Most highly recommended .
Delightful concept !	This short won the Oscar for Animated Short , beating another Aardman Studios short , A Grand Day Out . The concept behind its creation is an old one , used by John and Faith Hubley : record conversation and come up with fitting animation . In this case , someone went around interviewing residents of a housing development and the answers were transformed into the answers given to an interviewer by animals in a zoo . Everything here is excellent : animation , dialogue are wonderful . Most definitely worth getting . In print on more than one source : a compilation titled Creature Comforts and on The World's Greatest Animation . Highly recommended .
Excellent cartoon about being who ( or what ) you are , whatever others believe you are	Every time I see this cartoon , I remember what Anatole France once reportedly said : " If a thousand people say a foolish thing , it is still a foolish thing . " This cartoon is about a bear and the nightmare his life becomes when others persist in believing a foolish thing and manage to briefly convince him that it's the truth . Remember wht Shakespeare said : " To thine own self be true " . This runs occasionally on Cartoon Network . Most recommended
Given the torture this guy goes through trying to cures his hiccoughs , I think I'd keep them , myself !	This is another of the Pete Smith Specialities , which was co-written and directed by Dave O'Brien , who plays the poor fool with the hiccoughs . He tries various " remedies " to " cure " himself ( some of which Torquemada and the Spanish Inquisition might have applauded ) to no avail . It's all great fun , for everyone but the poor twit . O'Brien frequently played a character not likely to be joining Mensa any time soon in these shorts . This runs on TCM as filler fairly often and virtually every March as part of the " 31 Days of Oscar " . Most recommended .
Absolutely wonderful in style , tone and execution	This short , nominated for an Academy Award , is precisely what its title indicates-an instruction on how to defend oneself if one is a coward . As a President Emeritus of The Coward's Guild ( I was President three times running-literally ) , I cannot advocate physical defense as the wisest personal reaction ( I prefer being elsewhere-as far as possible ) , but the " instructions " doubtless will work . The selection of Arthur Treacher as narrator was a stroke of genius . This is one of four in a series of " Self-help " shorts made by Rembrandt Films . All four are on Rembrandt Films Greatest Hits and are all very good indeed . Well worth getting . Most highly recommended .
Tex Avery would be proud !	This is one of the funniest shorts I've ever seen ! Lots of things popped into my head while watching this : it's an example of instant karmic payback , for one , an equally solid example of the law of unintended consequences as well . This has got to have one of the top five closing sight gags of all time ! Tex Avery would have probably loved this one ! I for one hope that Pixar continues to do shorts of one stripe or another , because the ones I've seen are fabulously done . I haven't even watched Monsters Inc . yet and consider the DVD worth the price of admission just to see For the Birds . The rest is icing on the cake . Excellent piece of work and well worth watching . Most highly recommended !
Fascinating look at a closed book-China in the late 1960s-early 1970s up through 1989 .	This documentary , comprised of archival newsreels , still photos , artwork by the director / narrator and other material , is a largely autobiographical look back at life for one man in The People's Republic of China . By extension , it looks back at China , because his life is enmeshed ( as we all are , to one degree or another ) by the society in which we grow and live . This lost the Academy Award to another very good work , The Personals , and although I like both works , I confess that I would have picked this one and I'm not really sure exactly why it lost out . It's a remarkable look at what was , for years , a closed society . One man recounts his journey through idealism and devout belief in the rightness of his society through his growing disenchantment and disillusionment , which led to his leaving China . This film could not have been made in China . It probably could not have been made easily in the United States , either , for different reasons . In China , it would be a crime to do so . In the United States , it would only be made if you managed to get the wherewithal to do the filming . But it was possible to do this here , whereas it would not be , even today , in China , at least not without great risk . Almost as great a testament to the human spirit as that sterling moment of grace under pressure , of the lone figure standing in front of the tanks one day some fourteen years ago , in Tiananmen Square . The human spirit is never destroyed-like all matter , it simply changes shape . This is yet another project produced under the auspices of the National Film Board of Canada . Exceptional piece of work and well worth tracking down . Most highly recommended .
I absolutely love this cartoon !	I make no claim that this is a great cartoon or that there is anything special or noteworthy about it in any technical sense . I LOVE IT ! ! ! ! It's the first Tex Avery I can remember and therefore remains much beloved . SO SUE ME ! ! ! Recommended .
I love this cartoon ! ! !	I absolutely love this cartoon ! I've only seen it two or three times , but I love 1 ) cartoons 2 ) Edgar Allen Poe's " The Raven " and 3 ) books . I keep hoping that they'll run it again on Cartoon Network . I couldn't remember the exact title . I knew it started with " The Bookworm . . , " and now I know . This really makes my day ! This one is really worth seeing . Highly recommended !
One of the first appearances of the little mouse , called Nibbles here	This cartoon , an Oscar winner ( with good reason , as it's marvelous ) features one of the early appearances of the little mouse named Nibbles primarily ( although sometimes called Tuffy ) , he is rather cute and endearing . But I'd hate to pay his grocery bills ! Nibbles became a very frequent and popular character and this was his second cartoon appearance , after The Milky Waif . Most highly recommended .
The best film of 1931	This is one of the best film of all time and yet it is arguably only the third best film Charlie Chaplin made , after Modern Times and The Gold Rush . Some of his most memorable bits are in here , most of them revolving around his comic ( and sad ) attempts to help a blind flower seller , played by Virginia Cherrill . Chaplin's sense of timing was wonderful , as always . Wholeheartedly recommended .
Atypical Popeye , with no fisticuffs ad showing the essential natures of the three principal characters .	This Popeye , set on New Year's Eve , doesn't feature a brawl over Olive , or over anything else , for that matter . Popeye . a good-natured sort , decides it's not right that Olive's grandma be left at home while they go out , so he invites her along . Bluto escorts Olive and they both find it amusing that Popeye asked out grandma . Popeye is the soul of courtesy to grandma . A perfect example of the type of small kindnesses the world can never have enough of , then or now . Wimpy puts in a cameo ( with a different voice ) and the ending is quite funny . Listen for some of Jack Mercer's asides . This is a wonderful cartoon altogether different in mood and tone from the standard Popeye shorts , appropriately so , for the New Year's Eve setting . I wish all who read this a happy and healthy year . This short is well worth seeking out . Most recommended .
This is not your grandfather's Longfellow	Take one poem by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow , add Porky Pig and put them in the Tex Avery blender , set on " maniac " and this cartoon is what resulted . Tex Avery style of gags abound . Pay attention to backgrounds and the extras . Some very good stuff to be seen here . Well worth your time .
Before cartoons had sound or color , but they still did brilliant work-like this short !	This short is one of the best of all time and is proof ( just like most of Charlie Chaplin's work ) that sound and color are not requirements for quality work . In fact , this cartoon uses ( and may have started ) some of the gags and devices that became standard in animation in later years , like caricatures of celebrities ( including the afore-mentioned Chaplin . While the characters are silent , they do " speak " , by use of word balloons , just like in the comics . Given that Felix started out in newspapers as a comic strip , this device is a natural . The atmosphere and style of the short is completely harmonious with that of the comic strip while adding another dimension ( literally and figuratively ) and makes this short a delight to watch . Well worth taking the time and effort to get . Most highly recommended .
Magoo possesses an indomitable spirit that will not permit him to be defeated ( Here there be spoilers ) !	I rarely divulge details that might spoil a viewers ' enjoyment of a particular film , but with this one , I would find it virtually impossible to fairly discuss its virtues without going into detail . You have thus been warned . Mr . Magoo has mistaken a walrus for a human friend and various sight gags are shown in typical Magoo fashion . Atypically , however , circumstances force Magoo to confront his error and by extension , his poor eyesight . Magoo manages to turn a crushing blow into a triumph and thus saves the day for the good guys ( of which he is most certainly one ) and a good time is had by all . The Magoo character has engendered a good deal of anger because many make a fundamental error : they see Magoo as making fun of the blind . What they overlook is that despite his poor vision , Magoo goes about his life and not only survives , but perseveres . The animators aren't making fun of Magoo , but lauding him . Magoo isn't the myopic one ; his detractors are . Excellent cartoon . Well worth the trouble to seek out and find . Most highly recommended .
One of the best Tom and Jerry cartoons ever done !	This cartoon quite rightly won an Oscar and is probably one of the top two or three best that they did . With narration by Hans Conreid ( one of the best voices for narration work and particularly for animation work ) , this also features Strauss's music to advantage and is just a delight to watch . Somewat static animation because of a sorybook framing device , but it's still a marvelous idea in conception and execution . Most highly recommended .
Words do not adequately do this justice , but I will try .	Where do I begin with this comment ? I could echo other commenters and describe the plot , which in no way will detract from the films ' impact on a first-time viewer . Or I could talk about the absolutely breathtaking animation , the beautiful backgrounds and incredible detail that make this one of the most visually arresting pieces-animated or live-action-I have ever seen or ever expect to see in my life . I could mention that Christopher Plummer's narration rings perfectly , blending with the animation so seamlessly as to make a whole vastly greater than its already stellar parts . I could mention that this wonder is , at least in the U . S . , shamefully out of print , unless I've missed it somewhere and I wonder why some organization interested in environmental concerns hasn't pushed for it to be in print , because it says what they say so eloquently that their point would be easy to make . I could mention that it deservedly won the Academy Award for Animated Short and was selected as one of the fifty greatest animated shorts of all time in a poll of animators and film historians several years ago . But I guess what I'll do is just state the obvious : I love this short , think it should be widely available and wish it were being shown in schools across the world . Frederic Back is a supremely talented man and far too neglected . This may be his crowning achievement and , by itself , would justify his entire life in the sight of mankind , the universe and his creator and I thank him and everyone involved in this splendid work . You have to see this film ! ! ! Most joyously recommended .
One of the best shorts done by John and Faith Hubley	John and Faith Hubley were among the more successful independent animation studios both artistically and commercially . While some of their work is less successful , it's all worth watch and invariably at least interesting . This short , nominated for an Academy Award ( which , were it not for the absolutely brilliant short Closed Mondays , I suspect it would have won in a walk ) this is an incredible piece of work . The selection of Maureen Stapledon and Dizzy Gillespie to do the voices was one of a myriad of touches large and small that make this an excellent animated short . Attention to detail , music , backgrouds-it's all first-rate . Most wholeheartedly recommended .
Ralph and Sam are at it again .	Another day , another dollar . Ralph and Sam are hard at work in their jobs as predator and protector . I hope Ralph has a good insurance plan ! This is one of the better ones in an all to brief series of shorts directed by Chuck Jones . The characters are fascinating and the sight gags are great . The few bits of dialog are often priceless . I really like Sam ! Most definitely worth seeing . Highly recommended .
Possibly Tom's worst nightmare !	This short , nominated for an Oscar , features Tom almost at his worst . In an act of self-preservation , Jerry cals upon his cousin ( the very well-named Muscles ) for his help . At times , I almost feel sorry for Tom ( almost ) . Tom more or less gets what he deserves here and , were he not a cartoon , would very likely not survive his encounter here with " Jerry's Cousin " . Cartoon Network shows this one fairly frequently . Highly recommended .
One of many cartoons that was to use Of Mice and Men as an influence of sorts	Tex Avery was fond of using Of Mice and Men , or at least the characters of Lenny and George , as the starting pont for his characters in his cartoons . The title of this one is a play on Steinbeck's title and Willoughby is basically Lenny . The prize bit in a very good short is Willoughby's first encounter with a very puzzled bear ! Well worth seeking out . Recommended .
What some think of as Audrey Hepburn's best film , it is certainly her signature role	Many think that this is Audrey Hepburn's best film ( I think it was Charade ) or that this is her best performance ( I think that was in Wait Until Dark ) . What this was for Hepburn is the most single memorable role of her career-her signature role . I cannot picture anyone else as Holly Golightly , no matter how hard I try . She made better films ( Charade and My Fair Lady , among others ) and did better work ( The Children's Hour and Wait Until Dark , among others ) but this is the part most people associate with Audrey Hepburn in their minds first . ery good film , with a memorable score and an excellent cast , although Mickey Rooney chews the scenery a bit TOO hard here . Most recommended .
Exceptional effort to maximize the limits inherent in limited animation quite successfully	This short won an Academy Award and justly so . While others have said the scripted narration is not terribly good , I disagree . There are one or two excessively florid points , but Robert Morley's marvellous reading covers those and overall , the scripted narration is good . The animation succeeds in part because of the narration . Chuck Jones and Maurice Noble have every right to be well pleased with this cartoon . Why it isn't in print , I don't understand . Highly Recommended .
Simply hilarious but also tender and joyous	Having never been all that enthralled with Bloom County , I watched this with some doubt-for all of about two minutes and then I was hooked . What I saw was at one and the same time funny and heart-wrenching . There are a few running gags ( watch the carolers particularly ) and there is a very effective use of visual imagery on the fringes . Like with Who Framed Roger Rabbit ? , invariably when I watch this again , I see some little bit I've missed . Very effective use of music to set the appropriate mood throughout . And the ending is perfect ! Highest Recommendation .
An incredibly funny and affectionate send-up of the horror film in general and Frankenstein films in particular	There really isn't much I can say that doubtless someone else hasn't said . Brooks used the same location and sets that were used for the lab scenes in the original 1931 James Whale version . Anyone who doesn't laugh at either the scene with Gene Hackman as a blind hermit or the scene where Marty Feldman and Gene Wilder are discussing the brain that Feldman brought for transplant has absolutely no pulse whatsoever . Gloriously funny from start to finish . Kenneth Mars is a hoot and Liam Dunn is a scream in one of the most painful-looking funny scenes in cinematic history ! Most Highly Recommended .
Anything can happen in a cartoon !	Disney in the late 1930s did animated shorts like no one else did them . Warner Brothers was after the visual gag and creating continuing characters , while MGM was interested in making visually pretty cartoons and mostly one-shots , with few recurring characters . For Walt Disney , shorts served a couple of primary purposes : one , they kept the Disney name and his principal characters before the public and two , most importantly to Disney , they were a good testing and training ground for new animation techniques , so he could make the feature films as close to perfect as possible . In this short ( a fantastic cartoon in its own right ) , the visual gags are great , but the timing on everything has to be perfect or it won't work . You can see the seeds of things Disney did later in features like Dumbo and Bambi in shorts like Mickey's Trailer , which serve as dry-runs while being great works in and of themselves . Some of the best bits ever done were done for these shorts just to see what worked and what didn't . Magnificently animated . Well worth watching . Most highly recommended .
Hilarious fun from a master of the animated short	This is a very good cartoon from Tex Avery , a master of the art form known as the animated short . Avery typically came up with a premise , often an innocuous one and then proceeded to do the most outlandish and ridiculous sight gags imaginable fired rapidly at the audience starting from the basic idea . Usually , there is a running gag threading its way throughout the short . This time , Avery is ostensibly giving his ausience a look at the house of tomorrow . Hilarious and glorious fun . Highly recommended .
Excellent combination of music and animation	This short was nominated for an Academy Award and was most deserving of the honor . Narrated by Roberta Flack , who also sings the folk song about John Henry , this is a particularly effective use of the animation style used here-minimal animation and very basic drawings . Emphasis here is on the story and Flack is marvelous in the narration . An excellent re-telling of an old , familiar tale . Highly recommended .
Wonderful jazzy score is just one highlight here out of many !	As a general rule , when I comment on things , I try to avoid saying too much specific about plot , scenes , et cetera , while trying to give anyone reading my comment a basic idea of the feel of the film or short so they can decide if it might be their cup of tea , so to speak . Occasionally , I run into something I want to describe a bit more specifically , but I'll still try not to spoil anything . I may still let too much spill here . You have been warned . This starts out with Bimbo and Koko playing Mad Scientist . They get distracted by Betty and start watching her instead of the stuff in the lab and an experiment goes awry . Shades of Boris Karloff as the experiment sets out to make Betty his Elsa Lanchester . Sight gags set in time to a great jazz score , some of them things that would have been unacceptable to the Hays Office a year or so later ( one in particular that I'll remember the rest of my life ! ) and an ending that's incredibly silly , but fun to watch . This has everything an early Fleischer Boop should have-surreal sight gags , a little risque material ( though tame today ) , great music and the unexpected . One thing I'll never know , though : did James Whale ever see this and I wonder what he thought of it if he did . 11 on a scale of 10 . In print and available . Most highly and gleefully recommended .
As one of " the others " , I found this short quite funny and moving .	To be quite frank , I expected Destino to win the Oscar and was surprised and a bit disappointed on hearing that another short had won instead . Until I finally saw Harvie Krumpet the other day . Here there be mild Spoilers . Harvie Krumpet is both funny and frightening , sometimes at the same time . A modern-day version of Job ( Job would probably look at Harvie's life and shudder ) , Harvie goes through a life that is tedious and tragic , all the while collecting " fakts " that are interspersed as graphics throughout the short . There are sight gags aplenty here . You'll never look at a pair of false teeth in quite the same way after you watch this . Given that this is set from the 1920s through the 1980s , some of the references are topical and somewhat dated and I'm sure there are in-jokes and references that anyone more familiar with Australia would get that I missed , but I found this extremely engaging and well worth my time . Though there are a couple of nominees I haven't seen yet , I think that this one probably won the Oscar walking away , deserved to and certainly is no disgrace to the Academy in having done so . Happily it is currently in print . Most highly recommended .
Betty Boop's impression of Barney Oldfield	This short spoofs the very popular sport of auto racing . At the time this short was made , Barney Oldfield , an auto racer , was one of the more notable and famous celebrities of the day . This is auto racing , Fleischer style . Bizarre gags and excellent animation highlight this one and it's charming to watch . Fans of Late Night Black and White , the old Cartoon Network show , will recognize this as the cartoon footage is taken from for the " Groovie " ( a series of fillers used to fill out the hour ) titled , " Rollin ' " . Well worth watching . In print and available . Most recommended .
One of the best in a long line of " books ( or magazines ) come to life " shorts by Waner Brothers	There's a great deal to say about this short and some detail is necessary , so spoilers are ahead . This short is an excellent example of a type of cartoon that Warner Brothers did very effectively : Characters from books and / or magazines coming to life or being used as part of a sight gag . Generally set in a bookstore , the first done was Three's a Crowd , done in 1933 . Castles originally featured a caricature of Alexander Wollcott doing an opening and a close as the " Town Crier " , but the studio heads were afraid Wollcott might take offense and the framing sequences were removed . Caricatures were a staple of animation by this point and Castles features a number of them . Why did the animators do these type of cartoons ? I suspect it was because it gave them the advantage of using material that would be very familiar to the audience on at least two levels : books that were familiar to a fairly well-read public ( or magazine titles familiar to that same public ) as well as a visual connection , given that many of these books had also been made into films . Given that animation is a very visual medium by it's nature , audience familiarity with titles and faces allowed the animators to fire dozens of short sight gags at the audience in a short time-frame . Audience recognition of W . C Fields or Greta Garbo , coupled with wide familiarity with books like So Red the Rose and So Big makes the gags work in different ways for different viewers . They did these for the same reason books were adapted into films : audience familiarity with the subject matter . Studios routinely optioned film rights to best-selling books on the not unsound theory that someone who read the book and liked it would pay to see a film version as well . Back in the 1930s , the four principle forms of entertainment were radio , movies , reading and music . Cartoons strip-mined all four for material and Warner's did this superbly . They even re-used themselves on occasion , including a bit in Castles that was first used in Clean Pastures and is used here ( " Swing For Sale " ) . This short is in print on Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Vol . 2 , with the original Wollcott framing sequences included . Highly recommended .
One of Tex Avery's better Droopy shorts	This is one of Tex Avery's Droopy cartoons and it is excellent . Droopy is okay , but the show is stolen by a fox with a very mannered nature , Ronald Colman sounding voice and speech pattern and entirely too clever for a bunch of incredibly over-matched hunting dogs ! Given that my sympathies in such matters as hunts , bullfights and other " sports " which require needlessly killing something as the goal are with the stalked rather than the stalker , I rather like this short and consider the fox to be the lead character here , which I gather Tex Avery intended . Sight gags aplenty here , but much of what the fox says is rather dryly humourous as well . Sadly , this is not in print at present , but it's well worth seeking out . " I do this sort of thing all through the picture . " has got to be one of Avery's favorite lines ! Most recommended .
Typical Tex Avery insanity	This short , nominated for an Oscar , is pretty typical of Avery , with one small difference-where he typically started with a rather mundane normal situation and then twisted it in insane ways , here he starts with an absurdity ( the infusion of dog plasma into a man and vice versa ) and THEN twists it in insane ways ! A hilariously funny cartoon and the ending is perfect . Highly Recommended .
An excellent adaptation of the Dickens classic	This short , which won an Academy Award , is the best animated adaptation that I've yet seen and is better than a couple of the live-action versions . Everything is top-notch-animation , voice-casting ( particularly Sim reprising his performance as Scrooge ) , production values . The adaptation is quite true to the tone and spirit of the original work , even with the necessary truncation imposed by the brief length . Good to have it in print . Most recommended .
One of Tex Avery's attempts at developing a continuing character .	Tex Avery preferred doing one-shot cartoons as opposed to using a regular character or characters . He was more interested in the gags than anything else . Studios , of course , want something recognizable to the audience , to developing continuing interest and thus sell more tickets . So Avery , because MGM wanted him to come up with a character to rival the Tom and Jerry shorts done by the other principle unit at the studio ( Hanna and Barbera ) came up with Screwball Squirrel . While Screwy was a decent enough character , the trouble was that he was too limited , too much a one-note character . He was a walking sight gag . There were five cartoons done with Screwy before the series ended , in typical Avery style , with Lonesome Lenny . The Screwy cartoons are funny , but also too predictable . The first one , here , opens wonderfully with a lighthearted ( or maybe not ) shot at cutesy little animal cartoons that were staples at " other studios " for years and takes off from there . This is probably the best of the series . Well worth watching . Most highly recommended .
The first Tom and Jerry cartoon	This short , nominated for an Oscar it should have won in 1940 , is the first Tom and Jerry , for all that the cat's name is " Jasper " . The Tom and Jerry cartoons generally break down into one of four eras : the early ones , when Rudolf Ising was involved , then the ones that Hanna and Barbera did with Fred Quimby producing , then the ones Chuck Jones did and finally the Gene Deitch efforts . Each had a different look and feel to them that make them instantly recognizable and unmistakable as to who did them . But the most remarkable transformation in appearance and style was the change between the early ones and the ones in the later 1940s . In every way , it's quite a change . This is the best of the early ones . Most recommended .
The best Daffy Duck solo cartoon ever made	This is the best cartoon they made were Daffy wasn't playing opposite Bugs or Porky Pig . His foils are a dog named Leopold and his master , a parody of Peter Lorre . The best lines in the whole cartoon are spoken by the " mad scientist " and they're some of the funniest I can recall . The cartoon really gets going during the requisite chase scenes . After all , what's a cartoon without a chase sequence ? One of my all-time favorites . Most definitely recommended .
Minimal animation , even for UPA , but delightful characters and script	This short , which won an Oscar , spawned two sequels and a TV cartoon show , has minimal animation but adelightful script ( by Theodore Geisel aka Dr . Seuss ) and aneven more memorable and enchanting main character . UPA pioneered a style of animation that even influenced Disney during the mid-1950s and produced some of the best animated shorts done in the late 1940s and the 1950s . This is on of their finest . God to have it in print . Highly recommended .
Thoughtful , funny and compelling animated short	This short was nominated for an Academy Award and , but for the fact that Balance was eligible in the same year , it probably would have won . It did win a BAFTA for Animated Short . I guess if I were to try and sum up an 18 minute short in one word , it would be perspective . It largely depends on how you look at something that determines how you react to a situation . This short examines different people and their reaction to the same surroundings and events . It's by turns humorous and quietly thoughtful in doing this examination . This was included on Spike and Mike's Festival of Animation , which makes this a great tape to grab , if you can find it , all by itself . A marvelous piece , without a doubt . Most Highly Recommended .
The dialogue in a Pepe Le Pew is essential to the success of the cartoon !	Given that this is Bastille Day , a comment on a Pepe Le Pew is appropriate , don't you think ? In this one Pepe is Pepe , of course , and the lines ( mainly delivered by Pepe ) are wonderful . While good scripts were important in most of the series that Warner Brothers did , visual gags tend to overshadow dialogue much of the time . For Pepe to work , the lines need to be funny , as visual gags are a bit limited by the premise and Pepe's personality is part of the charm to be found here in any case . This short has great lines , like , " You may call me Streetcar because of my desire for you . " The ending is hilarious . My favorite sight gag in any Pepe Le Pew is in this one . Watch for the scene with the frog , with the frog's reaction to Pepe being the absolutely perfect reaction to have . Rumor has it that the frog here was a cousin of Michigan J . Frog who kept pestering him for work . This walk-on role was Michigan's way of " discouraging " his cousin from pursuing a career in show business . It worked quite well-his cousin reputedly joined the French Foreign Legion " to forget " his experience . Great cartoon . Well worth watching . Most highly recommended .
Excellent combination of animation and music .	This short is beautifully executed , but hard to describe . I cannot really figure out what , if any , relation the title has to the animation . I can say that it's an extremely good blending of movement to music , although the visuals can sometimes have a jarring effect on the viewer , mostly in the color combinations . A BAFTA nominee , well deserving of the honor , it was included in Spike and Mike's Festival of Animation , Vol . Four and is well worth tracking down . Most recommended .
A remarkable and fascinating film with excellent performances from a largely unknown cast	This is a very well-done and memorable film that chills you to the bone as you listen a group of men sometimes happily discuss genocide ! There are excellent performances from a cast with few well-known , familiar names , but Stanley Tucci as Eichmann and Kenneth Branagh as Heydrich particularly shine . Given the history of the two men they portray ( neither one terribly pleasant but , fittingly , neither were their ends ) , the performances are all the more disturbing by their understated nature . An excellent film . Most highly recommended .
An Oscar winner and one of the best Sylvester and Tweety cartoons	This is a delightful cartoon and one of the most effective and entertaining Sylvester and Tweety cartoons Warner Brothers did . The B . A . meeting is inspired parody and Sylvester's attempts to kick the " bird habit " are exceptionally funny . Tweety's closing line is the perfect capper to a wonderful ending . Won a well-earned Oscar . Shows frequently on Cartoon Network . Highly recommended .
One of my personal favorites , it was a BAFTA nominee .	This is one of my favorite Magoo cartoons and takes place on a train . In a case of mistaken identity , Magoo is thought to be a spy in a drop ( note of puzzlement here , though : Magoo's behavior has an explanation , as he's near-sighted . But for the other characters , the only explanation for much of what they do is that they are idiots studying to be morons and not managing to grasp the material . Some real Rhodes scholars here ) and the bulk of the cartoon is spent pursuing Magoo once the error is discovered . Magoo's good fortune prevails once again and he blithely strolls through the wreckage and chaos strewn in his wake , emerging without even the whisper of a scratch . The pack of 40 watt bulbs giving chase is not nearly so fortunate . The situations here are a riot ! Well worth tracking down . Simply marvelous . Most highly recommended .
Meet some children with quite vivid imaginations !	This excellent and very creative short is somewhat hard to find , but it is one of the better efforts done by UPA , which is no small compliment . The minimalist nature of UPA's style of animation lends itself extremely well to this tale of children playing cowboys one fine day and the imagination these children show is delightful . Well worth the effort to track down . That it isn't seen more these days is a sad commentary on the crackdown on violence in cartoons , while in television and films , shooting and explosions are commonplace in things easily viewed by the same kids the self-appointed guardians of acceptability seek to " protect " . Most highly recommended .
Warning ! : Not a cartoon for children or the squeamish !	This short , nominated for an Academy Award , is basically a Kabuki play done using puppet animation . This one makes Romeo and Juliet look like Rebecca of Sunnybrook Farm ! It is a very violent cartoon ( I'm not talking cartoon violence here , either ) and is not for everyone . Excellent animation and well worth watching . Most solidly recommended with the above warnings in mind .
An excellent mix of classical music and animation-and a good Tom and Jerry cartoon as well !	Cartoon studios have been blending animation with music probably since the start of animation . Particularly classical and also jazz . Every major studio has done at least a few cartoons where the animation is done to the beat of the music . This is one of the best of the MGM efforts . One of the few times when my sympathies have been with Tom more than with Jerry . While Rhapsody With Rivets is the best short to blend classical with animation ( Sliphorn King of Polaroo was tops for jazz ! ) , this cartoon , with several other Tom and Jerry shorts , does very well indeed and won an Oscar . Highly recommended .
The short that proves one shouldn't let one's spare room to unfamiliar penguins without excellent references !	This marvelous short won the Academy Award and is the best of the series , though all so far have been delightful ! The praise heaped on Wallace and Gromit has been vast and well-deserved , so my additions are gilding the lily , but I'll still say something . The Wrong Trousers is funny , sad , insightful and just plain mad , frequently all at once . If there's any justice , they will remain in print in perpetuity . Most recommended .
If you have a chance to get this one , by all means , do so-it's exceptional !	George Santayana , call your answering service . This is a perfect example of what he was talking about with history repeating , if on a smaller , more localized , scale . Watch this carefully and you'll see what I'm talking about . This lost to Bunny for Animated Short , which I'm certain Bunny won because it is a more visually stunning cartoon . Given that both have a lot going for them in terms of intent , plot , ideas and eloquence , I suspect More could have won if Bunny hadn't been visually incredible . Personally , I wish there had been a tie between them . There is certainly nothing for either of these magnificent shorts to be sorry about and both deserve praise and a wider audience . More is solid in all respects-animation , backgrounds , story , music and so on . In most years , probably a winner of record . Given how precious little recent short animation is in print at the moment ( very little ) , an audience for More is preferable to any award , in any case . Too bad that there isn't perceived to be much of a market for things like Bunny and More . It may not be huge , but a market does exist . If you can see More , by all means , do so . Most Highly Recommended .
Disney does justice to an excellent work of children's literature	Disney has had a reputation ( in large part , justifiably so ) for taking literary works and making them overly cute , thereby not doing justice to the source ( i . e . , Bambi ) , but here do a wonderful job of bringing Ferdinand off the printed page and into glorious , moving color ! This is one of the best shorts Disney ever did and took the Oscar for 1938 , beating three other Disney shorts ( including a Mickey Mouse ) and a Paramount cartoon called Hunky and Spunky . With remarkable backgrounds and detail , even for a Disney cartoon , this really should be in-print . It does show on The Ink and Paint Club . Most joyously recommended !
That poor dog !	This is one of the better Tex Averys , as well as one of the more violent ones ( please recognize that " cartoon violence " and real violence are NOT the same thing , though ) , most of it directed at Speedy , the unfortunate dog . While I do understand the rabbit's actions and have not one problem recognizing a desire ( and need ) for self-preservation , I find myself more in sympathy with the dog than the rabbit as things unfold here . Sight gags for the most part and quite good ones they are , too . Well worth watching . Recommended .
The classic Bugs Bunny cartoon	This is probably the best opera parody I have ever seen . The only other cartoon I've seen that comes close is " Rabbit of Seville " and the lyrics are funnier here ( although the sight gags are better in " Seville " ) and besides , Bugs and Elme do an aria together . What else do you want ? This is also where Elmer sings , " Kill the wabbit ! " . One piece of advice-you may not want sneer at a man with a spear when he says he has a magic helmet . At least I wouldn't . I don't have Wile E . Coyote's constitution !
Wonderful teaming of Hepburn and Grant in an exceptionally charming film	This film is a combination thriller / romantic comedy and has a great cast , an excellent script and some lovely locations . Grant and Hepburn make a fine couple and work well together on-screen . The supporting performances are wonderful , particularly James Coburn in a quite menacing turn in a very early role . This film has suspense , romance and one or two hilarious scenes , one a shower scene not likely to be forgotten by anyone who sees this film . Most recommended .
Excellent ( and quite faithful ) adaptation of an Oscar Wilde children's story .	Oscar Wilde has always fascinated me . A controversial figure , he is arguably the most successfully literary figure , certainly in terms of range , in the English language . He wrote verse , prose , plays with equal skill and success and wrote short stories and novels with the same facility . His work has often been adapted for the screen and usually the adaptations are remarkably faithful to the source material , something Hollywood in particular is not noted for . The Selfish Giant is Wilde at his best . The story is , like all great children's literature , for young and old alike . At times funny and sad , it touches the audience and stays with you . I read the story first , before seeing this . I generally make allowances for adaptations , particularly to film . Such allowances are unnecessary here . It's beautifully done , with care and an obvious affection for the original . The animation , backgrounds , the music , all works marvelously , but the narration is the key . It is , essentially , Wilde's story converted to voice-over and dialogue . Wonderful ! I saw this first not quite thirty years ago , twice , and , when I recently got a copy , recalled virtually every scene in detail . This needs to be re-issued . Well worth tracking down . Most highly recommended .
Daffy joins the military as a commando	This is a marvelous little bit of propaganda using Daffy to help lampoon the enemy , in this case the Nazis . I think my favorite bit is Daffy singing as he parachutes down , although the ending is a close second . Something I find myself wondering when I see this cartoon ( which probably means I have way too much time on my hands ) is whether the writers on the film Stalag 17 decided to name the guard in their film Schultz after this cartoon's Schultz and if , in turn , Schultz in Hogan's Heros was named after the guard in the film . My , such grand philosophical questions I ponder ! Great short and most definitely worth seeking out . Most highly recommended .
Music was a big part of cartoons in general and Betty Boop in particular .	Animation and music have gone hand in glove since the sound era and probably beforehand . While Warner Brothers and MGM featured music prominently , Lantz and Fliescher went a step or two further , by creating series built around music ( mostly jazz ) and the Betty Boop shorts featured music frequently . This short is one of the best they did . The mix of the animation and the Cab Calloway song is fantastic ! All the studios used music in the creative process for their animation , with varying success . Warner Brothers did so because they saw a way to utilize the large catalog of songs from their film library , while Disney saw the potential revenue streams music would afford them . Whatever the reason , some great cartoons were made , including quite few Betty Boops . This is a must see . Most highly recommended .
Tex Avery strikes again !	Tex Avery's most successful original continuing character was Droopy . Though Avery was involved in the development of many of Warner Brothers principal characters , most of the time he preferred doing one-shots , not wanting to be tied into a regular character continuously . Under pressure at MGM to develop a continuing series like the rival unit Hanna and Barbera had with Tom and Jerry , he tried with Screwy Squirrel and the characters George and Junior , which had short runs , then came up with Droopy and hit a small jackpot . Droopy was the perfect character for Avery-a quiet , nondescript little fellow who always seems to come out ahead . The series was loose enough to permit Avery to do the sight gags he loved but also had a character recognizable enough to audiences that he could be a hook to grab audiences and build in popularity , thus keeping the studio and Avery reasonably happy . MGM continued the series , with mixed results , after Avery left the studio . This particular short has loads of hilarious sight gags and the ending is hilarious . Well worth watching . Most recommended .
An Overlooked Treasure	This cartoon seems to have vanished from the radar screens , along with most of the Walter Lantz material , which is a shame . The basic premise is that a trombone player named Jackson falls overboard and washes up on the island of Polaroo . The trombone solos are played by Jack Teagarden , a great jazz trombonist and there is a wonderful song the denizens of the island sing about Jackson , called , naturally enough , " Jackson , Sliphorn King of Polaroo " . It's all great fun and a good time is had by all and sundry . Hans Conreid's narration is just perfect and there are sight gags worthy of the master , Tex Avery . I wish I could see this one again . I don't know why so little of the Lantz output is available . If anyone can tell me , I'd appreciate the information .
The best of the Speedy Gonzales shorts	This cartoon , nominated for an Oscar , is the best of the Spedy Gonzales cartoon shorts that were made in the Golden Age of Warner Brothers . I saw this cartoon again recently and found it was much better than I originally thought it was years ago . The highlight of the cartoon for me has to be the appearance of " Slowpoke " Rodriguez , one of Speedy's cousins . Hilarious ! Cartoon Network may or may not air this one . A bit difficult to find but well worth the effort . Recommended .
Killer ending that " explains " things geologic ( Here There Be mini-Spoiler )	This short is absolutely delightful and follows Scrat through a personal catastrophe to a rather dramatic ( if improbable ) conclusion with far-reaching consequences for life on our little mote in the eye of the universe . I wonder what my various geology teachers would have thought of this particular " explanation " for the cause of the Continental Drift Theory . I personally would love for it to be true ! Or at least something equally slapstick in nature . Great little cartoon with excellent visual detail . Well worth watching . Recommended .
Excellent short all too rarely seen these days	This short is funny , witty , creative and has some of the best music ever for a short cartoon . It would also ( understandably ) offend a great number of people . So , in the United States , instead of discussing it out in the open , it's buried and many would rather pretend it never existed at all . Which is a shame , when you consider that ignoring something because it may be unpleasant seldom works in your best interest . Enjoyable , if quite dated , short . Worth the trouble to find . Recommended .
Sweet , gentle version of Cinderella courtesy of the NFB	This short , nominated for an Academy Award , is a sweet , gentle and affectionate spin on the Cinderella fairy tale , as done with penguins ! A production of the National Film Board of Canada , the short displays a true fondness for the source material while still having its own take on things . Most wholeheartedly recommended .
Words cannot do this justice-it must be seen !	This is a short , sharp , delightful cartoon that cannot be adequately described by mere words . It must be seen to be fully appreciated . The director must truly have a fondness for the western , to have so fully captured the atmosphere , right up to the end , when I sat dumb-struck and then almost rolled out of my chair because I laughed so hard my sides hurt ! Gloriously funny and well worth the effort to hunt it up . Most joyously recommended .
Enjoyable as well as thought-provoking	This is absolutely one of the most fascinating cartoons I've seen and a great one to show to children as it creatively demonstrates the benefits of cooperation as well as the potential for disaster in struggle for no good purpose . The action on the edges is as fascinating as the principle action and the detail is wonderful in every sense of the word . Most recommended , particularly for children .
Fascinating look into the stories behind some of the Mother Goose nursery rhymes	Most stories , rhymes and fables have some story behind them as to their origin and this short , an Oscar nominee , goes into several of the Mother Goose rhymes and tells what event or action caused its creation . It's really quite fascinating to discover the basis of many of these rhymes we grew up with and to discover how many were actually political in nature . This shows on The Ink and Paint Club on the Disney Channel as well as a free-standing filler itself every once in awhile . Most recommended .
Early Droopy , with a slightly different appearance .	This short is an early look at Droopy . He's drawn a bit differently , but is recognizable all the same . In many ways this is the archetypical Tex Avery short-the visual gags are among his most outrageous ever , all the trademarks are here-signs , asides to the audience , the lot . Avery would re-visit this theme again , more than once . An incredible cartoon . Glad to see it's in print . A must-see for anyone interested in animation . Most highly recommended .
Stark , grim and the most deathly serious animated short I've ever seen from a U . S . studio	Forget anything you may have come to expect from Disney if and when you see this short . There is nothing cute here . The animation is excellent , is very grim and stark and very chilling . It is the most deathly serious animated short I have seen produced by a studio based in the United States . The only one I've ever seen that may match it is Balance , a German short made almost fifty years later . Education For Death is a short you won't easily forget once you've seen it and it's a shame that The Mouse hasn't seen fit to release it on a DVD along with things like Victory Through Air Power , Der Fuehrer's Face , Reason and Emotion , New Spirit and other works Disney made as a part of the war effort during World War II . An excellent production that deserves to be in print and seen . Most highly recommended .
My absolute favorite Pepe LePew	This is without a doubt my favorite cartoon by a somewhat overshadowed character . A takeoff on Charles Boyer , Pepe has some great lines in this one and the opening of the cartoon is just a riot ! Although I do have some sympathy for the dog . The reason I love this cartoon is that I agree with one of Pepe's observations about fish in the sea , but don't call it a weakness ! sigh
I actually felt some sympathy for Donald in this one .	Donald is not one of my personal favorites as far as characters go . He's too obnoxious and abrasive for my tastes . But here , I actually find him a sympathetic character . He's treated badly throughout and scores one victory , only to have it destroyed through the ignorance of righteous indignation that is misplaced and mis-aimed . Donald gave Chip an ' Dale treatment more along the lines of what they deserved than Daisy does and a smart duck would bid her a firm adieu and never bother with her again . But this is Donald , so that definitely won't happen here , of course ! Very funny short and well worth tracking down . Recommended .
Tex Avery would have been pleased with this one .	This short was nominated for the Academy Award . All too frequently , one hears that something was done " in the tradition of . . . " or " In the style of . . . " and it usually is not a flattering comparison . This short is an exception . I had seen comments comparing this favorably to the work of Tex Avery and was not sure what to expect . Lo and behold , it is in , fact , a short that is chiefly sight gag after sight gag , fired rapidly at the audience without pause . Plotting is basic and second to the gags and the ending is vintage Avery . The first time I watched this , I was too busy laughing to make comparisons , but this is a short that could easily fit into the Avery shorts with nary a raised eyebrow and hold it's own with the best that remarkable talent produced . It's a fantastic piece and a good thing that it's in print . It can also be found on The World's Greatest Animation and is more than worth the effort to get . A great cartoon ! Most highly recommended !
Disney adaptation of Andersen fairy tale that remains true to the original and quite warm and touching .	Disney's track record for adaptations of works of literature is decidedly mixed . This version of Hans Christian Andersen's , " The Ugly Duckling " is one of the most successful ones and quite deservedly won another Oscar for Uncle Walt . It's a beautiful short on all counts-animation , backgrounds , artwork , scoring , eveything-Disney at it's best . When Disney was at their best , no one could touch them . This short does justice to one of the most well-known fairy tales of all time and almost makes up for what they did to Felix Salten's " Bambi " . Almost . This one should be in-print and runs on The Ink and Paint Club . An absolute masterpiece and anyone who loves animation has got to see this one ! Recommended .
This is a remarkable piece of work !	This short won an Academy Award and should have ! An exceptionally tough cartoon to see , as it's most difficult to find . Disney , with some understandable reluctance , has not made this available . While understandable , I don't agree with the choice they've made here . This cartoon should be seen , it should be widely available and is a big part of the Golden Age of Disney . Qute probably the best theatrical short Disney ever made ( certainly the best that I've seen ) and it's unfortunate that DIsney has clearly consigned it to the vaults . I fervently hope they change their minds . My highest recommendation here . Worth the trouble to locate and should be in print ! ! !
I find myself most inclined to be like the parrot here	This cartoon is one of the most devastatingly on target deliniation of The Golden Rule of reality : He that hath the gold makes the rules . Typically , most societies run on this model , the only distinction being the currency . The two most popular are money and power , though they are far from the only ones out there . This short nails this most savagely and is far from subtle in doing so . My favorite character here is the parrot , as the little man in my head that often gets me into trouble for being stubborn in place of a wise pragmatism is very much like that bird and I would probably behave much the same way as the parrot , but ultimately wind up at the business end of a truncheon eventually anyway . A scary , revealing look at power , absolute power and corruption . This is a must see . Most highly recommended .
Believe me ! You Do not want to miss this one !	This has to be one of the greatest documentaries of all time ! The combat footage is all real ! At the beginning , there is a notation that , in the fighting depicted , four of the cameramen were killed and thirteen others were either wounded or captured by the enemy . There is also footage taken by the Germans that was captured in the British advance . Watching this , think about one thing : everything you are seeing , a camerman was close enough to shoot with a camera and was , while filming , unarmed and a target . Hemingway defined courage as " grace under pressure " . This marvelous masterpiece is a testament to incredible courage . Words fail to do these brave souls credit . But Desert Victory does . I salute them and the others whose courage is immortalized here on celluloid .
Excellent Riff on the story of the Three Little Pigs	This is a jazzy little cartoon , taking the Three Little Pigs and making them a Jazz combo , consisting of a guitar , drums and piano . The Big Bad Wolf wants to join in on a jam session . He's really bad and a square , so the Pigs tell him to scram . The cartoon focuses on his attempts to join in . The music is great , the narration is sung ( by Stan Freberg ) and the ending is excellent . The crowd goes wild and the land saw much rejoicing ! They just don't make ' em like this anymore ! Great cartoon and more than worth your time . Highly Recommended .
Great short , even if I found the ending quite obvious and predictable .	Ersatz , an exceptional piece of work from Zagreb Films , was the first non-American work to win the Academy Award for Animated Short ( though it was not the first for an independent studio-depending on definition , that honor would go to UPA or John Hubley's Storyboard , Inc ) and deserved to win . It's lively , amusing , well-animated and stretches the envelope . Clearly influenced by UPA , as were most of the Eastern Europeans , I loved this the first time I saw this some 25 years ago , although I found it predictable in spots , including the ending . I saw it again recently and it still holds up . It's available on a tape produced by Rembrandt Films , called The Best of Zagreb Films : The Classic Collection , which may well be in print . Copies are certainly still floating around . Well worth tracking down . Most highly recommended
If Tex Avery had done nothing else , this would have been good enough	I am an unreserved , unabashed fan of Mr . Avery and do not even try to hide it in the least . While I have other favorites , this is one of the top three or four he did , objectively speaking , and in my opinion , the best , for all that it's not one of my top five favorites . It is a true parody , full of warmth and fondness for its subject , Al Jolson . Splendidly done from the first frame on . Five encores and twenty-seven curtan calls . Most highly Recommended ! ! !
The cartoon that ended Avery's career at Warner Brothers	This short led directly to the exit of Tex Avery from Warner Brothers . Some sources say he was fired , others that he quit , but Leon Schlesinger's mistake was Avery's , animation's and MGM's gain . Avery did some fantastic work at MGM , animation gained from his influence on another studio and MGM gained by having the competition between Avery and Hanna and Barbera , which improved both teams . Avery's influence can be seen on the Tom and Jerry series in the mid to late 1940s and it's open to question whether Droopy or Screwball Squirrel would have developed at a crowded Warner Brothers . Who knows what would have developed ( or not developed ) at Warner Brothers had Avery NOT gone to MGM . Excellent short . Most highly recommended .
Great visuals and Jack Mercer-the two strong points of the Fleischer Popeye cartoons !	The story to this one is okay-standard Popeye beats up Bluto , this time on skis . What makes this a very special cartoon ( and it is a very special cartoon ) is the visuals and the work of Jack Mercer as the voice of Popeye . The visuals-words cannot adequately describe them , they must be seen-are still great almost 70 years later . The backgrounds , animation , detail , everything is exceptional . The Fleischers seldom made a visually unimpressive cartoon . Jack Mercer's name is well-known to fans , but the average person probably knows very little about him . But much of what makes Popeye the Popeye most people think of stems from Jack Mercer's work as his " voice " . The unde the breath mutterings that are often the funniest parts of the cartoon were largely written or ad-libbed by Mercer . He is as much responsible as anyone for Popeye's personality . Thank you , Jack Mercer . Well worth watching . Most highly recommended .
An exceptionally cute and very well done cartoon from the master	This is an early cartoon done by Tex Avery when he was still being screen-credited as Fred . I haven't seen it in years but recall it vividly . Little son scarecrow wants to follow in dad's footsteps ( or should that be strawsteps ? ) but dad suggests he wait a bit until he's older . Son decides to give it a go anyway , with predictable results . The expressiveness of the various characters is quite remarkable and I've seen film footage of Avery and another resident ( or maybe inmate is more accurate ) acting out one scene , which is probably why the movements seem so realistic . It's an entertaining and effective piece of animation . A good time was had by all . Most recommended
Simply incredible piece of film !	This short , which most deservedly won the Academy Award and I believe has been included in the Library of Congress's Film Preservation listings as well , defies description with mere words . It must be seen to be appreciated . At first I found the two separate soundtracks jarring , because the same person recorded them both . But gradually , I began to flow with the two distinct , yet equally interesting , narratives . The visual images correspond to one or the other narrative at different points . Compelling to watch . This clearly was a labor intensive project , as any form of stop-motion animation has to be . Think about how long it took to shoot just 60 seconds worth of film and realize this is nine minutes long ! Well worth tracking down , I saw this on Sundance Channel last night . Most highly recommended , but if your idea of animation begins and ends with Bugs Bunny or Speed Racer , you may not care for this at all .
Engaging , sweet and thoroughly charming short .	I've seen three of the five shorts nominated for the Oscar and this short is the best of the three I've seen . I'm not at all surprised that it was the winner . Since it would be difficult to discuss this short without going into at least a few details , let this serve as a spoiler warning : The basic idea behind this short regards the importance of random chance in all our lives . Narrated ( very effectively ) by Liv Ullman , with no other vocal work save hers , the story unfolds gradually and softly , with little touches of humor here and there . There are quite a few playful nudges at Danes and Norwegians throughout . The story centers on a Danish poet and his hit-and-miss relationship with a Norwegian farmer's daughter . The relationship has a good many twists and turns , with a logic chain made up of all sorts of random events which change the course of various lives . Barking dogs , inattentive mail carriers , slippery boards , a funeral and hairstyles all take their turn at changing things , all leading to the marvelous conclusion . This short is available ( on DVD ) from the National Film Board of Canada and is well worth watching . Highly recommended .
I laughed , I cried , I saw myself	I first saw this documentary short ( which won an Academy Award last year ) about ten days ago . I admit upfront a bias , as , like the artist who is the focus of the piece , I have Cerebral Palsy . Although I walk with crutches and my speech is clearer than his , much of what he says and much of his experience in lfe is similar to my own and , I suspect , for many of those who are disabled as well . Although much is made of his disability , much is also made of his art as well and they didn't try to treat him as though he were a dancing bear . It's a powerful affecting film and it haunts me still and will for the rest of my days . It is difficult to be disabled and I'm not talking about physical barriers , but rather the preconceptions people in general have about the disabled . The title King Gimp is apparently a name he was called when he was younger that he adopted for his own use . Althougher he will probably never see these words , I salute him and thank him for telling so much about his life ( figuratively bleeding on camera at times that my heart clenches even now , thinking about his words ) . I am purposely leaving his name out because his story is the story of so many that it does what every artist tries to do at one time or another-create an Everyman . Bravo to everyone involved in this project .
One of the best that Lantz studios did !	This is one of the better shorts featuring Woody that was done in the 1950s . Excellent story , script , use of music-everything works . But one of the strong points is perhaps less obvious than others and that's Grace Stafford as the voice of Woody . Ben Hardaway did quite well , but there's a manic quality to Stafford's Woody that isn't quite present otherwise . She seemed to understand him better than others did . The same seems to be true of Walt Disney's voice work for Mickey . Some voices just work for certain characters better than others . Marvelous short . Worth the time and trouble to track down . Most recommended .
Popeye the animal lover in a bullfight ?	Let me state at the outset that when it comes to bullfighting , my sympathies are entirely with the bull and anyone foolish enough to to get in the ring with one for " sport " deserves whatever happens to him . End of sermon . Here we have a very reluctant Popeye essentially drafted by default into the position of matador by being in the wrong place at the wrong time by virtue of his flirtation with Olive . This is a bullfight , Popeye style . A great cartoon , with snappy dialogue , typically fine animation and the inimitable Jack Mercer and a fine time is had by all . One of the more inventive ways for Popeye to get ahold of his spinach fix , so as to emerge once again covered in victory , is seen here . One of my favorite Popeye shorts . Originally done in black and white , there is also a colorized version . While the color version is okay , the black and white is better . Well worth seeking out . Most recommended .
Another fascinating short by John and Faith Hubley	John and Faith Hubley probably don't get as much recognition as they should , but then , animation doesn't get the recognition it merits as an artform . This is an excellent example of animation as art tha is also entertaining as well . It was nominated for an Academy Award and is fascinating to watch . The style the Hubleys use can be a bit jarring at times and if you think animation is for kids , you may not enjoy this one much . John Hubley's contributions to animation were significant and so were and ae his wife Faith's and daughter Emily's . Most recommended for anyone interested in animation or trying something a bit different .
Ah , that laugh of Tex Avery's !	This short , in addition to being an early , if somewhat restrained , Tex Avery re-casting of a familiar fairy tale , features Tex Avery doing voice work as Papa Bear . You can recognize he vocals talents of Mr . Avery almost instantly just by the distinctive timbre he had , but I suspect the reason he did so much voice work was that marvelous belly laugh he had ! It was absolutely wonderful and was used to great effect even in cartoons he didn't direct . Pay close attention to the opening , especially the cast credits . A delightful little short , well worth the effort to see . Most highly recommended .
Why this is not in print is a mystery .	This short won the Academy Award for Animated Short and it deserved the prize ! This is marvelously funny and its unavailablity , given the stature of Mel Brooks and the success of his projects with Carl Reiner , is unfortunate and somewhat puzzling . Ernest Pintoff's animation is largely unavailable and that's a shame , because he did some great stuff . Well worth watching . Most highly recommended to all of you wonderful people in the audience . It's better than Saran Wrap !
Absolutely riveting study of two champions and I don't even LIKE boxing ! !	I watched this because a good friend insisted I do so , though I see nothing terribly fascinating or interesting in boxing . What I saw was a case study in two very different men who made a living beating each other up , as well as anyone else unwise to step into the ring with either of them . I still don't think much of boxing , but I respect Ali and Foreman more now and think that at least some boxers are athletes and not bashers . Recommended .
Great pre-Code Betty Boop short	This cartoon is a perfect example of the creativity and inventiveness that was possible prior to the advent of the Hays Office and The Code that tamed Betty Boop and made many of the subsequent shorts so much more dull and lifeless . The irony is that Will Hays was a politician who was involved in the Harding administration , which found no rival for corruption until the Nixon administration . Mr . Hays was the last person to lecture anyone on behavior ! The details of this cartoon would never have found acceptance under Hays or The Code , so I'm glad it was made and released before all the nonsense went into effect . Wonderful short . In print and available . Well worth watching . Most highly recommended .
This short is like an iceberg-90 % of what's there is beneath the surface	I just saw this short for the first time today and it's a stunner , both visually and emotionally . It most definitely deserved the Academy Award it won in February . Even though the concept of an animated documentary dates back to at least the 1940s ( Disney did quite a few during World War II , most notably Victory Through Air Power ) and possibly even earlier , it is sufficiently rare in occurrence that it still has a novel quality here . Mild spoilers follow . The visuals are nothing short of astounding and you can watch it for those alone and enjoy this immensely . But this is more than eye candy . While Ryan Larkin is the stated focus , it stuck me that the heart of the short is fear-the fear behind a phrase such as , " There , but for the grace of God , go I . " Chris Landreth is , I have no doubt , a compassionate fellow and I'm sure an interest in Larkin was part of his motivation for making the film . But I think the greater motivation is an inner fear that he could be in Larkin's shoes someday . He basically says this more than once in the short . The number of figures you see on the edges who are disabled , disfigured or without hope reinforce this emotional turmoil . The question Landreth asks Larkin about his alcoholism is another indicator that this isn't just concern for Larkin's welfare . This is a very disquieting short , worth repeated viewing . This is almost as disturbing as Balance . It is on DVD through the National Film Board of Canada and is well worth seeing . I cannot recommend this more highly .
This is one of the funniest cartoons I have seen in my life !	This cartoon is absolutely delightful ! While not the best series of cartoons Warner Brothers did , it was quite often effective . I rarely have much sympathy for Pa Bear , but here my heart goes out to him . This has got to be the most nightmarish Father's Day on record ! The number of memorable scenes is quite high , but my favorite has to be whe Junyer fills Pa's pipe for him ! Second has to be when Junyer shaves Pa ! This is just wonderful . Cartoon Network runs this one fairly often . Most recommended . From the top of the key , he shoots and nothing but net at the buzzer !
The quintessential Tex Avery cartoon .	While I do not personally think this is Avery's best cartoon ( that honor goes to The Legend of Rockabye Point ) and this one is also not among my personal favorites , this is the ultimate in Tex Avery cartoons . Everything Avery strived to do is here-he loved taking a quasi-normal situation , tossing in a random , improbable element or three and then piling sight gag after sight gag , each one more outlandish than the ones before . The jokes are all sight gags . What dialogue there is is generally there as necessary for set-up and only one or two lines are even mildly funny . Just sight gags , as far as the eye can see , fast enough to register , but so fast that you almost don't have time to breathe because you're laughing so hard . This one makes you want to do things like hang spoons from your nose ! Wildly silly and unforgettable , truly a masterpiece . This is a great cartoon ! It worked 55 years ago and it works today . You have to see this one . Most highly recommended .
The person who wrote this review will be sacked ! ( No sub-titles-I promise ! )	There probably isn't much I can say that others haven't said already and at some length , I suspect , so I'll say this : what Rocky Horror Picture Show is to a great many people , this film is to me . I know most of the dialogue , the songs the minstrels sing , the timing and so on . I have probably seen this film more than any other and it never gets old for me . Sheer antic lunacy on a par with The Marx Brothers and glorious fn all round ( I feel happy , I feel happy ! < Whap ! > Most stupendously , wonderfully , delightfully recommended . ( When you're King , you have to know these things . )
More than sixty years old , but still packs a punch	This cartoon is one of the finest produced by MGM and hasn't really lost it's impact even after sixty years . Given that the shadows of WWII lurked during its preparation , the thoughts of those involved in its preparation are fairly obvious . Although I understand why The Ugly Duckling won the Oscar ( it's a beautifully crafted short and deserved recognition ) , I wish that this one had won or at least tied . MGM did a reprise on this one in the 1950s called , " Good Will To Men " that was good and well worth seeing , but this one is better . The Cartoon Network runs this one and it's also in print . Well worth your time . Early use of roto-scoping ( live footage fimed and then animated ) is excellent . Profoundly recommended . Anyone who argues animation isn't an art-form should see this !
The best of the Tom and Jerry " Mouseketeers " cartoons	This short was one at least three or four done with a theme of Jerry and Nibbles as " Mouseketeers " and Tom as their principal opponent . They were all good , but this one is the best of them , in my opinion anyway . It plays best with the basic themes of the swashbuckling type of films being parodied with affection here . Nominated for an Oscar , it's an absolute delight . Highly recommended .
Reminds me favorably of the old story , " The Little Red Hen " .	This is an excellent example of early Disney and the first appearance of Donald Duck . There was also a Peter Pig , who did not fare as well as Donald in his movie career . Donald is , if anything , more obnoxious and disagreeable here than he was later . The animation here is splendid and the short is well worth seeking out . Attempts to locate Peter Pig have been unsuccessful , although there are rumors that he lives in semi-retirement in Encino , having wisely bought stock in Disney and , later , in IBM . Recommended .
A marvelous blend of stop-motion animation and jazz !	This short , incorporated into The Puppetoon Movie , features a regular character George Pal used for many shorts , Jasper . There is a wonderful incorporation of stop-motion animation and jazz music and Pal blends them beautifully in this cartoon . The Jasper shorts have almost vanished , probably because people are afraid to run the risk that they might offend someone . There is absolutely nothing in this cartoon in which anyone could reasonably take offense . Marvelously done and well worth the effort to find . Highly recommended .
The Hays Office would have had a coronary with this one !	There are scenes in this short , although incredibly tame today , that probably shocked the various moral watchdogs of 1933 and clearly the soon to be created Hays Office would NOT have been happy with this short . I think it's simply wonderful . Bimbo and Koko are both in this one and this is a prime example of what can be done with animation when the animators realize that the intended audience was composed not only of children , but adults as well and that not all adults are blue-haired little old ladies or Bible salesmen from Topeka , Kansas . The Fleischers did some marvelous work and this is an excellent sample of that work . In print and available . Well worth watching . Most highly recommended .
One of my favorite Speedy Gonzales shorts !	This is the best Speedy that doesn't have Slowpoke Rodriguez . I love this cartoon ! Sylvester is a great foil for Speedy , Malcolm the Falcon is hilarious and the ending to the cartoon is perfect . Just an all-around great short . Well worth trying to see . Most highly recommended !
This civics lesson brought to you by Warner Brothes and Porky Pig	With the amount of attention being currently given to the Pledge of Allegiance and when ( or even whether ) it should be said , this cartoon sets forth a very direct and basic value to those words that still holds over 60 years later . Allegiance should ( actually I feel that it MUST ) be given freely and by choice or its valueless . This cartoon , through effective use of rotoscoping ( at least it looks like rotoscoping ) , is an enlightening look into the value of patriotism and makes some compelling arguments in its favor . Recommended .
Chaplin's masterpiece	This is absolutely the finest film Charlie Chaplin ever made-which , considering the overall quality of his work , says a great deal for the quality of the film . Genius is a much over-used word , but in Chaplin's case , it's use is apt . This is one of the classics of cinema and one of the greatest films ever made ! The scenes in the factory are hilarious . You have got to see this film ! Most joyously , totally and highly RECOMMENDED ! ! ! ! !
One of the most atypical " buddy films " you'll ever see !	This short is a " buddy movie " , but these are not your standard buddies . Then again , it's a Tex Avery cartoon , so atypical is probably the norm here anyway . Sight gags all over the place and , as with any Avery , things move quickly . Beware of the edited print shown on Cartoon Network . Fortunately , this is in print . Well worth watching . Recommended .
Mickey's second-finest hour !	This short , nominated for an Oscar for 1938 , is the best color Mickey Mouse short , certainly and maybe the best short ever starring this most illustrious of rodents . Because of a misapprehension of a simple declarative sentence , our stalwart sets out on a course to become a somewhat reluctant hero . Well-executed and with Disney's usual attention to detail , this is an excellent cartoon , but it had the great misfortune to come out in the same year as an equally marvelous cartoon ( also made by Disney ) and so did not bring home the statuette for Walt . Most recommended .
Produced to highlight the need for safety in the workplace , this short is hilarious and eye-opening	This short , another Pete Smith Specialty , was nominated for an Oscar and probably should have won . Dave O'Brien , who also wrote and directed , stars as Butch , the poster boy for carelessness . Butch is lucky to survive as he blunders his way from one accident to another . Pete Smith's narration is perfect for this short . Turner Classic Movies runs this periodically as filler between films and it invariably runs in March for the " 31 Days of Oscar " they run each year . Recommended .
A funny , intelligent and engaging short which packs more in its short length than entirely too many features I've watched in my life	This short is simply marvelous and was nominated for an Academy Award for Live-Action Short . THat it did not win is more a tribute to the incredible Six Shooter , which took the Oscar , than it is a negative assessment of this short . Since I want to discuss the short in specific detail , this is a spoiler warning : Kevin Pollak , who is recognizable as a character actor , is perfect in the central role . He's the hub in a wheel , with the other characters circling him . For the short to be effective , you have to see dramatic change in his character ( a psychiatrist ) and Pollak makes his character essentially go through that marked and drastic alteration of behavior . The short starts out with a brief opening sequence of shots which establish the character's personality quickly and perfectly . There is then a series of rapid introductions of his patients and you can see Pollak's character react to each of his patients as they recite a litany of problems he's heard over and over , with little variation . His way of interacting with everyone places his character in sharp focus in minutes . Then comes the bombshell which changes everything . In a short film , every second matters and time can be your greatest ally or an implacable foe . The director and editor make time their friend . Just as the early part of the short quickly and effectively establishes the mood , so too does the middle part also establish the change and just as economically . Essentially , we see the same scenes , but with a change in the behavior of the principal figure in turn leading to an entirely different outcome to the sequences . Quick visual cues make very clear the changes wrought by a single phone call . The whole thing is handled beautifully by all concerned . The ending is beautiful and the absolutely perfect way for things to wind up . This short is available on a compilation DVD which includes all five of the Live-Action Short nominees for 2005 , three of the five Animated Short nominees and two bonus animated shorts which were not nominees for the Oscar . This short and the whole compilation DVD are highly recommended .
It breaks my heart that this is not in print and I wish I had a copy !	For some time now , it has been a self-imposed policy not to comment on things I don't have a copy of , but I'm breaking that here because I don't want this one to go unregarded any longer . I've seen this twice , the first time almost thirty years ago and it burned its way into my brain then and has stayed there . A blend of still photography and very limited animation , it looks and feels like the old UPA cartoons from the 1950s , which is understandable , because the producer of this , Nick Bosustow , is the son of Steve Bosustow , who produced the UPA shorts . In order for limited animation to work , there has to be something that hooks the audience . That something is the narration , and boy , does it work ! The voice of Orson Welles is perfect for this , as are the script and the visuals . Everything blends together perfectly to create a memorable and totally riveting experience . That this is not in circulation through syndication or by being in print and generally available disappoints me more than I can say . When you look through history , you find that a great deal of damage has been done by people who are thoroughly and totally convinced that they are RIGHT and everyone else is WRONG , mostly about things theological . This cartoon questions that unshakeable belief people have about ( fill in the blank ) and does so beautifully . I cannot recommend this more highly . If you ever get to see this , by all means , do so !
My favorite Popeye of all time !	I love this cartoon ! ! The song , Barnacle Bill the Sailor " is a favorite of mine and this is one of the few cartoons in the series where Olive Oyl gets her comeuppance . Although occasionally , Olive and Popeye treat each other as though they are truly in love , Olive all too often treats Popeye rather shabbily , in my view , and I've frequently wondered why he doesn't just quit seeing her . She can't seem to make up her mind between Bluto and Popeye , anyway . While I believe that a gentleman treats a lady like a lady even if she periodically doesn't behave like one ( a man who does not act like a gentleman unless expressly requested to behave otherwise should be ignored ) , I also believe that constantly having the same woman throw one over in favor of the same clown indicates a permanent change of interests is of mutual benefit to all parties . It's a delightful short and the ending is a hoot ! The army won't even know what hit them !
Wonderful animation that shows that it can be a good thing to just be yourself and march to your own tune !	This Puppetoon was nominated for an Oscar in 1947 and is absolutely delightful to watch . It shows that , no matter who you are , being true to yourself is not just a good thing for you , but , in the long run , for others as well . Amazing in the detail work and simply and grandly wonderful . I cannot recommend this strongly enough . A marvelous effort !
First teaming of Sylvester and Tweety takes an Oscar .	Move over , Gallagher and Sheen , Laurel and Hardy , Abbott ans Costello , Lunt and Fontaine : it's Sylvester and Tweety ! In a pairing so obvious as to be almost automatic , Tweety and Sylvester meet up for the first time and take the prize-Oscar , of course . One of the better ones , this pairing is perfect . Highly Recommended .
Absolutely amazing and a bit overwhelming at times .	This is an incredible piece of work and just had me groping for words after I saw it the other day . I'm not terribly visually oriented ( my skills are more in the verbal realm ) , so when an almost completely visual short burns itself onto my brain the way this has , that's quite a feat ! It begins and ends with Da Vinci's Mona Lisa and has her morph into another piece ( I think it's a Picasso , but don't bet the farm on that-I'm not an Art History expert ) which morphs into a third and so on . There were more than 30 , of which I recognized about ten and could name five or six . Someone more versed in paintings than this humble scribe would probably do much better than I could . But this is an exceptionally fine piece of animation that deservedly won the Academy Award for Animated Short . It moves quite fast ( it's only about seven minutes long ) and can be a bit overwhelming with its transitions , but well worth watching and most highly recommended .
The first Mickey Mouse done in color	This short is the first one that Disney made starring Mickey in color and what a glorious way to bring the Mouse into color ! This is one of the best animated shorts of all time . Often imitated , but never duplicated . Disney was at the top of the mountain as far as animation was concerned and this one is justifiably considered a classic . Well worth looking for . Most highly recommended .
One of Disney's-and Donald's-best .	This animated documentary was an excellent combination of entertainment and education and is a real feather in Disney's cap . Most people have varying degrees of either disinterest or dislike of mathematics . This renders math comprehensible as well as making it fun and interesting-a combination most of my math instuctors were either unwilling or unable to accomplish . After 41 years plus , this doesn't feel the least bit dated . I'm glad to see it's available . Three cheers for the mouse ( and the duck too , though I must confess that , for the most part , Donald leaves me cold . Not here , though . ) . Most recommended .
Vintage Tex Avery and therefore hilarious !	Tex Avery was a genius at the art of the animated short . He did for the animated short what Walt Disney did for the feature . Avery seemed to have something of a fondness for black cats , as he did a number of cartoons featuring black cats . Ventriloquist Cat was one of them . Mostly sight-gags fired at the viewer at a very frenetic pace and designed to keep you rolling around on the floor laughing . More often than not , it works . This and most of Avery's shorts are marvelously ( sometimes wickedly ) funny . Most highly recommended .
A remarkable film and performances by Day-Lewis and Fricker	Let me state at the outset that I have Cerebral Palsy and I went into this film expecting to have to make allowances for the lead performance . I left the theater half-convinced that they'd cast an actor who had Cerebral Palsy in the role , even though I knew that was not the case . The performances were generally excellent , with a special nod to Brenda Fricker and to Hugh O'Conner ( I believe that's his name ) as the young Christy Brown . Christy is talented , brash , arrogant , at times vulgar and petulant-in other words , human . This film , along with Gaby : A True Story and the documentary King Gimp , are excellent portrayals of life with CP . By no means a complete portrait , but fine examples of the disabled as human beings . Most highly recommended .
Another incredible animation sheperded into existence by the National Film Board of Canada	This excellent animated short is another in a large catalogue produced by the National Film Board of Canada . I have yet to see a bad short or documentary having any connection at all , however tangentially . to the NFBC . In this , a man is stealing people's dreams for resale in his shop . From a fascinating concept springs good artwork and somewhat minimal animation and an excellent script to become a moving and effective work . Most highly recommended .
Well-made look at an all-too common situation-grandparents raising their grandchildren	This documentary short , which quite deservedly won the Oscar , is about an increasingly common circumstance-a grandmother , elderly and ailing , left to raise her grandson , with little or no help from anywhere . As the grandson becomes more and more of a problem , more rebellious and destructive , it becomes quite obvious that she can no longer manage to care for him . While much is made of the authorities handling of the situation , I find it telling ( and more than a bit disheartening ) that the fact that no one else in the boy's family was either willing or able to take the young man in and he winds up just another statistic was touched on almost glancingly . I fear that the only person who cared enough about Walter was his grandmother and she sadly was too weak physically to stand the rigors of raising him . A sad ( and somewhat frightening ) look at life in our times .
Excellent short by Disney	This documentary short won an Oscar for Two-reel short and was well-deserving of the honor . Everything about this is excellent-cinematography , locations , even the narration , which can be a problem with Disney live-action efforts , is excellent ! It's ashame that The Mouse doesn't have this available to the public . I used to run occasionally on Vault Disney , but hasn't shown in quite a while , which is a shame . Worth the effort to locate . Most recommended .
Starts very slowly and finished very strongly , so give it a chance .	I watched this because it had been recommended by a friend . After 15-20 minutes I almost quit , but I decided to stick it out another ten minutes , which was an excellent idea . The two leads turn in marvelous performances and Jack Palance does an even better turn here than he did in City Slickers . The last thirty minutes ( of the US version ) is wonderful . So stick with it , even though it's slow going to start with . You will be amply rewarded for your patience . Quirky little film . Most recommended .
Betty holds her own in this early short in the series	This one consists principally of sight gags that arise out of Bimbo's mooning after Betty and both Betty and Bimbo dealing with the interest shown in Betty by a rather persistent and quite obvious suitor . Bimbo making cow eyes and chasing after Betty is fairly standard . The older fellow is what makes this one fascinating , for me at least . It's nice occasionally to have someone other than Bimbo or KoKo trying to catch Betty . The Betty Boop personality is formed by this point , for the most part . The music is good , the comic timing is pretty good and the animation is excellent . Part of the Definitive Betty Boop box set and well worth having . Recommended .
One of Robert McKimson's best efforts	Robert McKimson is one of the " other " Warner Brothers directors , after the Big Four-Tex Avery , Chuck Jones , Friz Freleng and Bob Clampett . While nowhere near as innovative , with work that varied sometimes wildly in quality , he was probably the most solid of the other directors and this was one of his best efforts and an excellent addition to the Bugs Bunny efforts . The scene in the park is marvelously done ! Wonderful short that deserves to be seen . Most highly recommended .
Beautifully done fable about the " pitfalls " of excessive greed .	This short , done with rough hand-drawn animation and with sung and spoken narration ( a musical form of entertainment , the Japanese equivalent of the Western minstrel / bard ) , tells the story of an old man so parsimonious that he couldn't bear throwing away the pits from some old , discarded cherries , which he ate rather than discard . What follows is true , quite poetic , justice . As the old saying goes , true justice is something most of us would actually be happier without . An Academy Award nominee for Animated Short in a very good year . It bears repeated viewing and is an excellent piece of work . Hopefully , it will see print sometime soon , as it deserves a wider audience . It is part of Shorts Program 115 on the Sundance Channel as well as part of the program for the first year of The Animation Show , still showing in some locations . Give it a look-well worth seeing . Most highly recommended .
An incredible short !	This short , nominated for an Academy Award , is an all-around excellent production . The animation , production values , score-all are extremely well-done . One of the best shorts produced in the last ten years , without a doubt ! The detail in many scenes is absolutely amazing . This is shown periodically on the Encore Channel or one of its ' subsidiaries and is well worth seeking out . We can only hope someone decides to do another compilation along the lines of The World's Greatest Animation . I have no idea how Spike and Mike missed this one ! Maybe they didn't , but I haven't seen it listed on any of their stuff . Highly recommended .
Great short , with music playing an important part in the action	This is one of the better Tom and Jerry cartoons to prominently feature music . For some reason , whenever music was a focus , the short was usually excellent ( examples include , Solid Serenade , Johann Mouse , Pecos Pest and , obviously , The Cat Concerto ) . Here , there's a hilarious song at the outset , over the opening credits and a bit later , Tom does his best impersonation of a cross between Tex Ritter and Milli Vanilli . Jerry , for a good many reasons , does his best to destroy Tom's romantic intentions ( hey , what are " friends " for ? ) and largely succeeds . At cartoon's end , we leave amid the strains of another musical interlude and a twisted variation on an old cliche of the western genre and a good time is had by all , except Tom , of course . Well worth tracking down and most highly recommended .
Even after 65 years , this is an exceptional piece of work	This cartoon is visually astounding even after 65 years . Longer than the typical Popeye being done at the time ( by quite a bit ) , it justifiably received a great deal of fanfare and notice on its release and is considered one of the finest animated shorts ever made by a great many people ( including me ) . This runs on Cartoon Network occasionally and is well worth getting a look at . I believe it has at least once or twice been available on VHS . Most highly recommended .
Ub Iwerks did an incredible job here !	This is the first of the Silly Symphonies series of cartoons that Dsney did and it is absolutely marvelous ! Ub Iwerks directed and it is one of the best Disney shorts they ever made . After more than 70 years it still holds up well and has the most remarkable use of shadows I've ever seen in my life . Great cartoon and very highly recommended .
Beware the Law of Unintended Consequences	This is a very cute and cuddly little thing , this short is . Nice pastoral music , cute little bird , cute little dragon-looks like a real Barney kind of moment . But looks can be deceiving . Marv Newland is smiling somewhere . As Newton once said , " For every action , there is an equal yet opposite reaction . " To which I would add the Law of Unintended Consequences : for every action , there are unforseen results which carry unforseen and unplanned consequences . I love this cartoon ! Well worth the effort to locate , by all means ! Most highly recommended .
The first Pink Panther short and probably the best	This Academy Award-winning short was the first Pink Panther theatrical release ( at least as a short subject ) and is a winner on all counts . Hilarious , well animated , marvelous story and use of music-everything is wonderful . There wee other very good shorts in the series , but none of them even came close to equaling this first one . I've always felt sorry for the poor little guy in this cartoon ! Most highly recommended .
Marvin has some hilarious and terribly pithy lines in this very talky short .	Most of the gags in this are verbal in nature , rather than sight gags ( though it has a fair number of those as well ) and Marvin may have more of the best lines than Bugs , particularly in the beginning . As is often the case , the title is a play on words-in this case , " mad as a March hare " , which I believe was derived from Alice in Wonderland . Marvin's comments on " the flora and fauna of Earth likely would have delighted H . L . Mencken and Ambrose Bierce ! The ending scene is beautiful , particularly the closing line . Great fun is had by all ( well , not by Marvin , not at the end , anyway ) . Well worth watching . Most highly recommended .
While entertaining , it will also make you think about many philosophical points	This marvelous short from the National Film Board of Canada is sometimes funny , very creative and entertaining , but ultimately leaves you pondering some very serious subjects and it stayed with me for quite a while after I saw it the first time . It shows on O Canada on the Cartoon Network from time to time . Most Recommended .
Moving , very realistic look at fighting cancer	Having known far too many people who've gone through this , I can say without hesitation that they got the details nailed down when it comes to the effects of chemotherapy . Emma Thompson does her usual marvelous job and Christopher Lloyd does a surprisingly understated turn as her doctor . But the actress playing the nurse ( Audra McDonald , I believe is her name ) almost steals the film . I won't be the same for quite some time . Highly recommended .
The prototypical Tex Avery cartoon	This Tex Avery effort is virtually a crash course-pun intended-on how to make a Tex Avery cartoon . Take a wholly unsympathetic villain ( in this case , a bully ) , add a victim ( a cute little kitten ) , show the bully in action and then set up a means for the bad guy to get what they deserve and then some , making certain that there's room for roughly 5 , 306 sight gags along the way . Tex Avery created or helped develop Bugs Bunny , Droopy , Screwy Squirrel and Chilly Willy , to name a few . Many of his cartoons centered around that basic outline , with some variation . Sight gags , sight gags and more sight gags . Most recommended .
Excellent short with the oddest game of Charades I've ever seen	This short won the Academy Award for Animated Short in 1984 . While this is an excellent short , it would not have been my choice that year , as good as it is . But this is a wonderfully humorous and maddening short . One of the Charades players is particularly obtuse ! The animation and dialogue are superb and it is certainly good that it is available on World's Greatest Animation ( an excellent VHS / DVD compiation that I recommend highly ) and is most highly recommended .
The equal of King Gimp , this is an incredible piece of work !	This is probably the second most difficult comment I have written on anything at the IMDb , but I saw this yesterday and , if I didn't comment on this , I likely would regret not doing so , so here goes : Mark O'Brien was born roughly ten years before I was and contracted polio at age six , in 1955 . Thus he was in an iron lung before I was even born . I have Cerebral Palsy , but even in that , I am comparatively fortunate . Mr . O'Brien struggled just to stay alive , to draw breath . Placed in context to that , my difficulties are a minor inconvenience . But , be that as it may , the reason that this struck me so profoundly is that , despite the major differences in our particular circumstances , at times in this documentary , his remarks were all too familiar to me . The disabled are viewed quite differently by a large segment of the " presently able-bodied " ( that's as logical and meaningful a label as " differently abled " , a phrase that is such a null that I hardly know where to begin in discussing it , so I won't ) and most disabled individuals put up with things on a daily basis that would send the average person to the top of a building with a rifle and a scope inside of a week . On bad days , I think most people would probably breathe a sigh of relief if we , reminders of humanity's fragility , would just vanish . O'Brien not only thought that , he said and wrote it out loud . One segment , toward the end , made me start crying , it hit so close to home . I won't discuss it here , but O'Brien talked about something in front of a camera that I doubt I could have even tap danced around . To anyone who has seen this , what O'Brien talked about here , it's not just an isolated instance , not just one voice in the wilderness . I'd wager that there are a lot of people out and about who'd say the same if pressed . Disabled people are just that-PEOPLE who happen to be disabled . Treat us as such-people , more or less like you , just a bit different . This should be in print and available . Well worth tracking down . Most highly recommended .
Excellent example of animation	This short won the Academy Award and faced some stiff competition from two shorts produced by the National Film Board of Canada . Any of the three could have won , but it's easy to see why Manipulation did . It's a simply drawn short , but the animation is incredible ! The interaction here is great and is also very funny and fun to watch . This was on Spike and Mike's Festival of Animation Volume 2 and is well worth hunting for . Most Highly Recommended .
Popeye and the Law of Unintended Consequences	While most everyone knows Murphy's Law , not everyone is aware of the Law of Unintended Consequences-that is , every event or action spins off consequences , some you recognize beforehand and ( perhaps ) are prepared for and others that are totally unexpected and uncontemplated . These range from beneficial through benign to potentially devastating and / or disasterous . Popeye comes full-face with this Law and doesn't enjoy the results . He does what he considers a good deed and a kindness , but remember what good intentions pave-a particularly uncomfortable road . Interestingly enough , this is a particularly atypical Popeye short , in that there is no brawling and there is no indication that Olive and Popeye are significantly involved-actually , she's basically an extra here . A parrot in the shop has a more pivotal role and may actually have more lines ( I think he does , but I didn't count them ) . The parrot sings the title song , by the way . An excellent Popeye short , with a valuable lesson attached : things rarely go as you think they will . Well worth tracking down . Most recommended .
A wonderful adaptation in the vein of Madeline	This short is an adaptation of the Eve Titus Anatole stories . Rembrandt Films does this as well as UPA did with another character from children's literature , one Madeline by name . Anatole is a very debonair and dapper mouse , French by nationality , and his adventures in a cheese factory . Although the Deitch Tom and Jerry cartoons didn't come off too well , this works like a charm . It can be found on Rembrandt Films Greatest Hits , available most places and worth getting . Most recommended .
Utterly bizarre and delightful ! Tex Avery meets The Far Side !	This short is simply wonderful ! Now , the true story of the last moments of the Titanic have been revealed ! That poor iceberg has been maligned all these years ! This short , just over five minutes , is like a collaboration between Tex Avery and Gary Larson ( the mind reels at the thought ! ) with dash of Tobe Hooper for seasoning ! I was laughing for at least ten minutes after it ended . I sincirely hope that it had a release sufficient to qualify it for consideration for an Academy Award ( I believe it has to run at a theater in Los Angeles or New York for at least one week during the year to qualify ) becaue it should at least be nominated , if not win ! Whatever happens , it is still fantastic ( and much better than Titanic was , in my view ) and I think it's great !
The master at the top of his form !	Actually , my comment for this should truly be a simple verbal genuflection , but that wouldn't be of acceptable minimum length here , so I'll actually say something . This is Tex Avery's masterpiece in terms of the relation of his work to animation in general and the short form in specific . There are better cartoons ( some even by Avery himself ) and there are cartoons that I personally like better , but in terms of what Avery was attempting to do with the form , in terms of what animation was at the time and had been in the past and what its potential was for the future and the impact that Avery had and would have on his artform , this is the first truly successful Avery cartoon on all terms , both Avery's and animation . Avery blew out the valves , cranked up the engine and blew the doors off on this one for the first ( but not last ) time here . He turned everything up a few notches here , gang , and it works ! It worked then , it works now and will work tomorrow , precisely because Avery had that most overworked and little understood word-genius . Remarkable cartoon and if you like animation and haven't seen this one , what are you reading me for ? Go watch this . This is a great piece of work . Need I add , most highly recommended ?
Excellent short if seen uncut-the edited version is almost worse than nothing at all !	This is one of Disney's best . But as with a handful of other shorts , this one is heavily edited by a Disney Co . skittish about negative images relating to World War II . It should be seen in it's entirety . The editing doesn't do a marvelous short justice . Well worth the trouble to find . Most highly recommended .
A well-earned Oscar for the cat and mouse !	This cartoon won the Oscar and was an excellent choice ! Poor Tom ! The lullabye he sings to Spike is just hilarious ! This is one of the better Tom and Jerry shorts and one of seven that won Oscars . The only chase cartoons that are their equal are the Coyote and Roadrunner . Not the best Tom and Jerry , but right up there . Recommended .
Daffy protects his scrap pile , with a bit of encouragement	This cartoon , appropriately and effectively in black and white , is a World War II patriotic short , with Daffy needing to protect his scrap pile ( for the war effort ) from a very hungry Nazi goat . The pep rally conducted by Daffy's ancestors is a highlight of the short and the ending is marvelous . Well worth the time and effort to find . Most highly recommended .
Very well done and more than a touch ironic	This short , which combines live-action with stop-motion animation , was nominated for two Oscars and won for Best Documentary Short . The events depicted become more ironic as they unfold and to describe any of the details to any great degree would be unfair to the short and to future viewers . Totally recommended .
An excellent , touching Oscar-winning animated short	In 1979 , the United Nations and its program UNICEF started a fund-raising campaign that designated the year as , " The Year of the Child " . That campaign is referenced by this short at the very beginning . The short went on to win the Academy Award and is an incredibly moving look at one child's journey . The title refers to the concept that every child is entitled to a name and a personal identity as an individual as well as humane treatment . I'm very glad to see that this is in-print and it is most highly recommended . Possibly the best thing the National Film Board of Canada has ever produced , at least to date .
An absolute gem and delightful to watch	This is quite possibly the crown jewel in the long and illustrious career of an extremely troubled and very funny man . Fields has a field day sending up a style of melodrama popular at the time . At one and the same time , this is atypical of Fields ' work generally , but still has his fingerprints all over it as well . Highlights are far too numerous to list , but Fields's rendition of the song , " The Fatal Glass of Beer " ( you can't really accurately call it singing ) , the running gag , " It ain't a fit night out for man or beast " and the ending are hilariously perfect , with a sense of timing of which Chaplin would have been proud . Most joyously recommended
Truly a classic short .	This is one of Chuck Jones's masterpieces , an incredible blend of music ( mainly opera ) and animation . The new lyrics written to the very old and familiar music are priceless , as is the scene where Elmer at first thinks he's starting to grow hair . One of the best cartoons Warner Brothers ever produced . Well worth watching . Most highly and happily recommended !
A Tex Avery Christmas ! ! !	This cartoon , which I think is one of Tex Avery's best , features as its protagonist a little pig who seems to be a take-off on Red SKelton's Mean Widdle KId character-the voice , mannerisms and even on or two of SKelton's catch-phrases are present in this cartoon . The Wolf doesn't stand a chance ! Junior isn't very well-behaved and is down-right dangerous . He makes Dennis the Menace look like Little Lord Fauntleroy ! Typical Tex Avery sight-gags , but more verbal humor than usual for an Avery short . From downtown at the buzzer , he shoots , he scores ! The Crowd goes wild ! This is an excellent cartoon . Most highly Recommended ! ! !
Deservedly won an Oscar last year , much as Ryan won the year before	This short is a combination of animation , still photos and what look like home movies in trying to create an imaginary conversation between a father and his son . Like Ryan , which was an animated look at the life and troubles of animator Ryan Larkin's life , this short looks at very real people and situations and , like Ryan , it also won the Oscar for Animated Short . Because I want to at least touch on some of the details , this is a spoiler warning : This short is a conversation going on in the head of its creator , John Canemaker between he and his father and is basically Canemaker's questioning his father about his actions and the events in his life which wound up putting the father on trial for arson and eventually resulting in the incarceration of his father for five years . It's a fascinating story , told primarily by the voices of the father and son , ably done by actors Eli Wallach and John Turturro . Anyone who says that voice work isn't really truly a full acting performance may technically be right , but the performances in this short should at least prove that you can turn in a memorable performance even if you're just providing the voice alone . Just about every emotion you would expect to come out in a conversation between a parent and a child with a significantly adversarial relationship is found here-anger , rage , frustration , irritation , accusation , pain and love are quite apparent in both men as the son tries to find out what precisely happened and why his father went to jail for arson for five years in the early 1950s . As you get deeper in , however , it becomes clear that this is just the most significant problem in a string of problems between father and son , most revolving around the father's temper and the short fuse which causes that temper to be frequently displayed . The animation is simple but quite effective and appropriate to the subject matter . At times , the animation appears to be deliberately child-like and it feels like Canemaker is trying to show the reaction of a confused , frightened and hurt eight year old ( which was how old he was when his father went to jail ) . The animation basically fits with the mood of the short . This short is really difficult to describe in words which will do it justice , as it really should be seen . Fortunately , it and most of the other 2005 shorts nominees are available on a compilation DVD featuring all five Live-Action Shorts and three of the five Animated Shorts ( the other two animated nominees weren't included because Pixar presumably had plans to release One Man Band and 9 has been optioned to be turned into a feature film ) . Highly recommended .
The last theatrically produced Magoo and it's a fitting conclusion for UPA !	This short is the last one produced for movie theater release , both in the Magoo series as well as the last made by the studio . Magoo goes out in perfect form and style . The plot revolves around a television program and a most unusual burglary . The standard Magoo sight gags and a most entertaining finale to the run . Well worth tracking down and getting . Most highly recommended .
Even after almost 70 years , it's an incredible piece of art !	This won the very first Academy Award given for animated short and even after close to 69 years , it is still a marvel to behold . It quite justifiably won its praise at the time and is one of Disney's high points . Everything about this is excellent : story , music , characterization , plot , layout , visuals-everything ! Periodically , this is run on the Ink and Paint Club on the Disney Channel and should be out on video . Apparently the powers that make the decisions for The Mouse don't see a point in releasing shorts on home video . Such a shame to have such remarkable material out of circulation . sigh The winner , on points . Most highly recommended .
Oscar-nominated documentary filmed in an Actor's Fund retirement home that is fascinating to watch .	This documentary , an Oscar nominee this year , takes a look at the lives of some of the residents of an Actor's Fund home and is a glimpse into the lives of people who worked in the theater and film business-in front of and / or behind the stage or camera . No household names ( although I had heard of Dalton Dearborn before and Pamela Duncan . ) , just a number of people who made something of a living at their craft and now enjoy reminiscing with others with the same background . It is really kind of like taking a time machine back 40 or 50 years , in a way . At turns funny and sad , joyous and heart-rending , anyone who is fascinated by the theater or films beyond just watching movies will probably enjoy this . Part of the Cinemax Reel Life series , it will probably air periodically for at least the next year or so . Well worth the effort to see . Most highly recommended .
Haunting story of a " mob mentaity " and what happens when people lose control	This is one the best westerns and better films I have ever seen and features a very fine , almost understated , performance by Henry Fonda and excellent work by a host of familiar faces , most notably early work by Dana Andrews and Anthony Quinn . Fans of movies from the 1930s and 1940s will recognize lots of character actors like Harry Davenport and Jane Darwell . But this movie and what it says about human behavior and crowd psychology is quite unsettling and thought-provoking . I'm surprised that it was only nominated for one Academy Award , even if it was Picture . Normally , I would make some exuberant , lighthearted comment with a film I think this highly of , but it would be out of place here . This film is that intensely disturbing . I most certainly recommend this film .
Bravo ! Bravo ! ! Encore ! Encore ! !	This cartoon short SHOULD have won the Oscar instead of Lend A Paw ! An absolutely perfect blending of music and action throughout , well-executed at every turn . Incredibly funny with no dialogue-sight gags only and the running gags are great ! Wonderful marriage of beautiful music and antic lunacy with a drop dead ending ! Fanatically , totally recommended ! I love this cartoon ! ! !
Wile E . ' s luck is no better with Bugs Bunny than it is with Roadrunners	Wile E . Coyote just can't catch a break . One of several encounters with Bugs Bunny goes as badly for him as his attempts at catching the Roadrunner do . I feel for his life and accident insurers ! It's a pity they only made 5 or 6 of these , because it's a good combination . Wile E . is a good foil for Bugs and most of the shorts are hilarious and all of them are enjoyable . The animators could stretch the characters in ways they couldn't normally . Most recommended
The best of the more recent additions to the older works	Although they've mostly worked , the cartoons done in the 1970's and after usually aren't quite as good as the older stuff ( probably because budgets and cost won't allow the same freedom ) . This one and a few others are the exception . I put this one above the two most notable others ( The Duxorsist and Duck Dodgers and the Return of the 24th and a Century ) because it has some funnier lines and situations and a very funny cameo by none other than Wile E . Coyote . Chuck Jones did a marvelous job with this one and it is highly recommended .
Excellent look at Nazi plans for conquest and control of the world	This documentary was nominated for an Academy Award and looks at the intentions of the Nazis in future globl domination had they successfully prosecuted WWII . Fascinating ( and more than a bit chilling ) look at just how detailed the plans were for the systematic looting of funds and resources on a global scale for their own benefit . Turner Classic Movies shows this as filler between films and almost invariably airs this each March as a part of the Thirty-one Days of Oscar they do annually . Highly recommended .
The unmistakable rhythms of Dr . Seuss are part of the charms of this exceptional short !	For several of the shorts in this series , Theodore Geisel ( aka Dr . Seuss ) scripted and the speech patterns here reflect his quite familiar cadence . It's great ! Private Snafu really screws up royally here , which was the point , as the series was meant to show soldiers what not to do and what the consequences could be . These are not balanced and fair cartoons-there was a war on at the time and Germany and Japan were the ENEMY , so the caricatures are not nice . If you are easily offended , you likely won't like these . The series is great and well worth watching . Recommended .
An Oscar winning one-reel short from an extended series of shorts done by MGM	Back when going to the movies was practically an all-day affair , studios made short subjects and most studios had regular series of shorts that followed a basic framework and usually had the same narrator , writers , etc . One of the best and most successful was The Passing Parade , which took its stories from real life , either everyday people in everyday life or footnotes in history , such as the subject of this Oscar winning short . Narrated in an almost flat , somewhat folksy style by John Nesbitt , it tells of the early efforts of one French doctor to help the criminally insane . A very effective and memorable piece , Turner Classic Movies runs this as filler regularly , particularly in March as part of their " 31 Days of Oscar " feature . Highly recommended .
Anything can happen in a cartoon !	This is a marvelous cartoon blending some live action footage with animation with incredible results . These days , animation is all too often no more than an excuse for marketing tie-ins or is one long commercial altogether . With some exceptions ( Animaniacs is one of the good ones ) , the truly off-the-wall zaniness has vanished from most cartoons these days . Back in the 1930s , when even Disney would do some truly bizarre things , the Fleischers did marvelous shorts such as this one ! Here , Betty and Koko do splendid and surreal things with ink and a bit of laughing gas to make seven minutes quite memorable and enjoyable . I always liked Koko anyway , but here he's especially delightful ! In print and available . Well worth watching . Most highly recommended .
By following these safe ( well , maybe not safe ) and easy guidelines , you , too can avoid friendship !	This short , nominated for an Academy Award , is one of four in a series of " self-help " cartoons done by Rembrandt Films . Arthur Treacher narrates all four and is perfect for the job ! I suspect it's safe to say that if the advice here is followed , friendship is not something that will trouble you for terribly long ! This short , along with the others in the series , can be found on Rembrandt Films Greatest Hits and the entire compilation is wholeheartedly recomended .
One good short deserves an even better remake .	Dangerous Dan McFoo , a short that Tex Avery directed at Warner Brothers , is re-made here some six years later , when Tex was at MGM . This cartoon is a bit crisper , with better timing , although both are quite good and both unmistakably Tex Avery cartoons . The Robert W . Service poem that serves as the starting point for both is used to much better effect here and Avery had six more years worth of practice honing his timing on his much-loved sight gags . The pacing is better here and it's just a better cartoon . Tex Avery was one of the giants of his field , working at a time when the animated short was significant , at least moreso than it is today . Many of his conventions are still used today . Too bad he didn't really seem to understand his impact while he was alive . From all reports , he felt that he'd been largely forgotten and had done little that would last . The work remains , but like most truly funny men , his personal life was a less than happy one . Excellent cartoon . Well worth seeking out . Most highly recommended .
A classic Disney short !	This short is one of the more successful Disney produced in the 1950s . Nominated for an Oscar in 1951 , it has one of the more memorable one-shot characters Disney created in Lambert . Some of the visual gags , particularly toward the end of the cartoon are hilarious ! Toward the end of the 1940s , Disney slipped behind UPA and MGM and even Warner Brothers in terms of shorts . The quality was still there , but the energy seemed to fade a bit . Cartoons like Lambert show that Disney could still more than hold its own . Highly recommended
One of the Marx Brothers ' best !	What the Marx Brothers do to higher education in this film is roaringly funny , from the opening song " Whatever It Is , I'm Against It " to the end , possibly the most bizarre American Football " game " not played in the XFL ! Groucho was at or near his best and it's probably the best ( and most significant ) role Zeppo ever had . Most highly recommended .
Visually a treat , extraordinary CGI !	While having just the barest of a discernable storyline and no plot to speak of ( at least not one that I could find ) , this matters not a whit in my eyes . This is a treat for the eyes , first and foremost , an absolutely breathtaking piece of work . This blows the " crowd " scenes in Gladiator away , though that is admittedly not a difficult feat to manage . I suspect that Gladiator had a larger budget for SFX alone than was spent on Katedra in its entirety and the lead in Katedra is likely more amiable and personable ( if just as laconic ) than the chap in Gladiator . Quite impressive , even if work done three or four years from now makes this look like a Model T compared to a Rolls . Nominated for an Academy Award and deservingly so . Most highly recommended .
One of Tex Avery's Best	Let me first state that I think that Tex Avery is to the animated short what Walt Disney was to the feature-length animated film . So many of the conventions of animated shorts were either started by Avery or so effectively used by him that he gave us the cartoon format that we know and , hopefully , love . And Magical Maestro is vintage Tex Avery-gags fired at the viewer one right after another , most of them hilarious . This is excellent work from a master of a highly under-rated art form . Bravo ! Encore !
I love this cartoon , but then , I would-I worked for an accountant !	This short does nothing terribly dramatic . No ground-breaking animation , or special voice work . It will not cure the common cold or achieve great breakthroughs in technology or world peace . But it is a rather charming look at a somewhat eccentric couple and their attempts to budget . I consider it one of my favorite cartoons done by a very talented staff at an important studio . It did one thing supremely well and still does , however often I watch it : it made me laugh . That's a good deal to say for anything these days . Wonderful short , well worth tracking down . Most recommended .
An absolutely beautiful and wonderful short	This short , nominated for an Academy Award , is just incredible ! The animtion , music , story-everything - is as close to perfect as possible . Funny , warm , tender , joyous and bittersweet at various points , it's in-print , deserves to be and is without a doubt one of the finest animated shorts I have seen in my life ! It happened to be released in one of the best years for animated shorts in some time or it would have taken the Oscar hands down ! Most highly recommended !
A very sweet and poetic cartoon which is also unmistakably a Bill Plympton cartoon	How this one missed being nominated for an Oscar , I'll never figure out . Possibly the committee didn't think it was a Bill Plympton because it is , at its heart , a love story . Who knows ? In any case , I found it delightful and charming . Because I want to discuss some of the details , this is a spoiler warning : Most people at least somewhat familiar with Bill Plympton's work from shorts like Your Face and 25 Ways To Quit Smoking would probably be surprised to learn that this is a love story-and a beautiful one at that . The twist is ( and with Plympton little , if anything , is simple and straightforward ) that the star-crossed lovers are a ceiling fan and a flowering potted plant . There are all kinds of Plympton touches in this short-his animation style , some of the visuals paired with the narration ( as when the fan is first trying to impress the plant with his three different speeds ) complement and accentuate each other quite well and there is humor tinged with sorrow here . This is a visually marvelous short , with one section in the latter part of the short showing the passage of time and the changing of circumstances by a very creative and effective use of silhouettes in a doorway . The ending of the short is marvelous and mixes tragedy and triumph , where out of ruination springs renewal and love transcends life . It's all tied together very well by the narration , done by actor Paul Giamatti . This short is available on a DVD collection of shorts which compiles eight of the shorts nominated for the Academy Awards in the Animated and Live-Action Short categories ( all five Live-Action and three of five Animated nominees are here , as well as two extra animated shorts added to fill out the disc ) . The disc itself is excellent and is well worth getting for this short and the others . Highly recommended .
One of the better early Fleischer Studios sound shorts-which is quite a compliment !	In the 1930s , it was Fleischer Studios which was the most competitive studio to Disney . In fact , the argument can be made that in the very early 1930s ( 1930-31 ) that they were better . This short is an excellent example of what the studio was doing at the time . Because I want to discuss this in some detail , this is a spoiler warning : I think , at least for me , the most fascinating aspect of this short for me is the rhythm of this short . The animation and the music are synchronized beautifully throughout . For example , watch the movements of the chicken in relation to Bimbo's movements very early on and then the movements of Bimbo in relation to the cop who catches him trying to steal the chicken . It's all basically in time with the musical score . The beginning is very good . When Bimbo enters the graveyard , it turns from very good to outstanding . This is a very visually impressive short . After about thirty seconds in the graveyard , Bimbo probably wishes the cop had caught and arrested him . There's an incredible run of sight gags , all of them eerie to one degree or another . Ghosts and skeletons predominate and some very bizarre things happen . Then Bimbo goes into a barn , which is like jumping out of the frying pan and into the fire . There's a beautiful " call and response " bit where various creepies accuse Bimbo of various misdeeds and with Bimbo replying that he doesn't do that " no more " . The cartoon just keeps getting stranger and stranger , right up to the end . It can hold its own , even after 76 years . At their best , there really is nothing quite like a Fleischer cartoon . This one is definitely worth the effort to track down and watch . Most highly recommended .
An Oscar winner and an excellent example of how good use can be made of limited animation	This short , produced by UPA in 1956 , won an Oscar , beating out two other UPA productions to do so . UPA used very limited animation and compensated for the limitations in movement with good scripts , careful selection of voices and by making the best use of animation by making it count . The premise of this short is so outlandish , it will remain in your memory for a long while afterwards . The title is a bit of a pun , actually . Most Recommended .
Absolutely hilarious !	This is one of the funniest Bugs shorts they ever did . Oddly enough , for an intensely visual cartoon , the funniest bits are mostly verbal in nature . This has some incredibly funny dialogue , particularly Bugs echoing a portion of Elmer's opening harangue calling on Bugs to show himself . Bugs's take on the line and his whole reaction is priceless ! Wonderful cartoon ! Well worth watching . Most highly recommended !
The one Marx Brothers film that MIGHT be better than Duck Soup	This is the one film the Marx Brothers made that someone might be able to covince me is better than Duck Soup-maybe . Excellent script , about as believable a plot as they ever had and just an overall Gem of a movie . It also provided the song with which Groucho was most identified in later years - " Hooray For Captain Spaulding " . Great fun . Highly recommended ( but I still like Duck Soup better ! )
Haunting and intriguing .	This is a very effective and compelling short that looks a perception , in this case perception through the eyes of children . Using very basic and deceptively simple hand-drawn animation ( incorporating some very entertaining visual tricks along the way ) this tells , in effect , two stories : the story the children see and the probable reality the audience may well ascertain from the same " facts " . A bit like Rashomon , but with only one recounting onscreen . Deservedly won a BAFTA , if I recall correctly . Well worth tracking down . Most recommended .
Quite possibly the most unfortunately-timed mid-life crisis ever !	This short justly won the Academy Award and is probably one of the two short produced by the National Film Board of Canada ( the other is The Cat Came Back ) that most people would have seen than any other work done under their umbrella . Excellent and hilariously funny , particularly Bob's semi-meltdown under circumstances that his wife Margaret would just as soon forget . Beware of surprises . Available from the NFBC , relatively easily for Canadian citizens , a bit more complex for non-Canadians , but worth it either way . Most joyously recommended by a somewhat less neurotic , just-turned-42 Robert !
Masterful use of the character of Droopy and the running gag .	As the creator of the character , it's understandable that Tex Avery would be best able to utilize him to best effect . Most of the Droopy shorts made after Tex left MGM don't really use the character as effectively , giving him too much dialogue or making him to soft-hearted and without an edge to him . Droopy has teeth and can use them . But , really , what Droopy is , and probably intended to be all along , is a simple character to react to things and bounce things off of , a sort of subtle focus point the audience can be drawn to and relate to , but who doesn't distract from the sight gags . Watch for Droopy's appearances in this one-he pops up unexpectedly in some amusing places . There's also a great running gag here that may well be his best running gag , certainly the best Avery used while at MGM ( the one at the core of The Legend of Rockabye Point may be better , but I love that cartoon so much , I could be biased in its favor ) and running gags were a staple in Avery cartoons . Most of them had at least one . Good cartoon and the ending is great . Well worth watching . Recommended .
There is one line I simply have to quote from this little delight ! You are warned !	This is a delightful cartoon , with hilarious dialogue moreso than visual gags . The squaredance scene alone is worth the price of admission , but my absolute favorite line , one that just busts me up every time . Bugs says to one of the Martins , " And who might you be ? " to which his response is , " I might be Teddy Rooseyvelt , but I ain't ! " So sue me ! I think it's a funny line ! Highly recommended .
Early Porky cartoon directed by Tex Avery	This cartoon features Porky , who is mistaken for a heavyweight wrestler . There are great sight gags in here ( naturally-this is a Tex Avery ) and some of the best come when everybody in the ring plays " choo-choo " ! This short is a great deal of fun and is well worth hunting up . Originally black and white , it has also been colorized . I prefer the black and white-the colorizing on this one isn't as effective . Recommended .
In many ways , this is a companion piece to The Man Who Planted Trees .	With all due respect to The Wrong Trousers , The Mighty River should have either shared the Academy Award or won it outright . I'm very fond of and impressed by the Wallace and Grommit short , but The Mighty River , like its subject ( the St . Lawrence River ) is magnificent . It bears a great many similarities to The Man Who Planted Trees . Given that the same man directed both and had many of the same people working on both films , the fact that they are similar is not surprising . Both films feature narration , with Donald Sutherland doing the honors here . The incredible attention to detail is here as well and is , if anything , even more remarkable in The Mighty River . Animals of all sorts are depicted with loving care and attention , from fish swimming the river through bears and seals on to birds taking wing . The Mighty River is a look at the history ( and the reckless abuse by over-harvesting of ) the river . It is really one long love note to not only a great river , but to nature herself . If mankind is to prosper , nature must prosper as well , for our continued well-being is inextricably connected with the ecosystem around us . The message is that we must stop doing damage immediately . If we want to help nature recover more rapidly , that's fine . But if we'd stop sticking our finger in nature's eyes , the ecosphere is generally quite capable of healing itself-if the damage stops . Remarkable and beautiful film that is in print , available and deserves to be seen by more people . Most highly recommended .
Excellent documentary that is engaging and thought-provoking-Warning Potential SPOILER comments	This is an exceptionally well-done and thoughtful documentary on the aftermath of apartheid in South Africa and the rather different " war crimes " tribunel approach they took in South Africa . While I was disappointed that they didn't touch on black-on-black attacks ( anyone who's ever seen the end result of " the necklace " - even on film-won't ever forget ) , it was a very good and even-handed presentation . I could not write a comment here without getting this off my chest , though : POSSIBLE SPOILER - In my opinion , there isn't any difference materially between Eric Taylor-white SA police officer who killed a black SA man unlawfully-and Robert McBride-black SA who admits to planting a bomb outside a club that killed three women . That they are treated quite differently by the tribunal in their respective amnesty applications is therefore disturbing , although the reasons are obvious and I do not think the tribunal played favorites in any way . Most Recommended .
This must be watched-words do not do it justice !	The year 1982 saw three shorts nominated for the Academy Award for Animated Short . All were excellent and could easily have won . It was the misfortune of The Great Cognito and The Snowman that they were in direct competition with this short . This is so intricately done and so fascinating in its conception and execution , that words fail me . It reminds me of the feeling I get when I look at the works of M . C . Escher . This must be watched ( more than once ) to be fully grasped . One warning is necessary : this is not for children . A portion or two of this is most decidedly adult in nature . Most decidedly and solidly recommended !
A fly's-eye view of the world	This short , an Oscar winner , is an exceptionally detailed effort that can be a bit unsettling at first ( particularly for anyone who has problems with depth-perception ) , but is a fascinatingly drawn and meticulously constructed animation and is a must-see if you like animation . Fortunately , it is currently in-print . Most highly recommended .
I could not disagree more with the Maltin review ! ! !	Whoever reviewed this film for Maltin's Guide ( I wish they'd indicate who the reviewer is by initials or something . It'd make the book more useful ) does not share my tastes . I personally don't care that it bears no relation to Andersen's life . They admit it up front . Judge a film by itself , not on it's supposed relation to reality ! Given Andersen's real life and his moody , pessemistic nature , I doubt being more accurate would have been a good thing . The score is beautiful , the sets and Costumes are great and Danny Kaye was wonderful ! I haven't seen the movie for a couple of years and I stll remember most of the score ! Granted , it's not one of the all-time greats , but it's better than the Maltin review implies . A worthy effort . Recommended .
I love the Humphrey the Bear shorts !	I just love this series of shorts ! I have no idea why , but I think they're marvelous . Humphrey usually winds up the loser in whatever is going on and the expressions on his face are hilarious . The animation is quite good for 1950s animation and Humphrey and Ranger Woodlore are well developed as characters . Too bad these aren't in print . Well worth looking for . They run these on The Ink and Paint Club . Most recommended .
The attention to detail is breathtaking !	The folks at Disney won an Oscar for this astonishing piece of work and deservedly so ! It's got to be one of the most meticulously done animations I have seen in my life ! The detail work is inspired and it's apparent that a great deal of time , effort and creativity was given to this gem . While it isn't available commercially ( like far too much of the shorter animation done for the Mouse ) , it do run on the Ink and Paint Club periodically . I wish they would release more of the animated shorts and the live-action shorts and documentaries they did in the 1940's and 1950's . sigh The puck is on his stick , he's skating for the net , he shoots , he scores and the place goes crazy ! Most unreservedly recommended .
Fascinating look at blindness and possibly at perceptions .	This short , nominated for both the BAFTA and the Academy Awards ( deservedly so ) is an excellently executed take on the world of a blind man . The animation , use of color and black and white and sound to create mood is great . Often what one imagines is far more unusual and / or frightening than reality . When you cannot see something and must theorize instead about what faces you , life becomes a good deal more unsettled , as with any limitation on the ability to perceive things or to simply function in a world designed by and large for people without such limits primarily by people without such limits . Fascinating piece of work and a prime example proving that cartoons aren't just for children , but an artistic medium in their own right . Of course , the same may be said about much of what was done at Warner Brothers , MGM , Fleischer and other studios some 45-50 years ago and more . Well worth seeking out and getting . Most highly recommended .
The most unusual penny arcade ever !	This is an unusual arcade to say the least ! Interestingly enough , the Fleischers also did a Popeye centering around penny arcades some years later that is considerably different in style and mood from this one . The Betty Boop series as a whole had a much different feel from the Popeye series , which is understandable , as the intent of the two series are much different as well . Betty is making change in a penny arcade and the gags are mostly sight gags ( actually , primarily Bimbo drooling over Betty for about a third of the short ) and it is bizarre and occasionally a bit creepy . Marvelous short , but a strange one . In print and available . Well worth watching . Most recommended .
A remarkable piece of animation by Bill Plympton	This short , nominated for an Academy Award , is visually exceptional and conceptually wonderful . From what I've seen of his work , it's also one of the most conventionally " normal " pieces he's done ! It's a kick to watch . Plympton is an acquired taste and I seem to have done so . If you like good animation that messes with the boundaries and sometimes colors outside the lines , try Plympton . By all means , catch this one ! Most recommended .
Clever , almost cute , cartoon that is almost a textbook example of UPA's work	This short , one of the three UPA shorts nominated for an Academy Award ( a clean sweep for UPA that year ) , is almost the prototypical short for UPA : Limited animation combined with a clever , interesting idea that is fleshed out with a good script that uses the strengths of the animation style to best advantage for the concept . The idea here is simple : the main character has taken up jaywalkng as a hobby and it quickly becomes manic , almost obsessive , behavior . The cartoon is beautifully executed and is well worth getting a hold of for anyone who enjoys animation . Recommended .
For Richard Condie , this is a " normal " short .	If most directors did a cartoon like this , it would probably be the oddest thing they ever did . But for Richard Condie , this is a comparatively normal short ( " comparatively " being the operative word-Condie does nothing " normal " ) whereas everything else I've ever seen is stranger than this within sixty seconds . Condie is an acquired taste and I've acquired it myself , which probably means a great deal , but I'm getting better , honest . Condie is a national treasure ( or should be ) in Canada , the Mad Genius . A wonderful short , well worth tracking down . Most recommended .
Not one of Claude's better days , I'd imagine .	This is my favorite of the shorts starring Marc Anthony , though one of the others , Cat Feud , is a better cartoon . Claude Cat is thoroughly unlikeable in this one . He's deceitful , disgraceful and devious and those are his good qualities ! Marc Anthony ( clearly a dog's equivalent to Prince Valiant ) wins out for the cause and for Truth , Justice and the American Way ( oops , wrong hero ) and the dim bulb that is the human " master " finally realizes that Claude's been playing him like a pipe organ in church . Marc Anthony's final ruse to get inside is priceless , as are Claude's facial expressions as the plot unfolds . The ending is marvelous and Claude's exit line is perfect . Well worth tracking down and watching . Most recommended .
Excellent short by a little-known director	This is an excellent cartoon and is one of a handful directed by Norman McCabe , who is not nearly as well known as other Warner Brothers directors , chiefly because he didn't direct for terribly long . Claude Hopper is a very engaging character similar to Disney's Goofy because he was voiced by Pinto Colvig and all of Pinto Colvig's voice work tends to make the characters sound about as bright as a five watt bulb . There are voices which are so distinctive that they are instantly recognizable and Colvig had one . A remarkably talented man and he's perfect for Claude Hopper , a character so dumb he doesn't realize that the two rabbits are tricking him left and right . The ending is great and in keeping with the times , what with a war on and all . McCabe usually worked some war related reference , most prominent as a rule . Worth the trouble to see . Most recommended .
Deservingly won the Academy Award !	This is an incredible short in many ways ! The computer graphics are great and the storyline is very well-developed and executed brilliantly . This is a most innocently destructive toddler-in other words , a typical baby . As anyone who has spent time in the company of a toddler knows , they are a force of nature not unlike Godzilla ! This one here is more qualified than most . Atilla the Baby , as it were . My sympathies lie with the toy . Phenomenal piece of work worth hunting for . Wholeheartedly recommended . He shoots , he scores !
The best of the myriad different film versions of a most excellent novel	The best of the many versions of The Hunchback of Notre Dame , for my money , is this one , although Lon Chaney's is a close second . Despite a Hollywood tendancy to change the novel's ending so as not to depress the cash customers ( although , pray tell , if you're going to change the ending , why does no one ever see Quasimodo sailing off to Tahiti with the girl ? Rule # 1 : strong , handsome poets beat out disfigured cripples every time , even if they're heroes . This is more true in real life than in the movies . Take my word for this , I know from painful experience sigh ) Charles Laughton is exceptional and Maureen O'Hara would make any man swoon and is perfect for the part of Esmerelda . The support includes the usual suspects-Thomas Mitchell , Harry Davenport and many other familiar character actors . Strike up the band and start the parade . Thunderous applause . Most highly recommended .
Makes Walter Mitty look like an under-achiever !	Nominated for an Oscar , this cartoon is a takeoff on Walter Mity , with a small boy named Ralph Phillips surpassing Mitty in inventiveness . Thoroughly engaging and extremely hilarious , the situations Ralph imagines are wonderful and so off-beat ( particularly his bout with mathematics ! ) that the cartoon can be watched again and again without getting old or growing flat . Most highly recommended .
This is an incredibly strange and unusual cartoon , even for a Richard Condie !	Richard Condie , under the umbrella of the National Film Board of Canada , does some fairly odd and wonderful work . This one is pretty strange even for Condie ! I am seldom at a loss for words , but trying to describe this one and do it justice is difficult . This airs somewhat frequently on O Canada on the Cartoon Network . The show itself is well worth watching . Catch this one if you can . Highly recommended !
Betty saves her " Boop oop a doop " in this one .	They don't come with much more innuendo or double entendre than this one from 1932 . Funny , definitely risque , with Koko as the support here , as well as a most despicable ringmaster , who does just about everything but chase Betty around a desk in this one . Well developed characterizations , especially among the circus animals and a solid plot as well as the typically excellent score make this a standout and a keeper . In print and available . Well worth watching . Most highly recommended .
A reminder of how good animation can be	This short justifiably won the Academy Award for Animated Short . At turns sad and funny , sweet and cruel and with a marvelous ending , it offers proof that the animated short is still being done well and is still a viable art form . Available on The World's Greatest Animation , anyone who takes animation to their heart and particularly the short form , should have this compilation . This short is just one of many reasons to pick it up . You won't be sorry . This short , by the way , was not made with young children in mind . They may not understand it particularly well .
Beautiful piece of work with amazing detail .	This won the Academy Award for Animated Short and it's easy to see why , even in a fairly strong field of nominees . The technical aspects alone would justify the award . It's a visually arresting cartoon . I've seen much less attention to detail in " set decoration " in feature-length live-action films ! But the visuals are only part of the tale here-indeed , it is the tale itself that is at the heart of things here . The characters matter , the interactions make sense and the story is interesting to the viewer ( although , at least in my opinion , the primary reason this won out over another nominee was the superior visual look and feel of Bunny and the race was close there , as well . Too bad they didn't end up tied ) without becoming cloying at the end . Good to see this getting wider release on the DVD of the feature Ice Age , by the same studio . Let's hope features don't take up all their time and energy , so that they can occasionally give us a shorter marvel like this . Well worth watching . Most highly recommended .
An unexpected jewel found by chance	I bought The Spike and Mike Festival of Animation , Vol . 1 for other shorts that were on the cassette . I got better than I thought , as there were several shorts on there that would have been worth getting the tape in and of themselves , including this one . I can't say a great deal about it directly , save that Peter Doctor ( who most recently worked on Monsters , Inc . ) definitely remembers childhood well . This is a scream , particularly the ending . This is a great short on an equally great compilation . Well worth the trouble to hunt up a copy . Most highly recommended .
One of Woody Allen's most entertaining and amusing comedies	Woody Allen films fall into different categories-his early films verge on slapstick while still being bitingly satirical ( Sleeper , Bananas , Play It Again , Sam , among others ) while his later works generally fall into one of two categories : contemporary social satire or nostalgic period pieces , generally set in the 1930s or 1940s . Love and Death is probably the most cerebral of the slapstick films and what I suspect a collaboration between Woody Allen , Ingmar Bergman and the Marx Brothers would have looked like had one ever taken place . Sight gags abound along with the philosophical discussions Woody Allen films have as a matter of course . It's a hilarious film that spoofs Bergman , the military , patriotism and , of course , love and death . Most highly recommended .
Textbook example proving the old adage , " The grass is always greener in someone else's yard . "	This film , while far from Burton's masterpiece , is a delightful musical that in the end shows that , sometimes , we have things far better than we think we do and the other side of the fence sometimes looks better just because it's different , but that doesn't make necessarily wise to pursue someone else's dream because we mistakenly think we may like it more . Tim Burton's fingerprints are all over this film . Excellent casting of vocal talent , the score is great and the animation is marvelous . A very good film and worth watching more than once . Recommended .
I'd vote for her any day !	This is a wonderful mix of satire and the strangeness that could be found in the best of the early Fleischer shorts , particularly Betty Boop cartoons . A knowledge of 1930s politics helps with some of the jokes , but it's funny even if you don't know who Herbert Hoover or FDR were . These shorts are exceptionally fine work in many cases and are always enjoyable to watch , at least through 1934 or so . Even the ones done later are reasonably good , even if Warner Brothers and MGM had by then surpassed what the Fleischers were doing . In print and available . Well worth watching . Most recommended .
This PBS series got me hooked on animation !	This series ran for three seasons on PBS and , like the overwhelming majority of the shows produced for that network , was of excellent quality and had to have been assembled by people who had a love for the subject matter . The shorts that ran on the series ran the gamut from deathly serious ones like Sisyphus ( a Hungarian short ) to the delightful short Great ( a British Academy Award winner ) and every possible spot on the line between . Work from all over was featured , from The National Film Board of Canada , the Eastern Europeans , the United States , the United Kingdom , ranging from shorts done for children to things like Closed Mondays by Will Vinton . Different animation styles , from 2-D hand drawn to puppet and Claymation , were featured . The intent was simply to showcase the best short animation available to PBS . The usual suspects-Warner Brothers , Disney , MGM-weren't featured , but they didn't need the exposure . These shorts did and finally found something approaching the audience they deserved . It's been 25 years since this first came on the air and more than 20 since it ended . Some extraordinary things have been done in the intervening years . It would be wonderful if perhaps PBS or someone would put together a show similar to this in concept to give animation like this more of an audience these days . No matter . Thanks to this show , I discovered a whole side of animation I barely glimpsed before , here and there and for that I'll always be thankful . I wish I could see some of these again , though .
I would love to have been a spider on the ceiling when they screened this for upper management at Disney !	Every time I watch this short , it reminds me of a cross between the old Ralph Phillips cartoons that Warner Brothers did and the comic strip The Far Side . I suspect that management at Disney were a bit unsettled by this one when they first saw the finished work . Here there be spoilers : Vincent Malloy is a boy with a very active imagination and a decidedly dark one at that . He wants to be just like Vincent Price . He projects himself into Edgar Allan Poe stories , much to his mother's chagrin . The resonances with Poe , the character of Ralph Phillips and the absolutely perfect narration by Vincent Price himself create a whole that is much greater than its quite extraordinary parts . The ending , with it's echo of Poe's " The Raven " , delivered in typical Price fashion , is more chilling than you expect from Disney . This short , along with Frankenweenie , makes the DVD release of Nightmare Before Christmas a must-have in my book . Most highly recommended .
Why isn't this available on VHS or DVD ?	This is one of Disney's better efforts ( which is quite a compliment ! ) This shows up occasionally on The Ink and Paint Club , but I think that Disney ( and the public ) would be well-served if this and some of their other shorts were released in a compilation . This is an excellent example of combining animation with live-action to create at one and the same time a cartoon and a documentary about birds that is informative and entertaining for adults and children . In fact , I have noticed more than a few cartoons that should be in-print that aren't , many of them Disney , but others as well . Highly recommended .
An absolutely hilarious short from beginning to end , with a funny premise	This is one of my favorite Bugs Bunny shorts , which deftly illustrates one of Chuck Jones's rules for his Bugs cartoons , which was that Bugs should never go after anyone for no good reason-he has to be the aggrieved party first in some way and merely evening the score with a bad guy . Because I want to discuss some of the details , this is a spoiler warning : The short opens with Bugs on his way to meet his cousin Herman when he runs into a boulder-sized gold nugget . After whooping it up about his good fortune ( " I'm rich beyond the means of avarice ! " ) , Bugs suddenly turns paranoid and protective , none of which escapes the notice of Nasty Canasta , who opens up a " bank " where Bugs foolishly deposits his gold . Thinking better of it , he goes back to get his gold , only to have Canasta literally close the bank facade on and around him , trapping him inside . Placing a boulder on the cube encasing the rabbit , Canasta rides off with Bugs's gold , leaving only Bugs's eyes visible and we hear him say , " You realize that this will not go unchallenged ! " and we know that Canasta is in deep trouble . Some six months later , as Canasta is marking a deck of cards in preparation of the opening of his saloon and casino , who should come in but our hero , suited up as a hayseed with his hair full of hay ? If you said Bugs , you win a carrot ! He asks if he can use Canasta's " Telio-phone " , pointing at a slot machine . Canasta chuckles and says " Sure ! " , at which point Bugs hits the jackpot and a huge pile of coins pours out . Canasta urges him to stick around and play some games . We all know who's going to win-Bugs is the hero here , after all-the fun is in watching just how Bugs makes Canasta the patsy , when Canasta thinks he's got a live sucker ripe for the fleecing . They play " marbles , Frisco style " , with Bugs winning a penny bet on 23 , being told that here , the customer always wins , Bugs placing a huge stack on 23 again and Canasta not only nailing a block of wood in place over 23 ( so no one else-in an empty casino-can bet on 23 ) , but using a rigged wheel , only to have the ball go into 23 because of Canasta's actions . They then play poker , with a few cute puns and Canasta says , " I got a full house-what you got ? " , to which Bugs says , " Does that beat two pair ? I have a pair of red ones ( aces ) and a pair of black ones ( also aces ) and Canasta is visibly stunned at losing . As Bugs is getting ready to leave , Canasta pulls out a revolver , Bugs then spins the cylinder and hits another jackpot . After a predictable ( but still funny ) final visual gag , Bugs leaves with a final funny line , which I won't spoil here . This short is available on the Looney Tunes Golden Collection , Volume 4 and is well worth having . Highly recommended .
One of the best , if not the best , animated features of all time	I absolutely love animation ( not to be confused with anime ) and Who Framed Roger Rabbit ? is my favorite . With Disney and Warner Brothers characters appearing in the same film for the first time , and Betty Boop weighing in as well , that would be enough . But there is also a new cast of animateds in addition-Roger and Jessica Rabbit , Baby Herman and the weasels , et cetera . It's toon heaven on earth . There is a very intricate plot that works as a comedy and as a mystery , characters who grow and that you care about and great special effects . But what I love most about the movie is the action on the fringes . I've seen the movie at least a dozen times and I always catch something I've never spotted before . The movie comes flying at you a hundred miles an hour and there's so much going on in most of it that you can't catch everything the first time . For some people , Toy Story is the best animated feature of all time and for some it's Snow White or Fantasia and there is a case that can be made for each . But for my money , Who Framed Roger Rabbit ? is the champ so far . My highest recommendation .
The most unusual chess match since Through the Looking Glass	This short is one of the most eccentric cartoons the Fleischer Brothers ever did ! It opens with two men at a chess board , apparently playing a match and then turns its focus onto the pieces for the most bizarre game of chess played since Lewis Carroll penned Through the Looking Glass ! Very odd , even for a Betty Boop in the early 1930s . Wonderful short . I sincerely doubt , however , that another commenter was talking about this short , from the gist of his or her comments . In print and available . Well worth watching . Highly recommended .
Heavier than usual on funny dialogue , but still lots of sight gags . ( Possible spoilers )	I had to do a comment on this cartoon , ma'am-it's the law of the West ! Besides , today I celebrate the seventh anniversary of my moving into my current little cubbyhole I call home and it's appropriate for the day . Tex Avery had several different wolf characters-the urbane yet lecherous wolf ( or just plain lecherous wolf ) of the Red cartoons , the Southern wolf in several Droopys and other one-shots and the Western wolf seen here in the Western-oriented shorts like Deputy Droopy . Always a nemesis for Droopy , usually an outlaw ( here , he's a cattleman who doesn't like homesteaders ) , he has more range than Spike and is a more enjoyable villain . The dialogue is funnier than is typically the case in a Tex Avery cartoon ( Avery loved the visual gag dearly ) and a lot of the laughs come from funny lines delivered by the Wolf . Well worth tracking down . Most highly recommended .
Yet another masterpiece from the inimitable Richard Condie	This short was nominated for an Academy Award , losing to Anna and Bella . Not since Doctor Strangelove has nuclear war been so hilarious ! Condie takes a situation and turns it on its ear and then gives it a spin for good measure . Visual gags abound in Condie's work and I always see something I missed before every time I watch this . On The World's Greatest Animation , well worth seeing for thisand many other shorts . Recommended .
A Tex Avery masterpiece !	This is truly one of the greatest animated shorts Avery ever did and one of the best of all time . Virtually every corny sight gag Avery could think of was shoehorned in here . The moon was far more loony here than Armstrong , Aldrin or any of the other astronauts found on their visits and the cat here finds the truth in the adage , " Look before you leap " in this cartoon . Hilarious doesn't even begin to describe this one ! The crowd goes wild and let there be dancing in the streets ! Most emphatically recommended .
Marvelous documentary about Ladysmith Black Mambazo , its music and the strength of the human heart and spirit .	This documentary , nominated for an Oscar , tells the story of Ladysmith Black Mambazo , the South African singing group that gained much acclaim worldwide after Paul Simon incorporated their sound and music on his " Graceland " album . At the time , what Simon did was controversial , as it was viewed by opponents of apartheid as a violation of the cultural boycott of South Africa in effect at the time . This always puzzled me , because in no way , shape or form can this be seen as a project that benefitted the government of South Africa , while it can be seen as being a great boost to blacks in South Africa in general and the group in particular . The documentary shows the group in rehearsal and in performance and the music is marvelous . It shows quite forcefully that even under conditions designed to crush the human spirit and rob it of dignity , those who would seek to do so overlook the incredible strength and resilience of the human spirit , heart and mind . Most highly recommended .
A very worthy example of Claymation	This cartoon , an Academy Award winner for Animated Short , is one of the most fascinating and thought-provoking cartoons I've seen in my life . I wish that it was available on VHS ( or even DVD ) . Will Vinton ( who gave us the California Raisins ) co-directed and this is one of at least three shorts of his that was nominated for an Oscar ( Rip van Winkle and The Creation are the others ) and so far as I'm aware , none are available . Would somebody do a Best of Will Vinton compilation and include these along with some of the Claymation Television shows . Closed Mondays would be worth the price of addmission alone ! The ending is great !
Exceptional sight gags in a technically well-executed short that's also funny !	Just about every studio has seen the visual possibilities inherent in doing cartoons involving firemen and fires . This is one of the early ones and it works exceedingly well . While I don't know that they started here , a number of the standard gags are here and they work to perfection . Disney was basically firing on all cylinders during this period and was more or less the only studio on top of the mountain in 1935 , given that Fleischer was starting a slow fade , though still doing good work , as the new Code's requirements began taking its toll on the Betty Boop series . Warner Brothers and MGM were not yet as good as Disney or Fleischer and Lantz didn't really hit his stride until Andy Panda and Woody Woodpecker came along . Disney was king and precise , very technically excellent shorts like Mickey's Fire Brigade were the result . Disney spent more time and effort on a seven-eight minute cartoon than some studios took with their feature films ! Great cartoon ( and very funny ) well worth watching . Most highly recommended .
In my opinion , the best Daffy-Porky teaming	This cartoon is one of the funnier ones WB made and it worked better than most of the others that Daffy and Porky made together , with the Duck Dodgers cartoons and one or two others right up with it as far as humor . Porky holds his own quite well with Daffy , who tends to be a bit overbearing . I really would like to know just where Porky gets his licenses and permits ! I'd like to have a few of those myself ! Great fun was had by all and there was much rejoicing in all the land with the ending . Highly recommended .
Disney's terrific trio !	This is a visual treat from start to finish , with some great jokes as well ! Look quite closely at the " ghost catching " equipment and you may wonder just how it is that they expect to catch ghosts with most of it-create some , perhaps , but catch ? Highly unlikely , it seems to me . Mickey , Donald and Goofy are three such radically different characters that it's sometimes amazing that they worked so well together . Not precisely the Three Musketeers , but they work together exceedingly well in any case . Disney at or near the top of its form . Wonderful , if not terribly spooky , with some great sight gags , particularly the ending . Well worth watching-again and again ! Most highly recommended .
Excellent use of classical music and a very amusing concept	This short , nominated for an Oscar , is one of Chuck Jones's best . You'll never hear The Blue Danube in the same way again . Extremely creative joining of animation and music . One slight correction of another comment on this short : I know I saw this short on television prior to 1977 , because I saw it for the first time before I turned 18 . In any case , Cartoon Network has aired this fairly recently and if I recall correctly , showed it one New Years Eve , as part of a special broadcast . I think it was in 1999 as part of the " Miloony-um " special . Most highly recommended .
A masterpiece and in my opinion the best short Tex Avery ever made !	Tex Avery was the best director of cartoon shorts , certainly in the Golden Age and probably ever . In my opinion , The Legend of Rockabye Point is his best short in a long , distinguished career . t's nominally a Chilly Willy cartoon , but the primary focus is not Chilly , but a polar bear named Charlie and a bulldog ( I think his name is Sam ) and the perfect Avery running gag . That this is not currently in-print saddens me beyond belief . It should be . I wish I had this cartoon ! Highly recomended .
Beautifully crafted short all the more remarkable for the studio that did such exceptional work here .	Charles Mintz saw gold in them there cartoons and thus jettisoned Walt Disney and the contractual relationship they had to start in-house production and make ( he thought ) even more for himself . But Mintz had a gourmand's palate without the imagination or financial willingness to feed such tastes . Columbia was rarely to come even within shouting distance of Disney , MGM and Warner Brothers where animated shorts were concerned . They just didn't much take the time or effort to go beyond nice , enjoyable fluff to fulfill contractual obligations . That makes The Little Match Girl all the more incredible , because it's an emerald awash in a sea of shiny marbles . Much of the credit can go to Al Davis and Sid Marcus , both exceptionally talented . This is probably the crown jewel in Davis's career , a compliment , to say the least . They manage to make this endearing and heart-wrenching without it becoming maudlin or cloying . It's a remarkable piece of work and , had it been more properly promoted at the time , might have won the Academy Award ( and probably should have ) . I don't usually go into detail about the contents of a film , preferring to let the film speak for itself , but one point I need to make : the decision to make the child smaller than normal in perspective to the world around he was brilliant-to a child , the " grownup " world is huge and more than a bit scary . It works wonderfully . That this isn't in print and available is a shame , as it should be . Well worth hunting up . Most highly recommended .
Excellent and quite novel use of music in this short .	Watching this short , I as struck by several points : first , that the " voices " of the various characters were the notes played by the instrument in question . Second , they actually " converse " in musical phrases with each other ( surely by design , rather than by accident ) throughout the cartoon . Third , Jazz and Classical music are more closely interrelated than many in either camp would feel comfortable acknowledging ( at least publicly ) . There's a novelty to the use of music here through visual and audio cues , particularly in the latter third of the cartoon . One of the Silly Symphonies ' shining moments , this belongs squarely at the top , along with Skeleton Dance and Flowers and Trees as among Disney's finest shorts . ( Small spoiler ) The " battle " sequence is absolutely marvelous and bears close scrutiny ! Well worth watching . Most highly recommended .
This short fires visuals at the viewer rapidly from the beginning	This short , nominated for an Academy Award , is a marvelous example of just how far one can take stop-motion Claymation . The visuals come at you quite fast and furious over what is a very brief cartoon and it's one of Will Vinton's best efforts . Fortunately , it's available ( along with quite a few other shorts ) on the World's Greatest Animation and is most certainly worth having . Now , if only someone would come along and put together a similar compilation of animated shorts released since 1991 , the year after the release date of the most recent release on WGA , that would be most welcome . Most recommended .
A wry and telling commentary on mankind and it's history .	This short , nominated for the Academy Award , is a sardonic look at history and effectively makes a few points about the ultimate realities and who the victors really are . Very well done and well worth the effort to get . Fortunately in print currently . Most highly recommended .
An exceptional short prduced by the National Film Board of Canada	This short , nominated for an Academy Award , ( I'm surprised it lost , though I've never seen the winner , as far as I know ) is a funny , sad , sweet look at life through the eyes of a child growing up in Canada . An excellent adaptation ( by the author ) of a story by Mordecai Richter and yet another feather in the NFBC's cap . Caroline Leaf is a marvelous director and this is one of her best . Most recommended .
Sight gags all through this one and very funny ones too	This short , as is usually the case with a Droopy directed by Tex Avery , is heavy with sight gags ( the ones with another director , particularly by Dick Lundy , were more driven by dialogue than Avery's were ) , although dialogue is more in evidence here than is normal in a Tex Avery short . Generally speaking , in an Avery short , if there is more verbal humor , it's either narration or one character dominates conversations and / or talks to the audience . This cartoon brings home the old saying , " Be careful what you ask for , you might get it . " The ending is great ! Good to see it's in print . Recommended .
One of the all-time classics !	If anyone doubts that Charlie Chaplin was one of the funniest comedians ever or that silent films did not require acting ability , t you a commend this film , as well as City Lights . Modern Times isn't , strictly speaking , a silent film , although Chaplin had no dialogue there . The Gold Rush , while not Chaplin's best film , does feature his best performance and has so many classic bits , it must be seen . Excellent film . 1942 version redone by Chaplin is a bit better , but either will do . Most highly recommended .
Typical Avery , with the germ of an idea used more fully in a later short .	This short is typical Avery , with lots of sight gags and a hilarious premise . But Avery plays around with a series of gags that take expressions of speech and depict them literally in visual gags , an idea he would use to base an entire short on later with Symphony in Slang . Cute cartoon , not terribly innovative , but enjoyably watchable nonetheless . Worth watching and recommended .
Odd , energetic and engaging short with a perfect ending !	This has got to be one of the oddest cartoons I've seen in my life ! With little to no dialogue , the animation and background artwork have to carry this one and do so superbly . The action is engaging , if not almost hypnotic at times and there is a plot , though it takes a bit to catch on . The ending is simply perfect and follows logically from events that came before . Absolutely must be seen , as words cannot do justice to this one . Most highly recommended .
sigh Audrey Hepburn sigh ! ! !	I could just write my one line summary over and over again , but that would make for a rather dull comment , so I won't ( stop cheering in the balcony ! ) . In addition to the wonderful Ms . Hepburn , Gregory Peck does his typically superb job and Eddie Albert turns in a delightful ( but no doubt painful , for him ) performance in this incredibly charming jewel of a film . This film made me an incurable romantic for life ! sigh I'd better quit before my apartment becomes a wind-tunnel ! Joyously , happily recommended !
One of the best pairings of Daffy and Porky and absolutely hilarious !	This short is an extremely funny teaming of Daffy with Porky as his " straight man " ( with Porky's antics the cause of a lot of the funniest bits ) . I have to talk about something specific in the short , so let this be my spoiler warning : Any cartoon where Porky Pig sings the first verse of " Barbara Allen " is one my permanent list of favorites . When I first saw this cartoon , hearing an old tradition song issuing forth in the dulcet tones of Porky Pigs had me rolling on the floor and it still makes me laugh like a loon to this day . The fun in this cartoon is watching Daffy and his progressively desperate ( and increasingly unsuccessful ) attempts to convince Porky that he really is Robin Hood , honest and for truly , he is ! This has been released on a Looney Tunes Golden Collection on DVD and it ( and the rest of the Collections ) are well worth having and all most highly recommended !
Very aptly titled	Great is , quite simply , great ! A funny , warm , poignant look a real-life builder named Isambard Kingdom Brunel . I wish it was in-print . It's a masterwork . It deserves better than to languish in an obscurity it most definitely does not deserve .
First of many " travelogue " cartoons	Back when Tex Avery first did this cartoon , studios regularly produced short subjects in abundance . One of the most frequent and popular types was the " travelogue " which Avery so effectively nails here . The same droning voice-over and cutesy style used here without that big a stretch for parody's sake . Tex Avery sight-gags aplenty . This cartoon spawned a mini-boom in cartoons ( not all by Avery ) sending up travelogues . As usual , Tex was there first and was the best ! One second left on the clock , here comes the alley-oop-it's a touchdown and the band goes wild ! Highly recommended .
The enemy of my enemy is my friend .	Tom can't seem to catch a break-he not only has Jerry to chase ( difficult in and of itself , as witness his monumental failure rate ) , but a little yellow bird sticks his beak in matters at the most inopportune ( for Tom ) moments . An important object lesson is taught to the two allies at a point of seeming success : premature celebration may be hazardous to one's longevity of health and / or life . Save the congratulations for a safer time and place . Most entertaining and executed short from when Tom and Jerry were definitely in flower . Well worth watching and most highly recommended .
Why wasn't this nominated for an Academy Award ?	The failure of AMPAS to nominate this cartoon for an Oscar is unbelievable ! Granted , it was a good year for animated shorts and a good year particularly for UPA-Columbia , but this cartoon is simply delightful ! Written by James Thurber and animated in Thurber's artistic style , it is his world come to life ! If you like James Thurber , you'll love this cartoon , probably as much as I do ! Highly recommended . Edit : Since I posted this particular comment , I discovered just why it wasn't nominated for the Academy Award for Animated Short Subject-it was never submitted to AMPAS for consideration , because Stephen Bosustow was , for some reason , not pleased with the end results . I think that it's a marvelous piece of work , but without submission for consideration , the Academy could not nominate the short . I've since watched it several times and it is still highly recommended .
