Seagal Gets Double Crossed !	Stephen Seagal plays the role of a dude who gets talked into driving an armored car for a bank hold up and drives into everything that comes across his path . However , the police seem to appear on the scene very quickly and Seagal smells a rat who gave the police advanced notice . The story gets into many twists and turns and the money from the hold up has disappeared and nobody knows its new owner . Poor Seagal gets a bit framed into this hold up and naturally he is out looking for the person or persons who are trying to put him away for a long time . In this film , Seagal tries to be a good guy but the forces of evil are against him . Unfortunately , this is not a great film and rather boring and too long .
Thought It Was Going to Be Better than This	Thought this just might be a great picture concerning a mystery murder involved with the Internet and was sadly disappointed as the film progressed to go down hill . Stephen Dorff , ( Detective Mike Reilly ) , " Alone in the Park " , was finally convinced that what he thought was the death of many young girls was a illness spreading throughout New York City . However , Natascha McElhone , ( Terry Hudson ) , who played the role as Board of Health specialist told Mike Reilly that she believed all these young girls where killed because of a website they visited . This film goes into a complete spin out of control and never stops until the very end . Don't waste your time viewing this film , no matter how cheap it sells for in the stores .
Poor Virgins	Always enjoy Horror films over the years , going back to Boris Karloff , Vincent Price and Bela Lugosi ; however , this film is a far cry from anything with horror through out this picture . James Earl Jones , ( Frye ) played the role of a tricky dude with a very hot sexy girl friend and plenty of secrets he performed at night , away from he sex pot gal . Jose Ferrer , ( Nereus ) played the Greek Mayor of the small village and tried to keep everyone in line by telling them all the rules they must obey while they stay in his town . The film starts off with a bit of Greek History about virgins being sacrificed in some sort of ceremony and a coin placed in their mouths . As I said before , this is not a horror film , it is just plain Horrible .
Complete Waste of Good Time	Like to view most of Michael Rooker's films , in this particular film he plays a real tough and ready for action Captain in the U . S . Army , and has a few gals and guys with him trying to find out just who is murdering all these people in a certain wooded area of the country . All of these civilians and some soldiers are very well skilled in combat and have special training for capturing and destroying any possible threat to this country . There is a creature on a horse shooting arrows and using all kinds of primitive weapons and then disappears right on the spot . As far as I am concerned this film can disappear from the face of the earth and it would never be missed . I am real sorry I had to waste my time viewing this garbage and can still feel sorry for the poor actors who had to act in this picture , at least they all got paid , I Hope !
A Complete Bomb	This film deals with two ex-football players who are Fred Williamson , ( Mack Derringer ) and Gary Busey , ( Lenny ) who work as private eyes and meet all kinds of ladies and men with some bad backgrounds . Mack Derringer is approached by his ex-wife Vanity ( Jennifer Derringer ) who works at having sex talk over the telephone . Jennifer is being threatened by one caller who wants to do horrible things to her and she asks for his help along with several other ladies . Mack & Lenny have more time on their hands and often go to Miami , Fl . golf courses or hang out in a Sports Bar where all kinds of city things go on . There is lots of punches , killings and plenty of double meaning words that bring this film completely down to a big ZERO . Don't waste your time , this film cost me only 50 cents and that was too much .
wow	Thought possibly this film would be interesting with a Pirate on the loose with a bunch of people trying out for a Reality TV show and a $100 , 000 . bonus . Most of the actors did their very best to perform their roles to perfection especially the female actors , showing plenty of T & A or I should say Q & A about why a Pirate is coming to life and disturbing everyone he comes into contact . This is definitely not a film to view , unless you can obtain this film on a DVD for only $1 . 00 , so I threw away a dollar . The director and producer showed plenty of film footage on the making of the Production and acted like they were creating an Academy Award for 2005 !
Very Low Budget Film	Group of college boys don't want to leave their college and ask their parents for more funds so they can further their education with other college degrees . In other words , they really want to be professional students and live a carefree live at the expense of the parents or other people . These college guys come up with some wild ideas concerning the complete cooperation of plenty of females as well as , a nutty professor who is studying the sex life of an insect . This is definitely a sexy comedy with plenty of nudity and this film pulls no punches at a certain religion and peoples deep beliefs in a Higher Power . However , it is a comedy and you have to view it as a big joke to have been produced and directed . Dennis Quaid and Priscilla Barnes gave an outstanding performance .
Nice Try	Enjoyed viewing Louis Gossett , Jr . , ( Charles ' Chappy'Sinclair ) , " Window " , ' 05 , who started out in the film as a Full Bird Colonel and wound up a One Star General . Chappy received this high rank because he was drawn out of the National Guard to complete a mission with Russian forces and a crew of so called Misfits . There is plenty of comedy through out the entire picture and I really do not know if it was intended to be taken that way . Mark Humphrey , ( Capt . Matt Cooper ) , " JAG " , 03 TV Series " was a pilot who simply could not take any orders from anyone and held a vengeance toward the Russian forces he had to work with . However , he got the hots for Sharon Brandon , ( Valeri Zuyeniko ) a Russian Pilot who was the only gal in the crew and had the face of a Russian woman , and despite that fact , they were in LOVE . If you like Lou Gossett Jr . , then watch this film .
GREAT ACTING BY SPADER & GIBB !	Jack the Ripper films are one of my favorite , however , this film was boring and very unrealistic . I simply could not wait until it finally ended and the real Jack the Ripper was finally revealed . However , I knew who Jack the Ripper was from the very beginning of the picture . James Spader ( John / Rick Westford ) " I Witness " ' 03 , gave a great dual performance and is a great up and coming actor along with Cynthia Gibb ( Chris Moscari ) " A Crime of Passion " ' 03 TV , who loved John Westford and became very close with Rick . These actors did a great job with a horrible script about nothing !
Lots of Throwing UP	After viewing this film , I completely lost my appetite because of the fact that everybody seemed to be coughing up lots of blood . The story starts out with two girls and three guys who plan on having a nice vacation in a cabin away from everything . The gang stop at grocery store and get some refreshment's and a little girl who loves to bite people , gave one of the guys a good nip or two on the hand . This was rather strange and then the story progresses into a bedroom scene where a couple are making hot sex together and another guy decides to go squirrel hunting and shoots a man in the woods . Rider Strong , ( Paul ) " Borderline " , ' 05 had a good time with Cerina Vincent , ( Marcy ) , " It Waits " , ' 05 who had a very sexy body and gave an outstanding performance . Jordan Ladd , ( Karen ) , " Club Dread " , ' 04 teased and never pleased her boyfriend who was sex starved and needed attention which he finally received from Marcy . If you need a blood transfusion and enjoy viewing throwing up in the truck or any place , this is definitely the film for YOU .
Fell Through the Ice	Decided to watch AMC and found this film and decided to give it a try and see what I was in for in regards to entertainment . There was a great deal of humor and Steven Baldwin , ( Sean Linden ) , " In My Sleep " , ' 06 , made very little effort in his acting to convince me that he even enjoyed making this film . Sean played a has-been hockey player who liked the wild life and decided to get in on a deal offered to him and his team as a comedy hockey team . Added to the action in the film was , Jessica Steen , ( Jessie Dage ) , " Homefront " , ' 91 , a gal who was the granddaughter to a very famous hockey player from the past . The film was very boring and never seemed to end and made absolutely no common sense at all .
Good Vs . Evil	This film is a mixture of horror , comedy , drama and many daring attempts by the original fallen angel to free all his followers in order to gain back the entire world from God . A pope is even capture by a wild looking he / she with way out color styles and remarkable abilities to fight off the forces of evil . There are some scenes which have comedy with plenty of off color punch lines along with swords and evil being outwitted by the pure virgins . The opening scene is when the evil angels break into a dwelling place for nuns and try to seduce them and obtain their blood . I almost forgot , there is vampires and even people changing themselves into bats . Not too impressed with this film , you can do better watching another film .
Great Halloween Film	This picture showed nice looking gals which did brighten up this so called story about Egyptian rituals and a caterer who enjoyed his meat prepared on the raw side of things . There is a serial killer on the loose who does horrible things to all the females he captures and you will have to see the film because the scenes are too graphic to describe , except that it is real gore and blood all over the place . The worst thing about this film is the poor acting by all the actors and the fake hair or powder to make a person look old . This is a film you will enjoy seeing on Halloween night and you are trying to get all spooked up about old Egyptian customs and what happens to poor young virgins . Sick film
Michael Rennie Tried	This is a very poor produced film and the story is way beyond belief and the film is really not worth your time in viewing . This just had to be the last effort by Michael Rennie , ( Dr . Odo Warnoff ) to make a film for financial reasons as he was suffering from a heavy use of smoking . This story is about Dr . Odo Warnoff and Maleva Kirstein , ( Karin Dor ) who are Aliens from a dying world and they plan to conquer earth by man's superstitions about the myths of Werewolf , Dracula , Mummy and Frankenstein . Dr . Odo creates and manages to create all these monsters to do his will and there are plenty of beautiful female assistants that seem to get deeply involved with all these monsters and there is a brief moment of a male and female making love . Don't waste your time viewing this film , you will be very glad what I am telling you . Bad Bad
Space Program in Trouble	This is a very low budget 1963 space horror film with some great veteran actors who managed to keep this interesting with good acting and a crazy story . A young boy and his girlfriend in California are fooling around on the beach and the boy discovers this hand of a man with an astronaut marking and he proceeded to take this object home with him . However , the hand manages to take control of the young man and causes him to do some very wild things . This film involves the FBI , local police and people from a Space Agency trying to solve this mystery and who they can blame for these mistakes . Want to kill time , view this film .
WOW What a Film !	Decided to view this film simple because of the title and I was probably thinking about Lon Chaney and his many faces of Horror . Well , this film was a horrible mess and a big Horror to watch . I will have to say that Dana Carvey , ( Pistachio Disguisey ) , " The Shot " , ' 96 did a great job of acting crazy and I am sure it was not easy to follow the script . Jennifer Esposito , ( Jennifer Baker ) , " Crash " , ' 04 , was rather cute and very attractive and gave a good supporting role . Last but not least , James Brolin , ( Fabbrizio Disguisey ) , " A Guy Thing " , ' 03 , added his talents to this picture , but I began to wonder if Barbra Streisand enjoyed this film and her husband's performance . WOW
Horrible B Film	Always enjoy the Classic Horror films , however , this film was really a big waste of time and if it were not for John Carradine playing the mad man doctor who is able to control human beings through his experiments . This film was made during WW II and John Carradine was a German Nazi working to find a human weapon against the entire world . Bob Steele playing in many roles as a cowboy or gangster and in this picture Bob seemed bored to death with his role in this film and acted like this was his first film . Mantan Moreland , ( Jeff ) gave an outstanding performance with great comedy which helped keep the audience attention . I hate to criticize a film made in 1943 , but this is really a big disappointment . If you like John Carradine and the roles he played as Count Dracula throughout many films during the 1940's , you just might like to watch John doing his best .
Paris Hilton was Beautiful	Paris Hilton , ( Victoria English ) does not care how bad her pictures are , she still receives a big pay check . In this picture Victoria English is President of A South Beach University sorority and she seeks to obtain pledges who are definitely unfit in looks or brains . Girls like this are accepted into the sorority and they are mistreated beyond words . Victoria has many boyfriends , however , she meets a guy she knew years ago and they both become very close in many ways . There is plenty of nudity and wild parties and the film is filled with double meaning words and lots of sexy . If you like Paris Hilton and don't care very much for a story , this is the film for you to watch and enjoy .
A Battleship Game to a REAL Battleship Commander ! !	Simply love films and view them all the time , but I actually found myself going to sleep during all the very slow boring scenes . Despite some so called action scenes on a Battleship and some gals that looked beautiful , but needed to eat a meal once in a while . There is a tragic commercial airline crash with all the elite business brains in the country going to their death . Then we progress forward from one topic to another topic , we see twin guys , a game programmer taken hostage and a big bad old time Battleship put into action by a bunch of nuts . The sailor's on the ship had hats that looked like they all came from Disney Land . I should have continued to fall asleep . Miss this film , don't waste your time , it really is a great film to sleep through .
1958 Bomb	Had some time to waste and so I decided to watch this low budget film about a large hairy spider that invades a very small town . The spider lives in a very large cave and has built a huge thick web that trapped Carol Flynn ( June Kenney ) along with her boyfriend , Mike Simpson , ( Eugene Persson ) . However , June & Mike manage to escape and try to tell the local Sheriff Cagle , ( Gene Roth ) who thinks they are crazy and can only think of a spider as being rather small and nothing like a monster spider . This film was probably a big hit during the Summer of 1958 but this film should be put on the shelve and forgotten about . Gene Roth who played the role as Sheriff acted in over two-hundred films and also played a Nazi during World War II , a gangster or con-artist . Roth was crossing the street and was killed by a car around the age of 70 years .
This is an Old Story	All the actors did a great job of trying to act and some were better than others , and I really must give them credit for trying to act with a story that we have heard over and over again . Fred Williamson , ( Dakota Smith ) , " Soft Target " , ' 05 , plays the role of a guy who takes the law into his own hands after a horrible killing which involves him personally . There is dope being pushed in the neighborhood to young high school athlete's and it causes all kinds of problems . Some families are killed needlessly and for no reason there is lots of blood shed through out the town . Gary Busey , ( Felix ) " Buckaroo " , ' 05 plays a good supporting role , however , the story is very weak and the actors sure have a hard time trying to act in this film .
Entertaining Film	This was a great martial arts film starring John Travis , ( Ronald L . Marchini ) who finds himself living in the world as the last cop on earth . John has a hat that reads : " Special Cop " who runs into all kinds of horrible looking men and women who want to kill the last cop on earth . John Travis meets up with a woman named Rachel , ( Carrie Chambers ) who is badly beaten up , Rachel tries to protect all the children in the various surrounding cities and they call them Free-Bees and she offers them a nice shelter to live in . Rachel is also a scientist who has knowledge of Teleportation which can transport people from one area in the country to another , something like a time machine . However , Rachel has a broken crystal which enables her to transport human beings into other places . Rachel asks John Travis to assist her in obtaining this crystal which she tells John he should have no problems in trying to secure this new crystal , which turns out to be very false statement to John . There is plenty of action in the B film with horrible acting , but lots of fun to just watch and enjoy .
Worst Film I Have Ever Seen	This film kept my interest for a very brief period of my time and then I started to find myself becoming very detached from everything that was going on in this film . There was some drama and mostly comedy and my interest soon faded away and I could hardly wait until the film ended . I felt like I had been watching a pure messed up film with all kinds of messed up people creating a film that made very little sense . I applaud the poor actors who had to act in this film and keep it going , especially Patrick Muldoon , Paul Sampson and of course , the charming Carmen Electra who carried the entire picture on her back . Please don't waste your time like I did .
Demi Moore & Van Cleef Helped this Pic	Found this film under Cinema Classics and was very disappointed with the entire film or TV Series film which lasted with only two episodes . The only reason this film might have interested the film viewers was Demi Moore who is a daughter to The Master ( Lee Van Cleet ) and was missing from her dad for many years . The Master enlists the help of a young man ( Timothy Van Patten ) whom he trains in the martial arts so the both of them will be prepared to defeat the kidnappers . However , The Master and Timothy are unaware that a deadly group of Ninja assassins are on their trail . Demi Moore made a few brief appearances and gave a few quick kisses to Timothy , there was some action , but nothing to write home to mom about .
Shannon Tweed Helped A Little Bit	Found this film for one dollar ( $1 . 00 ) and the film was a complete waste of time . Reb Brown , ( Mark Hardin ) , played a military adviser in South America and was successful in capturing the leader of rebel soldiers operating out of the dense jungles . However , Mark joins the opposite side after some horrible tortures were inflicted or women and men . In one scene as Mark is having a drink in a hotel bar , his eyes catch the glimpse of sexy long legs Sandra Spencer ( Shannon Tweed ) , " Dead Sexy " , 01 . Mark and Sandra have the extreme hots for each other and even make passionate love on some very hard rocks , with no time for the comforts of a bed . This is a horrible film and not worth wasting the time to even look at IT .
People Alive & Dead	This film concerns a very young girl , Cassie , ( Melissa Sagemiller ) who leaves her family and heads off to become a college freshman . One night Cassie and her friends decide to go to a wild party with plenty of drinking and dancing and Cassie is riding with her boyfriend who she likes but never told him she loved him . As Cassie was driving , a car was stopped in the middle of the road and she was unable to avoid an accident and as a result there is a bloody loss of lives along with her boyfriend . Cassie becomes very emotionally upset and has nightmares which cause her to have hallucinations about her boyfriend coming back to life and encounters men trying to murder her and she is struggling to find out who her real friends are , who wants her dead and will she survive this entire horror ordeal . Cassie dreams she is being made love to by her boyfriend after he died and finds another guy in her bed and is told she was asking him to make love . This is a way out film , and not very good at all .
NY Is the Tropics & Miami is the Arctic	If you have nothing else to do and want some quick stupid entertainment , this is the film to watch . All the actors gave an outstanding performance , however , the special effects was done on a very low budget and since it really was a TV program , you cannot expect very much from this production . The story is about a company called INTER SCI and a group of Climatologist , Jeff Fahey , ( David Koch ) , Erika Eleniak , ( Bryn ) and Jessica Amlee , ( Sophie ) who have reason to believe there is immediate danger from a shift in the Earth's polarity which triggered the last ICE AGE . In other words , Miami , Florida will be completely covered in ice and snow like Anartica and the first warning was a huge ICE BERG floating in the waters surrounding Miami . Erika Eleniak , ( Bryn ) was not a Climatologist , but a girl David Koch fell in love with years ago and then up and left her . Bryn lost her husband in this Arctic storm and it rekindled an old romance .
HORRIBLE FILM about a HORRIBLE NOTHING ! !	It is not very often that I can actually say that a suppose to be Horror Film was HORRIBLE and the " Prophecy " hit the bottom on my scale ! I have to give the actors credit for trying to carry this film on their backs . Robert Foxworth ( Dr . Robert Verne ) , " Invisible Strangler " , ' 76 , who decided to leave Bronx , NY for a nice low key job in the woods of Maine ! Talia Shire ( Maggie Verne ) gave a good supporting role , taking care of a monster like baby and just blaming her husband for everything that went wrong ! Armand Assante ( John Hawks ) , " Hunt for the Devil " , ' 03 tried to make the film interesting , but his role in this film was just plain HORRIBLE . Skip this film , you are not missing anything !
Disappointment	Noticed that this film was produced in 2004 and was being shown on TV , which was some indication that it was a down hill film . As it turns out , it was not too bad if you are a fan of Steven Seagal , ( William Lansing ) , " Black Dawn " , ' 05 . Bill Lansing plays a kind hearted type of Robin Hood who loves children and will go completely out of his way to help or protect any child he comes into contact with , even from a distance . Bill Lansing will get himself involved with shady business deals and make certain the funds are given to the correct charities . In this film children are being bought and sold like slaves , and the bad dudes involved are into other undercover business deals . There is swords being used like in Robin Hood and plenty of action , however , the film is entire too long and drawn out .
Lugosi Was the Star	Bela Lugosi is one of my favorite Horror stars and I always watched all his films , this particular one I do not remember . However , the film was selling for one dollar on a DVD and I decided I had nothing to lose . Jerry Lewis & Dean Martin acts were copied by Duke Mitchell , " Baby Face Nelson " , and Sonny Petrillo , " Shangri La " , ' 61 , they did a great job of imitating their act and the singing is better left with DEAN MARTIN . They make fun of a rather fat lady , which I thought was stupid , as well as , the entire picture . Bela Lugosi made a come back after a long period of unemployment and the use of drugs , and he was the only person with great acting abilities . Just simply have to stand up to Bela Lugosi and his life of being a TYPE CAST ACTOR !
Lots of Laughs	Purchased a DVD with three ( 3 ) films and this film was one of them , so I decided to see just what this film was all about . Earle Edgerton , ( Tom ) , Judith Resnick ( Laura ) and Martin Barlorski ( Dan ) all made just this film or maybe two after this production . The star of the film was Burt Young , ( Gimpy ) , " Nicky's Game " , ' 05 who is a great character actor and is presently making great films . The background has scenes from Coney Island , Brookly , N . Y . and even Nathan's Hot Dog Stand is shown with Gloria Spivak , ( Dumpy Gal ) who made only this one picture and faded out from stardom . All I can really say it was a Big Joke to watch , horrible horror film and it made absolutely no sense at all . Oh , I forgot to say if you like lots of Teddy Bears to hug , there are plenty in this picture .
Suppose to be a Shocker ?	What a big surprise I received when I started viewing this DVD , there is really nothing I can say about this so called film . The actors did a fantastic job of portraying mixed up and confused young people , who use only four letter words mostly with " F " and one subject deals strictly with girls and one guy talking about men's private parts . There is a girl getting hit on and the guy getting to First Base and at the same time giving her a very hard time . The producer tries to shock his audience with conversations about believing in God or not , lesbian behavior , a guy who loves whores and a rather strange relationship between a father and his son . There is constant bad language and there is no story . The DVD cover has Drew Barrymore starring in this film , and this is a very false statement as well as this film .
Virginia Mayo & Robert Hutton HELD Picture UP	Always enjoyed most of the pictures that Virginia Mayo has performed in and also Robert Hutton . In this picture , Virginia Mayo plays ( Linda Vickers ) , " The Girl From Jones Beach " , ' 49 , where she has trouble trying to be a good girl and at the same time likes being bad and having a ball drinking and gambling with Bruce Bennett ( Marty Fain ) , " Mystery Street " , ' 50 , who is up to his neck in trouble and winds up getting shot with a gun . They seem to trace the bullet with old fashioned 1948 methods , nothing like CSI today . Robert Hutton , ( Doc Vickers ) , " The Secret Door " , ' 64 tries to help his sister , Linda get on the straight and narrow path while she gets herself in deeper and deeper problems . They use a Wire recorder to try and get evidence against the killer and everybody seems to all fall down a staircase together . If it was not for Virginia Mayo and Robert Hutton , this picture would be long FORGOTTEN !
Entertaining Film	This film is about a 17 year old named Kyle Bradley , ( Renee Humphrey ) who goes to the big city to find her half sister Merci who is a singer and she has the police after her for getting involved in a murder . Kyle being a very young girl runs into all kinds of creeps who want to rape her and turn her in on the sex slave market . However , Kyle meets up with Sergeant Lee Teffler , ( C Thomas Howell ) who befriends her and gives her a place to live at his own pad . Sgt . Lee finds out he is also looking for Merci and the plot thickens and Lee gets himself involved with a bunch of hoods who are cold blooded and love to kill and torture . Sgt . Lee begins to fall in love with 17 year old Kyle and her age stops him from wanting to make love to her which causes many problems between the two of them . Entertaining film . Enjoy .
About a Lost Soul !	When I discovered that a 2005 film was appearing on TV , it was a sure sign that this film was going to be a complete BOMB and it sure was from beginning to the very end . Nadine Roberts is a very attractive married gal who is very much in love with her husband and is a lawyer from Chicago , Illinois . Nadine's husband tells her about a nice home he is going to look at and describes the house in detail and explained there was even room for a child they just might want to bring into this world . You can see that Nadine is troubled about something and tells her husband she wants to go to Mexico and find her sister she has not seen in a long time . The reason for this decision was the fact that Nadine was having bad dreams concerning her sister and that she needed her help . The entire picture goes around in circles and many flash backs with many people involved down in Mexico . This is definitely a Lost Picture with a Lost Soul as the main character .
Very Funny Film	Always liked the acting of Bud Taylor , ( Dr . Isiah Hooker ) who plays the role of an old man who is a real con-artist and purchases a wagon which has gambling equipment , fake medicine and also some females who he picked up on his travels from the old West . Bud has a rough time trying to handle three females who he wants to dance and entertain the local cowboys on the range who deal with cattle over the ranges . There is all kinds of comic situations which arise between the girls and the cowboys and then romantic scenes . Doc Hooker is not really a cowboy but he manages to organize a group of pretty girls who can con many men out of their money and still come out shining ! .
Very Entertaining and Enjoyable Film	Jennifer Lopez , ( Marisa Ventura ) , " Monster-in-Law " , ' 05 . played a great role as a maid in one of New York City's great hotels and was loved by all her other co-workers , male and female . A very polished Butler took her under his so called wing and guided her into a manger's position , which she was very well qualified to fill . Marisa is persuaded to put on an expensive outfit and becomes involved with a very well known politician running for the U . S . Senate , who is Ralph Fiennes , ( Christopher ' Chris ' , Marshall ) , " Red Dragon " , ' 02 . Chris takes one look at Marisa and falls completely in LOVE and adores her fantastic body from head to toe . Films like this we have seen over and over again with basically the same story ; however , I do believe that Jennifer Lopez did a great job of acting and looked like a sexual bomb shell .
Film about Women being abused and very SICK ! !	If you like violence , lots of sex , which is very close to porno , and think rape and sexual abuse to women in a so called prison is okay , this is the film for you . I have Pay-TV and watched this film briefly , so I really cannot tell you the ending of the film ? Jewel Shepard ( Amanda ) , " The Cooler " , ' 03 , is a very talented actress and very good looking , however , she wasted her talents in this film . Pamella D'Pella ( Paula ) , " Space Cowboys " , 2000 , is a very beautiful gal and is an up and coming actress also wasted her talents twisting and grinding for the warden , Vic Diaz , " Closer to Home " , ' 95 , who portrayed a very evil and dirty minded old man , who every time he smiled looked like the DEVIL himself !
A Film that tried to Copy " BODY HEAT " ! !	In many ways , this film had a plot some what like " Body Heat " which is filled with Hot Sex , Nudity , murder and plenty of violence . After saying this , the film does have a plot and keeps you wondering about all the cheating husbands and wives . Jodie Fisher ( Rachel Taylor ) , " Blood Dolls " , ' 99 , plays a loyal wife at first and then look out for the Bartender ! ! James Quattrochi ( Rick Simms ) , " Jesus , Mary & Joey " , ' 03 is the bartender in this picture and is quite the ladies man in more ways than one ! ! ! Richard Abbott ( Tom Taylor ) , who was Rachels husband , played a horrible role and his acting proved it , this was his first and last film ! ! ! ! This is a very very ADULT film and can only appeal to a certain type of audience who enjoy the bedroom scene more than anything else in LIFE ! ! ! !
The Vampire Does not Know What He Wants !	In the beginning of this film , I had great thoughts of a very wild and way out Dracula film , but as the film progressed , I noticed that the Vampire and the sexy virgin gal were just plain teasing each other to death . The boy friend of the virgin gal is always having to fight off the vamp and sometimes I wonder if this vamp is a misfit or just from a younger generation of vamps just starting out . In most films at least the Vampire gives a darn good sexy bite out of his victims neck and if he succeeds a third time , he has a permanent girl friend without any marriage . I really think the vampire was teased so very much by the virgin , he had to take a Cold Shower and simply calm himself down and get on with other NECKS !
Enjoyed the ENDING of this Picture ! !	Every effort was made to make this Werewolf picture different and unusual and at times the actor's Tom Everett Scott ( Andy McDermott ) , " Boiler Room " , 2000 , did the best he could to carry this picture on his back . Julie Delpy ( Serafine Pigot ) , " Looking for Jimmy " , ' 02 , gave a great supporting role . Their subway ride and marriage with the Statue of Liberty and the former Twin-Towers in the background was the biggest event in the entire picture . I prefer the older renditions of Werewolf Films !
Hope the Book was Thrilling !	Missed reading this Mary Higgins Clark book and decided to view the TV film and was very disappointed with the entire film from beginning to end . Patsy Kensit , ( Darcy Scott ) gave a great performance in trying to locate her very close friend who all of a sudden went missing . However , this close friend was doing an assignment for Darcy's TV program which involved going out with guys she connected with on the Internet . You see the apparent murderer dancing around his apartment with a gal who is limp in his arms and having a mixed pair of shoes on her feet . This was a very poorly produced film and you will almost know immediately who the killer is going to turn out to be . I am sure reading the book would have been a better choice .
This Film Caused Confusion	Decided to view this 2001 film on Lifetime and hoped to view a film that would hold my interest as it was suppose to be a murder mystery . Wendy Crewson , ( Joanne Kilbourn ) , " Perfect Pie " , ' 2002 , lost her husband and the story went in all kinds of different directions involving all kinds of characters and everyone was investigated by Victor Garber ( Insp . Philip Millard ) , " External Affairs " , ' 99 , who was a friend of Wendy Crewson and a partner on the police department . The plot of the story went in so many directions , I found myself getting lost until the film finally ended . Everyone involved in this story had some very deep dark secrets and all had good reason to be a suspect . Wendy Crewson and Philip Millard finally put some brief romance into the story and I was very glad the film came to and END .
Thought Former Pres . Bill Clinton was in this Film	While viewing this very interesting film , I thought that actor Rutger Hauer , ( Gene Reardon ) , " Sin City " , ' 05 , looked just like President Bill Clinton at times through out the film . Getting back to the film , it starts out with a mail truck making deliveries , a car being stalled on a bridge and a person driving an old car into a garage . It is at this point in the picture when you should be able to determine who the killer is , but I bet you don't . Gene Reardon is a detective with a past that seems to haunt him and he meets up with his ex-wife , Paulina Ponizkova , ( Wallis P . Longsworth ) , " Knots " , ' 04 , who is an FBI Agent and very attractive . Gene Reardon was married again and has a cute and smart thirteen year old who adds greatly to this murder mystery . It is rather slow and at times it seems as if the actors had trouble trying to remember their lines or the film was just plain slow and boring .
A Very Different Film	This is definitely a very low budget film , however , I did enjoy this film because it showed very clearly the lives of ten ( 10 ) different types of men and women with all kinds of problems that they all seem to have to deal with daily in the City of New York City . There are all kinds of people struggling to do their thing , whether drugs , sex , abusive boyfriends and policemen who want to take the law into their own hands and when you have ten different types you can get a clear picture of what goes on in most big cities . I would not recommend that anyone go out of his or her way to watch the film , but all the actors did an outstanding job and I applaud all the effort put into the making of this film . It has a crazy ending !
A Good Halloween Film !	If you like beautiful scenes of an old English Castle with huge stain glass windows and lots of antiques along with beautiful gardens and very odd servants running all around , this is the film for you . As the film progressed it reminded me of the " Beast with Five Fingers " , starring Peter Lorre in the 1940's . Peter Cushing appeared in the middle of the picture as ( Dr . Pope ) , " Top Secret " , ' 84 and gave a good supporting role . Herbert Lom ( Henry Fengriffen ) , " La Setta " , ' 91 , tried to keep very dark and horrible secrets from his new bride , Stephanie Beacham , ( Catherine Fengriffen ) , " Wedding Bell Blues " , ' 96 , who on their wedding night went crazy with all kinds of images appearing out of various paintings in the hallway and in her bedroom , which prevented any love making ! This is a good film to view only on Halloween along with a few strong apple cider's !
Cecil B . DeMille BOMB !	Cecil B . DeMille directed a film with a cast of all time giants of the movie screen , Gary Cooper , Paulette Goddard , Boris Karloff , Ward Bond and even Katherine DeMille . However , these great actors were not able to make this film a success because of the screenplay by Charles Bennett . In 1763 in colonial America , Martin Garth ( howard Da Silva ) , a trader , secretly trades guns to the Indians in order to stop the westward movement of settlers , Garth tries to purchase young Abby Hale ( Paulette Goddard ) , a British servant for his own interests , but a Virginia Capt . Christopher Holden ( Gary Cooper ) , outbids the trader and then frees her . Garth encourages an Indian rebellion on Fort Pitt led by Chief Guyasuta ( Boris Karloff ) . This picture gets very boring and pointless . Karloff acts perfectly as an Indian and you can hardly hear his lisp or British accent !
Horrible Waste of Time	George Zucco plays the role as Dr . Josef Van Ee who has a strange past and lives in a house with his son and daughter-in-law . His son is having problems with his wife and the son wants a divorce but his wife will not give him one . Bella Lugosi , ( Prof . Leonide ) visits his cousin Dr . Van Ee after many years of not seeing each other and they both do not like each other very much . The story is hard to follow and the acting is unbelievable and the entire story makes very little sense . Most of the time you see Bella Lugosi and a midget going through various secret panels throughout the house . This picture is in color but really does not help this horrible waste of time .
Enjoyed this Picture As A COMEDY !	While viewing this film , I found myself laughing through out the entire picture . Diana Wynyard ( Alice Overton ) , " Gaslight " , ' 40 , was married to Clive Brook , ( Dr . Jack Overton ) , " Love in Exile " , ' 36 and this couple seemed to argue and fight all the time , Alice kissed a friend innocently in the garden and all sorts of problems started . Jack Overton decided their marriage after ten years was becoming boring and wanted a divorce . This divorce became off again on again through out the entire picture . The Butler , ( Phillips ) Arthur Hoyt , " Hail The Conquering Hero " , ' 44 did not know if he was coming or going , bringing luggage out to the car and back again and finally was claimed a hero in possibly saving this marriage . This was definitely a COMEDY and should not be taken seriously at ALL !
Angie Dickinson made me view this Film	Taped this film years ago and never watched it and decided to see how young all these veteran actors were in 1981 . Brian Keith played the role of a Police Chief Baxter who managed to have a car chase with a horse and buggy driven by the sexy and over dressed Dragon Queen , Angie Dickinson , " Dressed to Kill " ; who over played her role and acted real nuts , but after all she had to make a living and live up to her contracts . Peter Ustinov , ( Charlie Chan ) , looked like he was straining himself trying to speak with a Chinese accent and could never compare to the old classic B Movie Charlie Chan films of the 1930's and 40's . The entire picture gave me a headache and I wonder why it was ever made in the first place . Decide for yourself , after all , it was made in the 80's .
Two Guys seeking Love	It was rather funny watching Rex Harrison , ( Charles Dyer ) playing the role as a homosexual considering his real role in life as a womanizer who was dating Carole Landis who killed herself . Richard Burton , ( Harry Leeds ) who was married to Elizabeth Taylor perform as hairdressers and Harry owning the salon called " Chez " . Harry Leeds gives a great performance in this role and gives himself and everyone else class in the way he shows his being gay to his lover Charles Dyer and other people . These men sort of love their mothers , but there is a underlying feeling that they are both seeking a deeper relationship when various problems come between their relationship . Missed this picture and was glad I was able to view a classic from 1970 .
Pet Sematary # One was the Best	After many years passed , I decided to view this film , as I do love horror films from the Classics to the present day Thrillers ! This film started off with the usual theme of dog bothering Peter Rabbit Family , and winding up in the land of Come Back from the Dead ! The local sheriff is horrible to his son and just can't seem to leave his wife a lone , without jumping right into bed as soon as the son turns his back . There is also the local bully at the high school who seems to have an evil streak running through every part of his body , without any evidence of a spiritual soul being a part of him . I bet you can guess what happens to him and many other characters in this second ( 2nd ) story . All I can say is that I enjoyed reading the First Pet Sematary and also the film , this # 2 is just what it is ! !
Something like : " Rosemary's Baby " !	In this film there is a very young pretty gal who gets married to a handsome guy who has the large home and everything to go with a prosperous person . After the large celebration and all the people have left for the evening , usually romance starts in the bedroom . However , in this picture it encounters a walk through the woods on a moon-lite night and then a stroll to a high cliff area overlooking the ocean below . The couple embrace and make love on the hard rock surface , instead of a nice warm cozy bed ; it is from this point on in the picture that things start to change for the worst . The young bride is pregnant immediately after the hard rock love making and a sweet lovely child is conceived for the entire world to enjoy . If you like this type of film and especially , " Rosemary's Baby " , you will enjoy this film .
Sad TV Film from 1988	Ben Masters , ( Kyd Thomas ) , " Dream Lover " , ' 86 plays a sort of Mike Hammer character , a private eye who does any old job for a buck and never misses out on all the sexy curves of good looking gals . Kyd makes one big mistake when he stops Morgan Fairchild , ( Laura Cassidy / Eva Bomberg ) , " Arizona Summer " , ' 73 from getting beaten up and raped . Kyd takes Laura home to his pad and when he wakes up , she is out on his patio eating his eggs and orange juice and making herself right at home . By the way , Kyd sleep in his bed and Laura slept on the couch for this particular scene . Laura is mixed up with all kinds of hoods and there are some hot scenes between Kyd and Laura . All said and done , this is a lousy picture and I purchased the DVD for only $1 . 50 and I really got ripped OFF !
Spaced Out Film	Thought quite possibly this film would be entertaining due to the fact that it was dealing with Las Vegas . After viewing a few scenes , I was completely disappointed in the story . However , the poor actors all did a great job despite their horrible scrips and story line . Rebecca DeMornay , ( Louise ) played a gal who has been around the block quite a few times and decides to get her eyes and claws into a certain guy who bets only on Sunday's at a casino and always wins . As soon as the guy wins large amounts of money , like $150 , 000 . he gives all the money away and keeps about Five Thousand dollars so he can play next Sunday . Saverio Guerra , " Becker " TV Series ' 98-03 ( as Bob ) makes a few brief appearances and acts just the same way he did in Becker . This is a big waste of time and not worth waisting your time .
Looked like Moles under the Ground	This film was a nice try at making a sci-fi picture but the film was a low budget film with veteran actors looking for a quick buck . John Carridine Sr . , played a role of actor and narrator along with John Agar , ( Maj . Bruce Jay ) ; Jean Byron , ( Phyllis Penner ) and Robert Hutton , ( Dr . John Lamont ) . Zombies walked around as the Living Dead and people through out the United States were having their bodies stolen like in other pictures called " Invasion of the Body Snatchers " . There were many experiments performed with very little success until they discovered a very simple method of destroying these Invaders of our planet from the Moon . You will notice the ground moving in this picture so beware , the moles just might get you too . Try to Enjoy
Molly Ringwald Helped This Film	Always enjoyed the acting of Molly Ringwald , so I decided to watch this film on TV and found it very mysterious with Molly Ringwald , ( Anne Winslow ) , " In The Weeds " playing the role of a Classical Music DJ . The film reminded me of the Clint Eastwood Film , " Play Misty " , however , this story had a different twist that involved young women who were being murdered by drinking a glass of wine . Christopher Heyerdahl , ( Detective Lou Heinz ) comes to the aid of Anne Winslow and begins to start falling in love with her and introduces her to his favorite music and night clubs . There are many creepy characters who work with Anne at her Radio Station and the station begins to get full of roses which the killer keeps sending to Anne . If it were not for Molly Ringwald playing in this film , I would never have watch it . Try to Enjoy
Women went Through Hell	A group of women from different walks of life were captured by the Janpanese army during WW II and separated from their husbands and boyfriends . All these women soon learned that the Japanese army was very cruel in their treatment of women and expected the gals to bow upon greeting and leaving their presences . All the women tried to escape on many occasions and failed and were punished by beatings and torture methods . There was plenty of action and even some romance was created by veteran actor Cesar Romero who had a great way of charming the ladies . There was even time for humor and you will never guess how this film ends . Enjoy .
A BIG BOMB with Great Classic Actors !	This film bored me to death and was very unrealistic . Thousands upon Thousands of Zulu's attacked and outnumbered all the leading characters , but once Tyrone Power ( Paul Van Riebeck ) , " Blood & Sand " , ' 41 appeared , the Zulu's all gave up and went home . It is a shame that such great actors as Susan Hayward ( Katie O'Neill ) , " I'll Cry Tomorrow " , ' 55 , Richard Egan , ( Kurt Hout ) , " A Summer Place " , ' 59 , Agnes Moorehead ( Aggie ) , " The Conqueror " , ' 56 and Rita Morena ( Julia ) , " West Side Story " , ' 61 had to waste their time performing in this GREAT WHITE ELEPHANT ! They all must have been offered a very large salary !
Long and Boring	Markie Post , ( Joyce ) , " Cheers " ' 83 TV Series , plays the wife to Corbin Bernsen , ( Stan ) , " The Naked Ape " , ' 06 who has a wandering eye for the ladies . However , Joyce loves his performance in bed and overlooks some of his other outside activities . Stan is a dentist and very well liked and respected by many people , especially his lady patients , who he gives discount prices for his services rendered . One day his wife Joyce walks into his office and finds her husband and a patient doing things in a chair that was very upsetting . It is from this point in the story when his wife gets the looking glass out and gets involved with Kelsey Grammar , ( Ron McNally " ) , " The Big Empty " , ' 03 , who is a detective on the police force . This film is way too long and gets quite boring as wire tap after wire tap proceeds to go on and on and on .
Gem of a Film	Always enjoy Tom Selleck , ( Will Cubanks ) films and in this picture he plays a rather low key person who loves studying a dictionary and was a former ex-cowboy who has a good friend and sidekick , J D Reed , ( Jerry Reed ) . These two guys decide to travel to Hollywood and they wind up in a freight car which takes them to Nashville , Tenn . where they meet up with many Country Western Music Stars , like Claude Akins , Barbara Mandrell and Roy Acuff which are all cameos . However , Barbara Mandrell had a few lines more than the rest of her other actors . There is plenty of humor and slapstick and Morgan Fairchild , ( Kate ) gives a great supporting role and also a double role to perfection . If you like to see a very young Tom Selleck , you will enjoy a completely different acting by Tom . Enjoy .
Not Bad / Not Good	The story starts off in the home of a little girl who is going to have a Birthday Party and both the mother and father seemed to act rather quiet and reserved with each other . They proceed to give their daughter her present which is from both of them and it stuck me funny the expressions on the two parents faces as they gave their child this gift , it was almost like , ' I hope she likes it ' ! There is a killing in the film and Catherine Mary Stewart , ( Julia Kerbridge ) , " Reaper " , 2000 , gets involved with the case because of family ties . Julia is working hard to become a doctor and this particular murder disrupts her entire life . Rob Lowe , ( Kevin Finney ) , " View From The Top " , 03 is a next door neighbor in the same apartment dwelling as Julia and he eventually goes to bed with her and tries to help her in other ways . This is not a bad film , but it is certainly nothing to go crazy about , unless you like a film location in Canada and a good looking Catherine Mary Stewart , a native from Canada .
Not a Very Good Film	Viewed House # 1 just recently and decided to see if the second film would be any big improvement and found myself hardly able to stay awake during the middle of the film . I really can't blame the actors , they all did an outstanding performance and tried very hard to put themselves into their roles . Enjoyed seeing a very young Bill Maher , " Headroom Max " who was just starting out his career and gave a sort of cameo appearance , but he managed to steal a guys wife right from under him and drove away . There were some sexy hot looking ghosts and there was a great deal of humor . However , the film BOMBED OUT . I forgot to mention there is a Skull that Glows and was dug from a very old ancient grave . There is more mention of a skull , this picture really should have been named : " HOUSE 2 THE SKULL " !
Glenn Ford's Last Western	Glenn Ford gave a great performance in his last Western and made this a great film to view . Glenn naturally was getting older and played the role of a Sheriff who was investigating a series of cattle being stolen which involved the Army Calvary and the Mexican people were being blamed for this stealing . Kirby Frye , ( Cody Glenn ) got himself involved with this cattle stealing which occurred on his property and Kirby brought into town two Mexican men he was able to catch in the act . The local town folks decided to make Kirby a Deputy Sheriff , in order to create better law and order for their town . However , this local town decides to form a city council that will take the law into their own hands . I was surprised to see some very sexy love making scenes by Edith Hanassin , ( Charlene Tilton ) who was married to an older man who loved her very much , but her needs was for a young man . This is not the greatest Western , but it certainly was very different and funny at times .
Funny British Film	Enjoyed this British film which concerns a woman named Teri Mortimer , ( Anne Crawford ) who is married to a very rich man named Charles Mortimer , ( Donald Stewart ) and this couple are beginning to separate in their relationship and Teri Mortimer wants to see what she can do to wake her husband up and sort of get jealous of her . Teri's girlfriends do their best to help her out and devise all different kind of ways to get her husband to buy her a very expensive diamond called the Peterville Diamond . Charles Mortimer does start to become aware that is wife just might be having an affair with another man and so he does buy her this very expensive diamond in order to get his wife's attention and his married life can get back to normal . However , there are many problems which seem to arise and the diamond is stolen and there is a constant search for just where the diamond is and who has stolen this precious gem . Lots of British laughter and a very entertaining film . Enjoy .
Semi-Documentary	This 1947 film I had never viewed and enjoyed the way this black and white film told the story about a much loved priest who was shot in the head point blank in Ct . Dana Andrews , ( State's Atty . Henry L . Harvey ) is a very respected attorney and has a pretty wife , Madge Harvey , ( Jane Wyatt ) . However , this murder caused a great deal of trouble because this priest harmed no one and only tried to help all people in whatever situation they were faced with in life . There are many classic veteran actors who gave outstanding supporting roles as politicians , some crooked in real estate scams and policemen who seem to have a great deal of trouble in finding this killer . There is a man who is convicted of this crime and the film goes directly into a court room with plenty of Question and Answers . Great film to view and enjoy .
Don't Hitchhike	Alan Parker , ( Jonathan Jackson ) plans on seeing the Beatles perform in Canada in 1969 with a few of his buddies and then has bad news about his mother having a stroke and being in a hospital in Maine . Alan Parker is a college student who likes to draw pictures , but he is always thinking about death and in many ways wants to die . Alan has no car and so he decides to hitchhike a ride to the town where his mother is in the hospital . However , there is constant flashbacks to Alan's early childhood and he meets up with some very strange people who want to give him a ride . Cliff Robertson , ( Farmer ) offers Alan a ride and the old farmer acts very strangely and has a very bad smell in his car . This is another way out Steven King film which is not really as good as some of his other Horror films .
Great Refreshing Film	This is an outstanding film about a killer whale named Naumu who is being protected by an oceanographer , Robert Lansing , ( Hank Donner ) and has a very hard time trying to tell the local towns people that this whale is not harmful . John Anderson , ( Joe Clausen ) is more worried about his salmon business and does not want a whale eating up his profitable business . There is a little boy and girl and Hank Donnear who even communicate with the whale and ride on his back in a row boat all around in circles . There is Comedy , Drama and excellent photography and the background music flows throughout the entire picture . Lee Merriweather , ( Kate Donner ) is a shop owner in town and has some secrets that she keeps to herself until the time is necessary to tell Hank Donner . If you are an animal lover and enjoy a good fish story , this is the film for you .
Don't Die & Come BACK !	This film started out very strange , where you proceed into a home with all religious pictures on the wall and a mother and daughter praying before a statue . Then you see a young man go into a locked room and does horrible things to himself as his father tries to help him . The picture proceeds to Jeff Goldblum , ( Hatch Harrison ) who plays an antique dealer and his wife Christine Lahti , ( Lindsey Harrison ) . This married couple have a daughter Alicia Silverstone , ( Regina Harrison ) who is bored to death on a vacation her parents are taking in the mountains . Alicia fights with her dad and they all decided to head back home , on the way they have a car accident which causes reason problems with Hatch Harrison . There is plenty of Soul , Body and Spiritual happenings and also Good & Evil Spirits . If you like this type of film , you will definitely love this film and the excellent acting .
Stay in the Light / Keep in the Light / Keep the Light On / Where are the Flash Lights ?	Enjoyed this film about a tooth fairy and a horrible looking creature who seems to lurk after very very young victims . It all takes place in New England and there is even a LIGHT HOUSE , remember these words , " STAY IN THE LIGHT " , you will hear these words throughout the entire picture and repeated over and over and over again . You will never seem to forget these lines that all the actors seem to participate saying . You just might call this a horror film , however , I viewed this film on Sunday in the AM and there was many commercials in between the showing of this film . This film is okay to look at on a Halloween night when you've had too much strong CIDER .
Nancy Kovack was Pretty	This is the type of films that Vincent Price started to appear in when his acting career made a new change and the interest in horror films was a big hit in the 1960's after an all time low . Boris Karloff also had a revival in his career during this period of time . Director , Roger Corman even brought back to the screen Peter Lorre in Edgar Allen Poe's stories . Vincent Price ( Simon Cordier ) is a kind and fair judge in his local town and meets up with a man who is sentenced to death and this prisoner passes on an evil gift to Simon . Simon even becomes very interested in a model , Nancy Kovack , ( Odelle Mallote DuClasse ) who poses for Simon . Odelle is a married woman and Simon still hits on her and even wants to marry her . There is a " Horla " involved in this film and sometimes when the actors mentioned this name , it sounded like they were saying whore ! This is definitely not one of the greatest horror films , but it is a Classic Price film .
Romantic Story	If you like Jane Fonda , you will enjoy her acting in this picture and also how very young looking she looked in all her fancy looking clothes . There is also fantastic photography through out Greece and the ancient ruins , also a nice Greek dance with Peter Finch and Jane Fonda . Murray Logan , ( Peter Finch ) is a successful author married to Sybil Logan , ( Angela Lansbury ) and they are a very unhappy couple because of a tragic event in their early marriage . Sam Bonner , ( Arthur Hill ) is a very good friend of Murray and one day he meets his wife , Christine Bonner , ( Jane Fonda ) . As soon as this couple look at each other , you can see in their eyes an outstanding attraction and this is what makes this film a triangle of love and romance and plenty of fights .
Dysfunctional Family	Joanna Kerns , ( Cynthia Martin ) plays the role of a mother who loves her family and especially her daughter , Deena Martin ( Hilary Swank ) who has the hots for her boyfriend who is wild and drags Deena down the wrong way of life . However , Cynthia Martin loves to drink wine all day long and has trouble trying to deal with her husband who wants to make pottery in the basement all the time . In the meantime , Adam Martin , the son of Cynthia Martin loves to drink vodka from a bottle before he goes to sleep or when problems start to hit him in the face . The only sane person in this out of control family is Todd Martin , ( Dan Lauria ) who plays the role of the husband of this crazy family which needs professional help .
Melanie Griffith Showing Crows Feet	Melanie Giffith , ( Sarah ) , " Tart " , ' 01 , played an excellent role of a very complicated gal with all kinds of mixed emotions about her life and her past relationships with men . However , Sarah is very much sexually involved constantly with Hugh Dancy , ( Jack ) , " Shooting Days , " , ' 05 who is very young looking and is a mixture of gigolo and con artist . There is wild graphics and great wild sounding music in the background along with a car chase all around Paris , France ; which had me thinking about Princes Diana and her car crash for some unknown reason . Rachael Leigh Cook , ( Jenny Travile ) , " My First Wedding " , ' 04 , plays a very young inexperienced American gal who left her family and got a job in Paris and happens to run into Jack ; who manages to take her " CHERRY " away from her and she goes ballistic in Love with him and can't wait to get his clothes off whenever they meet . Melanie Griffith gave a great performance , however , her addictions have taken a great toll on her beautiful face , she is showing plenty of Crows Feet around the eyes and a burned out look .
Keep Your Eye on the Road	Enjoyed viewing this Stephen King tale from his State of Maine and the great scenery in Maine with its great Victorian homes and small towns . Robert John Burke , ( Billy Halleck ) is a man who loves to eat food constantly and hit the scale of 300 lbs . and his wife , Lucinda Jenney , ( Heidi Halleck ) is after Billy to cut down and go on a diet . Heidi is a very petite pretty woman who looks like an ant next to poor Billy . Bill Halleck defends a big mobster named Richie Ginelli , ( Joe Mantegna ) and Joe is very grateful to Billy and after the trial tells Billy he owns him a big favor . Billy and Heidi are driving home from a party and Heidi decides to go down on Billy while he is driving and he kills a gypsy woman and from that point on in the film everything gets quite interesting . There is plenty of blood and gore and even strawberry pie is brought into the picture and some kind of a gypsy curse is placed on Bill Halleck . Even Stephen King appears in this picture as a drug store pharmacist who has a great deal of trouble trying to see people with his very thick lenses .
Flasbacks to Nazi Germany	Enjoyed this film starring George Segal , ( Hugh Martin ) , who plans a trip to visit his girl friend , Lili , ( Renee Southendjik ) who lives in Germany during the cold war and decides to bring his daughter Carla Martin , ( Christa Bruckner ) . Carla attended a Catholic College and was given a book from a Nun concerning Berlin , Germany during 1936 and WW II and Carla becomes very interested in this book and it has a great effect on Carla's visit to Germany . This is something like a story of " Diary of Anne Frank " and Carla begins to have visions of what it was like during these war years . Carla does not get along very well with Lili and causes all kinds of problems in her hotel room and starts moving furniture all around the room and even starts to steal large amounts of food , silverware , cups plates and acts like a completely crazy person . This is a very interesting film and worth your time in viewing .
Ann Margret Was Outstanding	Ann Margret , ( Maggie Scott ) plays the role of a young gal who came from Illinois and went to NYC and worked at Barclay Department Store where she was very successful and when Irene Chase , ( Edie Adams ) told her boss at Barclay she was leaving Paris in order to get married , it opened the door for Maggie Scott to take her place . However , Maggie was sort of dating the boss's son , Ted Barclay , ( Chad Everett ) who wanted to score with Maggie but she preferred to stay a virgin which made Ted rather angry , but he really loved her so he told his father Maggie would be great for this assignment as a fashion buyer in Paris , France . Maggie was in for a big surprise when she arrived in Paris because she ran into Louis Jourdan , ( Marc Fontaine ) who was a ladies man and a famous fashion designer of women's clothing who started to get very interested in Maggie in more ways than one . There is plenty of dancing by Ann Margaret and even a few songs are sung . Richard Crenna , ( Herb Stone ) gave an outstanding performance and he looked so young in this picture I could hardly recognize him .
Scary Film	This film will keep you on the edge of your seat , but it gets boring toward the end of the film . A Science Corporation becomes interested in a red orchid which appears in a jungle every seven years and this orchid contains a chemical that will give everyone the fountain of youth . Bill Johnson , ( Johnny Messner ) is hired to chart his boat for the expedition along with Dr . Jack Byron , ( Matthew Marsden ) There are females and a few other males who take this voyage through the horrors of deadly spiders , wild animals and snakes like you have never seen before . There is a tense moment when their boat goes over a powerful water fall and the excitement of finding out just where their boat was found , along with their belongings .
Old House / Old Story	Enjoy the great acting of Dennis Quaid and Sharon Stone , and in this film , I just about figured out how this story would begin and end , just like most other films with an Old House and what generally happens to the people living in the rooms . Sharon plays ( Leah Tilson ) , who is very happy working in NYC and is flying in a airplane with her boss and she gets hit on , but something happens to her son and the entire scene changes to house hunting in a very remote area where they are looking for a home to purchase . Dennis Quiad , ( Cooper Stilson ) decided to purchase the home and their son and daughter simply love the place , there are all kinds of items left behind by the former owners in this old sort of haunted looking house . There is a bad dude that visits the home and fixes the Stilson's outdoor pool and his girl friend is a sexy number he likes to love and punch around the pool hall , mostly on Saturday nights . You can just about expect the usual thing that eventually happens in films that start off this way , so watch it if you want , it is really not that BAD !
Elizabeth Taylor Was Beautiful	Elizabeth Taylor , ( Anastacia Macaboy ) , " The Big Hangover " , played the role of a dance school teacher who was young , beautiful and not very street wise , as she lived with her mom and dad and was very close to her mother . Anastacia has to go to a Dance School Conference in New York City and meets up with Larry Parks , ( Jud Parker ) , " The Jolson Story " who is a much older man for Anastacia to get involved with . However , Jud sweeps her off her feet by taking her to Baseball games , Race tracks , Fight matches and wound up falling in love with Jud ; these two stayed up all night long going to the 21 Club and many others and eventually going to bed with Jud , much to his satisfaction . Elizabeth Taylor during the filming was getting a divorce from Mickey Hilton and Elizabeth was having a torrid love affair with the director of this film . Taylor was truly very beautiful during this period in her life and had a long wonderful career ahead of her . Enjoy
Classic Actors	This is not a bad film to view considering it was produced in 1958 and was advance in its theory about going to the Moon . However , we must consider the famous author who wrote this story and gets all the credit . Joseph Cotton , ( Victor Barbicone ) , " The Survivor " , ' 81 , was the scientist in this story who creates this space ship and recruits wealthy business men to finance his ventures . Henry Daniell , ( Morgana ) , " The Body Snatchers " , ' 45 gives a great supporting role and manages to play a good role instead of a killer or Nazi like he did in the 1940's . George Sanders , ( Stuyvesant Nicholl ) , " Doomwatch " , ' 72 gives the performance of a person despised by everyone , including his daughter , ( Debra Paget ) , Virginia Nicholl , " The Haunted Palace " , ' 63 . Virginia had a boyfriend she does not want to leave and there are some romantic scenes . If you like an ancient film about going to the moon , this is the film for YOU .
Much To Do About Nothing	Missed seeing this film over the years as I am a big fan of Gene Hackman , ( Walter Llyod / Duke Potter ) , " Absolute Power " , who plays the role as the average husband and wife with a son who is not very close to his father at all . Matt Dillon , ( Chris Llyod / Derek Potter ) , " Loverboy " , plays the son and Gayle Hunnicutt ( Donna Llyod ) " Dream Lover " , is the wife who tries her very best to get her Walter to become closer to their son Chris . Donna disappears while she is on a tour in a foreign country and then the story gets quite complicated with lots of guns going off and plenty of car chases and great photograph in Germany and France . This film builds you up as you start getting interested and sort of goes down hill real fast . I like Gene Hackman and that is the only reason I decided to finish seeing this film .
Horror Characters from the Past	If you are a film buff who loves mysteries and horror stories , this is the film for you . You have Captain Nemo , The Invisible Man , Dorian Gray , Dr . Jekyll and a hot to trot Vampire Mina Harker . There is a real bad dude who is starting all kinds of trouble and goes around looking like a monster wearing a mask of silver and Sean Connery , ( Allan Quatermain ) , and all the other characters mentioned above take part in this adventure . Dorian Gray and Peta Wilson , ( Mina Harker ) , " Mercy " , 2000 , were hot lovers years ago and they make wild love together ; Dorian Gray cutting up his love and Mina sucking him to death , with blood dripping down her lips . This is not the greatest of films and rather long and boring at times , but it was still enjoyable to watch Sean Connery do his thing and try to control this gathering of Horrible creatures .
De Mornay & Banderas Set the Screen on Fire	Enjoyed the plot to this story and some very torrid scenes and horrible blood and gore all put into one package . Rebecca De Mornay , ( Dr . Sarah Taylor ) , " Wedding Crashers " , ' 05 , played a shrink who was dealing with a mental case in a prison and also had a husband who was a doctor in the same hospital . One night on the way home from the hospital , she meets up with a young woman in the middle of the road in a very dark woods near a bridge . It is at this point in the picture that things really go crazy . As the story progresses , Sarah meets up with Antonio Banderas , ( Tony Ramirez ) , " The Legend of Zorro " , ' 05 , who manages to hit on Sarah and gets a date and plenty more interesting torrid events . There are many twists and turns to this mystery tale and the ending of this film may greatly deceive you .
A Family of Horror Actors	Basil Rathbone , ( Sir Joel Cadman ) played a different role in this picture and was not the clever detective Sherlock Holmes . Sir Joel Cadman was a doctor who specialized in the brain of human beings and needed the assistance of Dr . Gordan Ramsay , ( Herbert Rudley ) who was going to be hanged for killing someone . However , Sir Joel had a special drug which will make a person look dead and still be very much alive , so he administered the drug to Dr . Ramsay and he was able to escape being hanged . Sir Joel needed Dr . Ramsy who is a very famous brain surgeon and is much needed in his experiments . Odo the Gypsy , ( Akim Tominoff ) played a very funny role as a body snatcher for Sir Joel and the human people had to be alive and kicking in order for him to operate on their brain . Bela Lugosi , ( Cosmir ) played the role as a servant who could not speak and was as quiet as a church mouse and never killed anyone for a change . Some of Sir Joel patients consisted of Lon Chaney , Jr . , ( Mungo , Dr . Munroe ) and John Carrandine , ( Bohemund ) who all seemed to have some mental and physical defect . If you like all these Horror Actors from 1956 , you will definitely want to see this film in Black & White .
European Western	A great film Director Edward Dmytrk created this very different Western film with the title of SHALAKO meaning the word Rain Bringer . Sean Connery , ( Shalako Carlin ) a hunter and tracker is employed by a group of European people who like to hunt and they decide to visit the Western area of America . Brigitte Bardot , ( Countess Lazaar ) loves to hunt dangerous animals and is enjoying her trip while she kills a mountain lion . However , all these people never thought that this area of Western America was occupied by Native American Indians and that they were really being threatened and hunted by these people . These European people were so relaxed that they had a large dinner table set up with all the finest china and candle light and food right in the middle of a desert and had no fears of any harm . This is truly a great Louis L'Amour story written by a great American Western Writer . Enjoy .
Jack Nicholson Film	The story opens up with a drifter stumbling into a town ruled by a sheriff who trusted no one and would make certain that everyone in town lived or died by his rules . Many people in the town would love to just up and move away but the crazy sheriff would some way convince them to stay . There was also a woman who recently moved into town and had an affair with the sheriff and held some deep dark secrets about him , which made him want her to leave on the next stagecoach out of town . Jack Nicholson was very young in this picture but just his appearance in the film makes it worth your while to watch and enjoy .
Same Old Same Old	This film takes place in NYC at a High School that is more like a prison , with wire screens and a huge security system through out the entire school . Treat Williams , ( Karl Thomasson ) , " Venomus " , ' 02 , becomes a substitute in this high school in order to find out who killed his brother . Susan May Pratt , " Open Water " , ' 06 , plays the daughter who lost her father and Karl comes to her aid and tries to help her during her tragic loss . Michael Michele , " Dark Blue " , ' 02 gives a great supporting role and gets very close on the couch with Karl . There is plenty of the hood scenes in the class room with a radio being thrown out a window and plenty of action in the mens room . This is another type film we have seen many times before .
Gene Hackman was Outstanding	Always enjoy Gene Hackman , ( Col . Cal Rhodes ) , who portrayed a retired Marine Col . , who was bound and determined to find his son and rescue other Vietnam captives for over ten long years missing in action . Cal Rhodes got tired of trying his Congressmen for their assistance and decided to get together some of his old devoted Marine buddies to come to his aid . There was lots of hard work to obtain Helicopters ( UH-1H ) , weapons and men determined to help their fellow vets once again . Robert Stack appears in the film and is able to furnish financial support with his ability to secure vehicles . There is a so called young Marine who tries to assist the Marine Vets and is given a hard time , which is rather interesting . There is lots of action and a wonderful film about our fantastic Vets of the Vietnam War . However , this is a sad film which gives some horrible details concerning the torture our Brave Men had to endure .
Entertaining Film	This was an interesting story about Oil Diggers and crooks looking for a treasure that needed to be recovered years ago and how all these different characters managed to be bumping heads in the same location . Lou Diamond Phillips , ( John Sanders ) , was running into money problems with his fishing boat and was divorced from his wife , Kristy Swanson , ( Dr . Kelli Raymond ) , who was built in all the right places . There are fight scenes between John Sanders and Kelli , but Kelli decides she needs the help of her ex-husband to sail them to this oil rig location . There are plenty of bad dudes they will have to encounter , namely , Coolie ( Ice ) who gives and outstanding performance as a real Bad A-S . There is plenty of explosions and lots of excitement going on and you begin to wonder if anyone will ever live or die . Nice entertainment and a film you really could forget about entirely .
Strange Film	This picture deals with three different women and one especially who has a husband who has always loved to study spiders and ants and this couple live in this very huge home with so many rooms you could really get lost inside and the basement is the same way . This woman kills a man and she calls in Scotland Yard and they investigate the crime and then one of the inspectors finds out that there are large spiders roaming around and actually running after them . These spiders are big as large dogs and their lives are threatened , the woman convinces the inspectors that her husband committed this murder and he is taken away to prison . The fact is that this woman actually kept these spiders and helped them grow into huge insects . Remember , there are really two more women in this picture who have another strange story to tell .
Very Entertaining Funny Film	Enjoyed this film concerning a young girl , Brittany Murphy , ( Stacy ) " The Groomsmen " , who has a strong desire to become a big TV Star and appear on Television with Diane Sawyer ; Stacy's mom , Sharon Lawrence , is a devoted fan of Carly Simon and plays all her songs day and night while Stacy was growing up . Stacy meets some friends who manage to get her a position on a TV Show where Kathy Bates , ( Kippie Kann ) , " Relative Strangers " who runs a sort of Reality Show . Stacy has a boyfriend who she loves very much , however , she suspects he has had plenty of girl friends in the past and wants to learn more about these girls and how good he performed in the bedroom . There is lots of comedy and scenes where Stacy runs around in just a brief pair of lacy panties and top and manages to get herself into some very difficult situations . All the actors gave a great performance and this was a very cute film about really nothing .
Hard to Believe this Film Entertained Anyone	Watched this film on TV and found this film one big COMEDY with also murder , steam rooms , message parlors , dead bodies appearing in almost every room of a hotel . Jean Parker , ( Kitty O'Day ) , " Dead Man's Eyes " ran around and sounded like Lucille Ball and always had a hat on her head no matter where she was ; in elevators where a man was electrocuted . Kitty also ran around in circles with Peter Cookson , ( Johnny Jones ) , " Detective Kitty O'Day " , who was trying to keep Kitty safe and out of his way so he could solve a crime and at the same time try to keep her safe . This film was so way out in left field , I could hardly believe that anyone would find this film entertaining . I love old time films from way back when , but this particular film I really could have avoided watching .
Not One of Douglas's Best Films	Missed this Michael Douglas film and thought I was missing something . Douglas plays a Judge , ( Steven Hardin ) , " Don't Say a Word " , ' 01 , who has a hard time trying to judge criminals and sentence them directly to jail . The criminals have good lawyers who find Loop Holes in the law and force Steven Hardin to just simply release them all back into society . Hardin gets all twisted up like a pretzel and even his wife , Sharon Gless , ( Emily Hardin ) , " Queer as Folk " , ' TV Series , has a hard time getting him to concentrate on her and especially in the bedroom department . Finally , Judge Hardin gets into a deep conversation with his friend , Judge Ben Caulfield , ( Hal Holbrook ) , " Purpose " , ' 02 , who has a great way to solve his problem and offers him the opportunity to judge criminals a very different way . Michael Douglas had a pained expression's from the beginning of the picture to the very end and I doubt very much if he liked very much the character he had to portray . There is very little effort in Michael's role to indicate he had any enthusiasm about this role .
Steven King is Getting Mellow	Steven King made this TV Film a real change of pace from his usual endeavors and dealt with a deserted desert town with a Sheriff who had a different way of running his deserted town and people on his main highway . There was a boy in this picture who became the center of everyone's attention because all he ever did was pray and pray and pray . He stole the limelight from Tom Skerritt , ( John Edward Marvinville ) who was really the star of the picture . As I viewed this film , I could really see that it was going to bomb out ; however , maybe the book version gave a better presentation and made more sense . The person I really enjoyed was the local Sheriff , who could possibly go on and make a second movie only about HIM .
Kay Francis Soap Opera	Kay Francis , ( Dr . Monica Braden ) is madly in love with her husband , John Braden , ( Warren William ) who is a writer and very seldom sees his wife because she is a very successful physician and travels a great deal . Monica finds out the sad fact that she cannot have any children of her own and she decides to adopt a child . Monica has a girlfriend named Mary Hathaway , ( Jean Muir ) who is very much attracted to Monica's husband John which she finds out about by listening to his conversation on a phone . Monica keeps the secret to herself and the story gets quite interesting after this event . If you like soap operas from 1934 , this is a good Kay Francis special with her giving a great performance .
Pool Table is Useful !	This was a very entertaining film with Burt Reynolds , ( Shamus McCoy ) playing a private detective who lived in an apartment that was a complete mess and his bed was on top of a pool table . This pool table was also a love nest where he entertained plenty of women and some of them tried to put their feet in the pocket holes on the table . Dyan Cannon , ( Alexis Montaigne ) hires Shamus to do some investigating for her and also winds up on the pool table and really enjoys being behind the eight ball . There is plenty of scenes shot in Brooklyn , New York , you can see the Kentile Sign near the Red Hook section and there is even plenty of action on Staten Island with the Army National Guard Armory of the 142nd " Rainbow " Division , 101 First Calvary where Burt Reynolds and Dyan Cannon ride around in an Army Truck . If you like these two actors , you will enjoy this gem from 1973 .
Penn & Duvall were Great Together	Viewed this film a few years ago and enjoyed it the second time around . Sean Penn , ( Officer Danny McGavin ) was a rookie who started out knowing just how to handle the various gangs in Los Angeles and even got all hot and bothered about a nice looking gal who could Tease and Please without any problems . His old time partner was , Robert Duvall , ( Bob Hodges ) , who was married and had a family and tried to take Danny McGavin under his wing and calm him down . Bob Hodges was about to retire and had handled the various gangs a different way that most of the other Police officers and it seemed to work out very well . Bob got all kinds of information he needed by just treating the gangs and their leaders with a certain kind of respect . The film had plenty of action , but was entirely too long for a story we have seen many times on the Big Screen . However , Duval and Penn gave outstanding performances and were great working together .
Nice Romantic Film	Samantha Mackenzie , ( Katie Holmes ) plays the role of a President's daughter who has to live under the close rules of the White House and has Secret Agents always at her elbows no matter what she does and really has no life of her own . Michael Keaton , ( President Mackenzie ) is a good President and loves his family but like any President he has very little time to spend with this wife or daughter . James Lansome , ( Marc Blucas ) is a Secret Agent who is Samantha's special body guard and after being with her for quite a few years , begins to fall in love with her and does not seem to realize what is happening . However , Samantha feels a great warmth growing inside of her whenever she see James Lansome and a spark starts to become a flame between the two of them . There is some behind the scenes between these two lovers and all kinds of problems come between Samantha and James . This story is very realistic as I am sure many such things have happened in the White House with quite a few First Daughter's . Enjoy .
Boring Average Family Life	Enjoyed the great comic acting by Julia Roberts as ( Grace King Bichon ) who had plenty of family problems with children , grandparents , mother-in-laws and friends . Dennis Quaid , ( Eddie Bichon ) gives a supporting role as the husband , but I just could not find him suited for this role and especially opposite a great star like Julie Roberts . Quaid just simply did not fit into this role , of course , that is my opinion . Robert Duval , ( Wyly King ) who was very funny with his southern accent and great supporting role along with Gene Rowlands , ( Georgia King ) who gets tired of her husband and locks poor old Wyly outside of their huge home . One of Grace King's family members suggests she make a new dish of food for her husband and that is when things get turned all around . A bit Way Out , someone could be put in jail .
Death Ride to Osaka	Viewed this film under the title , " Death Ride to Osaka " which is the same film as " Girls of the White Orchid " which deals with the Japanese Mafia who run an establishment that deals with young girls from America who have some talent like singing and dancing and are willing to selling their bodies for entertainment . However , these young girls are hired by an agency in the Los Angeles who advertise for young talented gals and they have no idea what they are really being hired for . Jennifer Jason Leigh , ( Carol Heath ) is one of these young girls who falls into this trap and finds herself trapped in Japan and at the mercy of dirty old men and Mafia pimps . This story goes on and on and begins to get very boring with girls trying to escape and some being sent to OSAKA .
Very Enjoyable Film	Tom Cruise , ( Jerry Maguire ) , " Collateral " , ' 04 , played a sports agent and promoter and was at the top of his career when things started to fall out from under his feet . However , Renee Zellweger , ( Dorothy Boyd ) , " Cold Mountain " , ' 03 , becomes very attracted to Jerry and stands by her man in more ways than one . When Dorothy & Jerry get their lips together there is an instant chemical that sets off a very passionate heat . Cuba Gooding , ( Rod Tidwell ) , " Dirty " , ' 05 plays a football player who has seen better days and has plenty of injuries to proof it , but he loves ' His Man ' , Jerry and sticks with him to the bitter end . The entire cast did a fantastic job and made this a very enjoyable film to enjoy .
Great Film for 1999	Missed viewing this film and greatly enjoyed the film from beginning to the very end . The actors all did a fantastic job and the special effects were outstanding . Jamie Lee Curtis , ( Kelly Foster ) , " Drowning Mona " , ' 2000 , for a while played the only female with quite a few men on a simple tug boat . However , Kelly was the daughter of an Admiral in the US Navy and could handle herself quite well . The captain of the tug boat was Donald Sutherland , ( Capt . Robert Everton ) , " An American Hauting " , ' 05 who drank most of the time , but still was capable of handing his Tug . There is also a Russian Space Ship that is involved in the film along with some very unusual Aliens who cause havoc on a very large Russian ship . William Baldwin , ( Steve Baker ) , " Last Hour " , ' 06 , gives a great supporting role , acting as a know it all , and is taught some very serious lessons . Great Sci-Fi , considering it was produced in 1998 or 1999 .
No More Grudge Films	Please , no more Grudge films , the first film was rather hard to understand , however , this # 2 Film explained in more detail how this curse started and was passed down to many people unrelated . There is plenty of horror , thrills and scary graphics coming out from everywhere , even in a film developing room , when a face appears in the pan of developing fluid and grabs hold of their victim . This film still was rather hard to follow , but a great improvement from the first film , but please , no more films about Grudges . All the actors did a great job to support this film which had a story line which went in every direction .
Lots of Fun & Enjoyment	A friend of mine told me not to see this film because it was going to be boring about the Trojan War and the story about the Trojan Horse . Good thing I paid no attention , he probably never heard of a Trojan Condom and it is a wonder he knew what they were used for . Anyway , this was a very entertaining film with lots of laughs and good acting by the entire cast . Jennifer Love Hewitt , ( Leah Jones ) , " Garfield " , ' 04 was very beautiful and did everything possible to get the attention of Brad Kimble , ( Will Friedle ) , " Less Than Perfect " , ' 04 . Brad grew up with Leah and liked her very much , but his big dream was to score with Brooke Kingsley , ( Marley Shelton ) , " Sin City " , ' 05 . Brooke was a chick that had everything in the right places and was very hot to trot in the fast lane for guys . Well to make a long story short , Brad Kimble went entirely crazy thinking about Brooke and a single CONDOM . Enjoy
Outstanding Marching Band Film	If you like College Marching Bands , the formations on the football field , all the band instruments from the Piccolo right up to the Bass Tuba , this is the film to enjoy . The film features some dudes who come from all walks of life and one dude enters this drum program with a scholarship and thinks he can do just as he darn pleases in this program . The dude is a good drummer , but he just can't seem to follow orders , because the band program is run like a Boot Camp , with Yes Sir and No Sir type of situations . There is drama , comedy and plenty of sexy wild music and very hot cheerleader chicks . This film gives you what the background is like with a drum team competing with other college bands . Enjoy .
A Wesley Snipes Classic Film	Always enjoy the fantastic talent of Wesley Snipes , ( John Cutter ) , " Blade Trinity " , ' 04 , who gives an outstanding performance with his hand-to-hand combat action scenes and comical comments . There is a bit of friction between John Cutter and a hot sexy airline stewardess and the gals just seem to burst with joy at just looking at him . Bruce Payne , ( Charles Rane ) , " One Point O " , played a nut case of a bad guy in this film and had fun with a small boy on the airplane playing shoot'em Up with their fingers , until the little boy noticed he had handcuffs on his wrists . There was plenty of action and one of Wesley Snipes great Classic films Enjoy .
Enjoyed This Film	Found this film very entertaining with lots of Comedy , Drama , Murder and the finding of a gold mine . Chistina Applegate , ( Kathy ) , " King of the Hill " plays the role of a gal whose boyfriend winds up in prison for stealing and meets up with another gal , Elizabeth Peria , ( Carmen ) " The Lost City " , who has a husband and a boy and her husband is also in prison . These two gals decide they are going to move closer to the prison in order to make their visits a lot easier . These two gals run down on their luck and decided to sell their bodies for some money in order to eat and so they decide to go to a Fire Statiion and gather up a few John's . This film will take you in all directions , and keeps you guessing just how the film will finally end . The ending is rather disappointing , but the film did entertain but really was not the greatest film to watch . There was a brief appearance of Burgess Meredith , ( Barney ) " Rocky V " , playing the role as a very old bent over Gold Prospector .
A Radio Series in 1946	" I Love A Mystery " was a big radio hit in the 1940's and Jim Bannon was the main character in this show playing the role of Jack Packard , who was investigating this case for Karen Morley , ( Rachel Martin ) who believes there is a big mystery about her father's death and knows that his body was buried behind a fireplace in the mansion . Rachel Martin's family return to this old mansion and people are killed with a poison blow gun and there are headless corpses and shrunken heads that are being investigated . Rachel's mother is a very domineering mother and they do not get along very well , the mother also hires two detectives to investigate this haunted house and solve murders which are occurring in the house .
Roosevelt Island Nightmare Story	The location of this film is in Manhattan and also Roosevelt Island and the story revolves around a divorced couple , Dahlia Williams , ( Jennifer Connelly ) and her husband who lives in Jersey City , N . J . They have a daughter named Cecilia Williams , ( Ariel Gade ) and there is a custody dispute between this couple and most of their troubles start when Dahlia moves to Roosevelt Island which can only be reached by a tram cable car from Manhattan . Dahlia moves into a run down apartment which is very depressing and a superintendent who looks like Count Dracula . The mother and daughter live in apartment 9F and all kinds of problems come from apartment 10F on the above floor . Ariel begins to have a very real invisible friend who tries to tell her about how she was left alone by her mother and father . This is a very creepy film with horrible living conditions and lots of crazy spirits wandering all around . Enjoy .
Great Comedy	Enjoyed viewing this very comical film dealing with a group of college students performing various tests in their school laboratory classes . Kurt Russell , ( Dexter Riley ) tries out a chemical he discovered by mistake and pours it on his cereal which he gives to a cow and eats some of it himself . The dean of the college is Higgins , ( Joe Flynn ) who is not very happy with this class spending all kinds of money on these experiments , but when he finds out it gives off a very special power of superhuman strength , Higgins decides to sell this formula to a cereal company . There are great veteran stars , Cesar Romero , ( A J Arno ) , Phil Silvers , ( Kringle ) who gave great supporting roles along with Joe Flynn who had a short career dying at the age of 50 years of age . Great entertainment .
First Class Nora Roberts TV Film	Fantastic portrayal of a Nora Roberts novel which had me spellbound from the very beginning of this film to the very end . This film captures your attention on two very young girls swimming in a lake and one of the girls , Claire Forlani , ( Tori ) , " Hooligans " , has the ability to see visions in her head that tell her deep dark things that have happened or going to happen . Oliver Hudson , ( Cade Lavelle ) and Josie Davis , ( Faith Lavelle ) both give great supporting roles along with Jacqueline Bisset , ( Margaret ) . There is some torrid love scenes involving Faith Lavelle along with a few laughs and bad child abuse scenes which happened to Tori when she was very young . This is a first Class Nora Roberts TV film and is definitely not your routine television entertainment . FIRST CLASS Enjoy
Scary Old Time Film	Noel M . Smith , Director of this film was a veteran of films and created many films during the Silent Era . This film takes place in an old house , more like a cottage and it occurs during a very bad snow storm with horrible winds blowing and drifting snow against the window panes . There is a group of men attending a board meeting and their wives and girlfriends who are visiting this mysterious house . The men have found out that their business has been cheated out of a large sum of money and they have all gathered together to find out just who forged papers and stole all the company's funds . There is a man who kills himself in a locked room and two other murders happen . Lance O'Leary , ( Dick Purcell ) is an investigator who is called in by a nurse Sarah Keate , ( Ann Sheridan ) who attends one of the older members of the household . This film is a B film , but will definitely hold your interest and keep you glued to your seats . Enjoy .
Great Pictures of New York City	Greatly enjoyed this low budget film starring Anne Carlisle , ( Sally ) and Brad Rifin , ( Johnny ) and a little boy who becomes the real star of the show . This picture opens up with two men going down an alley in New York City and one of them gets knifed to death along with his throat cut from left to right . This is a mob rub out , however , there is an eye witness and the killer sees him face to face . The killer tells his mob bosses about the witness to his crime and that he will search the streets around the area of the killing . Brad Rijin , ( Johnny ) plays a mobster who meets up with a young gal named Sally , ( Anne Carlisle ) and the two of them pretty soon start making love , however , Johnny is only using Sally in order to gain her confidence and at the same time kill the witness to his crime . Entertaining film with great scenes of the Brooklyn Bridge and the Twin Towers in the background , rather sad . Enjoy .
Very Entertaining Film	Enjoyed this film from the very beginning to the end and it had me laughing until my sides hurt . Jamie Foxx , ( Bunz ) along with Tommy Davidson , ( Rushon ) gave an outstanding performance as two guys trying to score with two gals who demanded Glad Wrap and were very particular about the type of condoms the guys were going to utilize . Vivica A Fox , ( Lysterine ) and Tamala Jones ( Nikki ) gave a great supporting role as the gals who Bunz and Rushon tried to score with . This film goes all around in Chinatown , a hospital and plenty of bedrooms and even a taxi cab . If you like Jamie Foxx and love his acting and comedy , this is the film you will greatly enjoy viewing .
Page was Outstanding	If you are a Paul Newman , ( Chance Wayne ) fan , this is the film for you , he was young and at the height of his career and gave an outstanding performance . Chance Wayne plays the role as a young man who starts many careers and never seems to get anywhere at all . Chance decides he wants to go to Hollywood , however , he has a girl named Heavenly Finley , ( Shirley Knight ) who he is very much in love with . Heavenly has a father named Tom Finley , ( Ed Begley ) who does not like Chance and he does everything in his power to keep this couple apart from each other . It is not very long when Chance returns from Hollywood with a burned out actress , Alexandra Del Lago , ( Geraldine Page ) who adds a great deal of comedy and romance in this film as well as , an outstanding performance . Enjoy .
Like an Indiana Jones Film	This Classic film from 1954 was created by MGM and lots of money was put into its production . The photography in Egypt and the many historic sites are outstanding and this was done mainly because Television had taken hold of many families and they were staying home and watching their TV Screens in 1954 instead of going to the movies . Robert Taylor , ( Mark Brandon ) was an archaeologist in Egypt and was a rough and tough man who loved adventure . Eleanor Parker , ( Ann Barclay Mercedes ) meets up with Mark in order to hire him to explore some ruins which will confirm that the Bible story about Joseph were true . There is plenty of romance and dangerous sand storms and plenty of riding on camels backs through out the desert and secret tombs and secret doors .
Great Robert Wagner Film !	Viewed this film in the movie houses and then was able to tape this film from TV . I thought that Robert Wagner ( Mike Banning ) , " Hart to Hart " , TV series'79 showed his great acting skills and his charming ways as a golfer who was playing the role with his game of golf and acted like a real LADIES MAN ! with all the wives and charming available hot looking women . Jill St . John , ( Angela Barr ) , " Tony Rome " , 67 , put on the charm for Mike Banning and was pretty hot even in 1967 ! Gene Hackman ( Tommy Del Gaddo ) " The Split " , ' 68 was thin young and just starting out and from his performance , you just knew he would be a super star as he is today ! I also enjoyed the great musical theme song that was played through out the picture , which was written by a great musician and composer , " QUINCY JONES " . If you can catch this movie on TV , it is worth watching , and especially if you like the game of GOLF and all the things that GO ON , in the CLUB HOUSE !
Needed a Better Ending !	Thought I was going to like this film , and it was not bad , with Billy the Kid , ( Charlie Sheen ) , acting wild and crazy as ever and shooting everything in sight along with some of his sidekicks . Noticed WIlliam L . Peterson , ( Pat Garrett ) , who knew Billy in the past and had a great get together in a Whore House , which turned out to be a complete circus . It was strange viewing Bill L . Peterson on the screen , I kept thinking about CSI , Las Vegas , and how he has become a big star on TV . James Coburn , ( John Chisum ) , gave a brief appearance as a nasty character who had plenty of money but did not want to share it with anyone in need , namely , Billy The Kid . This film did not measure up to the first film and really needed a better ending , I must say , Billy the Kid looked pretty SAD !
Mexican Robin Hood & String Player	Enjoyed this fascinating film with great locations in Mexico and lots of action , comedy and drama . Antonio Banderas , ( El Mariachi ) played the role of a man with a broken heart after his wife and child were killed needlessly and from then on El Mariachi went into hiding or retirement . Salma Hayak , " After the Sunset " , ' 04 was extremely beautiful and red hot sexy and also very dangerous to anyone who messed around with her , she could put them in their place with one big hit to the groin . Johnny Depp , ( Sands ) , and Mickey Rourke , ( Billy ) gave great supporting roles , and it was funny watching Mickey Rourke holding a small dog in his arms almost in every scene and playing a rather low key character . Salma Hayak and Antonio Banderas had a great scene together on a fire-scape and holding onto dear life with each other , she even wore a dress during all these upside down stunts . This is definitely a Mexican Robin Hood story , and you will know what I mean when the picture ENDS !
Great Entertaining Film	If you liked the " Bad & The Beautiful " with Kirk Douglas , ( Jack Andrus ) this picture is pretty close to the same story line , however , there is plenty of color , drama and romance . Great actors appear in this film , Edward G . Robinson , ( Maurice Kruger ) , " The Red House " puts his heart and soul into the role and yells and screams his head off as a big shot movie director . Kirk Douglas still plays the role as an abusive drinker who is reformed and is placed in some rather difficult situations from actor to assistant director . Cyd Charisse , ( Charlotta ) adds plenty of sexy charm to the various scenes and George Hamilton , ( Davie Drew ) gives a great supporting role . For some reason over the years , I seemed to have missed viewing this film and found it quite enjoyable and also seeing how very young all the actors appeared in 1962 . Enjoy
Tierney Was Hateful	Never viewed this 1951 film starring Lawrence Tierney , ( Vincent Lubeck ) who is up for parole from prison , however , the warden does not want to release him because he almost knows he is evil through and through . Mrs . Lubeck , ( Lisa Golm ) walks into the parole board meeting and pleads for her sons release and it is finally granted . Vincent spent five years in prison and is worse than when he went into the prison . Johnny Lubeck , ( Edward Tierney ) greets his brother back and offers him a job at his gas station to work and get himself on the right side of the law . It is not long before Vincent steals his brothers girl friend and then decides to pull off a big job across the street from his brothers gas station . If you viewed the film " Dillinger " in 1945 , Tierney plays almost the same role with plenty of hate for everybody and a mean look on his face all the time . In this film , Lawrence Tierneys brother , Edward Tierney gave a great supporting role . Lisa Golm , ( Mrs . Lubeck ) gave a great portrayal of Vincent Lubeck's mother and acted just like a loving mother would towards her wayward son . Enjoy
Excellent Horror Film	This horror film deals with a church that is buried beneath the earth and it has a scene which depicts Jesus Christ being hung on a cross and their is a large crowd of people who just simply watch and do nothing to try to prevent this murder . Cassie Grant , ( Christina Ricci ) who is driving her car and runs into a young girl named Marion Kirkman , ( Kerry Fox ) and Cassie takes care of Marion who has amnesia and cannot remember just who she is . As the film progresses , Marion begins to see many people in the local town who just stare at her and she becomes very close friends with Cassie Grant's children and begins to see that these children are in grave danger from these people who just wander all around and simply just staring and watching every move that they make . There is a deep meaning to this film and it is not just an ordinary horror film but deals with a religious Bible story .
Edward G Robinson is a Good Guy	This is one film that I missed seeing over the years and was quite surprised to see Edward G . Robinson , ( John Lindsay ) play the role as a law professor who decides to accept a position to clean up the corruption of gangsters and the protection rackets . John Lindsay soon learns how hard it is to fight these racketeers and hoods and he also has dealings with Eugene Ferguson , ( Otto Kruger ) the top mob boss who controls all the criminal activities and he also has a son , Paul Ferguson , ( John Beal ) who is a lawyer and close friend of John Lindsay . Wendy Barrie and Barbara O'Neil gave an outstanding supporting roles and of course Edward G . Robinson looked great playing a good guy for a change . Enjoy .
Great Comedy	Enjoyed this great 1942 comedy starring Jon Hall , ( Frank Raymond ) and Peter Lorre , ( Baron Ikto ) and Cedric Hardwiche , ( Conrad Staffer ) . Frank uses his grandfather's secret formula which can make a person become invisible in order to find out secret information from Nazi Germany . It is believed that the Nazi's are going to bomb the United States and Frank is set to find out this information . Cedric Hardwicke . ( Conrad Stauffer ) plays the role as a Nazi officer who wants to catch the Invisible Agent and obtain his secrets . Ilona Massey , ( Marie Sorenson ) helps Frank Raymond who is very suspicious of her involvement in this situation . There is lots of comedy and Peter Lorre gave a great supporting role . Enjoy .
Geat Film From 1955	Enjoyed this very entertaining film about Benny Goodman performed by Steve Allen who himself was a great composer , piano player and all around actor and late night show host . This was a very compact Hollywood story detailing the life of the great Jazz King of the 30's . Donna Reed , ( Alice Hammond ) gave a great supporting role as Benny's girlfriend and then his wife . The film was filled with all great jazz musicians , Gene Krupa , Lional Hampton , Harry James and Sammy Davis Sr . along with many other famous jazz musicians . In the 1950's you were able to go to the Roxy Theater , Paramont and Music Hall in New York City and see these great musicians in between the showing of their feature movies and at very low prices , especially at 10 AM for a price of $1 . 25 to $2 . 00 . This is a great film and the musical selections will keep you glued to this film from beginning to end .
A Rosemary's Baby Film	This story deals with a young couple named Samantha Howard , ( Heather Graham ) and her husband Craig Howard , ( James Purefoy ) who are a very happy couple in love and Craig is a writer who finally finds a publisher for his book which will provide excellent financial security . However , the only problem facing this couple is the fact they are having a very hard time having a baby . Eventually , Craig and Samantha find a company that can help them have insemination treatment which helps Samantha have twin babies . Samantha is very happy about her ability to have children but notices that where ever she goes a hooded stranger follows her . As you view this film you will find out just what type of children Samantha gave birth to in this world .
Crime Doctor Solves More Crimes	This low budget series of films starring Warner Baxter , ( Robert Ordway ) were great on the radio years ago and when the radio audiences could actually go to their local movies in town , it was great for them to see these Crime Doctor films . This type of film was usually shown along with another feature film a newsreel of current events in the world and then a few cartoons . In this film , Dr . Robert Ordway had a few lectures to give in Paris and managed to get himself involved with a murder and then an Art Dealer scheme to sell fake Classic Pictures of art for just imitation prints for large sums of money . Dr . Ordway is rewarded for his efforts to an antique foot warmer for his bed . End of Story .
Great WW II Propaganda Film	This film deals with a man called Joe Smith , ( Robert Taylor ) , who works in a airplane factory and is assigned to working on a new bomb-sight and has knowledge of the blue prints which is top secret . Joe is married to Mary Smith , ( Marsha Hunt ) and they are a very happy couple until one day Joe is kidnapped by four men who want all the information concerning Joe's knowledge of the bomb-sight plans . Joe is beaten and blind folded and as he is being transported Joe uses all the sounds that he hears while riding in a car to locate just where the kidnappers are taking him . This is a great B film and is very well produced and directed and Robert Taylor and Marsha Hunt give an outstanding performance .
BORIS KARLOFF APPEARS WITH GREAT STARS !	This film is truly a classic , directed by Mervyn LeRoy . Nella Vago ( Gloria Swanson ) , a young singer , performs an operatic debut in Venice but discovers her reception disappointing . She is critized by her instructor ( Ferdinand Gottschalk ) claiming her voice lacks warmth and feeling . A mysterious young man stalks her everywhere , ( Melvyn Douglas ) who is really a talent scout for the Met . The cast with Gloria Swanson ( " Sunset Blvd . " with Wm . Holden ) and Melvyn Douglas and Boris Karloff who had gained famed as being the Frankenstein Monster made this film a great success during the early 1930's . Karloff gave a very good performance as a high classed waiter with no horror expressions on his face . It was a great picture during that period of time and is worth viewing .
Cast of Great Actors	This was definitely a Rat Pack film with a cast of great actors , namely : Frank Sinatra , ( Capt . Tom Reynolds ) who leads an O . S . S . operations in Burma during WW II in order to train Kachin natives in U . S . warfare . Capt . Reynolds takes some very controversial steps in killing a soldier in order to put him out of his pain and suffering and constantly disobeys military orders . Reynolds needs a doctor for his mission in Burma and manages to convince Capt . Grey Travis , ( Peter Lawford ) to accept his invitation with very short notice . There is plenty of action and also great romantic scenes with Gina Lollobrigida who is living with an older man named Paul Henreid , but just for his money . Charles Bronson and Brian Donlevy ( Gen . Sloan ) give great supporting roles to this film and also a great star named Steve McQueen ( Bill Ringa ) who gave this film plenty of vitality . Great 1959 film , worth watching and enjoying " Old Blue Eyes " at Work !
Paltrow & Affleck were Great	Enjoy the acting of Gwyneth Paltrow , ( Abby Janello ) who plays the role of a woman who lost her husband in a plane crash and is struggling with her love for him and the big hole it has left in her heart . She tries to establish herself in a business with the help of her mother in order to support her two young children . In a very mysterious way this has effected the live of Buddy Amaral , ( Ben Afflick ) who met Abby's husband at O'Hare Airport in Chicago and had a few drinks with him and offered him his tickets on the plane he was scheduled to fly out on . Buddy Amaral has had a drinking problem and went into rehabilitation , however he was haunted by a horrible thing he caused Abby Janello and followed his 12 Step Program in AA to make amends to any person you hurt while you had been drinking . It is from this part in the story that makes it very interesting with dramatic and heartbreaking events . Excellent film and great entertainment . Enjoy
Classic Film Comedy	If you like Frank Sinatra and remember some of these old time actors , and some very talented ones , this would be a good film for you to watch and enjoy . The story evolves around a New York Jewish Family who all try to create some nice Jewish accents , except Frank Sinatra , who does not even make the attempt . Lee J . Cobb , ( Harry Baker ) , is the father to Alan Baker , ( Sinatra ) and calls his son a BUM and a do nothing Playboy , ( which he really is in this film ) Molly Picon , ( Sophie ) , is the mother to the Baker family and gets upset with having to answer the many telephone calls she has to answer in her son's apartment . Barbara Rush ( Connie ) is very attractive and has a great romantic interest in Alan Baker along with many other hot chicks . Even Dan Blocker , ( Eckman ) " Gunsmoke " TV Series , finds time to give Alan Baker a right upper hook to the jaw . Nice 1963 film with even Frank Sinatra singing a few musical tunes I did not recognize .
Great Actors at Their BEST	This is a very interesting Eugene O'Neill story with a great cast of actors who spin a very mysterious and dark side of a very respectable family with plenty of hateful secrets in the hearts of many family members . It takes place in a large New England home before and after the Civil War with Raymond Massey playing the role of ( Brig . General , Ezra Mannon ) who lives with his wife and son , Michael Redgrave , ( Orin Mannon ) along with his daughter Rosalind Russell , ( Lovinia Mannon ) who all do not get along like a normal family and live very morbid lives behind closed doors . The only person who offered a great deal to his hometown was Brig . General , Ezra Mannon who was the local Mayor and was very well respected , as for the rest of the family , you will have to see this film to learn just what all these dark secrets managed to change the peoples lives in this story . Rosalind Russell along with Michael Redgrave put their hearts and soul into their roles and made this a great picture .
Bogart out Shined Garner	This was an okay film about Detective Marlow played by James Garner , however , I firmly believe that Humphrey Bogart gave a more classic approach to the role of this detective . Bruce Lee makes an appearance as Winslow Wong and completely destroys the shabby office of Philip Marlow and almost sends Marlow flying through a window . Carrol O'Connor appeared as Lt . Christy French who did not seem to fit into this role and had a blank expression on his face most of the time and probably hated this role he had to play . Gayle Hunnicutt , Rita Moreno both gave a great supporting role , but this film was not exactly what I expected and I felt like I wasted my time viewing it .
Classic Alan Ladd Film	Alan Ladd , ( John Hamilton ) plays the role of an artist who decides to leave New York and the rat race mainly because his wife likes to drink and is getting out of control where she has to see a doctor for help . Carolyn Jones , ( Linda Hamilton ) plays John's wife and lives in a very quiet town in New England where John paints pictures of children all day and never seems to sell a picture . One day John receives a letter offering him a job in New York City with an Art Firm for $30 , 000 dollars but refuses to take this position because of his wife's chemical dependency . Linda goes into a rage and starts drinking and goes completely out of control . In real life , Alan Ladd is really doing all the boozing and you can see it in the close up's of his face and eyes are puffy . The children in this picture take complete control over the entire film and gave great supporting roles in trying to hid and help John Hamilton from the police .
Wild Bike , Out of this World Biker !	Found this film quite different than other films and I must say , this film went to many film locations and created a great realism through out the entire film . Everything but the kitchen sink was put into this action film . The real bad dude in this film said , " Let all the Nations of the world blow themselves up and I will have it all to myself " Vin Diesel , ( Yonder Cage ) , " A Man Apart " , ' 03 , started out as a rather tough character , but Asia Argento , ( Yelena ) , " Land of the Dead " , ' 05 , calmed him down with some rather deep tongue kisses and cut him off , just as things were starting to warm up , but this was only the beginning of the film . This film will keep you on the edge of your seat and it is full of great entertainment ; all the stars were outstanding .
Needs a Blood Transfusion	The main theme of this film was simply this : ' Do not go down the wrong road in West Virginia or you will wind up a meat ball sandwich ' . Found this film entertaining and if you like to see real real blood and gore and a refrigerator filled with all kinds of different meat dishes , you will probably enjoy this film . However , I do not advise you having an Italian Dinner with any red sauce , before watching this film , just possibly a glass of wine or better yet , a whole bottle . Emmanuelle Chriqui , ( Carly ) , " Adam & Eve " , ' 05 and Eliza Dushku ( Jessie Burlingame ) , " The Kiss " , ' 03 , gave great performances despite all the other abnormal situations which occurred while they were lost in the woods . Entertaining
Two Women & One Man	This is a very interesting film which will keep your attention and at the same time entertain you right to the very end of the film . This film deals with two women , Sue ( Patsy Kensit ) and Elizabeth Hurley , ( Lou ) who enlist the services of a washed up drunken man named Jurgen Prochnow , ( The Skipper ) who is a German Sailor and he owns a sailing vessel and is requested by the police authorities in the West Indes to leave their port . The Skipper meets up with these two young women in a night club called the " California " where he girls perform and sometimes give more than they are asked for . Eventually , these girls decided to sail to Barbados with the Skipper and this ride starts all kinds of sparks between two females , a dog and the Skipper , who pays very little attention sexually to these women . One of the girls finally gets some love and complete attention and the other girl gets very upset and starts all kinds of problems . You will never guess how this film ends and it is very suspenseful and will keep you on the edge of your seats . Enjoy
Why Put Up with that Garbage ?	Enjoyed viewing this film and could not imagine just why Juliette Lewis , ( Jane Emelin ) , " Daltry Calhoun " , ' 05 put up with all the horrible creeps in her apartment dwelling . The landlord , Superintendent , and practically the entire building was a loony bin of all kinds of characters . William Hurt , ( Greg Harrison ) , " Syriana " , ' 05 , lived with Jane Emelin and did not like the idea of her going off and getting this apartment ; he even told her how much he loved her . As the film progresses , all kinds of strange and mysterious things seem to happen in the apartment and an old lady living on the floor below Jane really started to raise all kinds of hell for her day and night . All the actors gave a great performance and you will probably figure the ending out , but it was not the greatest of William Hurt films .
Anouk Aimee was Beautiful	Enjoyed this film from the very beginning to the end and the wonderful photographs of Los Angele , California . George Matthews , ( Gary Lockwood ) sets his eyes on a beautiful woman named Lola , ( Anouk Aim ) who is a model in a strange shop . George is having a hard time trying to find himself in Los Angeles , and he does not work , but has plenty of friends who loan him money and at the same time he is living with a gal who is getting tired of George being so lazy in life . There is also a finance company trying to reposes his BMW and things are getting pretty rough for George . You will definitely not be able to figure out how this film is going to end .
Dunwich Mistake	Disappointed in this film and the story which is trying to link the power of darkness with the light in the world and a man named Wilbur Whateley , ( Dean Stockwell ) who believes he is close to becoming a power which can bring the power of darkness over the world . However , Wilbur needs to find a certain book in a library in order to complete his dark studies of the spiritual world . Wilbur meets up with a gal named Nancy Wagner ( Sandra Dee ) who works in this library and she allows him a few minutes to read in the book , which is against the policies set down by Dr . Henry Armitage , ( Ed Begley ) It is not very long when Wilbur manages to start a relationship with Nancy and this is when things start to happen , he finds out Nancy is a virgin and this makes him want to offer her body and soul to the devil . This is not the greatest of horror films and it is rather confusing at times , or maybe I just simply lost interest . Still can't figure out why Sandra Dee appeared in this film ?
Cast of Great Actors	The German's had a plan in 1940 to fly in sixteen paratroopers into England in a remote little town and Liam Devlin , ( Donald Sutherland ) was sent in ahead to pretend he was the marsh inspector and he made sure things fit into place . Liam also set himself up with a very young pretty English gal who he falls in love with . Col . Kurt Steiner , ( Michael Caine ) plays the role as commander of the German army which is planning to capture a very well known English Prime Minister . This film shows very clear details on the German side and the British and many high German officials are portrayed by many great veteran actors . The photography is outstanding and old war planes give the film a great deal of realism . Enjoy .
Don't Dance on Graves Ever	This is a very exciting Horror , Thriller film which deals with a group of friends named Harris McKay , ( Dominic Purcell ) and Allison Mitchell , ( Clare Kramer ) . These people attend the funeral of a very close friend and then return to the cemetery in the evening after they have all had plenty of drinks and then they all decided to dance on all the graves and think nothing about it . However , all these people never realized who was in these graves they danced on and their backgrounds . It is not too long before all the people who danced on graves find that their lives are being bothered by unexplainable happening in their lives and their homes are being haunted . There is an expert that investigates the spirit world and is able to tell them they are being attacked by people who are killers and even a woman who is an ax murder . Don't miss this film , it has lots of thrills and chills and will keep you spellbound . Enjoy .
Great 1938 Drama School Film	Always enjoyed the acting of Paulett Goddard who plays the role of ( Nana ) a young girl who is attending a Drama School in Paris , France along with Lana Turner , ( Mado ) who are striving to become actresses and have only one desire in their lives . Luise Reiner , ( Louise Mauban ) is a poor gal who attends the Dramatic School in the daytime and is forced to also work in a factory making gas meters . Louise tells her fellow classmates at the school all kinds of stories about her relationship with a rich playboy who finances plays and is a ladies man . The story gets rather interesting when Louise really gets involved with this playboy who spoils her to death with everything she wants , however , she does notice that he still has an eye for any hot chick that comes along . Great 1938 film with lots of laughs and plenty of dramatic acting . Enjoy .
Entertaining Film	Enjoy almost every film that Robert DeNiro performs in and was surprised at the role he played in this film as David Callaway a child psychologist . This story starts out with a tragic incident that happens to David Callaway's wife and his daughter , Emily , ( Dakota Fanning ) views this entire horrible scene and is effected mentally and almost goes into a complete coma . David Callaway decides to take her away from New York City and go to a home he purchases in upstate New York in order to give her a new surroundings . Dr . Callaway has help from his local neighbors and especially his acquaintances with Katherine , ( Famke Janssen ) who is liked by Emily and also a psychologist . This is a good entertaining film , but I did not feel that this was the correct role for Robert DeNiro , I have seen him in much better films and I think he made a bad mistake in starring in this film .
Nice Mystery Thriller	Enjoyed the great acting of Uma Thurman , ( Helena Robertson ) , " Prime " , ' 05 , who plays a blind gal who has some connection to another young girl who disappeared and is being investigated by a detective . This detective is played by Andy Garcia , ( Sgt . John Berlin ) , " The Lost City " , ' 05 , who has just transferred from Los Angeles to a small town in Northern California and his first assignment leads him to a garbage dump and all its smells in the pouring rain . There is a scary scene where Helena Robertson is taking a bath and there is a guy unknowing to her , taking pictures of poor Helena in the nude and she does not even realize it . John Malkovich , ( Agent St . Anne ) , plays a short role , but you will really get to hate him in everything he does and says . Kathy Baker , ( Margie Ross ) , " Nip / Tuck TV " plays a great supporting role . Great Mystery and thriller which will keep you glued to the TV screen .
Great Story	This story deals with a very happy guy named Denis Hopkins , ( Jonny Lee Miller ) who is a pilot and he has a wife he loves very much and she is pregnant and they are both looking forward to their son or daughter . Denis likes to bring his airplane to great heights and then turn the engine off and lets the plane descend and at the last minute he would turn the plane back on and scare his wife and sister-in-law in order to show he had great skill as a pilot . There is a terrible crime committed in the home of Denis and his wife which changes the direction of this film and Denis goes from one prison to another in order to get justice and revenge for a great harm which came to him and caused him to have a mental breakdown . Andy Serkis , ( Ricky Barnes ) gave an outstanding acting performance which created a great resentment towards his horrible character . Enjoy .
Great Classic Wellman Film	Whenever William Wellman produced a picture , you can expect a deep and profound story with lots of dark sides to the characters and very unusual photography . This film takes place high in the mountains of the Northwest with plenty of snow and the peril of a panther stalking the livestock of farms . Robert Mitchum , ( Curt Bridges ) is the sort of head of the family and seems to have a clip on his shoulders towards most of his family . His father is an all the time Drunk who is completely worthless and his mother , ( Buelah Bondi ) Ma Bridges professes to be a Bible Reading Christian , but has a dark side and loves only Curt . If you like a story from 1954 with Veteran Classic actors , this is definitely the film for you .
A Classic Monster Film From the PAST ! !	Enjoyed viewing this old time classic film with the old Hot Rod cars of the 1930's with rumble seats and the 1959 Dodge car which the Sheriff ( Fred Graham ) , " Mom & Boy " , ' 72 was able to acquire from his town . Don Sullivan ( Chase Winstead ) , " The Rebel Set " , ' 59 helped the Sheriff try to solve all the strange happens with people and their cars , especially their Hot Rod leader . Lisa Simone ( Lisa ) , " Missile to the Moon " , ' 58 added some romance to this black and white film . This is one of the films that were made during the period when Monsters were animated and then magnified because of the low budget the film producers had to work with . A few of these pictures that followed this same procedure were : " Attack of the Crab Monsters " , ' 57 and " The Black Scorpion " , ' 57 . If you like old classic films from the late 1950's this is a film to view and enjoy !
Classic Film with Lots of Laughs	Melvyn Douglas , ( Arsene Lupin ) keeps his real name a secret from everyone and gets himself involved with a stolen necklace and also has a romantic relationship with Lorraine DeGrissac , ( Virginia Bruce ) who both give an outstanding performance throughout the entire film . There is plenty of laughs and comedy in this film and it captures your attention and then turns quickly away from stolen jewelry and centers around all the characters involved in this mystery . George Zucco , ( Perfect of Police ) instead of playing the role as a crook which he has done all his acting career , is now a police man who tries to catch his criminal and suspects Arsene Lupin of stealing this necklace . Georges Bouchet , ( Monty Wolley ) plays low key in this film and has some very dark secrets which he does not want to reveal .
Great Elvis Presley Film	Enjoyed this Elvis Presley film where he plays the role as Mike Edwards who is down on his luck and meets up with a sweet little girl named Sue-Lin , ( Vicky Tiu ) who likes Mike and he agrees to watch her while her uncle takes care of his business affairs . Mike takes Sue-Lin to the Seattle World's Fair and they take in all the rides and Sue-Lin also wins a huge doll which is larger than she is . Mike buys Sue all kinds of food at the fair and she gets sick and is taken to a hospital where Mike runs into a very attractive blonde nurse , Diane Warren , ( Joan O'Brien ) who puts the make on her and Diane quickly brushes Mike off . Elvis performs various songs which were not very popular and this was not necessarily a great Presley film , but the story was very cute and if you missed the Seattle World's Fair , you will enjoy all the photography taken at the fair .
The Army Had Bad Doctors	This film starts out with a Calvary Army Officer being shot in the leg by a Native American Indian and is treated by an Army Doctor who is bombed out of his mind on booze and tries to operate on his leg and cuts an artery and the soldier dies . Philip Carey , ( Capt . Peter Blake ) is very upset about other Army doctors who have caused him problems in the past who were on drugs and booze also . Robert Francis , ( Dr . Allen Sewart ) , " Caine Mutiny " ' 54 is a new doctor and commissioned by the Army to serve with Capt . Peter Blake . Blake mistrusts Dr . Allen Sewart and gives him a very hard time , because he seems to hate all doctors . Donna Reed , ( Laurie MacKaye ) takes a liking to Dr . Sewart and encourages him to stand up and fight back at Capt . Blake . May Wynn , ( Manyi-ten ) " Caine Mutiny " is a white woman who is married to an Indian and seeks the help of Dr . Sewart and falls in love with him . This is a great story and will hold your interest from beginning to the very end . It is very sad that in real life , Robert Francis , was killed in an airplane accident right after he made the great film " Caine Mutiny " he was only twenty-five ( 25 ) years of age .
Not a Good Picture For Gary Cooper	This film was a big loss to MGM in 1938 , most people did not find that Gary Cooper was suited for this type of picture and his leading lady , Sigrid Gurie was a star from Norway who lived in Brooklyn , N . Y . and not many people knew anything about her . Anyway , Cooper played Marco Polo and tried his hand at comedy which did not suit him . Sigrid Gurie , ( Princess Kukochin ) , " Sofia " fell in love with Parco Polo ( Gary Cooper ) , " The Plainsman " even though she was going to have an arranged marriage to another man she did not know . Basil Rathbone , ( Ahmed ) , " The Black Sleep " , played the evil person who had strong desires for the Princess and wanted to kill Marco Polo . Alan Hale , ( Kaidu ) , " The House Across the Street " , gave a great performance as a supporting actor and gave the picture a great deal of humor . Sorry to see Gary Cooper in this picture which was a box office failure .
Turturro Gave a Great Performance	Remember when the McGuire Sisters were at the top of their careers and everyone was dreamy eyed at the fact they had wonderful voices on the Ed Sullivan TV Show and also their father was a Preacher . When the facts finally came out about Phyllis McGuire getting involved with a top notch gangster from Las Vegas , WOW it was the Shock of the Century in those days . John Turturro , ( Sam Giancana ) , " She Hate Me " , ' 04 , played the role of Sam to perfection and when he met Phyllis McGuire's parents , he made a complete Ass of himself and it was quite funny . Mary-Louise Parker , ( Phyllis McGuire ) , " Romance & Cigarettes " , ' 05 , gave a great supporting role and had some real funny scenes in a motel room with their sleeping arrangements and final love making . It sure is a nice entertaining film if you happened to miss seeing it .
JOE E . BROWN WAS A GREAT COMEDIAN !	" Alibi Ike " 1935 was just one of Joe E . Brown's great contributions to the comedy world . In this picture he was a pitcher for the Chicago Cubs and played other roles as a St . Louis Cardinal , always arriving in the top of the nineth inning and saving the game as a top notch pitcher and hitter . It surprised me to see that Oliva de Havilland co-stared with this slap stick comedian , it was her very first film in 1935 and she went on to great fame in " Gone With The Wind " 1939 and many other famous classic movies . William Fawley , veteran film star ( " My Three Sons " TV Series ) also performed his great talents . Another great star in this film was Roscoe Karns , who played , " Rocky King , Inside Detective " in the 1950's TV Series . Joe E . Brown's famous large mouth was his trade-mark and he sure gave people a great deal of happiness during World War II , his films will live on forever and ever .
George Dzundza Was Outstanding	Enjoyed this film because of my interest in artificial insemination and this film portrayed a story that showed the good side of such a decision , but made the entire subject a bad thing , only because of a doctor who practiced sick ways of inseminating woman and I will not be able to go into great details , or I will reveal the facts of this story . Melissa Gilbert , ( Mary Bennett ) gave an outstanding performance as a woman who used the services of Dr . Cecil Jacobson , ( George Dzundza ) , " Hack " TV Series and was able to conceive a nice baby boy . Shanna Reed , ( Sue Castellano ) gave a great supporting role and was able to tell Mary Bennett about the strange medical practices that Dr . Cecil Jacobson was doing to all his patients . There are always people who try to make money off of poor innocent people and who abuse their professional positions . Good Film for people interested in Artificial Insemination .
Excellent House of Wax	Always enjoyed the films that dealt with the House of Wax and especially the Vincent Price film . However , this film tops all of the films and made a very realistic effect with fantastic graphics and more than you can expect with blood and gore and horrible ways to die . This film starts out with guys and gals deciding to have a great camp out in the woods and wind up with car trouble and a kind local guy leads them to a nice town in order to obtain a fan belt for their car . Chad Michael Murray , ( Nick Jones ) and Elisha Cuthbert , ( Carly Jones ) both gave an outstanding performance in this film and Carly Jones showed off a great figure along with Paris Hilton , ( Paige Edwards ) . Paris plays a minor role with just making out with a guy away from everyone and when it comes time to scream , Paige needed help from the extras behind the scenes to scream louder . This is a film you will enjoy viewing and really should be shown on Halloween night . Enjoy
Great Acting / Great Entertainment	Always enjoy the great acting of Laurence Fishburne , ( Sheriff Tanny Brown ) who becomes very upset when a professor visits his town to investigate a sort of Cold Case . This professor is a retired lawyer named Paul Armstrong , ( Sean Connery ) who has reason to believe that a man on death row is innocent of rape and murder of a very pretty little white girl . Sheriff Tanny does not appreciate Paul Armstrong coming to his town in Florida and starting to open up a can of worms as Tanny is very certain he has arrested the correct man and even has a confession to prove he did this evil deed . The guilt person is Blair Underwood , ( Bobby Earl ) who is very happy to see Paul Armstrong come to his defense and possibly clear his name and secure his freedom . There are many twists and turns to this story and plenty of action and very creepy areas in the swamps of Florida . This film will keep you glued to your screens if you have not seen this film before . Enjoy
Classic Actors / Classic Film	Had the opportunity to view this film on TV , which was shown in the early AM hours and found it very interesting for a WWII . Clark Gable gave a great performance , despite the fact , that in real life he lost the soul mate of his life and managed to show his great ability as an actor in playing the part of Lana Turner's lover . This was sort of a pick me up for audiences during the war years and having two men after one woman was a different twist . Robert Sterling gave a great supporting role as a guy who was also in love with poor Lana Turner and managed to hold his own against Clark Gable . This is truly a great 1942 Classic and a great picture with Turner & Gable at their very best . Enjoy .
Old Timer's Comedy Western	This film starts off with John Henry Lee , ( Willie Nelsen ) trying to rob a train of its gold and he is caught by Capt . Owen Hayes , ( Richard Widmark ) who was an old friend of John Henry , but they had a difference of feelings over a woman named Maggie Hayes , ( Angie Dickinson ) . John Henry is sent to prison for twenty-years and as soon as he gets out , he rounds up some of his old old time gang and is bound and determined to rob a bank and maybe another train . The film goes around and around in circles with old time actors like Nash Crawford , ( Chuck Connors ) and many more who all have their own story to tell , and sometimes it is very boring . The only person in this film that seemed to keep their looks was Angie Dickinson and she played a very brief role .
A Great CSI Film in the 50's !	This is a great B film from the 1950's , because it deals with forensics just like the present day CSI Series TV shows . The police take it step by step in the laboratory and look at all the evidence with a fine toothed comb ! Howard Hughes produced this film for only $124 , 000 and most of the filming was done in NYC , the Bronx , and Brooklyn , Queens . John Miles , ( Detective Frank Tobin ) , " Gunfighters " , ' 47 was a ex-marine who was able to get a college education and met up with a gal named Patricia Barry , ( Patricia White ) , " Dear Heart " , ' 64 , who was able to assist Frank Tobin in his investigation into a young woman who had a Tattoo and was found in Central Park . If you really like B & W Classic B Films , this is a very worth while to just sit back and enjoy from beginning to END !
Praise for Brittney Lee Harvey	This was a very very long entertaining film that really could have been cut in half before it started to become one big boring film . Stephen Baldwin , ( Marty Stillwater / Alfie ) played two characters in this film and gave a great performance fighting against himself and having to prove himself to his own family . Julie Warner , ( Paige Stillwater ) gave a great supporting role as his wife who had two girls , Caley Cuoco , ( Charlotte Stillwater ) and Brittney Lee Harvey ( Emily ) . Brittney Lee Harvey is a very young girl and gave a simply great performance as the younger sister . Caley Cuoco is another actress who gave a great supporting role and a appeared on a great TV Show with the late John Ritter . Nice Sci-Fi film with lots of action but entirely too long for me .
Great Film Great Actors	Enjoyed this film and was very glad there was English captions which read very fast . Marisa Paredes , ( Berta ) played a woman who worked in a hospital in Spain and was a single mom who had to raise two boys and one girl . The children sort of got involved with the wrong crowd and each of them got into deep trouble . The children's friends were all racist , hated everyone , no matter what your race or religion . Some praised Hitler and the Nazi way of doing things to other human beings no one would dream of doing . Imanol Arias , ( Eduardo ) was a police officer who got the hots over this middle aged woman , Berta , and they hit the bed scene quite often with very hot love making . This film has many deep dark sides to this film and a very hard look into the minds of some very sick and troubled men and woman .
This Film Had Everything	Enjoyed this film because of its location in NYC and the fact that transit cops were depicted . If you have to travel on the Transit System in NYC you will enjoyed this film even more , because it mentions all kinds of Subway Stops , and there is plenty of action down below . Wesley Snipes , ( John ) , " 7 Seconds " , ' 05 , plays a real cool cop who has become very close friends with his co-worker , Woody Harrelson , ( Charlie ) , " North Country " , ' 05 and manages to steal Charlie's girl friend , Jennifer Lopez , ( Grace Santiago ) , " Monster-in-Law " , ' 05 . Grace and John burn up the bed sheets with hot torrid love scenes . Robert Blake , ( Donald Patterson ) , " Lost Highway " , ' 97 , plays a great jerk who is in charge of a train , called the Money Train . Great acting , lots of comedy and more than plenty of action . Enjoy
Suzanne Pleshette Was Great	Suzanne Pleshette , ( Capt . Janet Hamilton ) gave an outstanding performance as an experienced female officer who has been assigned to clean up a bad section of Pittsburgh , Pa . , where police officers rob jewelry stores and deal with prostitutes . Danny Aiello , ( Chief ) enlists the help of Janet to clean up this police station where even policemen are being killed because they know too much . Capt . Hamilton is also upsetting her husband and they are beginning to start going their separate ways until things start to change in the police station . There are many threats made to Capt . Hamilton , however , their were loyal officers who stood behind her and decided to start informing on their fellow officers . Suzanne Pleshette surprised me with her great acting as a tough Captain who could clean up a very bad police department .
Susan George was Outstanding	Enjoyed this British film with Susan George , ( Amanda ) , " The Strange Affair " , who plays the role of a young gal attending college and taking on a babysitting job way out in the country and walking all by herself after getting off a bus . The house where Amanda is to babysit is very old and their is a little boy she is to take care of while his mom and dad go out to dine . Amanda has a visit from her boyfriend who attempts to make love to her and starts to almost get to first base when the telephone starts to ring . Susan George gives a great performance through out the entire picture and it truly shows the great talent she had during her early years of stardom . If you like Susan George when she was young , pretty and sexy , this is the film for you . Enjoy .
Stone behaved in this Film	Enjoyed viewing this film as a great many of the scenes were shot on location in the City of Chicago and I recognized some of the neighborhoods . Steven Seagal , ( Nico Toscani ) , shows off his great talents in this film and of course he was slim and trim and full of action through out the entire picture . There was lots of action scenes with a car in a high rise parking lot almost falling into the street below . Subway rides around the loop and South Side car chases and plenty of beatings and needles being stuck in arms . Pam Grier ( Delores Jackson ) , gave a great supporting role as Nico's partner on the police force . Sharon Stone , ( Sara Toscani ) , Nico's wife and mother of his child , played a sweet and loving mother and wife and you would hardly recognize her this picture . Seagal did an outstanding performance and is truly a great actor .
Kill Kill Kill	Enjoyed this different type of tale concerning a serial killer and an FBI Agent , Tom Mackelway , ( Aaron Eckhart ) who is assigned to the case and is transferred from Dallas , Texas to New Mexico . Agent Mackelway is also assisted by his partner , Fran Kulok , ( Carrie Ann Moss ) , who has had an affair with Tom which had a rather sour ending . This serial killer has no set pattern for his crimes , he kills young and old , male and female and does horrible things to their bodies . Tom Mackelway works on this case almost 24 hours a day and starts to crack up mentally , until he uncovers some information about a former FBI agent who had a special mission with the government and with this information it opens up new clues to his investigation . Benjamin O'Ryan , ( Ben Kingsley ) tries to lead Tom Mackelway in different directions by making drawings of Zero's and pictures which confuse Tom and his partner Fran . Ben Kingsley gave an outstanding performance in this film which added to a great film to view and enjoy .
Classic Western with Great Stars	Great 1955 Western with plenty of horses and cattle traveling across great Western scenery and veteran super stars . Clark Cable , ( Col . Ben Allison ) , " Band of Angels " , is bound and determined to travel his cattle through Indian Country and a strong minded woman Jane Russell , ( Nella Turner ) , " The Born Losers " , who takes baths in her tub and taunts the men who look in her direction or even swimming in a brook . Robert Ryan , ( Nathan Stark ) , " The Iceman Cometh " plays a tricky character that Col . Ben has to watch carefully and they get themselves into some difficult situations . Great film to enjoy from the 1950's with plenty of action , comedy , drama and romance . Jane Russell gives great female charm in almost every scene . Enjoy
Great Classic 1937 Film	Enjoyed this 1937 film version of Sherlock Holmes , ( Arthur Wontner ) and Ian Fleming , ( Dr . Watson ) who are both on vacation and are invited to Sir . Baskedervilles who has a very great horse called Silver Blaze and Sherlock finds out the horse is entered in an important horse race and has disappeared and the trainer has been murdered . Holmes and Dr . Watson find out that Professor Moriarty is behind this horse theft in order to stop Silver Blaze from ever winning the race and Moriarty has also managed to view the horse race and had one of his henchman fire shots at the jockey running the race . I must say , that I really enjoyed Basil Rathbone and Nigel Bruce who in later years appeared in their 1940's film version of Sherlock Holmes same story .
Great Broderick Crawford Film	If you like Broderick Crawford , you will enjoy this film from beginning to end . Broderick plays the role of Sgt . Matt Trainor who leads a group of people from Arizona with all kinds of backgrounds , one man was a gun smuggler for the Indians , Black Cloud and a young woman , named Julia Lanning , ( Barbara Hale ) who is among many men but no one tries to hit on her , mainly because they are too busy fighting off Indians constantly . There is plenty of action with arrows flying through the air and people running out of water and Sgt . Matt playing all kinds of games with the Native American Indians who do not fool around and drive a hard bargain . Lloyd Bridges , " Sea Hunt TV Series " ( Jim Starbuck ) looks very young and gives a great supporting role . Enjoyable 1953 film classic which was filmed in Buttercup Dunes , California and not the Sahara Desert .
Unlucky Bride	The film starts off with a very depressing situation and you decide just what kind of a story are we going to view . A poor bride arrives too late to get her marriage license and then the poor bride disappears . Sean Young , ( Ellen / Dorothy Carlsson ) , " A Killer Within " , ' 04 , is the sister to the missing bride and is from a very rich family who deal in Copper . Max Von Sydow , ( Thor Carlsson ) , " Heidi " , ' 05 is Ellen and Dorothy's father and he is very strict and over bearing , really wanted a son instead of two daughters . Matt Dillon , ( Jonathan Corliss ) , " Loveboy " , ' 05 , plays a rather mixed up young man who started out very young watching railroad freight cars go by his bedroom window and decided he was going to be rich like the Carlsson Family . There are some romantic scenes in the shower and bed and quite a few murders . Pretty good entertaining film .
Excellent Comedy	John Ford produced this picture and it was very entertaining from beginning to the end with Jack Hawkins playing the role of Inspector George Gideon who is a top crime expert in London , England and always manages to get his criminal . George Gideon is never at home and one morning his wife asks him to bring home some salmon for guests she was having for dinner and he files the fish away in a file cabinet in his office . However , Gideon does catch a serial killer with the help of a rookie policeman and always seems to drink while on duty and comes home for lunch with his fellow Scotland Yard buddies and has a fews beers and then runs off to solve another crime . Anna Lee plays the role as Gideon's wife and never complains about his weird comings and goings . This film had me laughing through out the entire picture and I therefore consider this to be a great comedy film from 1958 .
The Musical Score was Fantastic	Missed this movie over the years , however , I did like the popular song from this film and so I decided to watch this film after all these years . Richard Widmark , ( Ben Caxton ) , " Coma " plays the role of a business man who has many dark secrets that no one knows and pulls the strings on crime and corruption . Rachel Ward , ( Jessie Wyler ) , " The Ascent " gives an outstanding performance along with some torrid sex scenes . Jeff Bridges , ( Terry Brogan ) , " The Moguls " , is an athlete who was injured and still desires to build himself back up again , however he is down on his luck . Terry meets up with James Woods , ( Jake Wise ) " Be Cool " , who runs a Nite Club and has connections and offers Terry an opportunity to repay a debt which is rather risky . There are encounters with some very rough characters and even dogs who are both out for blood . Like I said before , the music was great .
Fred MacMurray Plays a Different Role	This film starts out with a typical bank robbery which has been cleverly planned until a bank employee shoots at one of the robbers and the city Marshall is killed by a young guy named Eddie , ( The Kid ) . Ben Cutler , ( Fred MacMurray ) shoots some of the robbers and half of the money is returned . Ben Cutler claims that the Kid killed the city Marshall and he intends to bring him up on trial and a death sentence . The results of the trial change the direction of the film and it takes on in another direction which makes this a very interesting film . Fred MacMurray was able to show his great acting ability as a Western Marshall and he gave an outstanding performance .
Great Entertaining Film	Nicolas Cage , ( Doug Chesnic ) plays the role of a Secret Service Agent and is assigned to protecting a former First Lady , Tess Carlisle , ( Shirley MacLaine ) who is a very difficult First Lady to protect and is stubborn about who protects her and she simply does not like Doug Cbesnic but for some reason considers him like her son . Tess's son has nothing to do with his mother and Tess seems to take things out on her Secret Agent Doug , treating him like her son . No one seems to be able to please Tess and there are plenty of comedy and great chemistry that exists between Nicolas Cage and Shirley MacLaine and this makes the film a great success . Enjoy .
Wild Christmas Story	This film takes place in Chicago , Illinois around Christmas time with people doing their last minute shopping on Christmas Eve and a Lt . Cornelius Morgan , ( Dean Cain ) has been put on suspension and his badge and weapon have been taken from him and he was wished a Merry Christmas from his chief of police . Cornelius is married to a very pretty blonde petite wife named Catherine , ( Cat ) Morgan , ( Erika Eleniak ) and they are both trying to handle this bad news at Christmas time . Cat is a religious woman and she tries to give her husbands support but there is a fight right at Christmas Eve and Cornelius decides to make up with her and bring her flowers at her place of business in a very large mall . While he is in the mall he notices that there is a robbery going on and he starts to investigates and gets himself into a war zone with plenty of bullets flying and lots of bombs and you name it , everything is used . This robbery involves 12 million dollars and Cornelius recognizes the leader of the gang and things go from bad to worse . Eric Roberts , ( Jimmy Scalzetti ) gave a great supporting role to this wild Christmas story and this film will hold your interest right to the very end . Enjoy
Lots of Blood & Gore	Enjoyed this horror film which held my interest from the beginning to the very end . It was also a big surprise for me to see veteran actor , Glenn Ford playing the role of Dr . David Faraday to Melissa Sue Anderson , ( Virginia ' Ginny ' Wainwright ) . The film starts off with Ginny visiting her mothers grave who had died in her past and Ginny has a complete loss of memory due to brain surgery . Ginny has returned to her college after her surgery and has many girl friends and quite a few male admires , one guy sneaked into her bedroom and watched her undress and stole her panties and scared her to death . You will never be able to figure out just who the serial killer is right up to Ginny's Birthday Party . Great Mystery Film , enjoy !
Yul Brynner was Outstanding	If you are a big fan of Yul Brynner who plays the role of a U . S . Secret Service agent named Peter Novak , you will enjoy his great performance dealing with Scotland Yard policemen and a very dangerous counterfeiting ring of thugs . Novak joins up with his partner , Edward Woodward , ( Arthur Thompson ) who works for Scotland Yard and the two of them decide to work their way into this counterfeiting gang who are very clever and will kill you at the drop of a dime . Peter Novak runs into all kinds of situations and even a brothel and message parlors . This film runs rather long and it seemed to me they could have cut a great deal of this film on the cutting room floor , and the ending was very disappointing . However , all the actors in this film gave an outstanding performance and it was great to see this Classic 1969 film .
Bernie Mac & Angela Bassett did Their Thing	Enjoyed this film primarily because of the great acting of Bernie Mac , " Guess Who " , and his girlfriend in the film , Angela Bassett , ( Maureen " Mo " Simmons ) , " Sunshine State " . Bernie plays the role of a super baseball player who winds up having to prove himself all over again in the eyes of the Hall of Fame Judges . There are plenty of laughs and some very warm and sexy scenes with " Mo " who plays a CNN News reporter who has interviews with Bernie and has a quick tongue in response to his remarks about being in love and wanting to tie the knot . If it were not for the above mentioned actors , this film would have fallen completely on its head . Thanks Bernie Mac !
Entertaining Walt Disney Space Film	This film is very entertaining dealing with a research vessel which has a great cast of actors namely : Anthony Perkins , ( Dr . Alex Durant ) , Ernest Borgnine , ( Harry McCrae ) , Dr . Kate McCrae , ( Yvette Mimieux ) along with a Robot . This space vessel travels through space and discovers a missing ship commanded by a mysterious scientist on the edge of the Black Hole . The mysterious scientist gains control of the research vessel and when they all meet , they find out that these people were considered lost in space and that Dr . Hans Reinhart , ( Maximilian Schell ) managed to establish a great space station and how he controls the space ship with robots and human being transformed into robots . Dr . Reinhart feels like he is a god and intends to bring his space station directly into the Black Hole . Dr . Alex Durant wants to stay with Dr . Reinhart and the only female in this picture is also being abducted on this space ship into hell .
Stephen Baldwin & Adam Act Fantastic !	If you like the Baldwin brothers and their acting along with a story mostly about Hot Sex , nudity , murder , you name IT , this is the film for you . Patsy Kensit ( Jolene ) , " Shelter Island , " 03 , teases and pleases Stephen Baldwin ( Travis ) " In My Sleep " , 03 , who plays the innocent virgin and enjoys all the tempting things Jolene does to him . Jennifer Rubin ( Kelly Ann ) , " Playmaker " , ' 94 , is another gal who enjoys Travis and seems to also like Jolene in bed . You even have Adam Baldwin ( Bobby ) , " Betrayal " , ' 03 , the so called police officer trying to do his duty and wonders why Travis is getting all the loving and affection . This is an adult film and has lots of surprises , like just plain throwing certain people into a Hot Flaming Fire ! I did notice that the director of this film , Duane Clark , has produced many TV Series for CSI , Miami and Las Vegas and also the film , " The Shaking Tree " , ' 92 . I am sure that Duane Clark will direct better films in the future ! Lets HOPE ! ! ! !
Great Classic Film	Always enjoy looking back at the past and how people enjoyed their favorite screen stars and the way you had to read lines through out an entire film . Mae Murray , ( Mary McGuire ) plays the role of a poor girl who has relatives who are very lazy and have big desires for food and she decides she wants to get a job as a dancer in a night club and assumes the name of a famous European dancer and goes on to make a very successful career . Mary meets up with Jimmy Calhoun , ( Rudolph Valentino ) in the night club she dances in and finds out he is the son of a very rich business man who does not like his son getting involved with a dancer and does everything he can to investigate this young woman . All these actors had a great magic in their expressions on the screen and their eyes all tell a story without any talking . Great look back at the past and great actors .
Halloween Nite Film	Found this film very entertaining to view , which starts out with a man running around an entire large estate and being viewed by a camera and men with guns following him all over the grounds . It seems the owner of the estate who is very rich , Calvin Lockhart , ( Tom Newcliffe ) , " Predator " , ' 90 , Assumes there is a dangerous wolf or even a werewolf wandering around and he spends all kinds of money to protect himself . Lockhart even invites various guests to his home who have acted something like werewolf's in some way or other . Peter Cushing , ( Dr . Christopher Lundgren ) , " Top Secret " , ' 84 tries to help Tom Newcliffe , in his endeavors , but blood starts to appear on walls , floors and there is no stopping this horrible creature . This is a very light horror film from the 70's , but it really is fun to watch , and there even is a part in the film , where you can decided who the bad trouble maker IS .
Classic Film	In 1934 apparently Kay Francis , ( Tanya Borodoff / Spot White ) was the heart throb of all red blooded men , however , I cannot agree about her looks , but she could act . Tanya is in love with Tony Evans , ( Ricardo Cortez ) and she works in a caf owned by Nick , ( Warner Oland ) who tells Tony to get a boat and try to secure guns for the black market . Tanya is dumped by Tony and she is heart broken and eventually becomes a high class call girl . Tanya finally gets a chance to get away and travel to Mandalay and meets up with a Dr . Gregory Burton , ( Lyle Talbot ) who is a drunk and Tanya tries to break him of his bad habit and they fall in love with each other . The story takes many twists and turns and is a very entertaining film . I must mention the fact that Warner Oland played the role as Charlie Chan during the early 1930's and 1940's . Gem of a film to view and enjoy .
Action Filled Film	Enjoyed this Rambo type of film with Tommy Lee Jones giving an outstanding performance as ( L . T . Bonham ) who was a military man in special services dealing with how to kill a person one , two , three . LT was retired in the mountains of Oregon and was contacted to track down a man who had killed two hunters in the woods and butchered them like you would a deer . LT investigates the woods all by himself where the hunters were killed and tracks down a guy named Aaron Hallam , ( Benicio Del Toro ) who he taught in military school how to kill and was his best student . Aaron and LT do not shake hands but immediately start to kill each other and beat each other up with all kinds of cuts and bruises . This struggle between these two guys goes on and on in this picture on bridges , water falls , rapids and even a train . There is a female in this picture who tries to assist LT by the name of Abbey Durrell , ( Connie Nielsen ) who is skinny as a rail , but there is no romance and LT does invite her to visit him in his mountain cabin when things calm down . There is plenty of blood and gore and plenty of action to keep you glued to your screen . Enjoy .
Stiller & Aniston Great Together	Enjoyed this very funny film with Ben Stiller playing ( Reuben Feffer ) as an Insurance Executive who is going through a fantastic wedding to Debra Messing , ( Lisa Kramer ) and Reuben does everything in the world for Lisa and they go on their honeymoon and decide to go scuba diving and it is from this point in the picture all hell breaks loose . Jennifer Aniston , ( Polly Prince ) is an old school friend to Reuben and they get together to talk about old times in her flat in lower Manhattan . Alec Baldwin , ( Stan Indursky ) , plays the role of Reuben's boss and tries to keep Reuben on his toes in order to insure one of their clients who is a very high risk person to insure . There are some very warm and sexy scenes between Lisa Kramer and Polly and lots of laughs . Enjoy
A Real Gem of a Film	This is a Gene Kelly film which I had never viewed and only associated Kelly as a song and dance actor in many musicals . Kelly plays the role as Capt . Jeff Eliot who visits the Lehrt family in Germany who protected him and his plane during WW II . However , he finds out that the family was killed and the only member in the family remaining was Wilhelmina Lehrt , ( Pier Angeli ) . Jeff Eliot finds Willie working in a nightclub and they seem to fall in love with each other , until Jeff finds out some very dark secrets Wilhelmina had been keeping from him and they have a fight between the two of them . Claus Clausen , ( Heisemann ) plays the role of a Nazi Commander during the Neo-Nazism Post WW II and has complete control over an underground movement that wants to continue the Hitler movement in Germany . There are really outstanding photography inside Adolph Hitler's Berchtesgard Eagles Nest , which is all bombed out and you see Heisemann standing in front of the large window in Berchtesgard . There is plenty of suspense and good supporting actors like Richard Egan , ( Lt . Parker ) and even some romance . Enjoy
Nice Comedy From 1956	This was a very entertaining film from 1956 with some great veteran actors who have had great roles in their careers and this is a rather silly film which seems to go on and on . However , this is a comedy concerning an American Ambassador's Daughter named Joan Fisk , ( Olivia De Havilland ) who live in France and meets up with a soldier named Danny , ( John Forsythe ) and Joan is modeling various dresses for an American Red Cross Benefit and Danny becomes very attracted to Joan . Joan does not tell Danny she is the daughter of an American Ambassador and pretends to be a French girl who is a professional model . There are wonderful actors in this film , namely , Myrna Loy , ( Mrs . Cartwright ) ; Adolphe Menou , ( Sen . Jonathan Cartwright ) and Tommy Noonan , ( Cpl . Al O'Connor all gave outstanding supporting roles . If you like old time comedy films , this is the film for you .
No Chains Used	This is a very low budget film about women who were put behind bars in a young woman's correction facility which is controlled by a mobster named Johnny Moon , ( Addison Randall ) . Johnney Moon controls the city government and has given his right hand hood the position as warden of this correction facility . The girls are treated like they were in a federal prison , with hard work in a laundry and solitary confinement . There is no hope for these women to rehabilitate themselves in order to obtain training for job positions on the outside in order to adjust to society . Helen Martin , ( Arlene Judge ) has a sister who is married to Johnney Moon and Helen has lost her job because of the bad reputation of her brother-in-law and has been advised to become a social worker at the prison . As soon as Helen walks into the prison , the story becomes interesting .
Great John Travolta Film	This film started out with a couple having trouble with their young son who seemed to enjoy telling lies , in other words , it was " Cry Wolf " all the time which had the couple visiting the police department quite often . John Travolta was the father and he was getting a divorce from his wife and the boy was not very happy about his new step-father , because he was very close to his own father . Vince Vaughn , ( Rich Barnes ) plays the role of the new father and has some very deep dark secrets about his past ; however , he is very rich and is very popular in their home town . It is not too long after the wedding that the film explodes into a very fast action filled film with plenty of heat , like a very hot furnace . John Travolta gave an outstanding performance as a boat builder and a very loving father . Enjoy
Great Ava Gardner Film	Greatly enjoyed this film about the British withdrawing from India and the wonderful photography and the great scenery . However , Ava Gardner , ( Victoria Jones ) , " City On Fire " , ' 79 looked simply beautiful , considering she tried to keep up with Frank Sinatra on the fast track of real life . Victoria Jones played the role of a very tricky gal , who twisted men around her little finger and pretended to be someone else other than herself . Stewart Granger , ( Col . Rodney Savage ) , " The Wild Geese " , ' 78 , was a very clever military soldier and kept a close eye on Victoria for more reasons than only one . There is great acting between Gardner and Stewart who were at the height of their careers . Enjoy .
Rapist Never Stops	Joanna Kerns , ( Jessica Rayner ) gave an outstanding performance of a woman who was raped on her front lawn and the only thing that saved her was an old man coming to her aid . Jessica has a very happy family life with her husband , Anthony John Denison , ( Dan Rayner ) who have a business that works out of their home and everything is going in the right direction until this rapist strikes . What makes this film terrifying is the fact that many other women are being raped and this rapist constantly goes back to Jessica and attempts to rape and kill her so she will not be able to identify him . This film begins to get rather boring with this rapist never being able to get caught by police or anyone else .
Jack Palance Needed Work	Enjoyed this Italian Film , which had comedy , drama and plenty of gang-buster shootings and mob torture . Women seemed to get their clothes ripped off and also slapped in the face back and forth . There was some very clever old and young thieves who managed to rip off plenty of men and woman . Some of the police were former crooks and at times used this experience in their detective plans to catch the big mob fences , who did money laundering through out the country . Jack Palance of course played the king pin and was a bad guy who hid in an American Embassy . This is definitely a very low budget film , but great to see Jack Palance trying to make a few bucks .
Lots of Comedy & Fun	Melanie Griffith , ( V ) played a woman of the streets who meets up with three boys who want to see what a girl looks like in the nude . Of course , if they really wanted to do it the correct way , they could ask their dad's and possibly their mothers . However , this is a Hollywood film and it made the entire story quite funny , especially when they have a sex education class and decided to use a rather non-kosher way of presenting the facts . Ed Harris , ( Tom Wheeler ) plays the father to Michael Patrick Carter , ( Frank Wheeler ) who gets to be good friends with Melanie Griffith and introduces her to his father . This is a very entertaining film and you can find fault with this film whether you are on the left or right side in life , but comedy and laughs are good for everyone and I recommend this film for great viewing .
Lost My Memory	This film starts off with Joanna Kerns , ( Jane Ravenson ) wandering around in a grocery store and just plain looking with a blank stare at everyone in the store , she really looks like a very lost soul . As the story progresses , Jane Ravenson realizes that she has lost her memory and does not know where to go or what to do in this horrible situation . Jane finds her clothing filled with blood and lots of money in her top coat and only night wear under neither . Jane eventually finds she is married to a very rich and successful doctor named John Shea , ( Dr . Michael Ravenson ) who loves her very much and they also have a sweet young girl . This story will surprise you with its drama and final ending . This is a very entertaining film and excellent acting by Joanna Kerns . Enjoy .
Mass Destruction	This is a good Sci-Fi Thriller about a secret laboratory that is studying Biochemical Weapons Research out in a remote desert area of Arizona . This secret plant is invaded by people who want to obtain this certain chemical which is called the " Satan Bug " in order to have complete control over the entire world which can cause complete destruction of the entire world . George Maharis , ( Lee Barrett ) sets out to find out who has been able to break into their labs along with Dana Andrews , ( General Williams ) who also has a daughter Ann Williams , ( Anne Francis ) who gets into the middle of this story about germ warfare . Edward Asner , ( Veretti ) plays one of the bad guys in this film and gives a great supporting role . This film was a head of its times and it fits in greatly with the year 2007 and all the talk about Weapons of Mass Destruction .
Enjoyable 1933 Classic Film	These old time films in black and white hold my interest and especially great actors like Lionel Atwell , ( Dr . Otto Von Niemann ) along with Fay Wray , ( Ruth Bertin ) and Melvyn Douglas , ( Karl Brellschneider ) . The local town people are experiences strange deaths in their town where the people all have their blood drained from their bodies and there are two small puncture wounds on their necks . Rumors's start to spread that they are caused by bats and some people think it is a vampire which is attacking all the people . Karl is the local policeman in the area and he sets out to try and solve just what is going on and he seeks the help from a local town doctor named Dr . Otto Von Niemann who thinks it could possibly be a local man who seems to love bats and keeps them as pets and he also keeps them in his home and in his coat . This is a great classic film with some comedy mixed in with all this blood sucking .
Problem Still Occurring	Every once in awhile you will read in the newspaper or a story will appear on TV about some person or persons who claim the Jewish people were never placed in concentration camps or even placed in ovens by the Nazi's during World War II . In this story , Randy Quaid , ( Pete Suvak ) is a High School Teacher who teaches his students his version of world history and his sick version of how the Jewish people played a large role in controlling Germany during the World Wars and are still an evil race . In other words , praising Hitler for his evil deeds . Pete Suvak brain washed , Thomas Wilson Brown , ( Mark McKinnon ) , Mark McKinnon a young boy in his class and Mark brought home to his mother , Lindsay Wagner , ( Kate McKinnon ) this hateful information . It did not take much time before Kate McKinnon woke up and realized that something was very wrong in her hometown and a certain history teacher . This film rings true today and for many generations , " Never Forget What Hitler Did " to the Jewish People and all other races during WW II and what happened in those concentration camps , that No One Seemed to care About !
Joan Blondell Looked Beautiful	Enjoyed this classic 1937 film which was a very cute comedy about a King played by Fernand Gravet , ( Alfred Bruger VII ) who falls in love with a chorus girl played by Joan Blondell , ( Miss Dorothy Ellis ) . Alfred Bruger the King fell in love almost immediately after viewing her as a chorus girl and wound up taking her to his home and she locked him in his own bedroom and would not let him out . There is plenty of comical games being played between this couple and they both fall deeply in love with each other . The King even hires an entire cruise ship to capture Dorothy Ellis in an effort to propose to her and never let her get away . Edward Everett Horton , ( Count Humbert Evel Bruger ) gave a great supporting role and added plenty of comedy in many scenes . If you look close , you will see Jane Wyman , ( the former wife of President Ronald Regan ) .
Old Classic	The cast in this film is filled with great movie greats with excellent talents , but this film is too long and boring and I am glad this type of film is not produced any longer and in the past . Hedy Lamarr , ( Irene Von Mohr ) was beautiful but always had a depressed look on her face and appeared like a person who had no emotions . Paul Henreid , ( Vincent Van Der Lyn ) looked like Humphrey Bogart in this picture and for some reason did not fit very well in his role . Sydney Greenstreet , ( Ricardo Quintanilla ) gave a great supporting performance along with his partner in many pictures , Peter Lorre , ( Jan Bermazsky ) . Victor Francen , ( Hugo Van Mohr ) , " Beast with Five Fingers " played a very mysterious role behind the scenes .
Great Boxing Film in Prison	Always liked boxing and enjoyed the great role that Wesley Snipes , ( Monroe Hutchens ) , " Chaos " , ' 05 , portrayed as a ten year inmate who in prison was an undefeated champion boxer and was the pride and joy of all the inmates . Ving Rhames , ( Iceman Chambers ) , " Animal " , ' 05 , is the World Heavy Weight Champion on the outside world and has to serve a term in jail with Monroe Hutchens . A foxy old owl named Mendy Ripstein , ( Peter Falk ) , " Checking Out " , ' 04 , has plenty of connections on the outside and knew all the great boxers from the past , Billy Conn , Jack Dempsey , Joe Louis and a few mob bosses . Mendy decides he can make money for Monroe Hutchens and also help out the Iceman if they have a match in the prison . Great boxing tale with plenty of action and mean , nasty inmates .
Sad Picture	This is a very down to earth film about German Jews who were kicked out of Hamburg , Germany and were placed on a ship called the S / S St . Louis headed to Havana , Cuba . This ship carried 937 passengers , some children and Jewish people with all kinds of backgrounds , even prisoners from concentration camps who were teachers . The Nazi movement was showing great Anti-Semitism during the Year 1939 before World War II started . Faye Dunaway , ( Denise Kreisler ) gave an outstanding performance as a very pretty , rich , sexy wife of Dr . Egan Kreisler , ( Oskar Werner ) . There is a young man who works on the ship and is a German and he falls in love with a very pretty Jewish girl and they become very close together and had to make some horrible decisions . Great film which tells the true story of what happened to most of the people who were on board this horrible cruise of Nazi Germany .
John Carradine was Outstanding	Always enjoyed the films of John Carradine and in this film you will see his great acting abilities as a painter who loves to paint beautiful women and gets a thrill out of killing them . John playing the role of Bluebeard is a natural to him with all his expressions and eyes that seem to glow like moons . The law is constantly trying to find this killer and they keep going around in circles . Bluebead meets up with a very attractive girl named Lucille , ( Jean Parker ) who seems to make him change his ways and he actually falls in love with her and she has no idea just what type of man he is , except that he paints a good picture . This is a great John Carradine Classic which is worth watching after his many horror films over the years of his career .
The Black Cat was the Star	This rendition of Edgar Allen Poe directed by Roger Corman was not up to my expectations . Vincent Price , ( Verden Fell ) , played the role of a mad man who stood guard over his wife's grave and also a black cat kept him company . There was a fox hunt and The Lady Rowena , ( Elizabeth Shepherd ) happened to approach the grave site of Ligeia and out jumped Verden Fell ready to choke her to death . Verden seemed to snap out of his mental state of mind and proceeded to fall in love with her , however , he still was deeply in love with his wife Ligeia and slept in separate bedrooms after his marriage . This is a rather boring film that seems to go on and on and does not make very much sense at all . Vincent Price gave a great performance , but the Black Cat stole most of the scenes away from him .
Fantastic Acting	Excellent film dealing in the 1700's which capture my complete attention and kept me on the edge of my seat . Liam Neelson ( Robert Roy MacGregor ) " Gangs of New York " , ' 02 , portrayed a Scotchman who believed in the clan's honor and respect and sort of upset his wife , ( Jessica Lange ) , ( Mary MacGregor ) , " Masked & Anonymous " , ' 03 . There was plenty of scenes with blood and guts fighting . The bad guy in the film is Tim Roth , ( Archibald Cunningham ) " To Kill A King " , ' 03 . Archibald Cunningham stole quite a few scenes throughout the picture with outstanding acting . Well produced and directed film . This is a must see film if you missed it , all the actors deserved an Oscar .
Wife Was No Good In Bed !	The movie starts out with love making going on in the bedroom of Travis Morrow , ( Mark Rendall ) , and his wife , Samantha Morrow , ( Christine Lahti ) tells her husband , " I Hope it was Good for You , It is always Good for Me " and after looking at the expression on her husbands face , you just simply know what is going to happen next , and maybe you don't . Great acting by Eva Marie Saint , ( Veronica Reynolds ) who does everything she can to help her daughter realize the pitfalls in married life . Daniel Baldwin , ( King ) has deep feelings for Samantha and for some reason Samantha just considers him as a good friend and nothing more . The moral in this picture is sex is not everything in a marriage , it sure helps but going off the deep end and creating a big problem for yourself solves nothing .
Entertaining Film	A group of archaeologists and scientists head off to the Antaritic Ocean and discover an old whaling station under neither layers of ice and snow and they find a mysterious shape that looks like a pyramid directly under the whaling station . The archaeologists also find a tunnel that goes straight down to the pyramid location . Alexa Woods , ( Sanaa Lathan ) plays the role as a expert in expeditions in the Antaritic area and is also a safety guide . Everyone on the expedition feel like they are the first humans who discover a huge pyramid until they encounter strange creatures and start getting trapped in sliding walls of stone pillars and some of their crew start to disappear . There is plenty of action and good entertainment . However , this film was a big disappointment and simply burned itself out at the end .
Not a Great Film	Never viewed this Richard Widmark film and was very disappointed at the entire picture . In this picture Widmark plays the role as an Air Force Sgt Joe Lawrence who is stationed in Berlin and is eager to retire but he always manages to get himself into trouble . Joe leaves his jeep on a street and it gets stolen by a homeless young German boy who runs the jeep into a ditch and destroys the axle . Joe follows the boy to where he lives and meets up with a pretty blonde named Maria , ( Mai Zetterling ) and they both fall in love with each other . Joe becomes interested in making a quick buck by stealing some old Nazi precious goods and the story takes another twist and becomes very detailed and confusing .
Enjoyable 1948 Film	Dennis O'Keefe , ( Daniel O'Hara ) plays the role as a FBI Agent who is in charge of finding out how a Southern California atomic plant is having leaks of top secret plans and why one of their agents is killed trying to find out this important information . Scotty Grayson , ( Louis Hayward ) is a Scotland Yard Inspector who is also called into the FBI office and is working with Daniel O'Hara because he has some important information that can help to solve this case . Raymond Burr , ( Krebs ) plays the role as a communist who is a very dangerous man who will stop anyone trying to upset their plan to obtain this secret information . This picture is dealing with the Cold War period in history and the scientists in the atomic plant are all under investigation . This film is very entertaining and Dennis O'Keefe gave a great performance along with Raymond Burr just starting out his career and giving a great supporting role . Enjoy .
Good Halloween Film	Found this film to be quite enjoyable , considering it dealt with the spirit world and spirits that need a place called home . There is a serial killer loose and Andrew McCarthy , ( Michael Lewis ) , " The Orphan King " , ' 05 , gets himself involved with the restoring of a very old Mansion and opens up boxes which contain all kinds of problems he has to face . Michael eventually gets assistance from Detective Pryce , ( Amanda Redman ) , " Sexy Beast " , 2000 , who resents Michael and thinks he is nuts and needs a shrink to solve his vision problems . If you like tales about the supernatural and spirit world this is a good film for you .
Rena Sofer Gave an Outstanding Performance	The title of this film captured my interest and there is a scene where a little girl goes out with her dad hunting in the woods near Hidden Lake and he expects his daughter to hit the target immediately . The little girl finds eagle feathers and it is from that point on that the story goes down all kinds of different paths and the little girl becomes a mature woman who leaves Chicago to visit her dad . The little girl is Rena Sofer , ( Maggie Dolan ) , " March " , ' 01 who really is the star of this TV film and sort of carries the film on her back through out almost every scene . The story disappointed me in many ways and it seemed to go on and on like a Merry-go-Round .
Humor , Drama & True Innocent Love	Oliva De Havilland , ( Meg Johnson ) , " Airport 77 " , plays a mother from the East Coast who has a daughter , Yvette Mimieux , ( Clara Johnson ) " The Black Hole " , who was hit by a horse when she was very young and it seemed to effect her growth as a woman . Mother and Daughter take a trip to Italy and meet up with a charming young man named Fabrizio Naccarelli , ( George Hamilton ) , " Off Key " , and Clara & Fabrizio get to like each other very much . Rossano Brazzi , ( Signor Naccarelli ) , " Fear City " , ' is the father to Fabrizio and becomes interested in Meg Johnson , whose husband is played by Barry Sullivan who is very seldom seen in this film . There are plenty of laughs and some light drama to go along with a very Light Headed Film .
John Wayne had a Baby Face	Enjoyed this old time Western from 1934 with John Wayne , ( John Carruthers ) who sneaks into a hotel during a very bad thunder and lightning storm . The Sheriff , Jake Withers , ( Gabby Hayes ) gets a room and keeps his eye on a large sum of money deposited in the hotel safe . There is a man named Malgrove , ( Edward Peil , Sr . ) who owns the town and is a crook and he is trying to tell the town folk about selling their homes , because he knows that a gold mine is under all their homes and he wants to cash in on all the benefits . Betty Mason , ( Eleanor Hunt ) adds some female charm to the film and John Carruthers falls madly in love with her big brown eyes . If you like classic western films , this is the film for you , the film locations are outstanding for 1934 . Enjoy .
Revenge Gets You No Where	Great film with outstanding actors who made this film enjoyable to view and plenty of action which suddenly all starts to happen on a nice friendly weekend . Rutger Hauer , ( John Tanner ) , " Mentor " , ' 06 , portrays a TV Personality , something like a Spin Zone , which puts people in the public eye on the so called SPOT . John's wife is Meg Foster , " Coming Up Easy " , ' 04 who loves her husband very much and will even shoot bows and arrows for him , but she begins to have her doubts and at one point in the film decides to take their son and depart . John Hurt , ( Lawrence Fassett ) , " Shooting Dogs " , ' 05 , plays the role of a rather hateful character who seeks revenge for something his wife had to go through in her bedroom . Craig T . Nelson , ( Bernard Osterman ) , " The District " , ' 04 TV series , gives a great supporting role . It was nice to see Burt Lancaster make a few brief appearances in this film and I must say , Meg Foster has the most sexy looking eyes I have ever seen on a woman .
Great Entertainment for Everyone	Kate , ( Brittany Snow ) is a young girl who left another small town because her mother was heart broken over a love affair and Kate finds herself in another high school where she really plays the role as a wall-flower who is not known by anyone . Kate sits back and watches how the girls in the high school have their interests in one guy named John Tucker , ( Jesse Metcalfe ) who manages to charm different girls each day of the week and does a good job of breaking their hearts . John is one of the most popular student with great sports skills and was involved in almost every popular event in the school . Kate decides to tell a few girls who were hurt in romantic relationships with John Tucker and she shows them a way to get even with him and turn the table on all his lies and promises . There is lots of laughs and this story is good for both adults and the young . Enjoy .
Classic Western Film	Figured this film was going to be your typical Western film and very soon I found out this was a great 1948 Classic Western with Randolph Scott , ( Marshall Vance Cordell ) who is about to retire and marry a woman he loves who also has a child from a previous marriage . However , their plans had to be canceled because their town of Paxton Oklahoma was invaded by a gang of famous outlaws called the Dalton Gang , Sundance Kid , Billy the Kid and Wild Bill Doolin . There was also a young gal named Cheyenne , ( Anne Jeffreys ) who was a female outlaw with this gang and added a different interest to this Western Story . Marshall Cordell became involved with Cheyenne and she falls in love with him and also the gal he intends to marry which adds some romance to this shoot E'M kill E'm Film
Great Bob Hope Film	Enjoyed this very funny Western Film with Bob Hope , ( Milford Farnsworth ) starring as a life insurance salesman who sells a policy to Jesse James , ( Wendell Corey ) the famous gangster cowboy . Milford Farnswoth also follows Jesse James West to see that Jesse stays alive . Milford gets himself adjusted to the West and meets up with a very pretty young woman named Cora Lee Collins , ( Rhonda Fleming ) . Cora Lee happens to be the saloon singer and girlfriend of Jesse James and Milford gets himself involved with a marriage ceremony and makes a good job of having the Bride run away with him and the funny thing is that Jesse James future wife Cora Lee happens to be the bride . There are plenty of cameos of famous actors in this film , namely : Trigger , the horse of Roy Rogers and Roy Rogers , James Arness , Ward Bond , Gary Cooper and Bing Crosby . This is a great entertaining film and you will not want to miss this film if you have never view this film . Enjoy .
Subway Car on the Platform	Greatly enjoyed this film which had the New York City Police going uptown and downtown and lots of action even in Wall Street , the financial section . There was a famous department store on Fifth Ave which had plenty of damage and also a very wild ride through Central Park with Jackson and Willis . Bruce Willis , ( John McClane ) , " Hostage " , ' 05 played a sort of washed up detective who loved his booze and had many hangovers through out the entire picture . Samuel L . Jackson , ( Zeus Carver ) , " The Man " , ' 05 gave an outstanding performance as a store owner in Harlem who managed to get roped into a big mess along with John McClane . Of course , I cannot forget that Jeremy Irons , ( Simon Gruber ) , " Casanova " , ' 05 , enjoyed playing a child's game named : " SIMON SAYS " and believe me this was not a game for kids in this film . Sit back and enjoy a great film and great actors all doing a fantastic job .
Nice Black & White War Film	Enjoyed this 1951 Black & White film starring Dana Andrews , ( Pat Bannon ) , " The Best Years of Our Lives " , ' 46 , where he stars as a fishing boat Capt . in a rather small boat and manages to take along a very young female as a passenger . The gal has to sort of live in a closet on the boat that was filled with all kinds of kitchen junk . Pat Bannon experiences a great storm at sea which causes many problems and then out of the blue , he runs into an abandoned sailing ship . It is War time with the Nazi's and the ocean is filled with submarines . Claude Rains , ( Capt . Skalder ) , " The Greatest Story Ever Told " , ' 65 ( King Herod ) , appears as the Captain of a Danish vessel and is like a sheep in wolf's clothing . Enjoyed this mysterious film and the hidden secrets which are revealed in this film .
Something Different	This film starts out with Johnny Knoxville , ( Phil Kaufman ) who was the personal manager and good friend to Gram Parsons , ( Gabriel Macht ) is trying to obtain the dead body of Gram Parsons . Phil manages to get help in order for him to steal the body in order to cremate his remains per the request from Gram Parsons . Christina Applegate , ( Barbara ) does not want the body to be burned , because she wants a death certificate in order to obtain Parson's entire estate . The entire picture dwells with obtaining the body and there is lots of humor and also a drama in this very unusual film which is a true story and if you like great pictures of the desert this is the film for you . Enjoy
Liza Minneli was Outstanding	Had never viewed this film and I am so glad that I never missed seeing it because Liza Minneli playing the role of Pookie ( Mary Ann ) Adams amazed me . The film starts off with a man and a girl sitting on a bench waiting for a bus to arrive and when it does a young man gets off to take a rest and his name is Jerry Payne , ( Wendall Burton ) . Pookie moves over to his bench and starts getting herself involved with him and then they get on a bus together since the both of them are starting their freshman year in college , although they go to different schools in Upstate New York . Jerry Payne figures he will never see this girl again and settles into his college life , then one day , Pookie arrives at his college dorm in a beat up looking BUG car and from then on this film steam rolls ahead with all kinds of crazy and unbelievable things happening to the both of them . Don't miss this film , you will really enjoy seeing this very unusual film .
Enjoyable 1951 Film	Charles McGraw , ( Joe Peters ) is an insurance detective who investigates cases that involve stolen money and heavily insured items that are being transported from one place to another . One day at an airport he meets up with a very pretty gal by the name of Diane , ( Joan Dixon ) who flirts with him and just so happens to sit next to him on the plane going to Los Angeles California . Diane tells the airline personnel on the plane that she is Mrs . Joe Peters which alarms Joe because she is not his wife and then he learns she said this in order to obtain a half fare on her trip to California . The plane runs into bad weather conditions and they have to stay in a hotel in Missouri which the airline provides . This story has many twists and turns and there are many roadblocks set up to trap these two lovers . Enjoy .
Great Randolph Scott Classic	Enjoyed this 1951 story about the expanding of the Santa Fe Railroad through Kansas and how some Southern soldiers after the war headed North to find jobs and their leader was Randolph Scott , ( Britt Canfield ) and his three brothers . There plan was to make enough money in the North and head back to Virginia , however , there was still great hatred towards the Northerners for burning their property and also claiming their homestead lands . As the Santa Fe railroad is trying to lay their track across the land there is a bunch of crooks looking for their pay checks on pay day and they set up a tent with gambling , booze and hot bar maids to grab every nickle and dime and cause great delays in the building of the railroad . Janis Carter , ( Judith Chandler ) is a pretty platinum blonde who captures the eye of Britt Canfield , but she hates him for killing her brother in the Civil War . Great film with steam engines burning up the tracks and even an Indian takes complete control of the engine . Enjoy a great 1951 Classis Western from the past .
Great Film Classic From the 30's	This 1935 film was well produced and directed and had a great cast of dramatic Classic Actors , who were all super stars during the 20's , 30's and into the 40's . Merle Oberon , ( Kitty Vane ) , " Interval " , ' 73 , plays a young woman who is really in love with two men in her life , which creates a sort of triangle situation and causes her great mental suffering . Fredric March , ( Alan Trent ) , " The Iceman Cometh " , ' 72 plays a boyhood friend to Kitty Vane and comes home with a great disability which he does not want Kitty to know about . Herbert Marshall , ( Gerald Shannon ) , " Midnight Lace " , ' 60 is also in love with Kitty and the possibility of their getting married is becoming quite certain . This film will keep you interested if you like old time actors and films made in 1935 . Enjoy
Grreat Hitchcock Classic	Enjoyed this great Alfred Hitchcock film starring Robert Cummings , ( Barry Kane ) and Priscilla Lane , ( Pat Martin ) along with Otto Kruger , ( Charles Tobin ) This story is about Barry Kane who works in a aircraft factory during the war and encounters a serious fire that breaks out in his plant and he hands a fire-extinguisher to his friend in order to try and stop the fire and it becomes a raging fire ball of flames . The man is killed and Barry is investigated by the police . Barry realizes he is going to be held responsible for this crime and decides to take off on some serious leads he has as to who the real saboteur is . He runs into a man who is blind and has a daughter named Pat Martin , ( Priscilla Lane ) who wants to turn him over to the police . This story becomes very involved as Barry tries to find out who is really responsible for this horrible crime .
Masterpiece of Martial Arts	This picture held my interest from the very beginning to the end with a film that is full of blood and gore . Sonny Chiba , ( Terry ) is hired to protect a young gal who has inherited a very large fortune and the the Asian mafia gets involved with trying to kidnap this rich young gal . There is eye-balls torn out , rape and drugs injected into a girl's veins in order to turn her into a full time prostitute . The martial arts was outstanding throughout the entire picture and Sonny Chiba put his entire heart and soul into this great 1974 film . I have never seen such a great film and was very glad I was able to obtain this film which I can enjoy over and over . Enjoy
Interesting Film	If you like to see camels grunting and crying in the desert and plenty of Arabs with swords clashing in the bright sun along with Omar Sharif , ( Emir Beni-Zair ) , you will enjoy this film . The film deals with a very pretty and sexy gal with beautiful eyes named Christine Sanders , ( Carol Alt ) whose son has been taken away from her by her ex-husband who is the son of an Arab Chieftain back to Morocco . Christine is a very successful business woman in New York City and is also very wealthy and she hires a man named Tom Burton , ( Rutger Hauer ) to hunt down her son and bring him back home . However , Christine wants to go along with Tom and she eventually convinces him to let her go along and I think she bit off more than she can chew on this dangerous adventure in the desert . During some very action scenes , Christine and Tom do find time to passionately embrace each other and their kisses were very very long . Omar Sharif , Elliott Gould gave great supporting roles to this film which is very entertaining and different . Enjoy .
Leo Carrillo vs . Boris Karloff	Viewed this film in the 1940's and again on late night TV . This film is about two notorious gangsters , Mike Palmero ( Leo Carrillo , who played in the Cisco Kid 1950 TV series as Pancho ) and Tony Ricca ( Boris Karloff ) , who are trying to gain control of the bootlegging racket . Maria ( Constance Cummings , who appeared in Wings TV show ( 1985 ) Palmero's daughter , is afraid of him and hates the business he is involved with . She falls in love with Ricca's son , Marco ( Robert Young , who was Marcus Welby in a famous TV series ) . The film made by Columbia pictures was a great gangster film and the beginning for Carrillo , Karloff and Robert Young .
Interesting Film	Liked the title to this film because of the fact I like stories that have something to do with Alcatraz the " Rock " and this was a great film from 1942 concerning some convicts who manage to escape from the prison . These convicts escape to a light house island with several civilians , a few men and one woman named Ann Porter , ( Bonita Granville ) and Champ Larkin , ( James Craig ) . These convicts do not realize that they have found themselves in a very difficult situation at this lighthouse and are not fully aware that World War II is going on and that Nazi forces are trying to invade San Francisco by submarine . There is secret messages being transmitted by Morse Code back and forth to the enemy sub and these convicts begin to find out just what is happening to them and the other civilians . This is a good Classic 1942 film with great direction and a very excellent story . Enjoy .
Great Acting	Spencer Tracy , ( James P . Curtayne ) , plays a lawyer who wants to get away from Criminal Law and go into Civil suits with not very much pressure , because he has a drinking problem . Jim Curtayne's daughter , ( Diana Lynn ) , ( Virginia , Ginny , Curtayne ) is staying with her father and keeping an eye on him for at least two years , in order to keep him away from the booze . James Curtayne soon gets involved with a family he has known all his life and decides to help them when their son gets involved with a murder . John Hodiak , ( Louis Barra ) is the Defense Attorney and gives James Curtayne a hard time in the court room . Pat O'Brien , ( Detective Vincent Ricks ) is an old friend of James Curtayne and tries to help him stay focused on his law case and does give him some important leads . There are many twists and turns in this crime drama and Spencer Tracy gives one of his best performances in this Classic 1951 film .
Entertaining Classic	Enjoyed this film which starts off with Cathy Timberlake , ( Doris Day ) standing on a corner in New York City while it is raining and she gets splashed by a limo driving through a puddle . The limo is owned by a very rich man named Phillip Shayne , ( Cary Grant ) and instead of stopping and assisting Cathy he drives off and realized he should have done something for this pretty blonde woman . Phillip Shayne looks out his widow and notices that this young woman is going into a auto-mat where you put in nickles and quarters for your food , so he sends his assistant Roger , ( Gig Young ) to offer her money to have a clothes cleaned . Eventually , Cathy and Phillip become friends with each other and she decides to go on a vacation with him in the tropics , even though they are not married and when it comes to going to bed , she has all kinds of fears and doubts about what she is doing . There are cameo shots of some very famous New York Yankee players and this is really a great 1962 Classic film .
A Great Entertaining Film	Always enjoy viewing Kurt Russell in most of his films and his performance in this film was outstanding along with Kathleen Quinlan . This story starts off with a Jeff Taylor and Amy Taylor traveling to a new area to locate from Mass . to California and were having a rough time trying to make things go and while they are driving they discuss the high loan they own on their car and wonder how they will ever get ahead financially . The couple finds themselves stuck on a lonely road in the desert and a truck driver helps them out and Jeff makes the decision to have his wife Amy go with the trucker to the next rest stop to call for help for his car to get a tow truck . It is from this point in the film when everything starts to get completely out of control and the story becomes a monster of a film . There are plenty of thrills and chills with wild truck and car chases and plenty of great action scenes with Jeff Taylor riding under a truck in an effort to find his wife . Great entertaining film , Enjoy .
Chicken & Waffles , Bible Quoting , Evil vs . Good !	It was very hard to sit and view this film , but I decided to see what this Judgement Day film was all about . Poor Ice-T , " Up in Harlem " , ' 04 , has to make a living and had no choice but play the role of Matthew Reese , a convict who is given a second chance by Suzy Amis , ( Jeanine Tyrell ) , " Firestorm " , ' 98 who played the role of an FBI Agent . Suzy had no make up , looked very bad in close ups and wore her hair in a pig tail and appeared skinny as a bean pole through out the entire picture ; I forgot , she did let her hair down , but not for sex . There was lots of quotations from the Bible , and especially the Book of Revelations , where the earth is suppose to be set on fire and the end of the world occurs . Lots of time wasted on talking about eating in a food joint called the Chicken & Waffles . The entire film was a big waste of time , but if you want to waste time , this is the film for you !
Classic Paul Muni FILM	Never realized that Paul Muni , ( Joe Radek ) played in a film concerning miners in Pennsylvania and gave such an outstanding performance beyond anything I realized he had accomplished in his long career on the silver screen . In this film Joe Radek is an immigrant to this country , however , he is very clever in many ways and seeks justice for his fellow workers in the coal mine in which the town people work . Karen Morley , ( Anna Novak ) gives a great supporting role to this film and really loves Joe Radek and what he is trying to accomplish . The town is controlled by the coal mine owners and Barton MacLane , ( McGree ) along with William Gargan , ( Slim Johnson / Company Police bully the people in the town along with J Carrol Nash , ( Steve Croner ) who all work against the miners and control their living conditions . There is a big problem trying to establish a Labor Union and there is a constant battle between the very poor and rich people of the community . Paul Muni gave the best performance I have ever seen in this Classic 1935 film , don't miss this picture .
Classic Ann Harding Film	Ann Harding plays the role of Marion Forsythe who is an artist and looks absolutely beautiful in her role . Marion wears very little makeup and at times looks likes a ghost . Robert Montgomery , ( RIchard Kurt ) seeks out Marion and tries to get a biography of her along with many other men who have had relationships with her in the past . Edward Everett Horton , ( Leander Nolan ) claims to have been romantically involved with her and Edward Arnold , ( Mre . Feydak ) gives a great supporting role . There is plenty of funny scenes and lots of slapstick comedy which went along with most films from 1935 . This is truly a great film Classic of Ann Hareding who was a great film star along with all the other actors in this great film Classic . Enjoy .
Constance Bennett was A Pin Up in 1931	Heard about Joan Bennett , but never viewed any of Constance Bennett's films , and in this 1931 picture she was very young and had great talent . Constance , ( Laura Murdock ) , " Sin Town " , ' 42 , played a young gal who lived in a low income flat with her large Irish family and a father who was lazy and drunk most of the time . Laura decided to move out and go on her own when she meets Adolphe Menjou ( William Brockton ) , " I Married a Woman " , ' 58 , who played a fat , rich , dirty old man who buys Laura's body and soul . As the picture progresses , Laura has plenty of worldly goods , but deep down is very unhappy and Bill Brockton does not intend to marry Laura , but just gives her promises . One day , Laura meets Robert Montgomery , ( Jack Madison ) , " The Great Gatsby " , ' 55 TV , who is a reporter and falls in love with him . You will also see Clark Gable , " The Misfits " , ' 61 , who portrays the role as a laundryman who goes house to house and eventually marries Laura's sister . The " Easiest Way " , was performed on the New York City stage and was a rather sexy play for 1931 , because Laura was considered a prostitute living with a man unmarried in those days . You will like this ending , but the real ending was a great deal different .
Good Whistler Mystery	Always enjoy the wonderful performance that Richard Dix would present in this old time Radio favorite and his on the big screen appearance in the 1940's . In this film Dix plays the role of an artist ( Ralph Harrison ) who is married to a very rich woman Edith Marie Harrison , ( Mary Currier ) who has been very ill for many years and it puts a strain on their relationship . Ralph meets up with a blonde model , Kay Morrell , ( Leslie Brooks ) and he paints all kinds of pictures of Leslie . A relationship develops , however , Kay does not love Ralph and knows he is married , but she does wrap him around her little finger and manages to get all kinds of expensive jewelry and clothes . Mrs . Edith Harrison starts feeling well and visits her husband's studio and from that point on the story gets very interesting and creates a great mystery story . Enjoy a good B Classic film from 1946 .
A Truly Great Classic that Lives On and On	I was very young when I first viewed this film in 1946 and never dreamed that this film would still be viewed and commented about in this 21st Century . All the stars in this film were great actors and gave fantastic performances and it is great to see films like this being shown and enjoyed by future generations in America and around the world . Claudette Colbert , ( Leola ' Lee ' Addams ) , " So Proudly We Hail , " ' 43 , played a very strong mother who lost her husband suddenly and found herself very much in debt and having a daughter , June Allyson , ( Penny Addams ) , " The Glenn Miller Story " , ' 53 , who seemed to have mental problems dealing with past experiences of her father . Lionel Barrymore , ( Dr . Rossiger ) , " Duel In The Sun " , ' 46 , was the doctor treating Penny Addams and also her mother Leola . Walter Pigeon , ( Chris Matthews ) , " Funny Girl " , ' 68 , was a very good friend of the family and stood in the background and gave the family all his support to bring happiness to the family . This is a great Classic drama with a very haunting piano selection which is played through out the picture and adds to the deep secrets hidden in Penny Addams mind and soul . Enjoy . "
Great Mystery Film	Enjoyed the great acting performance by Sigourney Weaver , ( Helen Hudson ) , " The Village " , ' 04 , who plays a agoraphobic psychologist and has great abilities to know the minds of serial killers . The police have their doubts about Helen Hudson , she is always holding a glass of booze through out the entire picture and a complete nut case at times . However , Helen does convince the male and female detectives they have a serial killer , who is a copy cat and even has his own plans for murder . The Boston Strangler , ( Albert DeSalvo ) , Sun 0f Sam , Ted Bundy and more guys who enjoy the thrill of killing play a part in this film . Sigourney helped make this film interesting and enjoyable . If you like this type of film , enjoy .
Classic Film	The New York newspaper critics did not give this picture a great review , however the people turned out in record numbers to see this great 1954 film and in later years was recognized as a great Classic film . Gary Cooper , ( Benjamin Trane ) and Burt Lancaster , ( Joe Erin ) play the roles of American adventures who are hired by the forces of Emporer Maximilian , ( Geroge Macready ) to escort a countess to Vera Cruz . This all takes place during the Mexican Rebellion of 1866 and this is also a gold shipment worth 3 Million Dollars which only the Countess knows . Benjamin Trane and Joe Erin are very experienced soldiers and Joe has a bad reputation as a gunman and killer , these two men try to out smart each other and then decide to join forces . This film was photographed entirely in Mexico and there is many outstanding fighting scenes and lots of canons going off and swords swaying in the breeze . Enjoy .
Entertaining Film	Nick Nolte , ( Bob Montagnet ) , " Neverwas " , ' 05 was perfect in this role as a gambler and thief all living in the fast lane of life , just like Nolte likes to do in his real life . Nutsa Kukhianidze , ( Anne ) " Mathilde " ' 04 played the role of a young girl 17 years of age , who was a hooker and met up with Bob who treated her like a father and daughter in an odd sort of way , but they did get along . However , Anne got all her loving from younger guys who seemed to come and go . There is great photography around all the casino's and there is plenty of scenic views through out the entire picture . Nutsa Kukhianidze is as skinny as a bean pole and does have a few nude scenes and does some very hot sexy dancing . This is really not one of Nick Holte's better films , but it is very entertaining and seems to drop dead at the END !
Excellent 1946 Film	Geraldine Fitzgerald , ( Crystal Shackleford ) strolls down a London street and manages to recruit two strangers named Jerome K . Arbutny , ( Sydney Greenstreet ) and Johnny West , ( Peter Lorre ) to her apartment in order to celebrate a Chinese New Year . Crystal has a statue in her apartment named the goddess Kwan Yin which will open her eyes and grant wishes to the three strangers which involves a sweepstakes ticket . The two strangers have some very dark secrets and Jerome Arbutny is a crooked solicitor who steals money from trust funds and Johnny West is a small time criminal who loves to drink all the time . Crystal is a woman who has a husband who just plain left her and found another woman and then he is asking her for a divorce , but Crystal will not give him a divorce . If you liked seeing these actors in previous films you will enjoy viewing this film which is very mysterious with very dark secrets . Enjoy .
Locke was Outstanding	Once I realized that Sondra Locke was going to be in this picture , I knew she would give an outstanding performance as Marguerite , " Ratboy " , ' 86 . Marguerite is a young girl who is very clever about many things and just simply stays in the house and talks to her dolls who seem to her as being real people who can talk to her and advise her what to do . Marguerites father is Robert Shaw , ( Michael ) , " Jaws " , ' 74 who has not seen his daughter in many years and was never around when she was born into this world . Michael meets Sally Kellerman , ( Anna ) , " Ugly " , ' 04 and wants to marry her , but he has to get permission from Marguerite's mother . Marguerite finally sees her father after so very long and becomes overly attached to her father and practically smothers him with her over powering love and affection . Sondra Locke put her heart and soul into this role and showed her great ability as a very dramatic actress . Very entertaining film .
Biology Should Have Been Studied	This film was probably a shocker for audiences in the Year 1959 when teens getting pregnant was a horrible thing and the parents never explained anything to their children about sex and just figured they would all be educated through biology classes in school . This story is about a young innocent boy , Arthur Bartley , ( Brandon DeWilde ) who likes the girl next door , Janet Willard , ( Carol Lynley ) who liked Arthur and Janet decided to give Arthur a good lesson about love making and sex which usually starts a big event in people's lives , babies . Malcolm Bartley , ( Macdonald Carey ) Arthur's dad had great hopes for his son and he found out that his son was failing in Biology Classes and had straight A's in all his other subjects . Jessie Bartley , ( Marsha Hunt ) plays the role as Arthur's mother , who is a very calm woman and is very supportive of her family and gives an outstanding performance . By the way , Marsha Hunt had her 91st Birthday on Oct . 17 , 2008 , she was born on October 17 , 1917 and was a great actress on the big screen and also on the New York City Stage . This film was entertaining , enjoy .
" Now A Lay Me Down to Sleep " !	Had no idea just what type of film this was going to turn out to be , in the opening scenes there is a gal who used a complete dictionary of real foul language and I mean real bad , the guys tried to match her , but failed . This is a very interesting story about a gal who is supposedly having a child and is very pregnant ( 9 mos . ) throughout the entire picture , this poor gal is Juliette Lewis , ( Robin ) who does fantastic acting . Robin has body guards protecting her during this pregnancy to make sure the concerned party receives the baby when delivered . There are also some bad dudes who try to interfere with the safety of Robin and one of the guys tells a story about how he prays the pray : " Now A Lay Me Down to Sleep I pray the Lord my Soul to take , if I should Die Before I Sleep , I Pray the Lord my Soul to Take " , indicating this was the only pray he could pray . I found this quite strange , because this film is rather full of blood and gory , murder and plenty of killing . If you like a way out film with James Caan , ( Joe Sarno ) playing a real cool Cat , this is the film for you .
Roger Corman B Film	Enjoyed this black & white comedy , horror thriller about a busboy who works in a caf where artists and hippies frequent . Walter Paisley , ( Dick Miller ) is the busboy who is really untalented in every way who listens to all the artist talking about their talents and poetry is recited all the time . One night Walter goes home and hears a cat howling behind the walls of his apartment and decides to cut a hole in the wall and free the cat . However , he kills the cat with a knife and realizes this is the landlord's cat and decides to make the cat into a clay figure with a knife in the side of it . Waltere gets all excited when a girl named Carla , ( Barboura Morris ) kisses him for his great work on a nude model and he falls in love . This is a funny film and would be okay for a Halloween Night viewing .
Enjoyable Comedy	Enjoyed the great acting by the entire cast in this very enjoyable comedy about two newly weds who are living in New York City and the film starts with this couple riding in a horse and carriage through Central Park where they are staying at the Plaza Hotel . Paul Pratter , ( Robert Redford ) plays the husband who is a lawyer and his bride is Corie Pratter , ( Jane Fonda ) who stay six days at the hotel and then they both go to their apartment which is on the fifth floor and there is no elevator in this rather old brownstone building . Charles Boyer , ( Victor Velasco ) gives a great supporting role as an older man who has been married four times and becomes friends with Corie Pratter . Mildred Natwick , ( Ethel Banks ) who plays the role as the mother to Cori and she gets involved with Victor Velasco in a romantic relationship . Neil Simon produced a great film and I could watch it over and over again .
Inside a Video Game	The story is about a young man named Charlie , who just lost his girlfriend in a shooting and things were looking pretty bad for him . One day he receives in the mail a video game which requires that he must stay in the game until it ends and he cannot do anything else . There are all kinds of rules and regulations governing the game and Charlie faces all kinds of people who want to kill him . Charlie even meets a girl who looks just like his gal and they get into more fights than love making . There is not much comedy in this film and more horror and blood and gore . Not a bad film , good entertainment . Enjoy .
Hedy Lamarr Was Fantastic	Always enjoyed the great acting of Hedy Lamarr , ( Jenny Hager ) who plays a woman who has a very cruel and mean streak in her mind and soul . When she was a little girl she deliberately pushed a young boy in a steam knowing he could not swim and then proceeded to push him down deeper with her foot . Jenny grew up with a father who was the local town drunk and he use to beat her and abuse her until she finally got the attention of the town folk who rescued her from this horrible father . As Jenny grew older and turned into a pretty young girl , she decided to marry a man named Isiah Poster , ( Gene Lockhart ) much older than she was only because he had lots of money and that was what she really wanted out of life . Jenny manages to destroy many men and women until life catches up with her . George Sanders and Louis Hayward gave great supporting roles in this story that deals with a very evil woman .
Fantastic Film	Had my doubts if I was going to enjoy this film and once I started viewing this film , my eyes were glued to the TV Screen . Ron Perlman , ( Hellboy ) " 5ive Girls " , ' 06 gave an outstanding performance growing up as a small red hell-boy with one large lobster type hand , horns and a nice long tail . Hellboy is protected by some evil forces that want to conquer the entire world , however , Hellboy changes his thinking and starts to have emotions which lead him to become very attracted to this one gal . There are very wild creatures that never seem to stop multiply and Hellboy even gets involved with an egg hunt along with a marine creature that maneuver's under the water . Great entertaining film , don't miss seeing it .
Great Film	Liked the film , " In Cold Blood " which made Truman Capote a very wealthy man and also a famous celebrity who appeared on many TV shows and a few films . Toby Jones captured the entire film with his life like portrayal of the real Capote and made him come alive once again to tell a deeper and darker side to his childhood and true feelings towards one of the killers . This film also revealed the type of people that Truman Capote associated with in New York City high society and what a gossip he was among all the ladies and a few men . Sigourney Weaver , ( Babe Paley ) along with many other famous actors gave great supporting roles to this picture . However , this is truly a great masterpiece for Toby Jones who put his heart and soul into this role . Enjoy .
Nice Classic Mitchum Film	Enjoyed this Robert Mitchum film where he plays the role as a Korean War Veteran named Lucas Doolin who returns to his family and continues to carry on the family trade of running moonshine whiskey from the family still . Lucas is a very admired young man who has two different gals that are head over heels in love with him , but he just keeps running up and down the mountain hills of the South and never seems to want to quit and settle down . Gene Barry , ( Troy Barrett ) plays the role as a Treasury Agent who starts to investigate this moonshine business and is hot on the heels of Lucas Doolin . However , there is another man who wants to take over the whiskey running business and this creates more problems for Lucas as all his family and friends who are in this business and are going to run into big troubles . It was nice seeing Robert Mitchum's oldest son also giving a supporting role in this film .
Bogart & Scott Film Classic	Enjoyed all of Humphrey Bogart's films along with a very sexy actress , Lizabeth Scott , ( ' Dusty ' Chandler ) who gave outstanding performances in their one and only film together . Bogart plays the role of Capt . ' Rip ' Murdock who is traveling by railroad with his Army buddy , Sgt . Johnny Drake , ( William Prince ) who is going to Washington , D . C . to receive a Medal of Honor award , but somehow disappears off the train . Rip decides to investigate his buddy's disappearance and runs into ' Dusty ' and finds out she was Johnny Drake's ex-girl friend and he seeks her help and assistance and becomes very much in love with her . There are some very dark secrets that ' Dusty ' is keeping from Rip and when these secrets are revealed this film will take you into another tricky ending . Great Classic and a very entertaining film which keeps your interest in the beginning , and gets rather slow and boring in the middle of the film , but the ending is a knock out .
Discovered a great Horror Film	For some reason I missed viewing this Horror film and enjoyed the very young looking Anthony Hopkins , ( Charles " Corky " ) who is taught the magic business by an old pro and knows all the secrets of being a great magician . Charles is a rather shy and introvert who does not have very much confidence in himself , however , he does manage to get on the public stage and performs cards tricks which no one pays any attention to and he becomes very upset . Charle's next step is to create a dummy and becomes a very good ventriloquist and devotes his entire being to this dummy who takes complete control of his life , but at the same time makes him very famous and extremely rich . Charles agent , Ben Greene , ( Burgess Meredeth ) becomes suspicious of the way Charels is acting towards to dummy and realizes he is having a mental problem . Charles also meets up with an old time girl friend he had a crush on and things get pretty hot for Peggy Ann Snow , ( Ann Margret ) who is also married to a guy named Duke who is no one you want to run into , especially if you are going to bed with his wife . Great horror film and great acting by the entire cast of actors . Enjoy .
JOHN FORD'S PICTURE IS A CLASSIC !	John Ford made this another great film classic for future generations and a great learning film . Henry Fonda ( Priest / and Fugitive ) gave a wonderful performance along with Dolores del Rio ( An Indian Woman ) . This black and white film made the horrors of prison life very real and uncomfortable . J . Carrol Naish ( Police Informer ) ran after Fonda throughout the entire picture . Leo Carrillo ( Chief of Police ) ( famous for his acting in the Cisco Kid Movies ) ruled his corrupt jail with an iron fist . Ward Bond had to make an appearance as ( El Gringo ) and if you look real fast , you will see Mel Ferrer as Father Serra ) All of John Ford's films were great in the 30's and 40's and will always remain so .
Marie Wilson Was Great	This is definitely a way out comedy about a man , Milo Terkel , ( Walter Abel ) who is hen-pecked by his wife , daughter and live-in brother-in-law who is a free loader . The story starts off with Emily Terkel , ( Margot Grahame ) and her husband Milo Terkel in a court room and the judge wants to know what caused this couple to want a divorce . The story has a flash back to what brought all these troubles to their marriage . Milo inherits a dog named Fabulous Joe , who is able to talk and only to Milo and this Joe dog starts telling Milo to stop letting his family walk all over him and to put his foot down and gain back the respect from all the members of his family , namely his wife , daughter and live in brother-in-law . Gorgeous Graham , ( Marie Wilson ) is a very sexy blonde who gets involved with Milo which adds to his problems and the story goes around and around with Milo trying to hid this hot gal in his bedroom without being seen . Very low budget film and not worth viewing .
A Headache of a Picture	The two lovers in this picture who were having an affair , namely : Deborah Kerr , ( Sarah Miles ) and Van Johnson , ( Maurice Bendrix ) both bored me to death with their flashbacks about their so called love affair . The entire picture went around in complete circles along with bombs exploding in London during World War 11 . The End of the Affair should have been over before it started , I doubt very much if this couple even enjoyed their so called sexual affair , the both acted way out of character and Van Johnson and Deborah Kerr were not suited for each other as actors in this film . It is a depressing horrible film and it really gave me a Headache to watch .
Entertaining Film	This is a story about a young ambitious man who likes being a gangster and when he is young the role is played by Young Gangster , ( Paul Bettany ) . Freddie Mays , ( David Thewlis ) is the head king pin and decides to hire this young gangster who wants to fill his shoes someday . There are many flashbacks concerning the life of the young gangster and the older gangster played by Malcolm McDowell who managed to send Freddie Mays to prison and he also took over his entire business . There is plenty of blood and gore and rough and tough British crude language which is very hard to understand . This is a very unusual film and it will hold your interest right to the very end .
Great Veteran Actors	This is a very strange film about a mental institution which is operated by Dr . Stewart McIver , ( Richard Widmark ) and Dr . Douglas Devannal , ( Charles Boyer ) . Stewart is married to Karen McIver , ( Gloria Grahame ) and they are both having marital problems , she claims he does not pay much attention to her and especially in bed . Meg Rinehart , ( Lauren Bacall ) , is a new employee with the hospital and is divorced and has a young son . All of the staff has their own serious problems as well as trying to take care of some very serious mental patients who require a great deal of attention . It is hard to believe that the main subject in this film is about just plain simple drapes and just where to hang them and this is causing a great deal of problems with the patients and staff . Richard Widmark and Lauren Bacall gave a great performance along with the very sexy gal , Gloria Grahame . This is a very crazy film and it will keep you guessing just how this picture will ever end .
Kristy & Pin Head Team UP !	Interesting second version of Hellraiser , where you actually have a good idea what hell is all about and after viewing this film from beginning to end , you have experienced a LIVING HELL ! Ashley Laurence , ( Kristy Cotton ) , " Pomegranate " , 01 , found herself in a hospital and was in the bed only briefly . Kristy has a new doctor , head shrink , who loves those sweet puzzle boxes of pure horror and terror and seems to collect them as a hobby and put them under glass , all neatly place on his desk . The Doctor is Philip Channard , ( Kenneth Cranham ) , " Layer Cake " , ' 04 , who winds up getting all hot and bothered again with Kristy's aunt . The usual blood falls on a mattress and the love making seems to start and plenty of deep throat kissing and licking of blood . There is a young actress named TIffany ( Imogen Boorman ) , who has a very easy job of acting , simply because , she never Says a Word through out the entire picture and I must say , has a great way of solving very difficult PUZZLES . If you liked Hellraiser before , you just might like this picture .
Very Entertaining Silent Film	Enjoyed this film from the very beginning to the very end and loved the great acting of all the actors along with plenty of laughs . This was a rather spooky film with secret panels , hands with long pointed fingers grasping at your neck and people running around in an old mansion . In this film various people have been summoned to this haunted house by a lawyer who is going to read the Last Will & Testament of a rich Cyrus West who wanted his will read twenty years after his death . Cyrus West knew that his relatives were like Cats and a Canary looking for him to die in order to obtain his great wealth . Laura La Plante , ( Annabelle West ) and Creighton Hale , ( Paul Jones ) gave great performances , don't miss this great film Classic from 1927 .
Star's SWAN SONG	Always enjoyed the great acting of John Garfield , ( Nick Robey ) and for some reason , I did not see this picture until just recently on TCM . The film is hard to locate nowadays and was great to see the very last picture that John Garfield ever made . As usual , Nick Robey is a down on his luck guy in this picture and even his own mother hates his guts and gives him a very hard slap in the face . Nick gets involved with a robbery and decides at the same time to go for a swim in the local indoor swimming pool and meets up with Shelly Winters , ( Peggy Dobbs ) . These two get pretty close to each other and Peggy sort of invites Nick into her parents apartment and it is from that point in the film when everything starts to get interesting . John Garfield's career was beginning to slow down for him in Hollywood and he did have heart problems and was found dead making love , which was probably exactly the way Garfield would have want it to happen in real life . Great Classic film with a very sad ending .
Sandra Bullock was Charming in this Film	Enjoyed this film greatly , Liam Neeson , ( Charlie ) , showed his great acting abilities in both comedy and drama through out this film . Charlie needed help in many ways and went to a head shrink and his group therapy friends managed to help him with Columbian drug lords and the mob , when things started to fall a part for Charlie . Charlie ran into Judy Tipp , ( Sandra Bullock ) , who went along with his crazy ideas and got his mind off his problems by going to bed with her and making love quite often . There are scenes where Judy Tipp manages to get a tug boat in order to rescue Charlie and all his weird friends aboard . There are great helicopter pictures of Manhattan and the great skyline and our former Twin Towers . Sandra Bullock directed this picture and made this a very entertaining film . Enjoy !
Classic 1931 Film	Ronald Colman , ( Dr . Martin Arrowsmith ) , " A Tale of Two Cities " ' 35 , is a young doctor who starts out in life and desires to progress into the laboratory and look under a microscope all day long . However , he no long completes medical school and meets up with Helen Hayes , ( Leora Arrowsmith ) and on the first date , asks her to marry him . Martin and Leora are madly in love with each other but it is difficult for Martin to establish himself as a doctor , so they move to South Dakota . Myrna Loy , ( Joyce Lanyon ) , " The Mask of Fu Manchu " , ' 32 plays a sexy gal who has eyes for Martin and could lead to some problems . In 1931 this was a big hit film because of Helen Hayes , a great theatrical actress and Ronald Colman the thrill of most ladies during this period of time . Myrna Loy was young and pretty and getting great attention from Hollywood and the general audiences . There was plenty of smoking through out this film and it clearly shows how the world has finally changed about its view on smoking .
Very Nice Behaved Bunch of Guys & Gals	Russell Crowe , ( Hando ) , " A Beautiful Mind " , ' 01 , gave an outstanding performance in this film about Skin Heads along with Jacqueline McKenzie , ( Gabe ) , " Opal Dream " , ' 05 . This film really got down to the dirty filthy facts of how the Skins live and act and make love to women like they were just a piece of human flesh to do anything they want done . I doubt very much if any gals or guys who appreciate starting out their life with this type skin head type of mentality . However , it was full of laughs and I enjoyed seeing Gabe getting even with her Old Man and almost destroying his entire home . Gabe played a wild and mixed up gal who wore crazy clothes and made it with anyone who wanted her . Great acting and a very funny and entertaining film , not to be taken seriously at ALL !
Carradine was Outstanding	Enjoyed this film from beginning to the very end because it was so down to earth and told a great story about Woody Guthrie played by David Carradine . Woody Guthrie left his Texas home and headed for California and along the way he experienced riding the railroad in a box car and even on top of them from town to town and was beaten up by the railroad workers . Woody meets up with some very poor people who were trying to make a living by picking crops in the fields for penny's a day and children deprived of food and shelter . Ronny Cox , ( Ozark Bule ) meets up the Woody and they play music for a radio station and at the same time try to get a union established for the working people on the farms . David Carradine did a great job of acting and this is a very outstanding picture to view more than once . Enjoy
Great Cast of Actors	The Big Knife was a Broadway Play starring John Garfield and when John passed away , Hollywood made this story into a film in which Jack Palance played the role of ( Charles Castle ) along with Ida Lupino , ( Marion Castle ) who plays Charles's wife who also have a young son . Charles has been a successful actor and made many films in Hollywood and really wants to quit the movie industry and get back together with his wife and child who he has been separated from . However , Rod Steiger , ( Stanley Shriner Hoff ) is a famous Director and Producer who wants Charles to sign a seven ( 7 ) year contract and will not take no for an answer . Stanley does everything possible to make Charlie see his way and uses all kinds of strong arm tactics which creates a real drama . Great film and great acting by the entire cast . Enjoy
Marsha Hunt Gave an Outstanding Performance	Enjoyed this film from the very beginning to the end with great artists performing in Carnegie Hall and a great story revolving around a woman named Nora Ryan , ( Marsha Hunt ) and her son named Tony Salerno , Jr . , ( William Prince ) who wants her son to become a great concert pianist . Nora works in Carnegie Hall as a cleaning lady polishing brass rails and works hard to support her son who she loves very much . Tony grows up in Carnegie Hall and gets to meet all the famous conductors , singers and famous musicians . However , Tony wants to cut the apron strings of his mother and branches off to the modern dance bands and meets up with a very attractive gal which sort of breaks his mother's heart . If you like Classical Music and enjoy the great talents of super star talents from the past , this is the film for you . By the way , Marsha Hunt is approaching the age of 90 years and contributed a great deal of her acting ability to the Hollywood Silver Screen . Great film , don't miss it . Enjoy .
Great Acting	Clint Eastwood did a fantastic job of portraying a great director , John Houston , who made the " African Queen " a great Classic Film . John Houston's father Walter Houston was a great veteran actor and all the talents seemed to generate in John Houston's family . Humphrey Bogart and Katherine Hepburn had to put up with the horrible conditions in Africa because Houston wanted an actual location that was real and even a steam boat from the dark ages to work with . This film goes behind the scenes and shows all the boozing that went on and how bound and determined Houston was to try and catch the real Big One in the jungles of Africa . Great performances by all the actors and especially , Clint Eastwood .
Great Classic 1930 Film	The famous Director , John Ford presented a great 1930 film starring Spencer Tracy , ( Saint Louis ) who plays the role as a big time crook who has gone in and out of correctional facilities and he encounters Humphrey Bogart , ( Steve ) who is also a convict in the same prison . A pretty young blonde gal named Judy , ( Claire Luce ) becomes a prisoner and meets Steve and they become immediately attracted to each other and Steve has only a few weeks before he is released . There is plenty of comedy in this film and it is great to see how very young Spencer Tracy and Humphrey Bogart appear in this film who were just starting out on their great careers on Hollywoods Silver Screen . John Ford made another film with Spencer Tracy after twenty-eight years and Spencer Tracy and Humphrey Bogart never made another picture appearing in the same picture . There is great acting by the entire cast and do not miss this film , it is worthwhile to enjoy this great entertainment .
1951 Classic	Enjoyed viewing this black and white film from 1951 dealing with a few people who were able to survive a nuclear war which killed millions of Americans . William Phipps , ( Michael ) lived in New York City and witnessed the entire city's population killed and he traveled to the West and was able to find a town where he could obtain food and shelter . As the film develops he meets up with a young woman named Roseanne Rogers , ( Susan Douglas Rubes ) who is pregnant and Michael takes her under his wing and tries to comfort her and he begins to fall in love with her . However , Roseanne wants to find her husband in the city and keeps her distance . There is three men and one woman who remain alive in this film and all these people begin to get on each other's nerves and this story takes on some very mysterious twists and turns .
A Joseph Cotton Screen Play	Howard Graham , ( Joseph Cotton ) plays the role as a U S Naval Engineer visiting Asia with his wife , Stephanie Graham , ( Ruth Warrick ) , Howard no sooner gets back to his hotel room from a conference he attended when a man visits his room and wishes to invite him to the night spots of Turkey . Howard is reluctant and wants to stay with his wife and he eventually agrees to go out with this man who seems to know about him . Howard gets himself involved with a woman who performs in a caf as a Spider Woman , her name is Josette Martel , ( Ruth Warrick ) . The story becomes complicated and Howard meets up with Col . Haki , ( Orson Welles ) who orders Howard not to travel by train and go on a ship , which will be much safer for him , as he warns him that Nazi Agents might be after him because of his knowledge of weapons and armament secrets he is taking back to the United States . Excellent story with a great deal of twists and turns . Enjoy .
Lover's Lane Bandit	This film is a about a guy named Whit Whittier , ( William Campbell ) who is really playing the role of Caryl Chessman who wrote this book and is a person who has a long wrap sheet full of crime and eventually winds up on Death Row in San Quentin Prison , California . Whit grew up in a nice family in California and had a good home and a great mom and dad who loved him very much . However , Whit had his own ideas and decided to steal and got caught in almost everything he did and spent a great deal of time behind bars . As soon as Whit was released from prison he would join up with another bunch of crooks and face another jail sentence . He had a blonde sweetheart named Doll , ( Marion Carr ) who loved him and was faithful to him whenever he needed her help and love . There was a crime being committed by a man who was called the Lovers Lane Vandit who would creep up and attack young women who were with their boyfriends on a date and rape them . After awhile people began to suspect Whit Whittier as the man committing these crimes and he was then arrested and sent to prison . This is a true to life story about a man called Caryl Chessman who was killed on death row in 1960 .
Pretty Good Mystery for 1943	Enjoyed this black and white picture from 1943 and Warren Baxter , ( Dr . Robert Ordway ) who is a psychologist and at the same time gets himself involved solving crimes and out smarts all the professional police enforcers . In this picture Dr . Robert Ordway comes to the aid of Loyld Bridges , ( Jimmy Totter ) who is an ex-con and seeks the doctors advice about starting a new position and the fact that he had intentions of marrying Lynn Merrick , ( Ellen Totter ) . Dr . Ordway suggests that he not get married for awhile until he gets settled in his new job . There is plenty of trouble that starts and the mystery gets quite complicated and many scenes are filmed in an old night club that is closed and everything is mostly done in the complete dark with very poor flashlights and even kerosene lamps are used and a telephone rings right after a fire in the night club .
A Look Back in 1947	Greatly enjoy these classic films which featured Dr . Robert Ordway , ( Warner Baxter ) who plays the role of doctor and also a detective who always manages to catch the killer . In this story , Dr . Ordway cancels all his appointments at his office in New York City and hands all his cases over to his assistant and tells everyone he is going on a vacation way out in the country for some good fishing and hunting and he will not involve himself with anything else , because he has not taken a rest for a very long time . Dr . Ordway no sooner gets to his location that the local town becomes sick with a Typhoid epidemic and everyone is getting sick and some people are dying . There is a local doctor who mixes all kinds of herbs and way out contents and Dr . Ordway has to take matters into his own hands . Dr . Ordway runs some tests with the state health department and discovers that someone has been poisoned and then the story takes on a different twist and Dr . Ordway stops enjoying any kind of vacation and tries to find out who the killer is . This is a great look back at films in 1947 and is lots of fun to watch .
Bad Dudes in this Western	Sam Cooper , ( Van Heflin ) was a gold prospector all his life and he finally found a good gold mine and one of his partners decided to kill him in order to keep it all for himself . However , Sam Cooper manages to blow up the mine and bury his partner instead , meaning that Sam Cooper had to hide the gold because it was too heavy to carry back by horseback through a desert area . Sam Cooper gets back in town and gathers up a group of guys , some he did not care to tag along . One guy was Mason , ( Gilbert Roland ) who knew Sam Cooper in past years and Sam figured he could trust him . There is one gal who appears in the town named Anna , ( Sarah Ross ) who is a sexy bar girl who gives Sam and eye full of her female charm . Brent the Blonde , ( Klaus Kinski ) is dressed up like a preacher but is a human rattlesnake who will give you one look and blow you away the next second . This film is very much like the Humphrey Bogart film , " Treasure of Sierra Madre " , but this film is full of cruel evil men lusting for gold and gold only .
Morgan Freeman was Outstanding	Enjoyed viewing this film about an American Soldier who was being returned to his hometown a small city in Georgia . Major Kendall Laird , ( John Lithgow ) is escorting the remains of this soldier and he has to face the family , Luther Johnson , ( Morgan Freeman ) and his wife . This procedure usually takes a few days , however , Major Kendall experiences strange behavior by the men who were in combat with this Lt . Johnson , who has been awarded a medal for saving their lives . There is also another problem which involved the burial place for Lt . Johnson because of a racial problem with the town people who do not want a Black person to be buried in their cemetery . There are many twists and turns and this film reveals a very surprising story about what really happened to Lt . Johnson .
Great Classic Western	This film is not like your typical Western from the past , it has a very interesting story about the Quantrill Raiders from the South after the Civil war in the states . These Quantrill Raiders were still fighting the Civil War when it was over quite awhile ago , they meet up with Robert Ryan , ( Jeff Clanton ) a soldier in the Northern Army and he knows most of these Raiders and tries to help them get clemency from their war crimes . The Jesse James gang has joined up with the raiders and Lawrence Tierney , " Dillenger " , plays the role of Jesse James . Robert Preston , ( Matthew Flower ) plays a carpetbagger who runs a Detective Agency and is out to kill Jeff Clanton , who is a lover of his wife , Claire Trevor , ( Lily ) ; and knows that Matt Flower is a crooked man out to make himself a fortune on capturing men who are Wanted and cash in on their reward money . Walter Brennan , ( Doc Butcher ) gives a great supporting role and lots of laughter . Great Western , enjoy .
Not the Best Ripper Film	Always liked " The Lodger " 1944 starring Laird Cregar and Linda Darnell . Jack Palance , ( Slade ) " Batman " , 89 , with his face , would almost tell everyone he was Jack the Ripper . This 1953 version was poorly directed and the entire picture was a very low budget film . If it was not for Jack Palance and a few veteran actors , this version who have fallen completely on its face . Constance Smith , ( Lily Bonner ) looked very attractive and gave some spark to this film and even excited Jack the Ripper so much , he wanted to run away with Lily and stop all his naughty killings . I got so tired of seeing Slad burning so many clothes and stinking up the house , it made me start to cough and laugh at the same time . This is Not The Best Ripper FIlm
Classic Film	Dr . Andrew Manson , ( Robert Donat ) is a new doctor who comes to a mining town for his new position and has a hard time starting out , but he soon becomes accepted by the mine union and he obtains a foot hold in the town . However , the union wanted a doctor who is married , because they are also furnishing a large home . Dr . Andrew had met a young lady who was a teacher and all of a sudden , he asks Christine , ( Rosalind Russell ) if she will marry him , even though he does not even know her name or anything else about her . Dr . Andrew becomes very interested in the problems that the miner's are having with their lungs and starts to make studies with animals and is even able to write a medical journal on the breathing conditions in the mine . This is a very interesting story and Dr . Andrew has many ups and downs to go though before the end of this film .
Lot of Whipping & Stabbing	This is a very good early film with Christopher Lee who portrays in this film a very evil man who loves to cause troubles an simply enjoys giving one particular young pretty woman a whipping on her back after tearing off her blouse . This whipping goes on and on and then they manage to make love right after she is almost beaten to death . This woman who is getting all the beatings is a newly wed to another man however , she did know Christopher Lee from her past and liked his rough and horrible way of making love . This is a very good Christopher Lee classic where he is not really the star of the film , but manages to take complete control of almost every situation right to the bitter ending . The beatings get boring after awhile and it is really too drawn out , but lets remember it was 1963 and there really was no sexy scenes at all , only BEATINGS !
Jack Palance & Claudia Cardenale Were HOT	This is truly a great Classic Western film with plenty of great veteran actors . The photography was outstanding and added greatly to the plot of the picture . Jack Palance , ( Jesus Raza ) , " Marquis De Sades : Justine " , ' 69 played a very tricky character who would stop at nothing to get what he wanted and especially a woman to save his life . Claudia Cardenale , ( Mrs . Maria Grant ) , " Don't Make Waves " , ' 67 teased all the men she came in contact with and drove them all crazy with lust . Burt Lancaster , ( Bill Dalworth ) , " The Swimmer " , ' 68 , and Lee Marvin , ( Henry ' Rico ' Fardan ) , " Cat Ballou " , ' 65 showed their great acting skills and made this film a great Western Classic . Claudia Cardenale was a great star and did not perform in many American films , which was unfortunate for the American public .
Typical Boston Blackie 1940's Film	This low budget film with the usual cast of characters has Chester Morris , as Boston Blackie coming to the aid of an ex-con buddy who he got to know while serving in the State Penn . His buddy is being released and has some diamonds hidden my his previous business investments and is afraid his old gang will want the diamonds and kill him . Ann Savage , " Detore " is the ex-con's daughter and she wants to look after him and seeks Boston Blackie's help . Richard Lane , Inspector Farraday is still out to handcuff and arrest Blackie for breaking into a locker containing the diamonds . There is train rides and plenty of car chases and Boston Blackie even impersonates an African American in order to disguise himself from Cy Kendall the top gangster . If you like these sequels , you will love this film which runs very smoothly and is enjoyable .
Loretta Young Was Fantastic	Loretta Young played the role as Ellen Jones who is a nurse and she meets George Z . Jones , ( Barry Sullivan ) who was an Army Air Force pilot whom she met in a Naval Hospital where she worked for a Lt . Ronney Grahame , M . D . . Ellen is very fond of her doctor co-worker and was sweep off her feet by George Jones and she married him . Ellen's husband returned from war and was affected with a mental disease which caused him to be sick all the time and Ellen waited on him hand and foot to make him happy . Dr . Grahame was his attending physician and gradually realized that George was having real problems and Ellen begins to see a big change in her husband's behavior . The story has many twists and turns and will keep you guessing just how this picture will turn out . Loretta Young gave a masterful performance and made this a great film classic .
Many Twists & Turns to this Film	Enjoyed this film which starts off with a very neat robbery on the London Bridge , in England and then the picture takes you to a Circus Community that has lots of wild animals and very creepy people . Christopher Lee appears in the film but very briefly , their are plenty of lions , tigers , elephants and plenty of people with hidden paths and deep dark secrets . There is a constant battle between a guy and his attractive gal who teases him with a lot of flirting with other men . This film will completely keep you guessing just how the film will end because of the many twists and turns it takes you on . This film would really be a good Halloween film even though it does not have any horror , just suspense . Enjoy .
Coppola & Corman Created a Mystery	Over the years I simply missed this film and as soon as I knew that Francis Ford Coppola and Roger Corman were involved in this film , I knew this would not be an ordinary horror film , but a good mystery . The film starts off with a young pretty blonde getting in a row boat with her husband and there is some heated discussions about the family and especially her husband's mother who has a will drawn up and giving most of her money to charity . There are many flash backs that delve into very dark secrets of a certain person who has all kinds of nightmares all the time . When things get rather quite and calm , a hatchet chops on wood and then advances to other objects . Great film , good entertainment and very well produced and directed .
Very Entertaining film	Always like the pictures that Nicholas Cage appears in and this one is my favorite , he plays the role as Memphis Raines who has retired from the racket of steal very expensive cars and is not helping little children drive their small cars on a race track for kids . His life is disrupted by the news his brother is in trouble and will lose his life if he does not manage to steal fifty ( 50 ) cars in about 24 hours and they have to be very expensive . Memphis Raines calls up some old friends he used to work with in his car stealing days and manages to get plenty of help . Angelina Jolie , ( Sway Wayland ) adds lots of excitement to Memphis Raines life and their is some hot moments in a car that will steam up the windows . Robert Duvall appears in this film along with many other great supporting actors . There is plenty of action and lots of police cars running after Memphis Raines who does a great job of getting away from them all . Great entertaining film you will enjoy from the beginning to the very end .
Classic Actors	Enjoyed viewing this old timer from 1943 and seeing Lucille Ball acting as herself and getting plenty of laughs . In this film , Lucille's career is sort of fading and her agent thinks it is a good idea for her to get some press coverage by becoming a date for a Senior Prom at Winsocki Military Academy . The lucky guy is Bud Hooper , who at the same time has a girl friend who wants to go with him to the prom also . June Allyson , ( Ethel ) does some fancy dance steps and sings a few tunes , which sort of launched her career in films . There is some great entertainment from Harry James and his orchestra , he plays a great version of " Flight of the Bumble Bee " and also does a funny dance routine with Nancy Walker , who really was the great comic in the film and got most of the laughs . This is definitely a look back in the past , with plenty of 1943 entertainment . Enjoy
Mysterious Submarine	Enjoyed this story about a submarine who destroyed a German ship during WW II and how Matthew Davis , ( Odell ) and Brice , ( Bruce Greenwood ) were also able to rescue some British survivors from a submarine attack . There were three British sailors and one female , ( Claire ) , Olivia Williams , who was a nurse and she had one of her patients who survived along with her . There are strange events that seem to happen to this submarine and all kinds of accidents and many attacks from other ships hound this submarine . Olivia goes into the captains cabin and discovers some secrets in their Naval Log that causes her to wonder just what did happen to their first Captain and his mysterious death . This is a great thriller aboard a submarine during war time and the real enemy seemed to be aboard this vessel . Enjoy
Great Bogart Film	Enjoyed this 1938 film dealing with a young boy named Frankie Warren , ( Billy Halop ) who is placed in a reform school which is in bad condition and the leadership does not care about the young men and treats them all like hardened criminals . Mark Braden , ( Humphrey Bogart ) is assigned a Deputy Commissionier of Correction and decides to take off the bars on the reformatory and sets a new policy of giving the young men jobs to keep them busy and educate them for the outside world . Mark Braden meets Frankie Warren's sister named Sue Warren , ( Gale Page ) and they fall in love with each other after Sue sees how Frankie is improving and has changed his personality towards people and himself . Mark Braden discovers that there is corruption going on in his correction institute and he confronts his chief guard and finds out that Reformatory Superintendent , Morgan are working together stealing funds from the reformatory . All the " Dead End Kids " appear in this film and they give lots of comedy and drama throughout the entire picture . Great 1939 Classic .
Entertaining Mountain Climbing Film	Usually I do not care very much for mountain climbing films as they usually have a very similar plot . This film had plenty of action with Helicopters flying all over the place and horrible snow storms and also entrapment in caves deep under tons of snow and ice . The film starts out with a father , son and daughter adventuring up a steep mountain during a very sunny day and having a wonderful time with each other . Their father was a very experienced climber and all of a sudden a tragic situation happens and a horrible life or death decision had to be made within seconds . There is lots of scary scenes and plenty of explosions and more action than you can handle .
Great Horror Film	Famous monster hunter , Van Helsing , ( Hugh Jackman ) is called to monster territory in Transylvania which involves him with the forces of darkness and death . There is plenty of sparks with special effects and even Frankenstein appears along with the Wolf man and plenty of Draculas killing their prey . Richard Roxburgh , ( Count Vladishaus Dracula ) gives an outstanding performance as the main blood sucker along with Shuler Hensley , ( Frankenstein Monster ) . Kate Beckinsale , ( Anna Velerious ) adds some female attraction along with a great cast of blood sucking monsters . This is a horror films which will keep you glued to your seats . Enjoy .
Missing Daughter	This is a very strange mystery with a woman who just lost her husband who jumped off an apartment building in Berlin , Germany and she is taking her husband's remains back to Long Island , New York . This woman's name is Kyle Pratt , ( Jodie Foster ) who was an aircraft propulsion engineer who help build this aircraft and quit her job and is traveling back to New York City with her daughter a six year old girl named Julia , ( Marlene Lawston ) . Kyle falls asleep on the plane trip and when she wakes up she is missing her young daughter and seeks the help of the aircraft crew and even the Captain of the plane which is a big double decker plane and no one can seem to find her . The plane's manifest does not list her daughter and no one seems to recall ever seeing this young girl . This is a great mystery and Jodie Foster gives an outstanding performance . Enjoy .
1938 Great Entertaining Film	Missed viewing this great Classic 1938 Classic film which stars great veteran actors like Edward G . Robinson , ( Dr . T S Clitterhouse ) who is a psychiatrist and medical doctor who decides to investigate the world of crime . Dr . Clitterhouse gets himself involved with criminals and wants to do a study of what makes all these people chose the life of crime and even gives blood tests to all the criminals . Claire Trevor , ( Joe Keller ) and Humphrey Bogart , ( Rocks Vallentine ) are a few of the people involved with Dr . Clitterhouse's study of the criminal mind . There is also some very comedy scenes and all the actors give an outstanding performance .
Special Effects for 1963 were Great !	Missed this film and enjoyed the special effects which show huge rocks falling on both sides of a old time sailing vessel and a mythical creature appearing just at the correct time . There are a bunch of Skeltons that seem to appear when teeth are thrown on the ground . Todd Armstrong , ( Jason ) , " A Time for Killing " , ' 67 did a great job of fighting off his enemies and saving a beautiful gal from a sinking Greece ship who was Nancy Kovack , ( Medea ) , " Marooned " , ' 69 . Jason did not realize but Medea had a father who was very famous and powerful who did not particularly like Jason when he came face to face with Jason . Medea does come to Jason's aid when he gets into a bad situation . It is interesting as the film progresses and they try to find the Golden Fleece . Nice 1963 Classic , with great graphics .
Great Classic 1942 Film	Greatly enjoyed this story written by John Steinbeck and a great cast of veteran actors who all gave outstanding performances . Daniel Alvarez , ( John Garfield ) is a poor young man who pals around with a bunch of lazy men who never seem to work and love to eat and drink wine . Daniel inherits two homes that his grandfather left him and one of his friends , Pilon , ( Spencer Tracy ) decides to take advantage of him and brings in all his friends to live in one of the houses . There is a great deal of trying to steal chickens and also obtaining free wine from local female ladies . Daniel meets up with a very pretty woman named Dolores Ramirez , ( Hedy Lamarr ) and they both become very good friends and lovers . There is also a man named The Pirate , ( Frank Morgan ) who lives like a tramp , but has plenty of money hidden in the woods . The Pirate is trying to save money to buy a silver golden stick for the Statue of St . Franicis in the local Catholic Church . Pilon wants to steal this money from the Pirate and then he starts experiencing different changes in his personality which creates a great ending to this story . Enjoy .
MacMurray Plays a Bad Dude	This film starts off with Jim Larsen , ( Fred MacMurray ) being handcuffed on a train headed for a prison after he was involved with a bank holdup . As the train travels , Jim Larsen's young brother jumps on the train and tries to free his brother who did not want him to get involved and the brother is wounded and Jim puts him into the baggage car in order to give him a good place to hide . Jim Larsen decides to find a small town to settle in and he even sits next to a little girl on the train and when he gets to the town he becomes friends with the local sheriff , Mark Riley , ( Lin McCarthy ) and even becomes romantically involved with the sheriff's sister , Ellen Bailey , ( Dorothy Green ) . You will never be able to figure out how this picture ends , but it was a perfect ending for a guy like Jim Larsen . Enjoy .
Great 1927 Silent Film	Enjoyed viewing this film about an African American film during the Year 1927 and loved the entire story that concerned itself with a successful piano player who was a very good person and lived in a boarding house with other people . He noticed a certain lady was being abused by her father and decided to protect her and provide a place to protect her from any more harm . It was not too long that he decided to marry her and completely change her life and give her more security . However , her father had a very serious drinking problem and was convinced by a friend of his to abducted his daughter and bring her into the entertainment business or prostitution . This story has many twists and turns and is a great film about race and there are plenty of mixed emotions in 1927 with relationships between Black & White people . I doubt if this film was very popular during the 1920's but our country has progressed much further today .
Excellent B & W 1947 Film	It was great looking back at the 1947 photography of Washington , D . C . , and the old vehicles being driven around . This film is like a documentary about the Treasury Department and its functions in 1947 and how their agents went into the field to stop fake currency , tax stamps and many more tasks . In this picture , Dennis O'Keefee , ( Dennis O'Brien ) takes on an assignment as an agent undercover who tries to seek out the big wigs who are running this phony money racket throughout the country . Dennis O'Brien tries to get in contact with a slimy character named , ' The Schemer ' ( Wallace Ford ) who was a big time hood at one time and had slipped down the ladder of crime almost into the gutter . There is a brief appearance by June Lockhart , ( Mary Genaro ) , who starred in the " Lassie TV Series " . Anthony Mann was a great director on this picture and made many great films throughout his career .
Hedy Lamarr was Outstanding	Enjoyed this black & white 1942 film dealing with a British rubber plantation in Africa where Mr . Harry Witzel , ( Walter Pidgeon ) is in charge of the operations . The conditions on this plantation is very hot and humid and you go to bed sweating and wake up the same way in complete discomfort . There is a young man named Mr . Langford , ( Richard Carlson ) who has been hired on the plantation and is eager to make big changes in his new position , but the climate soon breaks him down , except he does meet up with a very sexy native gal named Tondelayo , ( Hedy Lamarr ) who wraps him around her little finger in more ways than one . Veteran actor Frank Morgan plays the role as an alcoholic doctor who gives a great supporting role and Hedy Lamarr gave a great acting performance as a very dangerous and sexy gal who always gets what she wants . Enjoy .
Mississippi Story	This was a great film written by the famous writer William Faulkner dealing with an old man going back to his youth sixty years ago . Steve McQueen , ( Boon Hogganbeck ) along with a few of his friends decided to take a trip from Mississippi to Memphis in an old time car which was relatively new during this period of time and taking along a very young boy named Lucius , ( Mitch Vogel ) . Boon takes Lucius into a brothel where he stays over night in Memphis and learns a great deal about the birds and the bees and especially from a sweet kind lady named Carrie , ( Sharon Farrell ) who is a gal very much in love with Boon . There is a horse race and lots of laughs and drama to go along with the rest of the picture . There was a great deal of problems between the director of this film Mark Rydell and Steve McQueen , but the film was finally completed but the producer would never direct another picture with McQueen .
Michael Douglas & Brittany Murphy Were Outstanding	Whenever I know that Michael Douglas will be appearing in a film , I am always quite certain to enjoy his great acting and the entire picture he appears in . Michael Douglas , ( Dr . Nathan R . Conrad ) , " Black Rain " , ' 89 , plays a doctor who is forced into caring for a mental patient Brittany Murphy , ( Elisabeth Burrows ) , " Sin City " , ' 05 , who has some very deep deep secrets about her father . Sean Bean , ( Patrick Koster ) , " Troy " , ' 04 , gives an outstanding performance and seems to appear in many flashbacks that Elisabeth Burrows can't seem to get out of her mind and soul . There is plenty of action and great photography in Manhattan's Canal street area around the Chinatown area . Michael Douglas and Brittany Murphy stole the entire film with outstanding acting abilities . Enjoy
Fight Between Good & Evil	Great acting by Keanu Reeves , ( John Constantine ) and Rachel Weisz , ( Angela Dodson ) who both struggle against all forces of evil and good . John Constantine has great powers and has put many souls into hell and in his struggles against angels and devils he encounters a policewoman who is seeking the deep dark secrets of the supernatural and how her twin sister was killed , who she never believed would have taken her own life . This film is filled with demons who try to give birth to other humans and you even see angels who are really not angles but real devilish creatures which roam around looking for souls that they can occupy . There are people cutting their wrists and a young woman jumping off a tall building to her death and this film goes on and on even with quotes from the Bible and the Book of Corinthians . This is really a Halloween special film only for the end of October . Enjoy .
Kate Beckinsole was Hot	Enjoyed this horror film because it had two famous horror creatures fighting against each other and trying to out smart each other with weapons and wits . The Vampire Colony is being threatened by the Lycan gang of Werewolves and the Vampire's are being led by the red hot looking Kat Beckinsole ( Selene ) who is really a rebel among her group and breaks all the rules of her blood sucking family . Selene even gets interested in a werewolf and decides not to bite his neck but does a good job of french kissing him to death . There is plenty of bullets flying all around and Selene manages to upset quite a few big brothers and werewolves and puts a ring right through their very noses . Enjoyable film and very entertaining if you like this kind of picture , which is must better than the old Vampire Films .
Great WW I I Film in the Pacific	There have been many pictures produced and directed during the World War II years in black and white dealing with Japan and Germany ; however , this film clearly showed the hand to hand combat soldiers fighting the Japanese . The United States Marines lost many men fighting to capture the Japanese Islands in the Pacific . This is a great film which portrays how the Native American Indian played a strong role as Radiomen who were able to speak a different language that the Japanese were unable to understand . Nicolas Cage , ( Sergeant Joe Enders ) gave a outstanding performance as a Veteran Marine who was badly injured in other war missions and decided to go back and finish the job he started out to accomplish . Great War Film and lots of action through out the entire film .
BORIS KARLOFF IS AN ABUSIVE PARENT !	Taped this picture on the late-late-late movie channel on the NY TV stations and have never seen it again . John Barrymore ( Tsarakov ) plays a crippled , half-mad puppeteer , who yearns to dance . Upon saving the young boy Fedor ( Frankie Darro ) from his foster father's ( Boris Karloff ) abuse , he recognizes the youth's ability and hopes to make him a famous dancer . Karloff's role was very minor , and he did not reappear after the opening sequence . There was a mention of Frankenstein in the script where it refers about a Golem fashioned from mud and given a human soul and is asked by Tsarakov " Frankenstein's man ? John Barrymore dominates the entire screen , but they still need Karloff to bring the 193l audiences into the movie houses .
A Supernatural Thriller	Kate Hudson , ( Caroline Ellis ) stars in this film which is a tale of terror and suspense . Caroline takes the job as a hospice nurse in Lousiana's bayous , and gets herself involved with a deadly secret involving magic . Caroline takes care of a man who had a stroke and is helpless in many ways but he tries to communicate with Caroline and tries to tell her he needs help from his wife . The key to this mystery seems to be in a very old attic which holds many secrets and no one has been in this room for years . There are many twists and turns and the ending is something you will never believe . Caroline does everything she can to help her patient to over come his physical problems and discovers some magical remedies which seem to be helping him . This is a great entertainment film . Enjoy .
JOSEPH COTTON FALLS IN LOVE !	Joseph Cotton ( Chris Hale ) is a gambler and has a hidden past which is going to catch up with him , he stole a great deal of money from the Mob in Vegas and his days are numbered along with Paul Stewart ( Whitey ) ( who appeared with Orson Welles and Joseph Cotton in the Old Radio Days ) Whitey tries to get his share of the dough and causes a great deal of problems . In the meantime Hale falls in love with Alida Valli ( Elaine Corelli , Valli ) who is a a disabled rich woman . Even the famous Jack Paar appears in this picture as ( Roy Healey ) and performed a lot better on TV than his role in this pic . There is a high speed chase , 1950's style , and a very romantic scene where Cotton's sweetheart ( Valli ) tells him , " no matter where you go , You Belong to Me , we are made for each other , either in this world or another " . Joseph Cotton was a great actor , he appeared in " Niagara " with Marilyn Monroe and many famous leading ladies . If you love Joe Cotton , you just have to view this well made 1950's film . It is way beyond criticism !
DeNiro Starting Out	Robert DeNiro looked so young in this picture I hardly recognized him and the role he played is unbelievable . This is however , a good baseball film with many veteran actors giving great supporting roles . In this picture Bruce Pearson , ( DeNiro ) plays the role of a simple minded catcher who was made fun of by all of the team players except one guy , Henry Wiggen , ( Michael Moriarty ) who stood by Bruce and gave him all the moral support and good advice to deal with his situation . It seems when the players got off of Bruce's back , he was able to hit home runs and had more pep as a catcher . Henry brings Bruce to the Mayo Clinic in Minneapolis and there was bad news for poor Bruce . Henry agreed not to tell anyone about the findings at the clinic and this is when the story gets funny at times and it hits a rather sad note . Entertaining film and great to see DeNiro just starting a great career on the silver screen . Enjoy
A Film with Deep Meanings	Enjoyed this film from 1942 which I have never seen over the years and it captured my attention from the beginning to the very end . It concerns an anti-fascist journalist named David Charleston , ( Michael Redgrave ) who is a reporter for a newspaper in Canada and he has traveled in Europe and has discovered that Hitler is starting trouble in Germany and there is reason to believe that Japan is also starting problems in China . David has great insight and tries to tell the English people about the threat of Hitler's Germany and to prepare for war in the early 1930's . David writes many books trying to tell the world that they are in big trouble and then decides to retire to a lighthouse in Michigan on the Great Lakes . A good friend of David , named Streeter , ( James Mason ) visits David at the lighthouse and wants to find out why David never cashes his pay checks for months . Streeter gets upset with the way that David is acting and finds out that he is communicating with dead people that had a shipwreck ninety years ago in the great lakes and in his own mind they are alive and talking to him . These people were European immigrants who wanted to come to America and at the lighthouse there is a Commemorative Tablet speaking about this shipwrecked crew members . This is a very deep and wonderful film with a great story to tell .
Great 1947 Classic	The story opens up with a woman leaving a beauty shop and a brief talk between the shop owner , Clara Calhoun , ( Jane Randolph ) and a customer who is leaving the establishment . Clara locks the front door and goes to her living quarters and opens and closes the back door a few times , and all of a sudden two bandits enter her shop and steal five thousand dollars . Clara Calhoun also runs a bookie racket besides being a beautician and the crooks were after her gambling money for the week . There is also a policeman who is shot as he was doing his rounds and one of the crooks is injured by the policeman's gun shot . Rosie Ryan , ( Sheila Ryan ) has a brother named Steve Ryan , ( Ed Kelly ) who manages to get railroaded for this crime because he drives a laundry vehicle which was at the scene of the murder and also a U S Navy scarf with his initials on it . John Ireland , ( Duke Martin ) gives an outstanding performance as a ruthless crook who will shoot anyone at the blink of an eye . Great entertaining film from 1947 .
Janet Leigh's First Film	Discovered this Classic Film from 1947 playing on TCM and was very curious about just what this story would present and who was starring in this picture . It was surprising to see Van Johnson in the starring role as Henry Carson and veteran character actor Thomas Mitchell , ( Gill MacBean . Janet Leigh was so young looking I hardly recognized her playing the role as a daughter to Gill MacBean , named Lessy Anne MacBean . This was the very first picture that Janet Leigh appeared in and she was very polished and professional even in her first important role of her career . The story deals with the ending of the Civil-War between the North and South and there were strong feelings still among the people in the South and Northerner's who traveled in their communities . Gill MacBean was not very thrilled about having Henry Carson getting too close to his daughter in a romantic way of speaking . Henry Carson wanted to establish a school in the local community and finding acceptance was very difficult for him to establish . There was a very deep secret that Henry Carson kept to himself about their son who was killed in the Civil War . There is Comedy , Drama and Romance and plenty of outstanding acting in this great Classic Film , Enjoy .
Kim Novak & Dorothy Malone were Great	Enjoyed this great classic film from 1954 starring Fred MacMurray , ( Paul Sheridan ) who is a detective and gets involved with Lona McLane , ( Kim Novak ) who is connected with a bank robber and Lona cons Paul to kill her boyfriend so they can take the money for themselves . The only problem is that Paul Sheridan is assigned to watch Lona on a stake out with other detectives and have her apartment watched and her telephone wires tapped . There are many problems that face Paul and Lona and one of Paul's detective friends gets involved with a girl named Ann Stewart , ( Dorothy Malone ) who lives in the same apartment house as Lona and lives down the hall . This story becomes quite exciting as a crooked cop tries to cover his tracks and makes mistakes after mistakes . Don't miss this Classic it is great with outstanding acting and a great cast of actors . Enjoy .
Horrors of War !	Always enjoyed the great acting of Claudette Colbert , ( Tomorrrow Is Forever " , ' 46 and especially her role in this picture as Agnes Keith , who is captured along with her husband and son in a Japanese prisoner-of-war camp during WW II and towards its Victory . This film clearly shows how people in our past Wars were treated by their captives during this terrible time in American History . Agnes Keith is a successful writer and is admired by a Japanese Colonel who enjoyed her writings and even asks her for an autographed copy of her books . However , once the Colonel turns his back , all Hell breaks loose . Hollywood did a great job of trying to show the American Public what horrors went on in this Prisoner Camp and others during the entire war in the Pacific , which is quite mildly accomplished . War creates monsters out of many people and the opportunity to seek power over other human beings is an on going struggle in this world . After viewing this picture I became very interested in this subject and read , " The Rape of Nanking " , by Iris Chang . This is definitely a great film that should be view by many generations in the future .
Disappointing	Thought this film was going to be interesting and quickly found out it was nothing that I have not heard before about missing planes , ships and people being lost completely in the Bermuda Triangle . The actors held this picture together with great acting by Sam Neil , Eric Stoltz and Bruce Davison . The TV Series of this story bomb out after a few showings and this film goes around and around in circles and you quickly lose track of just what the film is really about . The ending will leave you high and dry and you will feel like the story just came to a complete ending before it should have . Don't waste your time on this film , it was a big disappointment to me .
Classic 1955 Film	This film held my interest from the very beginning to the very end . The cast was comprised of all great veteran actors of the silver screen . The story is about a small Western town with everyday living people who are having trouble with their marriages and at the same time some bandits decide to hold up the local bank and are busy at work making their plans . In many ways , the town people can be glad a bank was held up which changed the lives of many people who were having problems . An Amish family was depicted in this film and the bandits even broke them away from their customs of living . This is a very well written story and a top cast of actors who have made this a gem of a picture to watch and Enjoy .
Lorre was Outstanding	Enjoyed this 1937 film starring Peter Lorre as Mr . Kentaro Moto who is an Interpole Detective and also an adventurer . Mr . Moto is assigned to track down some very rare Chinese scrolls or Treasure Maps which will lead to the secret treasure of Genghis Khan worth over 10 Million Dollars . There are many women and men looking for these maps and they need all seven of them in order to solve the mystery as to just where the Genghis Khan fortune is hidden . John Carradine gives a great supporting role as a Peniera , Antique Dealer who is a very shady character and tries to sell people phony antiques at very high prices . Peter Lorre tried to play a Chinese Detective , but I am afraid his voice and rolling hard boiled eyes gives him away . This is a very entertaining film and if you like Peter Lorre , you will love this Moto Series . Enjoy .
James Coburn was Outstanding	This film deals with a con-man named Eli Kotch , ( James Coburn ) who just gets out of prison and decides to lay out his ground work for a large bank robbery at the Los Angeles , California airport . Eli also knows that a Russian Prime Minister will be visiting Los Angeles and flying into the same airport which will distract the police force away from a bank holdup . Eli also meets up with a very sexy blonde named Inger Knudson , ( Camilla Spary ) who works for very rich people and cons her into doing all kinds of things , Eli even marries her with a fake ID . There is plenty of comedy and some tense moments in a police station . You will never be able to figure out how this picture will end . It will definitely surprise you . Enjoy .
Midler & Hershey Were Great Together	Was not very certain if I really wanted to view this film , some times Midler can be way out in left field . However , in this film Bette Midler , ( CC Bloom ) , " That Old Feeling " , ' 97 plays a very self-centered person who will stop at nothing to get what she wants and if it is a career on the stage , just forget about love or a husband and children . Barbara Hershey , ( Hillary ) , " Riding the Bullet " , ' 04 , is a childhood friend of CC Bloom and in some ways they help each other , even though they are complete opposites . There is plenty of comedy , lots of fighting , and more drama than you can handle . Midler sings outstanding songs we all know by heart and it is a very entertaining film , but very very SAD !
Depressing Film	This film starts out with Howard Spence , ( Sam Shepard ) who walks off the set of a Western he was starring in and no one can seem to find him which will cause a great deal of problems for the director and producer . Howard decides to visit his mother after not seeing her for 30 years , Eva Marie Saint plays the role as his mom and gave an outstanding performance . After visiting with his mother she tells Howard that he had a son from a women who came looking for him years ago and this puts an idea in Howard's head to visit the town where she lives . Howard seems to go around in circles with a young girl who follows him everywhere he goes and she carries an urn with her mother's ashes . There is one scene where Howard just sits on a couch which has been thrown out in the street for almost 24 hours while the camera views him for a long long time . The reason this film is depressing is the fact that Howard has abandoned his son and wife and he has to face his past sins and mistakes . The moral of this story is simply , " What you Reap , You Sow " . Strange film , but down to earth .
Loggia was Outstanding	Enjoyed this 1958 film dealing with a serial cop killer on the loose in New York City and a horrible heat wave which has most of actors always complaining about the heat . Robert Loggia ( Detective Steve Carelli ) is a very dedicated policeman and he works with Teddy Franklin , ( Ellen Parker ) who is an attractive gal . Alice Maguire , ( Shirley Ballard ) plays the role as a very sexy wife to Detective Mike Maguire , ( Gerald O'Loughlin ) but Alice is getting tired of being married to a cop and she wants her husband to quit because of all the cops being killed by a mad man throughout the City of New York . There are some sexy scenes which were considered very naughty to see a girl naked with a towel wrapped around her and a few other scenes with girls showing plenty of their legs . This is a great mystery and very good acting by Robert Loggia . Enjoy .
Plenty of Cobwebs & Secret Passages	This was one of Roger Corman's Horror films that was very well produced and had lots of suspense . John Kerr , ( Francis ) visits a very strange Castle that is occupied by Nicholas / Sebastian Medina , ( Vincent Price ) and proceeds with a horse and carriage . However , the coachman refuses to go very close to the castle and forces him to walk in order to reach this Castle above a rocky coast and sea . Francis is wanting to visit this Castle and meet up with Nicholas Medina who was married to his sister who had recently died and he had no explanation for her death . Francis did not waste very much time in getting some answers he wanted to know and he was told all kinds of things , but did not believe Nicholas stories . Nicholas had a sister who was visiting him named , Elizabeth , ( Barbara Steele ) who was very attractive and Francis liked her and she tried to help Francis find out some answers to how his sister had passed away . There are many secret panels that open and close and people are running from one room to another and then there is the Pit and the Pendulum .
The Lord's Prayer Was Even Quoted in this Film !	Whenever a picture is produced by Val Lewton , you know it will be something different and mysterious . Val had to work on a shoe string budget in making this film , which he was very skilled at doing . He produced " The Body Snatcher " , ' 45 and many other weird pictures , " Cat Woman " , etc etc . However , all the props and doors on hotels and subways looked like plywood and just bounced around trying to close . Tom Conway , ( Dr . Louis Judd ) , " The Falcon's Brother " , 42 , was a head shrink in this picture an gave a great supporting role . Jean Gibson , ( Jacqueline Gibson ) , " The Falcon in Danger " , ' 43 , was a rather mixed up gal who got involved with some organization that like to look into the dark world of Spirits and turned up missing . Kim Hunter , ( Mary Gibson ) , " A Streetcar Named Desire " , ' 51 , was Jacqueline's sister and decided to leave a school for young girls and traveled to NYC in order to find out just where her sister wound up . There are many people that Mary Gibson ran into trying to find her sister and many older men interested in her youth . Doctor Louis Judd , surprised me when he quoted a passage from the Lord's Prayer in order to slap down the doubting of an evil minded poor soul . You will find the ending rather hard to believe . Enjoy !
Scary Film	This film will give chills up and down your spine not because of horror or blood shed , but just the simple location in Wales , UK and a mysterious cottage and naturally , a Light House . Demi Moore , ( Rachel Carlson ) , a successful author of mystery novels wants to have a different location away from everyone and finds this very spiritual place , or you could say a purgatory for the living dead . Rachel encounters Henry Ian Cusick , ( Brian ) , " The Gospel of John " , ' 03 who seems to know a great deal about the Light House and its history and has some fun burying a Mother-0f Pearl sea shell in the sand as a symbol of lasting love . There are many twists and turns in this film and it is very well produced and directed . I must say , I have never seen Demi Moore looking so young and very sexy . Great entertaining film , enjoy .
Great Entertaining Film	This is a film full of action , romance , and horrible situations you can only experience in nightmares or your greatest fears . There are bits of comedy with a small boy who manages to get himself deeply involved with a Scorpion bracelet and fits in quite well with this thriller of a story . Brendon Fraser , ( Rich ) sort of plays second fiddle to Rachel Weisz , ( Evelyn ) who seems to handle the Scorpion King with no problems . If you hate looking at scorpions , you will definitely have your share and some might be larger than you plan to deal with in this film . Excellent production but rather too long and drawn out at times , but worth viewing .
Cagney was Outstanding	James Cagney got tired of film studios wanting him to make gangster films and typecasting him , so he went to Grand National Pictures and made this film with a Independent film maker . In this picture Caqney plays the role as Terry Rooney a band leader who has a great show in Manhattan with a great singer , Rita Wyatt , ( Evelyn Daw ) and there is plenty of comedy and great dancing routines throughout the show . Terry is very well liked as well as his singer Rita . Hollywood becomes interested in Terry and Bennett Regan , ( Gene Lockhart ) is a Hollywood director who wants to give Terry a contact to make a picture . Terry finds it hard to break into the Hollywood scheme of things and gets down in the dumps about his performances . Little does Terry realize that the producers and directors all like Terry and feel he is doing a great job , but Bennett Regan does not want to tell him that in order to keep him from getting a big head on his shoulders . Great Cagney film with outstanding dance routines .
Not Exactly the True Story	This was a very entertaining film about the horrible treatment of a certain prisoner at Alcatraz named Henri Young who robbed a store for five dollars ( $5 . 00 ) and was sent to prison . Henri Young was played by Kevin Bacon who did a fantastic job of acting and captured your attention through out the film . There were many scenes filmed on the Island of Alcatraz and some old time footage of the first time Warden of Alcatraz , James R . Johnston . Christian Slater , ( James Stamphill ) was the lawyer assigned for Henri Young's defense , who had a hard job trying to rehabilitate his client so he could stand trial and even speak a few words . Young was in such bad shape mentally from being put into the solitary confinement for three ( 3 ) years , he was like an animal instead of a human being . This Hollywood version is not all completely true about Henri Young , he really had a long history of crime and mental problems . However , this film is very entertaining and Kevin Bacon put his heart and soul into this role . Enjoy .
This Film Took Me By SURPRISE !	Have never viewed this film and never realized that John Wayne would ever play a role like this character he did in this Western ! John Wayne , ( Robert Marmaduke Sangster Hightower ) , " Brannigan , " , ' 75 , got himself in trouble with the law and managed to find himself adopting a BABY much to his disliking . Marmaduke also had to travel in the desert and gave the baby his last drop of water from his canteen and was able to find a donkey to help him arrive back in town . Ward Bond ( Perley , ' Buck'Sweet ) , " caught up with Marmaduke and was determined to put him in jail for 20 years . Guy Kibbee , ( Judge ) , " Fort Apache " , ' 48 , made this film his final Swan Song , who was a great character actor . This is definitely a John Wayne Christmas FILM !
Great Entertaining Film	When I discovered that Mark Addy , star of " Still Standing TV Series had a role as Roland in this film , I became interested in this film and it turned out to be a great film full of action , comedy and drama . The star of the film is Heath Ledger , ( Sir William Thatcher ) who decides to change his position in life as a peasant squire , so when his master dies he looks towards the world of jousting . Willaim needs a great deal of training and he does practice and fakes himself into a jousting tournament which is only restricted to Knights and royalty and when he begins to win a few matches and is then defeated he seeks other means to gain success . William meets up with a man named Chaucer who is a writer and poet and he decides to have him make up fake documents making him a knight in order to enter into these great tournaments and using another name entirely from a German county . It is not too long before William meets up with a very beautiful woman named Lady Jocelyn , ( Shannyn Sossaman ) who is royalty and at first they do not get along but eventually they cannot seem to leave each other alone and true love sets into their lives . Great film and very entertaining and enjoyable . Enjoy .
Great Classic Film	Enjoyed this film concerning a joint American-Soviet space expedition which is sent to Jupiter to learn what happened to Discovery . Ray Scheider plays the role of Dr . Heywood Floyd who was involved with the Discovery launch and was blamed for the malfunction of Discovery and simply disappeared and all the crew vanished into space . Dr . Heywood was given the opportunity to solve this problem and had to travel with the Russians as Helen Mirren , ( Tanya Kerbuk ) who was Captain of the Russian space expedition . John Lithgow , ( Dr . Walter Curnow ) gave a great supporting role as a technical adviser to Dr . Heywood . There is plenty of suspense through out the entire film and there is many surprises you will encounter in this great Sci-Fi Film .
Bank Holdup	Harrison Ford , ( Jack Stanfield ) played the role as a big executive at an International Bank and lived in a beautiful home designed by his wife , Beth Stanfield , ( Virginia Madsen ) They have two children , a young boy and a teenage girl and they all get along like a typical family . One day their lives changes when some very experienced hackers managed to break into their home and set up shop , even with their own TV dinners and high class computer equipment . It does not become long when this invasion of their home begins to wear everyone down and that is when the drama increases . There is a familiar face in this film who appeared in the " 24 " TV series and she is also a secretary to Jack Stanfield at the bank . This is a different type of bank robbery with high class computer experts going crazy . Enjoy .
Great Film Classic	Jane Russell , ( Linda Rollins ) , " Outlaw " , was very pretty in 1952 and gave an outstanding performance as well as a singing act performed with Hoagy Carmichael ( Happy ) at the piano . Linda is married to a gambling con-artist named Lloyd Rollins , ( Vincent Price ) who is hitting rock bottom with large gambling debts and tries for a big break at the Casion's in Las Vegas . However , Victor Mature , ( Lt . Dave Andrews ) knows Las Vegas and the people behind the scenes who informed him that Lloyd Rollins was in town to start some trouble in the Casion's . Dave Andrews spots Linda Rollins and realizes she was a gal he was in love with and their relationship drifted a part , however , the spark was instantly rekindled when they meet face to face . Russell , Mature and Carmichael make this a very entertaining film with murder and plenty of old time tunes . Enjoy .
Great 1943 Film Classic	Considering this was a 1943 film , I was quite surprised and entertained by the story and great acting by many veteran actors . Errol Flynn , ( Corporal Steve Wagner ) was a Royal Canadian Mountie who found a man who was exhausted and found in deep snow . This man was Colonel Hugo Von Keller , ( Helmut Dantine ) who is a Nazi officer and also a pilot who was on a secret mission in Canada . These Nazi's entered the Hudson Bay area in a submarine from Germany and headed North Northwest across Canada through deep Arctic temperatures . Gene Lockhart , ( Ernst ) is a spy for the Nazi's and manages to contact Steve Wagner and use him as a guide under false pretensions . There is plenty of action and a very surprising ending . Enjoy
No Dancing or Singing for Ginger	Never viewed this film and greatly enjoyed the acting of Ginger Rogers , ( Sherry Conley ) who played a rough and tough gal who was serving a prison term and she was involved with a big named mobster in New York City . Edward G . Robinson , ( Lloyd Hallett ) plays a law enforcement officer and his sidekick is Vince Striker , ( Brian Keith ) . Lloyd is trying to find a witness he can use against the mobster , Ben Costain , ( Lorne Greene ) in order to send him to prison for life . Lloyd discovers that Sherry was his girl friend , so he arranges to get her out of prison in order to testify . However , many witnesses have been killed already , so they hide her in a hotel room and try to protect her . The entire story is about protecting Sherry and Ginger Rogers gives an outstanding performance . Good Film .
Scary 1943 Film	Jerry Manning , ( Dennis O'Keefe ) plays the role as a publicity agent who is trying to help Kike Walker , ( Jean Brooks ) start her career in a night club . However , Clo-Clo ( Margo ) is a dancer who performs with castanet's which make a loud noise and attracts all the customers and out shines Kike Walker's act . Jerry Manning decides to get a pet leopard to draw the attention away from Clo-Clo , but the leopard becomes frighten and escapes and then many murders seem to happen which is blamed on the leopard . Kike Walker and Jerry Manning are upset about a young girl who was killed by the leopard and give money for her funeral and decided they had better leave and forget about performing any longer in this area . However , certain events seemed to have changed and they both decide to try and solve the mystery on their own .
Great Sinbad Film from 1974	This film was a big hit in 1974 and many other Sinbad films have been made and there is no comparison to our new films today , it was a great success in the 70's and is enjoyable to view and enjoy the great acting of John Phillip Law ( Sinbad ) and his woman companion , Caroline Munro ( Margiana ) who battle all the evil spells and evil powers that Tom Baker , ( Koura ) tries to use against Sinbad . Every time Koura uses the Evil Powers , his face begins to look like an old man and he even gets weaker and weaker . There is clashing of swords and deep pits of hell Sinbad falls into and he still manages to fight the bitter struggles of Evil vs . Good . Caroline Munro gives a great supporting role and Tom Baker is completely in control of his role as a very EVIL Demon . Enjoy this Sinbad from the Past , it is worth watching .
Borgnine Classic	Did not think I was going to like this film , but as the film moved on , it caught my attention . Ernest Borgnine , ( The General ) played a very evil role as a man who hated the Catholic Church and set out to kill all priests throughout Mexico . There was a man who lived in one of the local villages named Miguel Pro , ( Humberto Almazan ) who wanted to become a priest but he had his doubts mainly because he loved to entertain people with his music and jokes . There are many churches burned to the ground and the killing of innocent priests increased during the entire picture . The ending to this story you will never to able to figure out , however , after a few years acting , Humberto Almazan actually became a priest in real life .
I'm My Brothers Keeper	Enjoyed this great Classic film from 1956 starring a great cast of actors , namely : Van Johnson , ( Donald Martin ) who was serving time in Joliet Illinois Prison and seeks the help of his brother , Joseph Cotton , ( P M Martin ) who is a very successful rancher and well known throughout the community . P M is not very happy about his brother showing up , because he never told anyone about his brother and that he had a bad problem with drinking which caused most of the problems in his life . Ruth Roman , ( Nora Martin ) played the role as wife to P M who did not really get along and now that Donald Martin appears , his wife becomes interested in her husband's new friend , not knowing it is his brother . There is plenty of action and this is truly a great classic from the Year 1956 , enjoy . Nora Martin teaches her husband about being your Brother's Keeper , the hard way .
Lots of Good Laughs	This film was very entertaining , starting out with Ben Stiller , ( Ted Stroehmann ) , " Meet The Fockers " , ' 04 , protecting a retarded child from being picked on and then speaking to a high school girl about going to the prom . Then , all of a sudden the most beautiful girl in high school winds up asking Ted if he would like to go to the prom . The beautiful girl being , Cameron Diaz , ( Mary Jensen ) , " Gangs of New York " , ' 02 . Matt Dillon , ( Pat Healy ) , " Wild Thing " , ' 98 , is assigned to look into the private life of Mary Jensen after she is gone for over thirteen ( 13 ) years and living in Florida as a doctor . There is lots of great comedy and romantic scenes and nice shots of Cameron Diaz in her bra and panties , showing her very Slim and Trim body through an open window to her bedroom . Great entertaining film and great acting by the entire cast . Enjoy
1948 Classic Gem	In this picture Paul Henreid , ( John Muller / Dr . Victor Emil Bartok ) plays a double role as well as the Director of this film . John Muller is a very clever man and is recently released from prison and he no sooner gets out and plans a big robbery at a Casino which was not very successful . The mobster of the casino is a man who will hunt the robbers down and kill them , no matter whether it is five or 10 years later . Muller becomes very frightened and decides to take on the identity of another man who looks just like him , Dr . Bartok . The doctor has a secretary , Evelyn Hahn , ( Joan Bennett ) so John Muller romances her in order to gain her confidence . Muller studies all of the doctor's patients and even studies books in order to become knowledgeable of medicine . This picture is really called " The Scar " and was originally not a very success at the box office in 1948 , in later years , it has become a gem of a classic film . Enjoy .
Bathing in Blood	Enjoyed Blade 2 more than the first version , there seemed to be plenty of action between vampires trying to make peace among each other in order to get the real Blood Suckers . Wesley Snipes , ( Blade ) was kept busy almost every minute through out the film and had more tricks and special devices in order to bring plenty of light into the eyes of the blood suckers . Blade even takes a nice bath in a deep pool of thick blood which made me stay away from tomato juice for my entire life . Kris Kristofferson , ( Abraham Whistler ) acted at first like a very old man who just came out of a coma and then he started to use his brain power and helped Blade accomplish some of his tasks . There was very little time for any real sex in the film , I guess that all came into play after the Mission was completely accomplished .
Great Harlow Comedy	Never viewed this Jean Harlow film where she stars as a widow with the name , Crystal Wetherby and Robert Taylor , ( Raymond Dabney ) . Robert Dabney just comes home to his family after being in prison for six months for breaking the law and his brother and father are not pleased to see him come back home . Robert's mother is the only one who is happy to see her son and she wants to protect her son . The Dabney Family deals with ladies underwear and the business is not doing very well and Robert's brother wants to marry Crystal Wetherby for her money in order to save his business and he does not want anyone to know he had a brother who went to prison . It just so happens that Crystal is also broke and owes a large sum of money and she is being hounded by the bill collectors . Raymond Dabney is hired by a sheriff to collect the funds owed him and requires that Raymond stay in Crystal's home until the debt is paid . Crystal decides to have Raymond pose as her butler , but does not realize that Raymond is a Dabney and his brother wants to marry her . There is plenty of comedy and Jean Harlow and Robert Taylor burn up the silver screen together .
Very Dramatic & Scary	This is something of a nightmare of a film where a husband and wife plan on a much needed vacation and simply stop their hectic business life and decided to get away from everything and enjoy the tropics . Blanchard Ryan , ( Susan ) , " Bun Bun " , ' 03 , plays the wife who goes to bed naked and then immediately gets tired and denies her husband any love making which is a big tease and a very uncomfortable feeling to the husbands body . The husband is Daniel Travis , ( Daniel ) , " Thank You For Smoking " , ' 05 , decides that their relationship is sort of going on the rocks , scuba diving sounds like a good idea for the both of them . This couple experiences one of the most horrible situations you could ever want to find yourself , sharks bumping up against you , jelly fish stinging you and your eyes just looking at Walls and Walls of ocean water . Enjoy
Young Looking Janet Leigh	Since Janet Leigh is one of my favorite movie stars from the past , I really enjoyed this 1952 film where she stars as Lucy Duncan , a lawyer who had to work her way through some rough times in order to become a lawyer . Lucy has a boyfriend who is a civil engineer and makes eight-five dollars a week and Lucy finds out she has a new client who is willing to pay her fifty dollars a week and between the two of their salaries , they would be able to get hitched . The client Lucy has is Judge Samuel Coulter , ( Lewis Stone ) who wants Lucy to have a sort of power of attorney over the trust fund of Mark Maclene IV who is very wealthy and simply spends his money like water on all kinds of gals , giving them jewelry , furs and the list goes on and on . Lucy takes control and takes back all the items that Mark purchased and makes him live on fifty dollars a week , plus 50 cents for lunch . Lucy even shows Mark an auto mat where he can get his lunch for a quarter and takes him on a Staten Island Ferry ride for only 5 cents one way . Janet Leigh was twenty-five when she made this picture and was recently married to Tony Curtis . Great film to view , Enjoy .
Hedy Lamarr was Beautiful	Enjoyed this silly 1944 Comedy starring William Powell , ( William S . Whitley ) and his wife , Vicky Whitley , ( Hedy Lamarr ) . Vicky is being badly neglected by her husband and seeks the aid of a woman Astrologist who predicts she will meet another man and fall in love . Vicky's husband Bill is a very famous Astromist who has recently discovered a new planet in the solar system and has no idea that his wife Vicky is not happy with him . Vicky does meet a handsome young man in her life who is a neighbor and is also an Air Raid Warden , which was needed during World War II . Hedy Lamarr looked fantastic in this film and her natural beauty is clearly shown along with her great acting abilities . Great actor William Powell gave and excellent supporting role and it looked like they both enjoyed making this film . This is a worth while film to view from 1944 .
A Western Awaiting a Tornado	This is a very unusual Western Film which has more scenes in the dark with a great deal of difficulty in seeing just what is going on . However , there is a tornado which is expected and you do hear all kinds of high winds . This story is concerned about a Gary Hamilton , ( Klaus Kinski ) who is seeking revenge against Acombar ( Peter Corsten ) for framing him with a crime he never committed and eventually causing Gary Hamilton to serve ten years in prison . Gary Hamilton has been released and is riding on a stagecoach along with Dick Acombar ( Antonio Cantafora ) who is the son of the man Gary Hamilton wants to kill . Once Gary Hamilton realizes Dick Acombar is riding with him , he tells Dick to tell his father he is going to meet with him very shortly . It is from this point in the film when it becomes quite interesting and you could call this Western a Horror Film . Enjoy .
Great Love Story	This film had a great film location in Chicago and the photography was outstanding . Josh Hartnett , ( Matthew ) is an advertising executive and engaged to his bosses daughter and they plan to get married in the near future . However , Matthew one day finds himself looking at girl from a distance and believes she is a girl he was romantically involved with and is still in love with her . This girl is played by Diane Kruger , ( Lisa ) and once this couple meets again there is no way you can separate this couple and they quickly become very much in love with each other . There is also a young gal named Alex , ( Rose Byrne ) who is really stalking Matthew without him even realizing what is going on and Alex manages to capture his attention and he goes to bed with her . There are many flashbacks through out this picture and it becomes rather complicated at times until the picture reveals some very dark secrets that Alex has been keeping a secret .
Great Classic Western	If you like Westerns , this is one of the best , only because of the great actors , especially , Burt Lancaster . Lancaster , ( Bannock Jered ) , " Tough Guys " , ' 86 , plays a Marshall out to hunt down several men who killed an older man in his hometown . Robert Duvall , ( Vernon Adam ) , The Detective " , ' 68 , is one of the men he is looking for and is associated with Lee J . Cobb , ( Vincent Bronson ) , " Captain from Castile " , ' 47 , who runs a ranch and most of these men Bannock is looking for work for Vincent . Robert Ryan , ( Marshall Cotton ) , " The Love Machine " , ' 71 , is also the local Sheriff and has become soft as a lawman , because Vincent Bronson has bought him off to see his ways . There is a great deal of realism through out the entire picture and even a small amount of love making and quick romance . Oh , I forgot to mention the fact that Bannock Jered played on a wooden FLUTE , but it really sounded like an antique HAYNES FLUTE being played ! WOW
Sad Looking Alan Ladd	It was not very long into viewing this film that Alan Ladd was at the end of his career in Hollywood , his problem with Alcohol were starting to get the best of him in his eyes and face and even makeup could not hide the demon's he was facing in real life . Walt Sherill , ( Ladd ) plays the role of an aerospace engineer and very successful and married to his wife , Tracey Sherill , ( Dolores Dorn ) in a very nice home in the suburbs . One night as Walt is leaving his office he runs out of gas and starts to walk to a telephone when he is almost run down by a speeding car driven by delinquent juveniles . Walt yells at them and they proceed to go back to Walt and beat the living day lights out of him . It is from this point in the film which becomes very interesting and Rod Steiger , ( Det . Sergeant Kileski ) gives an outstanding supporting role which makes this picture a success . It is sad to say that this was Alan Ladd's last starring role in Hollywood and two years later he passed on to a greater stage .
Great Silent Film	This silent film kept my interest from the very beginning to the end and this was the first time I was able to view this film with Boris Karloff playing the role as a Mesmerist who had great powers of elevating people and being able to read the minds of guilty men who commit crimes . This story mainly deals with Lionel Barrymore , ( Mathias ) playing the role as an innkeeper who wants to become the mayor of his small town and is always giving free drinks to most of his customers or loaning money to them . However , Mathias is deeply in debt to a man who threatens to take his inn away from him and force him and his family into the street . Boris Karloff did have a brief role in this film but his great talent along with Lionel Barrymore made this a great silent film classic . If you like good Silent films , this is one of the best . Enjoy
William Holden Was Great	This film caught me by surprise to find out that William Holden starred in this film along with Lee J . Cobb in 1948 , and found it quite interesting from the very beginning to the very end . Holden plays the role as a criminal named Al Walker who really enjoys killing people and is loved and adored by Betty played by Nina Foch who was very young and attractive . Lee J . Cobb , ( Dr . Andrew Collins ) works for the police department as a psychiatrist and tries to help men from continually living in their world of crime . Al Walker has taken over Andrew Collins Summer home and all his guests and there is plenty of tension going on with guns firing all the time . There is a great scene between Al Walker and Dr . Andrew Collins where the doctor is trying to understand nightmares that keep Al Walker from going to sleep and at the same time try to teach him how to play the game of Chess . This is a very unusual film that seems to have been forgotten and put on the shelf .
Very Mysterious Film	This is a great film produced by Val Lewton , who made great pictures like " Bedlam " the " Bodysnatchers " and many others starring Boris Karloff . This film starts off with a young man who is boarding a ship to begin his new job as the ships 3rd officer , the man's name is Tom Merriam . Tom has been hired by a Captain Will Stone , ( Richard Dix ) who check out his military record and decided to hire him on his cargo ship . Tom enjoys his first few weeks aboard the ship and his best friend is a man called Sparks , ( Edmund Glover ) who is a radioman . Capt . Stone has many discussions with Tom about the role he is suppose to play as 3rd Officer of the Deck and there are times when Tom disagrees with the Captain's point of view . There are various things that happen aboard the ship and some men die in unexplained reasons for death and Tom begins to feel there is something wrong aboard this ship . This film will hold you in suspense and wonder just how this film with end . Enjoy .
Monroe Looked Her Very Best	Marilyn Monroe , ( Nell Forbes ) " Misfits " was exceptionally good looking and a very nice figure to go along with all her other assets . There is an interesting scene in the film where Nell stands in front of window in a hotel room and flirts and teases Richard Widmark , ( Jed Towers ) , " Kiss of Death " who is standing in another room in the same hotel and decides to join her for a drink and a jump in the sack . Nell shows great affection towards Jed and then all of a sudden things start to just plain CRAZY . Elisha Cook , Jr . ( Eddie Forbes ) , " I Wake Up Screaming " joins the loony hotel room and winds up getting knock on the head and locked in a closet . Marilyn Monroe did an outstanding performance , one of her very best , even though this was a low budget film , but it did show the great talents of Marilyn and how great she could have become if she had not been exploited so very much by Hollywood . A must see film from 1952 , Enjoy .
Funny & Sad	Excellent picture , great comedy , outstanding performance and out of the world great music which can be appreciated from generation to generation . Michael Caine , ( Alfie Elkins ) " Dessed to Kill " played the role of a love'm and leave'm sort of a playboy and a rather hateful and likable guy despite all his faults . Shelly Winters , ( Ruby ) plays the role of a rich older gal with a nice full figure who manages to capture Alfie's attention and draws him back to her time and again to her flat in London . This film shows that their is a Price Tag everyone has to pay for their decisions in life and taking the life of a human being will leave a scar on your soul you will never get rid of . Enjoyable , but rather sad film which has a deep moral story to tell .
Religious Film	This film completely surprised me the way it started out with various people all planning to take a trip on a plane , there is an old couple , a prisoner , Vasquel , ( Rod Steiger ) and a fallen lady Rena , ( Anita Ekberg ) . There is even a little boy who is being cared for by a mobster who decides the last minute to catch this same plane . The pilot of this plane is Bill Lonagan , ( Robert Ryan ) who is a veteran pilot but is also a heavy drinker . This plane crashes into a very thick jungle where head hunters occupy this territory which most of the people have not been told about this fact . All of a sudden , the little boy asks everyone to say the " Lord's Prayer " and after this , Vasquel turns religious and many people seem to change their thinking and the way they treat each other . Of course , there is evil vs . good among some of these people and this story goes into a completely different direction .
Ladd & Borgnine were Outstanding	Enjoyed this great film directed by Delmer Daves who is a very famous director and this story is about two prisoners from Arizona Territorial Prison in 1898 . Alan Ladd plays the role of the Dutchman who was framed for stealing gold and is a very educated man with lots of experience in mining for gold . Ernest Borgnine , ( John McBain ) is in prison for killing a man and they are both released from prison together . As soon as Dutchman gets out of prison he immediately gets himself involved with stealing gold from a mine he knows is very rich with gold and has hidden the passage to this area in the mountain . There are plenty of men in town watching what John McBain and Dutchman are up to and they run into some very difficult situations which will keep you guessing just how this film will eventually end . Great Film .
Great Western Classic	Richard Widmark , ( Jim Slater ) played the role of a young man who was a gunslinger and had reason to believe his father was killed up North while he hit it rich in a gold discovery . Jim learns little by little just what happened to his father . Donna Reed , ( Karyl Orton ) is also searching in this same town of Silver Creek for the killer of her husband . However , when Karyl and Jim meet up with each other they fight like cats and dogs and Karyl many times attempts to kill Jim . John McIntire , ( Jim Bonniwell ) and Barton McLane , ( Sgt . George Lake ) give great supporting roles along with great photography and a very good story with many twists and turns . Enjoy
Surfing & Love Triangle	This film is on location in Stavanger , Norway with outstanding photography on a rocky coast line with large cold waves and very young surfers who use short boards and really do not surf professionally . The film opens up with a marriage and a guy named Even , ( Vegar Hoel ) who was once married to this girl , Karen , ( Silje Salomonsen ) and is invited to be the best man and the sad part of this event is the fact that Even is still in love with Karen . The weather conditions in Norway for Winter surfing is below zero and water as cold as ice and not like California surfing conditions . This film keeps your interest from the very beginning to the end . Enjoy .
Kim Extremely Beautiful	Have not seen this 1958 film in a very long time and greatly enjoyed Kim Novak playing the role as Gil Holroyd who is an actual witch and has an aunt named Queenie Holroyd who is also a witch and Gillian also has a brother warlock named Nick played by Jack Lemmon . When Gillian sets her eyes on Shep Henderson , ( James Stewart ) who is engaged to a girl he is going to marry ; Gillian performers some magic spells with a cat and changes his mind about his intended bride and then becomes very lust full and falls in love with Gillian . The story tells that a real witch cannot fall in love , blush or cry and this begins to prove a big problem between Shep and Gillian , so Nick and Aunt Queenie decided they have to do something about this situation . Great film to view over and over again and a great classic film from 1958 .
Kathryn Harrold Steals the Screen !	Although I like Albert Brooks , ( Robert Cole ) , " The Muse " , ' 99 , and his great acting skills . Albert seems to have over acted his role as a frustrated film editor or he needed to visit a doctor for new brain cells . He starts out the film having dinner with Kathryn Harrold ( Mary Harvard ) , " MacGruder & Loud " , ' 85 TV Series , and a big argument starts out between the two of them , all because Robert thinks they should break up their relationship . It seems they have nothing in common but SEX . However , Robert and Kathryn make up and Kathryn gives a quick nude performance in bed . The director wanted this nude scene in order to keep the audiences from getting bored ! Kathryn Harrold helped put some sort of spark in the film and of course Albert Brooks did a great job of making Robert Cole the nuttiest person in the world ! I got a headache just listening to Robert Cole complain on and on to his co-worker , another film splicer ! ! !
A Hollywood Story	This was a very entertaining film about the man who was a crook and obtained his freedom when Jesus Christ was crucified on the cross . Anthony Quinn , ( Barabbas ) gave an outstanding performance and the role suited him perfectly . The story showed how Barabbas suffered greatly after his freedom and wound up in salt mines doing the worst kind of work and then having to fight as a gladiator against a powerful threat , Jack Palance , ( Tovald ) who gave an outstanding supporting role . This is a good film to show around the Easter season , however , this is pure fiction about the life of Barabbas and Hollywood present a good film along with the great actor Anthony Quinn .
Film Full of Great Actors	This is truly a great Musical Classic from 1948 with a cast of veteran actors and all at the height of their careers . Esther Williams , ( Rosalind Reynolds ) is a movie star who gives outstanding performances swimming gracefully with Richardo Montalban , ( Ricardo Montez ) and Peter Lawford , ( Lt . Lawrence Y . Kingslee ) who is a U . S . Navy technical adviser on the film who is suppose to fly a plane with Rosalind Reynolds hiding on the plane . Richardo Montez is in love with Rosalind Reynolds and expects to marry her after their filming of their movie . However , Lt . Kingslee met Rosalind a few years in the past and fell immediately in love with her and has every intention to marry her at all costs . Jimmy Durante , ( Jimmy Buckley ) along with Xavier Cugat and his orchestra gave great supporting roles to this great musical classic .
Capturing Vampire's is Different	Found this vampire film quite interesting and enjoyable . James Woods , ( Jack Crow ) , is a leader of vampire destroyers who uses some different tactics other than just the wooden stake through the heart . Jack Crow is assisted by Daniel Baldwin , ( Anthony Montoya ) , who falls in love with a hooker who is bitten by a vampire ; the hooker is Sheryl Lee , ( Katrina ) , " Paradise , Texas " , ' 05 , who is a flaming hot gal and gives the story some romance and sex appeal . A tow truck is used to haul the vampires to their final destinations and there is plenty of action , especially when they come up out of the ground to attack the necks of their victims . Enjoy
There Are Many Endings !	Found this film interesting only because you never knew just how this picture was going to end and who was going to out smart each other . Matt Dillon , ( Sam Lombardo ) , " Crash " , ' 04 played a teacher who was adored by both males and mostly females . Denise Richards , " Elvis Has Left the Building " , 04 plays a very hot sexy looking teenager who has the real hots for Sam Lombardo along with Theresa Russell , ( Sandra Van Ryan ) , " Black Widow " , ' 87 , her mother . Kevin Bacon , ( Sgt . Ray Duquette ) , " Loverboy " , ' 05 , does not like Sam Lombardo and is always keeping an eye on him and his activities . This picture will lead you down many blind alley's and you will never be able to figure out this picture , unless someone tells you and SPOILS IT !
Pita & Light	Enjoyed viewing this Belgium Film concerning a murder mystery involving a very high government official . Eric Vincke , ( Koen DeBouw ) and Freddy Verstuyft , ( Werner DeSmedt ) are both of Belgium's best detectives who are assigned to this case which involves many dark dirty facts that eventually become revealed . There is a very young girl about 12 or 13 who escapes being killed and then a hit man appears named Angelo Ledda , ( Jan Decleir ) who has Alzheimer's and is assigned to kill this young girl . There is one sex scene with a Belgium Prostitute which adds some so called romance to the film . Despite the hit man having Alzheimer's , he is deadly with a weapon and hand to hand combat for an older man . Enjoy , it was very entertaining .
Years were Hard on Ekberg	Enjoyed this film which had fantastic realistic scenes of drama , murder and both male and female nudity along with plenty of clowns and circus acts . This film is about Jean-Yves Thual , ( Lucien L'Hotte ) who works in a law office and gets involved with a rich older lady , Paola Bendoni , ( Anita Ekberg ) and eventually goes to bed with her and enjoys his sexual romance . However , Lucien L'Hotte really loves a very young girl in the circus and hopes someday to join her in the circus and have a great act together . There is a scene where Lucien jumps up on the desk of his boss in the law firm and proceeds to do a dump on his desk . There is lots of laughs along with a very entertaining film which is rather drawn out and very very slow . Enjoy
Great Gem of a Classic Film	This 1937 film gave me a big surprise with the great acting of Edward G . Robinson , ( Joe Krozac ) who plays the role as a big time gangster who is a hard cold killer and will not let anyone get in his way in order to get just what he wants . However , Joe Krozac gets himself in trouble just like Al Capone with falling behind in his income tax and is sent to Alcatraz prison for ten years on the " Rock " . Joe Krozac is married to a woman named Talya Krozac , ( Rose Stradner ) who is a foreign lady who does not understand English very well , but she loves Joe and gives him a baby boy just as Joe goes into Alcatraz . A man named Paul North , Sr . , ( James Stewart ) who is a newspaper reporter who becomes involved with Talya while Joe Krozac is in prison and they both get married and raise Joe Krozac's young son . This story has many twists and turns and it has many surprises which you will never be able to figure out unless you view this film . Enjoy .
Great 1948 Film	This was a very innocent sweet fantasy about a man who goes fishing and catches a rather different kind of under water creature , a Mermaid hook line and sinker . There is plenty of comedy , drama and romance . This man and son grew very fond of this Mermaid and this story will keep your interest from beginning to the very end . The ending is rather sad , but since this film is a sort of Fish story , nature had to take its course . There was quite a few other recent films about a Mermaid namely : " SPLASH " 1984 with Tom Hanks and Daryl Hannah and also a very early version in 1931 and a TV showing of " Splash " 1994 . I am quite sure there will always be a story concerning a Mermaid in generation's to come . Enjoy
Guess WHO ?	Jennifer Rubin , ( Allie Holton ) , " Road Kill " , ' 99 , gave a great performance as a very pretty innocent looking young gal , who is teaching in a Catholic School and simply loves her job and all the children . However , there is a photographer named Peter Outerbridge , ( Dylan Wiatt ) , " Land of the Dead " , ' 05 , who is taking pictures of Allie and finds her very interesting and attractive to even become a model . Dylan contacts Sally Kellerman , ( Evelyn Ash ) , " Open House " , ' 04 who is the boss of a large model agency ; Evelyn becomes interested in Allie in more ways than one . Allie seems to prefer men and woman to love and enjoy and desires to make Allie into an International Fashion Model . This film will keep you in suspense and it is not easy to find out who the naughty person turns out be .
No Romance in this Film	Enjoyed the great acting by Alex Guiness , ( Captain Crawford ) and Dick Bogarde , ( Lt . Scott Padget ) who both sailed together on a ship where they practiced shanghiling when they were in port and just plain grabbed all civilian men and brought them aboard their ship and made sailors of them . All these men had to do very undesirable jobs on the ships and many of them rebelled against the military officers in charge of the ship . Captain Crawford just so happened to have his son aboard the ship who was being mistreated by his officers and other men who were forced to serve aboard the ship were whipped and beaten regularly for rebelling and refusing to take orders Captain Crawford was not aware of the cruelty that was inflicted on his men and then there started to become rumors about a mutiny aboard the ship . Great story about the old Navy days on British ships that sailed the ocean .
Excellent Film	If anyone did not know anything about Jim Morrison and his rise to fame as a great Rock " N " Roll performer , Director Oliver Stone gave one fantastic biography in this film . Jim Morrison was played by Val Kilmer who gave a very outstanding performance who put his heart and soul into this role along with Meg Ryan , ( Pamela Courson ) who is a faithful young girl who fell in love with Jim after he walked into her bedroom and broke up her marriage . Pamela stayed with Jim through out his entire career from 1960 until his death in the 70's . There is nothing left for your imagination , plenty of female nudity , sex , drugs and indecent exposure by Jim Morrison on the stage of one of his rock band concerts which caused great commotion and put Jim Morrison into a court of law with jail sentences . Great film about a performer who had a great message but lost his way by using drugs and booze .
Great Film Classic	If you liked Robert Taylor , ( Bushrod Gentry ) in many of his films , you will enjoy this comedy with Eleanor Parker , ( Mary Stuart Cheme ) . This film opens up with Bushrod traveling through the woods of Kentucky as a hunter to just sold $400 . 00 worth of furs at a trading post and the young girl at the post had her eyes on Bushrod for marriage , but this was not what Bushrod wanted in his life for a long time to come . Bushrod runs into an Indian who attacks Mary Stuart Cheme , and saves her from being scalped and raped . It was from that moment on that Mary Stuart was determined to have this man as her husband . There is plenty of comedy and Victor McLaglen , ( Mr . Cadmus Cheme ) gave a great supporting role along with many other famous actors . Enjoy .
Sharon & Gene were Outstanding Against a Big Clock	My favorite movie stars are Sharon Stone and Gene Hackman , so I knew this was probably going to be a good film to watch and it sure was a great different kind of Western . This story revolved around a small town which had been taken over by John Herod , ( Gene Hackman ) " Superman " who was an evil outlaw and was ruthless and cruel and controlled all the people in the town . Sharon Stone , ( Ellen / The Lady ) , " Bobby " played the role of a gal who could handle herself very well with men and was fast with the pistols , a Pistol Pack'n Mama who had her targets on John Herod for something he did to her while she was a child . Russell Crowe , ( Cort ) " A Good Year " , becomes friends with Ellen and they decided to team up against John Herod . Leonardo DiCaprio , ( Fee Herod / The Kid ) plays the role of John Herod's only son who is always trying to please his dad as a gunfighter , but is always being put down by his dad . There is plenty of action and the ending will take you by complete surprise . Don't miss this gem of a film back in 1995 when everyone looked young and great . Enjoy !
Vengeance , Revenger & Plenty of Torture	John Travolta , ( Howard Saint ) played an entirely different role than I have ever seen him portray . He plays the role of a real underworld mob boss who loses his son and is bound and determined to find out just who is responsible for his loss . The guy he is looking for is Frank Castle / The Punisher ( Thomas Jane ) , Frank Castle was an FBI agent and had a very sweet and loving wife and also a young son who he rarely was able to spend time with because of his many assignments all over the globe . Frank decides he is going to retire and has a big party for a family reunion . It is from this point on in the film when things start to get real interesting and the film escalates into one big action filled film with all kinds of cruel hatred and murder after murder and beatings you will not be able to believe . This film had me glued to the TV Screen from beginning to the very end . If you have not seen this film , by all means get to see it soon .
Paltrow & Hopkins Were Great	Great story about a young girl who loved her father very much and followed in his footsteps in the world of mathematics in Chicago , Illinois . This girl is Catherine , ( Gwyneth Paltrow ) who learns that her father is mentally going down hill and she cares for him and goes to college at the same time . Robert is the name of her father , ( Anthony Hopkins ) who thinks he is writing a proof in mathematics , which is a step further in the mathematician field of science . After Robert dies , Catherine goes to pieces and worries that she will become mentally disturbed like her father and she pulls into herself and just stays at home . Eventually , Catherine's sister who lives in New York City intends to take her sister from her home and bring her into the New York City area . This is a very deep film with plenty of flashbacks , along with great acting between Paltrow & Hopkins . Enjoy .
Great Cast of Veteran Actors	Have not seen this film in years and enjoyed this story in which Glenn Ford , ( Jubal Troop ) is injured and falls onto a dirt road and is discovered by Ernest Borgnine , ( Shep Hogan ) and he takes him back to his ranch and in time offers him a job and then a full time position as his top ranch hand . This quick decision causes problems among the other ranch hands who have worked for Shep Hogan a very long time . Rod Steiger , ( Pinky Pinkum ) instantly resents Jubal Troop and suspects him of being a sheep herder and constantly tells him he smells like sheep poop . Valerie French ( Mae Hogan ) is a woman who likes to fool around with other men and has tried out most of the ranch hands and she instantly gets hot over Jubal Troop which starts another side to the story .
Susan George Red Hot	Great 1968 film which I have very much wanted to view over the years and it is very hard to obtain and when I was in England , I was able to view this film and enjoyed it greatly . Michael York , ( Peter Strange ) played the role as a London policeman who is being arrested in the opening scenes of this movie and then it flashes back to when he first joined the force . Detective Pierce , ( Jeremy Kemp ) is a detective who likes Peter Strange because he is a cop who goes strictly by the books . It is not too long when Peter meets up with a hot to trot Fred March , ( Susan George ) who is under the age of 16 years until one more month and she is out to seduce the apple of her eye , Peter . Peter meets her family who live in a big mansion and they immediately take a liking to him and this paves the way for Peter & Fred to make very warm and passionate love with plenty of nudity by Susan George . Susan was just starting out in films and this is one of her early films which I am glad I was able to view in Europe . If you like Susan George , don't miss this one ; the other film I want to see her in is : " Neat With Black Stockings " , 1968 . Enjoy .
Two People Meet & Fall In Love	Kenneth Branagh , ( Roman Strauss / Mike Church ) , " Warm Springs " , ' 05 TV , plays the role of a famous pianist who has reached the top of his career and is deeply in love with his wife . Emma Thompson , ( Grace / Margaret Strauss ) , " Nanny McPhee " , ' 05 , gives a great performance as his wife and everything seems like a normal , happy life together . All of a sudden the picture changes completely to a young lady who has amnesia and is helped by Mike Church , also played by Kenneth Branagh . Andy Garcia , ( Gray Baker ) plays the role of a reporter who is always eager for any gossip among the elite people in his community and gave a great supporting role . This picture has some spiritual implications , which some people might believe actually happen and maybe they do ; this will be up to you when you view this film .
Burt Lancaster's First Western	Enjoyed this great Classic 1951 film since Burt Lancaster was born and raised in New York City and since this was his first western film , he had to learn how to ride horses and took plenty of instructions from professionals . Burt plays the role as Owen Daybright who was adopted by a very rich cattle baron and he was very much loved . However , Lee Strobie , ( Robert Walker ) was the real son of the cattle baron and he was spoiled rotten and a big trouble maker . Owen always protects him from trouble and fought his battles whenever they occurred . Lee marries Jen , ( Joanne Dru ) and they live happy for a few years and then Lee has an affair with Lily Fasken , ( Sally Forrest ) and he gives her a baby . This is when the trouble starts and Owen is accused of being the father of the child and Owen takes the rap and is hunted down by Lily's brothers and family . Great film with plenty of drama and a great Burt Lancaster Western . Enjoy .
Great Entertaining Film	In this film Cary Grant , ( Philip Adams ) plays the role as a diplomat who travels from London to Paris and meets up with Anna Kalman , ( Ingrid Bergman ) , who is an accomplished and successful actress and well known . Anna's first meeting with Philip is when she has cold cream all over her face and she sees Philip enter her apartment and immediately falls in love with him , she has been looking for the man of her dreams and Philip is her desire . Over a period of time Philip and Anna become very close with each other , however , it is discovered that Philip is a married man and his wife will not give him a divorce . Scotland Yard keeps tabs on Philip Adams and finds out some very important facts about his personal life which turns this film in an another direction . There is lots of comedy and great entertainment with Cary Grant and Ingrid Bergman and it is a great film to view .
This Was a Great Boston Blackie Film	This film starts off at a costume party where Boston Blackie , ( Chester Morris ) and his sidekick Runt , ( George Slone ) are attending in order to protect a very expensive necklace on one of their clients . This pearl necklace is stolen and Police Inspector Faraday , ( Richard Lane ) suspects Boston Blackie of stealing these pearls . There is the usual run around with all kinds of suspicious characters who claim to be innocent and still Inspector Faraday feels that Boston Blackie is responsible for this crime . Doris Bradley , ( June Vincent ) plays the role as a very pretty blonde who puts charm to her supporting role . This is one of the better Boston Blackie films .
This Film Becomes a WAR	The film opens up with Eric Stoltz ( Zed ) , " Hello " , ' 05 flying to Paris , France and gets into a cab and the cab driver starts up a conversation and starts speaking in French to Zed , who soon finds out he is American and does not speak French . To make a long story short , the cab driver arranges for Zed to have a girl service him for the evening . Julie Delpy , ( Zoe ) , " Before Sunset " , ' 04 , is the young gal who visits Zed and the two of them get into things and have great discussions , namely , they both have a " Z " in their last names and a lot more . Zed meets up with a friend he has not seen in eleven ( 11 ) years and they all decide to shoot up dope and booze and a nice Cafe with fantastic Jazz . You will be quite surprise what happens as the film progresses . Enjoy
Realistic Western	The actors made this Western very realistic in the situations that people faced trying to move cattle from one place to another without the railroad . There was always the mayor of small towns who had power among the local people and they hated cattlemen who grazed their stock on their property . This is a story about a group of men who just wanted to travel with their animals from point A to B and ran into all kinds of horrible problems . Robert Duvall , ( Boss Spearman ) was a very wise cattleman who was very calm about situations that would arise on a daily basis . Kevin Costner , ( Charley Waite ) gave a great supporting role and was the sidekick to Boss . Annette Bening , ( Sue Barlow ) plays the role of a doctor's assistant and has a charming way about her that makes Boss very comfortable when he is around her . Sue even gets out her mother's china and serves these men tea . This is in many ways a different Western because the actors put realism into their characters .
Great Wes Craven Film	This film starts out very calm and you meet a young pretty gal named Lisa Reisert , ( Rachel McAdams ) who is a very efficient manger of a hotel and she meets a friendly young man , in an airport and has a drink with him at a bar and they seem to be getting along This young man's name is Jackson Rippner , ( Cilliam Murphy ) and he also sits next to Lisa on a flight to Miami , Florida . Jackson tells Lisa some very frightening information about her father , Joe Reisert , ( Brian Cox ) and Jackson threatens Lisa and demands she follow his instructions . The film at this point in the film increases a great deal of terror and some very horrible situations . Whenever you watch a film directed by Wes Craven , you know you will be entertained right to the very end . Don't miss this film , it is really great and enjoyable .
Early Hitchock Classic	Enjoyed viewing this great Hitchock Classic which was created in London , England in the early talkie films and the sound and production was very poor but Herbert Marshall , ( Sir John Menier ) gave an outstanding performance along with Norah Baring , ( Diana Baring ) . Sir John Menier had to serve on a jury and make a very serious decision in a murder case concerning actors and a murder that occurred behind the scenes . Sir John was persuaded by his other jurors to convict Diana Baring of this crime which he did not really feel committed this murder . Diana is sentenced to prison and possibly death , but Sir John has a deep concern that she is innocent and decides to start his own investigation into this murder case in order to obtain Diana an appeal . This story goes very deep into this investigation and there are many suspects involved which adds greatly to this very secret murder mystery . Enjoy .
Rough & Tough Drivers	Great classic film from England starring Stanley Baker , ( Tom Yately ) and Peggy Cummins , ( Lucey ) . Tom Yately had a criminal record and found it very hard to find work , but he did find himself a job as a truck driver for Hawlett Trucking . This trucking firm hauled gravel from place to place and it was like a contest every week just who would be able to haul the most to their dump sites . All these truck drivers were rough and tough guys and they all got very upset with Tom being paid the most money for his work . It was not very long before all the guys picked on him for fights and he even came to blows with the head foreman . Lucy was the secretary for the Hawlett Company and took a liking to Tom , however , another guy named Gino Rossi , ( Herbert Lom ) took a liking to her also and gave her an engagement ring . There is plenty of action and suspense and unbelievable fist fights . This film also has a great suspenseful ending .
Garbage Trucks Are Important	This was a great film which held my interest from beginning to the very end . Charlton Heston , ( Detective Robert Thorn ) performs his duties in New York City in the year 2022 which has a population of 44 million people and food is scarce . However , Soylent Green is the main food for all the population with the exception of some high officials like William R . Simonson , ( Joseph Cotton ) who has all the foods we are use to in the year 2007 , Steak , Booze , vegetables , strawberries etc etc . In the Year 2022 women who live in expensive apartments must stay as part of the furniture and accommodate the new tenant and one of these girls is Shirl , ( Leigh Taylor Young ) who charms Robert Thorn as he investigates a murder in their expensive apartment . Edward G . Robinson , ( Sol Roth ) gave his last performance in this film after 90 films to his credit . Robinson was hard of hearing in his film and was given his clues for his lines by prompters on the side lines . He was truly a great actor and a great credit to this film . Enjoy .
Great Classic Film of 1934	Always enjoyed the great acting of Claude Rains , who became very famous for his role in " The Invisible Man " , ' 33 . It was after this film that Rains went on to become a great dramatic actor as in " Casablanca " , 42 , and many greater starring roles . Rains never needed cue cards , he remembered his many long lines to perfection in great Classics of the 30's , 40's and 60's with many TV appearances . In this picture Rains plays a Clairvoyant , who is really a con-artist and for some unknown reason gains great powers to foretell the future , but is unable to prevent them from happening . There is a train wreck , a horse race and many more fascinating events he predicts . Fay Wray stars as his wife and looks very attractive without her blonde hair as she appeared in " King Kong " . Fay Wray also became very famous because of her role in the Kong picture and went on to have a great acting career , without all the screaming . If you have not viewed this film , try to catch it on TV .
Fantastic Classic 1943 Film	Enjoyed this great Classic Film starring Sonja Henie , ( Nora ) who was a very famous Norwegian Ice-Skating Champion and gave an outstanding performance in this film with dancing and very exciting tricks on the ice which was her world . Jack Oakie , ( Skip Hutton ) gave a great supporting role and put plenty of humor to this film . Carole Landis , ( Flossie Fouchere ) , " I Wake Up Screaming " was very attractive and had the hots for Cesar Romero , ( Brad Barton ) who in real life had a very torrid affair with Cesar before she met Rex Harrison . S . Z . Sakall , ( Hjalmar Ostgaard ) was a veteran actor who was a great character actor who entertained many people in the 1930's and 1940's . Cornel Wilde , ( Freddy Austin ) was in love with Nora and they had problems but love is very strong and controls all relationships . Enjoyed the great music of Woody Herman , a great clarinet player and his orchestra which performed great sing and dance numbers . Please , don't miss viewing this film , it is wonderful .
The Polish Prince was in this Film	This was a John Wayne film I greatly enjoy and was surprised at the wonderful old automobiles from the 1900's driving up and down every trail and even motorcycles . John Wayne played the role as Jacob McCandles who was looked up to as a man you did not mess with and respected . Maureen O'Hare , ( Martha McCandles ) seeks the help of her husband after years of being separated when their grandchild is kidnapped for a ransom for One Million Dollars . The gang of crooks is headed by Richard Boone , ( John Fain ) who will kill women and children in cold blood and think nothing of it . Patrick Waynes son has a role in this film along with the Polish Prince of Music and Song , Bobby Vinton . Maureen O'Hara had a very brief appearance only in the beginning and end of this film and this was also the last film that Wayne and O'Hara appeared together . Very entertaining film , you will not want to miss this great film Classic from 1971 .
Great Charlton Heston Film	Enjoyed this film directed by Sam Peckinpah who also directed " Straw Dogs " in 1971 created a great story during the 1860's and at the end of the Civil War . Major Amos Dundee , ( Charlton Heston ) is a major who was in the Union Army and was disgraced and put in charge of a Confederate prison camp . However , Major Dundee is a Southerner and he also finds himself needing the help of Capt . Ben Tyreen , ( Richard Harris ) who is a Confedrate prisoner and the two of them fight like cats and dogs . Major Dundee has to catch Apaches who escaped to Mexico which is ruled by the French . This is a film dealing with fighting against Apache Indians and also the French and the Confederate and Union soldiers fighting with each other and still trying to carry out their individual missions . Samuel Potts , ( James Coburn ) gives an outstanding performance as an aid to Major Dundee and also has just one arm . This is a very interesting film with some romance and plenty of bow and arrows flying threw the air . Enjoy .
Excellent Walt Disney Production	Never viewed this 1971 film and was greatly entertained by this great production created by the Walt Disney Studios and great animation creations . Angela Lansbury , ( Eglantine Price ) played an outstanding role as a woman who had taken a course in witch craft and was an apprentice who was beginning to fly on a broomstick and had quite a few difficulties taking off . Eglantine discovered many tricks and was able to make a bed travel to different parts of the world . However , Eglantine missed her final exams to becoming an accomplished witch . Mr . Emerlius Browne , ( David Tomlinson ) was the person who sold Eglantine this course in witchcraft and he tries to help her in every way possible to find her solution . Eglantine has a purpose to her madness and that is to stop the Nazi's from evading England . Great family entertainment and we need more films like this today .
Gem of a Film To Enjoy	This film takes place during WW II in Southern France in 1944 almost at the end of the war . However , the Americans and German's were still fighting with each other in the fancy French Reveria where one minute it is calm and peaceful and the next minute there is a complete war going on with the Germans . Frank Sinatra plays the role as a First Lt . Sam Loggins who is a war veteran and he is given a new assignment to try and destroy and remove the Germans in Southern France . Sam hires a new Cpl . Britt Harris , ( Tony Curtis ) as a communications expert who will travel along with Sam and these two eventually get along with each other . Besides fighting the war , Sam Loggins goes on leave in town and meets a charming young gal who he seems to fall in love at first sight , this gal's name is Monique Blair , ( Natalie Wood ) who is an American but has lived most of her life in Southern France . Britt begins to take an interest in Monique and this is when the story gets very interesting and some secrets are uncovered in the life of Monique Blair . This is really a great Classic and a film you will not want to view . Enjoy .
Very Unusual Story	This film tells the story about Tug Boats being utilized by England during 1941 in order to try and salvage damaged ships which were hit by German U Boats . David Ross , ( William Holden ) is an American assigned to one of these Tugs which are poorly armed , with guns that do not function when needed . David has not been on a tug in over ten years and meets up with an old chum named Capt . Chris Ford , ( Trevor Howard ) who shares an apartment with a very attractive gal named Stella , ( Sophia Loren ) who seems to like Tug Boat Captains as she has had many Captains who have died once she gives them a key to her apartment . The story makes a complete turn when Chris gives David a key to the apartment and that is when the trouble starts to happen . There is plenty of action , drama and romance . Great film with an outstanding story and Sophia Loren looked great at the age of 24 years . WOW
Nicole Was Red Hot	In this film , Nicole Kidman , ( Suzanne Stone / Maretto ) " Birth " , ' 04 , put her heart and soul into the role . Suzanne Stone wants very badly to become a great TV personality and move on to Hollywood and become a great star ; she had this dream every since she was a very little girl and would sit in front of the TV . In the meantime , Suzanne meets up with Matt Dillon , ( Larry Maretto ) , " City of Ghosts " , ' 02 who simply goes nuts after seeing her in his father's food establishment , and it is almost love at first sight . The couple get married and are on their honeymoon and Suzanne moves around the hotel and meets up with George Segal who is a conference speaker and a well known star . To make a long story very short , Segal hits on Suzanne and he scores even though she is on the honeymoon . As the film progresses poor Larry wants some children from his marriage and there becomes a problem along with the fact that Larry's sister hates Suzanne long before her brother got married . There is plenty of sexy dancing and Nicole Kidman played a very torrid role , teasing young men and pleasing them at the same time .
Great Cast of Actors	Enjoyed this 1955 film with great actors like Vince Edwards , ( Victor Gosset ) and John Cassavetes , ( Robert Batsford ) who were just starting their careers . In this picture Jack Kelly , ( Gene Courtier ) makes a very bad mistake and picks up a hitchhiker in the desert and Victor Gosset commanders his car and wants him to sell it for money and then meets up with Robert Batsford who is the boss of the kidnapping and then they decide to go to Gene Courtier home and hold his wife , Doris Courtier , ( Hildy Parks ) and two children hostage in their own home . Victor Gosset is crazy about women and can't seem to keep his hands off Doris Courtier and starts all kinds of problems with her husband . There is very high tension through out the entire picture and it was a great film for 1955 . Enjoy
A Film Full of Everything	This was a great film dealing with baseball and the players involved are Kevin Costner , ( Crash Davis ) who loves baseball but will never be a success , yet he keeps trying to improve his game . In the meantime Crash meets up with a wild young new baseball player named Nuke , ( Tim Robbins ) and starts to coach him and is able to see him improve and become a great baseball player . Annie Savoy , ( Ausan Sorandon ) plays the role of a hot sexy gal who loves baseball players and each year she picks out a new player to have fun with . Annie is very good friends with Crash and she is always making love to him . However , she sets her eyes on this new young baseball player Crash is coaching and decides to set her eyes on him and she does just that . There is plenty of comedy , romance and even scenes in the bathtub and this film will entertain you right to the end of the film . Enjoy .
Enjoyed this 1955 Film	Enjoyed this great story and all the actors who gave outstanding performances , especially Olivia De Havilland , ( Kristina Hedvigson ) who played the wife to Robert Mitchum , ( Lucas Marsh ) . Kristina came from a wealthy family and fell in love with Lucas Marsh who was going to medical school and gave him financial support in his striving to become a successful surgeon . There are great scenes in the operating room and it was done so professionally that it kept you on pins and needles throughout the entire picture . Gloria Graham , ( Harriet Lang ) plays the role of a very sexy rich woman who teases and pleases Lucas Marsh and makes him feel very guilty for cheating on his wife . Frank Sinatra , ( Alfred Boone ) gives a great supporting role as a real close friend to Lucas and they both went through medical school together and each went their separate ways as doctors . There is plenty of drama and if you have not seen this Great Classic 1955 film , you will definitely want to view many great veteran actors at the top of their careers .
A Man with a Dream	Enjoyed this silent film from 1922 with great German directors and plenty of talented people . This story starts out with a family consisting of two brothers , sister and a mother who are not very well off and the sister hates her life and gets in a fight with her mother and she turns to the streets and the fast lane in life . Lorenz Lubota , ( Alfred Abel ) is one of the brothers who loves to read books and is also a poet and works as a clerk for the city . One day Lorenz was walking in the street and a blonde girl is driving a chariot and runs him down , the girl checks to see that he is okay but Lorenz immediately falls in love with this girl . After this event in Lorenz's life he completely goes crazy and his life changes for the worst and he gets involved with money that does not belong to him . Grete Berger gives a great supporting role as a pawnbroker , Schwabe . Enjoy
Gem of All Gems	This 1943 Classic film clearly showed how Hollywood supported our Armed Forces during World War II and there are so many talented actors appearing in this film who all gave great performances with their talented gifts . Always enjoyed the great singing talent of Lena Horne who appeared in many Musicals during the 1940's and one of her famous songs was " Stormy Weather " . I use to live in St . Albans , Queens , New York and she was a neighbor . Lena was the pioneer of Black entertainers who started to break into the Hollywood scene and finally it was accomplished . Naturally , the War was going on and this was a picture that was created to cheer our Fighting Men and it also was a propaganda film to cheer up the American Citizens with a cast of hundreds of famous actors . Enjoyed seeing a very little known actress who is now 91 years of age , Marsha Hunt who was very young and attractive in the film , she was only 26 years of age . Don't miss this film , it is really a gem of a gem . Enjoy
Great Entertaining Film	Enjoyed viewing the youthful faces of Julia Roberts , ( Sabrina Peterson ) , " Closer " , ' 04 and Nick Nolte , ( Peter Brackett ) , " Clean " , ' 04 . I thought that Nick Nolte was too old an actor to play against Julia Roberts , but naturally , that is my opinion . The story starts out with a mysterious man carrying a business case containing a gun and various other items and all of a sudden there is bad train accident which disrupts the lives of Peter Brackett and Sabrina Peterson ; who happen to be newspaper reporters for two different Chicago Newspapers . Peter Bracket is also an author of a new book that was recently published and becomes distracted with Sabrina Peterson in more ways than just one . They are both rivals for a big news story and are very much at odds with each other through out the entire picture . Funny and entertaining film from 1994 .
Jackson & Davis were Fantastic Together	Viewed this film during the Christmas season and enjoyed this film which starts out rather calm and some what boring and then you start putting the pieces together . Geena Davis , ( Samantha Caine ) has a memory loss and has some flash backs occasionally , like slicing carrots and tomatoes and being very handy with putting a gun together and some bad language . Samuel L . Jackson , ( Mitch Henessey ) , plays a con man who has other interests in Samantha and finds himself getting deeply involved with her memory loss and about this time , the film becomes full of action and people who you think are going to die , come back to life . Entertaining film , but entirely too long and drawn out , however , Jackson and Davis did a great job of performing .
Not Spencer's Greatest	This is a Classic John Ford Film dealing with old time politics in a small town , but hinting to be Boston , Mass . Spencer Tracy , ( Major Frank Skeffington ) , " Guess Who's Coming to Dinner " , plays the role of mayor who has been around for many elections and this is his final try at winning over his town . However , there are many changes starting to appear in the town and people are beginning to demand more improvements to their community . John Carradine , ( Amos Force ) , " Prison Ship " , runs the local paper in town and is not the best of friends with Frank Skeffington , however he hired Jeffrey Hunter as a reporter ( Adam Caulfield ) , " A Kiss Before Dying " , ' 56 , who is a nephew to the mayor . It seems everybody smokes up a storm and in one scene the room is filled with smoke floating all over the place . ( Glad those days are long gone ) The film has many classic actors , Donald Crisp , Basil Rathbone and many more actors who make this film a very entertaining film ; there is plenty of dry humor and drama , but entirely too draw out . I even noticed that Spencer Tracy used a great deal of cue cards , more than in any other film he appeared in . picture .
Anthony Quinn Film	Enjoyed this film from the 1950's with Anthony Quinn playing the role as Phil Regal , mobster in a section of New York City . Nicky Bradna , ( Farley Granger ) was a young guy trying to go straight after getting out of prison and his girl friend is Rosalie Regalzyk , ( Anne Bancroft . Rosalie just so happens to be the sister to Phil and so he managed to get Nicky out of jail . There is a horrible event which happens to Nicky and Rosalie Bradna , and Nick goes wild and gets himself deep into the world of crime which takes the entire film in a different direction . Anthony Quinn put his heart and soul into this role as being a mean and cruel and hateful mobster . If you like Anthony Quinn , don't miss this film , you will greatly enjoy viewing it .
A Very Interesting Film	Being a great fan of Lisa Kudrow , ( Miriam Mamie Toll ) I greatly enjoyed her outstanding performance when she was getting a physical rub down in the most unconventional positions . Steve Coogan , ( Charley Peppitone ) gave plenty of sparks to his performance in a film that dealt with straight and gay guys and gals . This film starts off with a teenage girl and boy who are brother and sister-in-law having hot sex and starting a reaction that continues all the way into adulthood and more . There are many sub-plots that can confuse a person at times , however , the film is worth watching and it was nice to see Sarah Clarke , ( Diane ) " 24 " TV series who played a gay gal in this picture and is a very sexy gal and I hope to see her in more future films . There is comedy , but I really did not find myself breaking down with laughter , all the actors did an outstanding job . Enjoy
Great Spy Thriller	Once I knew that Donald Sutherland , ( Jack Shaw / Henry Fields ) was appearing in this film it instantly told me this was going to be a good picture to view . Most of Sutherland's pictures are full of action and suspense and he can play a rather cruel character and can also be quite charming and kind . In this picture , Jack Shaw did his very best to be a good guy and a bad guy while he was training a Naval Office to become a spy who had to change his entire identity and become a different person over night . There is plenty of car chase scenes and plenty of stunt men situations which I would not want to perform . This Naval Officer lived in a quite community with his wife and was a father , but you would never realize that fact until the film reveals his horrible background secrets which he had to keep from his family and friends . Good spy film and great acting by all the actors .
Horror Film of ALL Horror Films	If you like Horror films , this one is full of hatred , brutality and things done to humanity that will never be forgotten . America did not want to get involved with War and the U . S . Government stayed as isolationists until Britian & France went to War because of Poland being bombed . Hitler thought he could conquer the world and in some ways he almost did , Japan & Italy also had the same idea , which was lead by a bunch of lunatics . This film breaks down this World War II Documented Footage concerning the Prelude to War , The Nazi Strike , The Secret Life of Hitler and the famous Nuremberg Trials . Even though this film shows the worst real horror film of them all , people still today want to wear their uniforms and their symbol of hatred and death . This is a film that will be viewed by many generations and very Well Remembered .
Sweet Charity 1969 vs . Broadway Version 2005	Recently enjoyed the Broadway Production of " Sweet Charity " , starring Christina Applegate , " Married with Children " , ' 87 TV Series and enjoyed her great acting and dancing skills . Just recently decided to view the Hollywood version of " Sweet Charity " , with Shirley MacLaine , ( Charity Hope Valentine ) , " Bruno " , ' 2000 , who gave an outstanding performance by putting her heart and soul into the role of a Sweet , Loving Hooker . Sammy Davis , Jr . , ( Big Daddy Brubeck ) , " Tap " , ' 89 , gave an extra plus to his role and made this 1969 production a great success . I must say that both Applegate and MacLaine performances were equally outstanding and it was great seeing Christina in person on a Broadway Stage where she belongs .
Excellent Film	This film deals with a young man named Patient , ( Bobby Darin ) who is put in prison and has big problems with his inmates and is placed in the care of the chief psychiatrist , ( Sidney Poiter ) . As soon as the patient sees his psychiatrist he starts laughing because he is an Africian American and this immediately indicates he has a problem with this man's race . As the film has many flashbacks , you learn that the Patient hates the Jewish people and was an only child and had a father he hated and a mother who was constantly ill . This film talks about the Depression Period in American History and deals with the patient liking the Nazi Movement in American that hailed all the ideas of Adolph Hitler . Bobby Darin gave an outstanding performance along with Sidney Poiter and there is a very brief appearance by Peter Falk . I was very surprised at Bobby Darin's performance because he was mainly a song and dance man and very popular . Enjoy .
Great John Wayne Classic	I can really understand why John Wayne , ( Marshall Roaster Coghorn ) won an Academy Award for his role in this great picture with great photography of the beautiful country of California . Glen Campbell , ( La Boeuf ) gave a great supporting role as a Texas bounty hunter looking for a man named Ned Pepper , ( Robert Duvall ) . There is also a very young girl named Mattie Ross , ( Kim Darby ) who finds Marshall Coghorn and hires him to capture the killer of her father and she is a very determined gal who will travel with Coghorn , Boeuf in order to capture these killers and crooks . Dennis Hooper ( Moon ) gave a great supporting role . This truly is one of John Wayne's great films and I am so glad he finally won an Oscar for his many years of making very entertaining films .
1935 Pirate Classic	This is truly a great masterpiece created by director , Michael Curtiz and a great cast of outstanding young actors just starting their careers in Hollywood . Some of these actors were so young I could hardly recognize them especially Errol Flynn , ( Peter Blood ) and Basil Rathbone , ( Levasseur ) . If you like plenty of sword fighting and cannons blasting at other tall sailing ships with the English and French and pirate ships getting in on the action , this is the film for you . Olivia DE Havilland , ( Arabella Bishop ) falls in love with Captain Blood but is separated from him because he was her slave and he ran away from her to become an adventurer and also a very famous Pirate against the English . Captain Levasseur , ( Basil Rathbone ) is a French pirate and joins forces with Captain Blood but they become enemies because both men want Arabella Bishop and there is some very fancy sword flashing between the two of these pirates . Great 1935 film Classic , Enjoy .
The Goddess 1934	Greatly enjoyed this film starring Chinese actress Lingyu Ruan who plays the role as a prostitute who has a baby boy and sells her body in order to stay alive and feed her son . Ruan continues doing this job for many years and eventually a pimp takes over his control on Ruan's money and even her life . Ruan's son becomes old enough to attend a school and she hides her money in a wall in order to pay for his education . Ruan's neighbor's are against her and do not want her son to play with their children . This is a very sad story and the ending will surprise you greatly as to just what happens to Ruan and the future of her son . You will need a box of tissues for the ending .
Danville , Illinois Classic Star	Over the years I missed this film starring Gene Hackman , ( Coach , Norman Dale ) , " Heartbreakers " , ' 01 , a true story about a small high school in Indiana who struggle with many ups and downs and are considered one of the worst teams in the Hoosier State . Coach Norman seeks the help of an old pro at Basketball , who is a burned out drunk who goes on and off the wagon and needs to dry out most of the time . The film keeps you on the edge of your seat wondering if this team will ever amount to anything . However , the town people are big supportive fans and do get tired and discussed with their coach and have a local meeting in a town church . There are lots of scenes showing plenty of corn fields and even some romance is squeezed in between games . Gene Hackman was born in Danville , Illinois , near the Indiana border where all you can see for miles is corn fields not far from Champaign , Illinois where the University of Illinois is located . Gene fit in perfectly with this film and it was great entertainment .
Great Film Classic	It will take about twenty minutes into this film when you will begin to realize that a crime has been committed on a Trans-European train which was delayed due to bad weather . Once the train starts up there is a socialite named Iris Henderson , ( Margaret Lockwood ) who meets up with a governess named Miss Froy , ( Dame May Witty ) and they both become very friendly with each other . Gilbert Redman , ( Michael Redgrave ) gets involved with Iris Hendersson and they become very friendly with each other . Miss Froy seems to be missing on the train and no one can figure out just where she might have gone . There are many twists and turns in this great Alfred Hitchcock mystery which will be his last film made in England and he will go on to bigger and better film productions . You will enjoy this film and be amazed at the great acting of Michael Redgrave who was just starting out on his great film career .
Problems Families Face	Enjoyed this film which deals entirely about an average family , so it appears . Ben Travis , ( Jeff Daniels ) plays the role as a father who is only interested in one son who is excellent at swimming and wins many trophy's , however , he hates it very much and even his father . Ben has very little to say to his other son , Tim , ( Emile Hirsh ) and even his daughter , Penny , ( Michelle Williams ) who is fortunate to be away in college . The mother , Sandy , ( Sigourney Weaver ) tries to hold the family together and even she is completely ignored by her husband also . A very tragic event happens in the family which changes everyone's personality , young and old start using drugs , smoking pot and drinking all the time at parties . There is even a homosexual scene and at the same time there is even room for comedy and of course there is a very dark secret that Sandy Travis finally tells her son Tim .
Great Acting Great Classic Film	This picture in 1935 walked away with all kinds of Ocars for Best Director , John Ford , Actor Victor McLaglen and music by Max Seiner . Victor McLaglen , ( Gypo Nolan ) , " Call Out the Marines " , ' 42 , gave an outstanding performance as an Irish rebel who belonged to a rough and tough crowd who were all fighting for a cause and at the same time getting poorer and poorer with plenty of drinking . Gypo Nolan made a bad mistake when he decided to become an informer for his best friend in order to take a trip with his gal to America and a new way of living . Preston Foster , ( Don Gallagher ) , " Guadalcanal Diary " , ' 43 , gave a great supporting role as the leader of the Irish rebellion and was anxious to capture the informer of his group . Gypo Nolan becomes haunted by his betrayal of his friend and begins to feel just like a Judas . Great film for 1935 and wonderful acting by McLaglen , but rather depressing in every aspect of the film .
DeNiro Played a Cool Cat	Always enjoy the great acting of Robert DeNiro ( Sam ) , " Hide & Seek " , ' 05 , who plays a very smart dude who has had lots of experience in the field of crime and deception . Sam is hired by Dierdre , ( Natascha McElhone ) , " Guy X " , ' 05 , who plays a sexy long haired blond who at first attends bar very briefly only to lead a bunch of hoods into a very secret plan in order to obtain a package . Money is no object in securing this package and there is a scene at an airport where Sam helps Dierdre from making some very bad mistakes as well as other members of his working crime family . There is plenty of mystery , foul language , but the film will hold your interest , only because Robert DeNiro does a fantastic job of acting and making this film interesting .
Great Classic Actors	If you are old enough to remember Ida Lupino and Dane Clark when they were both at the top of their careers in the 1940's , then this film will be a great Classic to view and enjoy . Ida Lupino , ( Libby Saul ) , " The Big Knife " , ' 55 , plays a very innocent farm gal who has a big heart and falls madly in love with Dane Clark , ( Barry Burnette ) , " God Is My Co-Pilot " , ' 45 . Barry is a guy who gets all the wrong breaks in life and has a very bad temper which he just simply cannot control . Barry finds himself wanting to start his life all over again , however , he has things in his past which make his hopes a big problem . This story is very sad and yet it has a great story about love between a man and a woman who know they will be Soul Mates forever no matter what happens to them in life . Ida Lupino looked real great in the close ups and Dane Clark gave a great performance as a very troubled man .
Great Rossellini Film	Greatly enjoyed this film that was directed and written by Roberto Rossellini , which was produced on a very low budget with actual real life scenes of the complete destruction of Germany after World War II . Rossellini even hired just regular people to act in this film and very few professional actors . Edmund Moeschke , ( Edmund ) was a little boy who struggles trying to find food and lived with a family where an Ex-Nazi hid out and never went outside and never earned a living . Edmund sold stolen goods in order to obtain money and wandered among all the ruins of the Germany city with a bunch of very poor boys and girls . This is a rather depressing film and clearly shows the horrors that Hitler brought upon the German people who had promised a great country that would be world rulers . This is a great Classic film with its unbelievable photography and great acting .
A Real Dark Spiritual Film	This film was completely different than any horror film I have experienced and in some ways it takes you deep into a twisted and sick mind which had a strict religious foundation . Many times we have heard killers say that the " Devil Made Me Do IT " ! In this picture God is speaking to Bill Paxton , ( Dad Meiks ) , who is trying to raise two boys , Matt L'Leary and Matthew McConaughey after there mothers untimely death . One of these boys walks into FBI Headquarters in their town and meets up with Powers Boothe , ( Agent Wesley Doyle ) , who listens to a story that completely makes no sense , but as the story unfolds , you begin to sense a very spiritual problem is causing all kinds of horrible things to happen to people from all walks of life , old and young . You just might not be able to watch this film from beginning to end , but just remember it is only a film , and the director and producer and actors all did a fantastic job . Enjoy if you CAN !
A COMEDY IS A COMEDY !	Enjoyed this entire comedy film , sure it was nuts and way out in left field , but after all , it is a COMEDY ! Jerry Stiller ( Marty Fineman ) and Jeneane Garafalo ( Paloma Fineman ) had a good time making this film along with great directors like Ron Howard , Peter Bagdonavich ( " The Last Picture Show " 71 ) ; Roger Corman ( " Tales of Terror " ' 63 ) and sexy Karen Black . You just have to be a Jerry Stiller fan to really enjoy seeing him trying to get a laugh . It is tooo way out to be hard on this film ! Just sit back and go to sleep if it helps .
Michelle Rodriquez Was a Knockout	Went to Wal-Mart and found this film on DVD and had no idea whether I made a bad purchase or a good one . It is the later outcome to my viewing the entire film from beginning to end . Michelle Rodriquez , ( Diana Guzman ) , " BloodRayne " , ' 05 , gave a great performance and her looks are beautiful , sexy , and at the same time a real study in the art of how acting is really performed . Diana did not like her home life and especially her own father for the abuse he gave her mother . She decides to get boxing training in a local Brooklyn Gym and is not really well accepted by the male boxers . In her high school there is plenty of friction between her female classmates and guys . There is lots of action in the ladies bathroom and references as to private parts of guys . If you like boxing , and seeing a hot sexy gal do wonders in the ring and knock the boys on their you Know What , this is the film for you .
Ida Lupino was Outstanding	Greatly enjoyed this 1942 film starring Ida Lupino , ( Mrs . Helen Chernen ) who was married to a man who worked in a coal mine and Helen took care of her younger sister , Katie Chernen , ( Joan Leslie ) . Helen hated the town they lived in and also her husband and wanted a bigger and better future for Katie . Katie met up with Albert Runkel , ( Jack Carson ) who worked on the stage as a song and dance team with Paul Collins , ( Dennis Morgan ) . Katie has a great singing voice and can dance and Albert falls in love with her and gets her into his act . However , behind the scenes is Helen who is scheming to get her sister into big time show business and decides to get her sister married to Albert and runs off and leaves her husband and goes away with her sister and Albert . This story is really about the great actress Ginger Rogers and how her mother pushed her daughter into show business at all costs . They even offered Ginger Rogers a part in this picture , but she refused . Great Classic film , don't miss seeing it on TV .
Very Deep Heart Searching Film	Enjoyed this film produced by Robert Redford which deals with a Presbyterian Minister who has two sons , one is reserved and the other is a hell raiser . This film takes place in Montana and the beauty of their rivers and wonderful land and its beautiful mountains . Tom Skeritt , ( Rev . MacLean ) plays the role of a very loving parent of Norman MacLean , ( Craig Sheffer ) who is basically a very straight arrow and also his brother Paul MacLean , ( Brad Pitt ) who is a newspaper reporter and has a very wild way living especially with drinking and plenty of women . There is a sweet romance between Norman MacLean and Jessie Burns , ( Emily Lloyd ) who fall in love with each other and these two people try to guide Paul MacLean into a better way of living but he just cannot seem to settle down . Great film about what life is really about in many families . Enjoy
Great 1955 Film	Always enjoy every film that Richard Conte stars in mainly because I was born in Jersey City , N . J . and my father use to have his hair cut by Richard Conte's father who was a barber . In this picture Conte plays the role of a mobster named Mr . Brown and is ruthless and cruel and will pull a trigger at the drop of a hat . Lt . Leonard Diamond ( Cornel Wilde ) plays the role as a police officer who is trying to convict Mr . Brown on some criminal charges that will stick , because Mr . Brown controls everyone in the City Government and has many hoods working for him . Brian Donlevy , ( Joe McClure ) is Mr . Brown'a sidekick and plays the role as an old time gangster from years past . Lt . Diamond has a crush on a very sexy blonde girl named Susan Lowell , ( Jean Wallace ) who happens to be Mr . Brown's girlfriend for four years , Susan has no idea that Lt . Diamond has the hots for her until later in the film . I was surprised to find out that Cornel Wilde was married in real life to this girl he had a crush on , Jean Wallace .
Great Kirk Douglas Classic	Enjoyed this picture which deals with a police station in New York City where all kinds of things happen during a routine day in the life of police and detectives . Kirk Douglas plays the role as Det . Jim McLeod , who is a hard nose who goes completely by the books and is determined to bring every criminal he arrests put behind bars , no matter what the offense . Jim McLeod is married to a young girl he loves very much by the name of Mary McLeod , ( Eleanor Parker ) who has a very dark past that Jim is not aware of because it would devastate him deeply . George Mccready , ( Karl Schneider ) plays the role as a doctor who practices medicine and losses his license and decides to go into the business of abortion and has some secrets which he can use against Jim McLeod . Kirk Douglas and Eleanor Parker give outstanding performances and also this film was directed and produced by a veteran of great films , William Wyler .
Cast of Veteran Actors	This was a great WW II film which supported the war effort in America as we were fighting Japan and Germany , huge evil threats to the world . This story revolves around some new nurses who have to experience bombing raids as they are about to eat their evening meals . Ann Southern , ( Pat Conlin ) , Joan Blondell ( Grace ) , Ella Raines ( Connie Booth ) and Marsha Hunt , ( Flo Norris ) " Chloe's Prayer " , ' 05 . All of these women had great careers in Hollywood , some were just character actresses like Marsha Hunt , who had a cute turned up nose and simply never got the man she fell in love with . During the Joseph McCarthy Era , when McCarthy was investigating actors for being associated with the Communist party , Marsha Hunt was placed on his Black List , which turned out to be a false story . This film is a definite look back at the past and the opportunity to see great actors just starting their careers on the Silver Screen in Hollywood .
Great Entertaining Film	Enjoyed this film concerning a girl eighteen years of age who has become interested in a girls soccer team which is called football in West London , England where this film takes place . This young girls name is Jess Kaur Bhamra , ( Parminder Nagra ) who is the daughter of an East Indian father who practices the orthodox Sikh faith . Jess meets up with a girl named Juliette Paxton , ( Keira Knightley ) who plays on a girls soccer team and invites Jess to come on their team and she meets the male coach of the girls team , who is Joe , ( Jonathan Rhys ) . Jess shows she has great talent and is accepted on the team . However , her family is very much against their daughter participating in any sports and therefore , Jess decides to keep it a secret until she goes to Germany for a soccer event . There is plenty of comedy , drama and romance and a wonderful experience of seeing the customs of East Indian people and all the foods that they prepare for themselves as a family . Great entertaining film and a wonderful production . Enjoy
Sir Carol Reed is a Great Director	Enjoyed this great film from 1947 , sixty years ago , which stared a great actor James Mason who was never really recognized by Hollywood as a great actor . The director of this film Sir Carol Reed was a very famous director who directed many famous pictures that won Oscars . Stephen Spielberg admired Reed's great work and was his inspiration in the film industry . This film deals with a bank robber who escapes from jail and is in hiding for six months and never goes out of the house and at the same time is planning to make a bank hold up with his many supporters . There is problems that happened at the bank hold up which causes this story to go in many directions and there is a constant problem which Johnny McQueen , ( James Mason ) has to face while trying to flee from the police . Johnny McQueen even has a painter who wants to desperately paint his portrait and a girl and priest trying to find him and save himself and his soul . Great acting by the entire cast and a wonderful Classic Film to view and enjoy .
Fantastic Classic 1943 Film	Have not seen this film in years and it was a great experience seeing this film and the great veteran actors who made this into a great WWII story . Cary Grant , ( Capt . Cassidy ) plays the commander who manages to take his submarine right into the backyard of the Japanese Nation . John Garfield , ( Wolf ) plays a great role who charms the crew with his tales of all the women he met along with a great deal of exaggeration . Alan Hale , ( Cookie Wainwright ) was a cook on the submarine and was able to give a great deal of comedy to his role as the chef . This film will keep you on the edge of your seat when the sub comes under fire from the Japanese Destroyer's while one of the crew is having surgery by a man who knows nothing about appendicitis . Dane Clark , ( Tin Can ) gave a great supporting role in this film and this film started a great career for Dane in Hollywood . Great film , don't miss it , you can see this film over and over .
Reality Film of the Depression Era	Heard my grandparents speak about the depression and how hard it was to live in any big city trying to find work and food . This film clearly shows in great detail all the difficulties people experienced trying to find work and hold a job and turned their ambitions into the rich farmland of the Mid-West . King Vidor showed the poor conditions that people had to live in and how the weather seemed to work against them with droughts and dust storms . The scene I liked the most was when all the men decided to do something about getting water for their corn crops and working day and night to get their corn fields filled with water . Some of the people jumped and rolled in the dirt , mud and went simply crazy at the sight of water flowing on their land . This was a great realistic film about the depression days years ago .
A Great Entertaining Film	Enjoyed this film because it had so many surprises with many many famous actors who appear and you just never know just what is going to happen next . Frankie Fane , ( Stephen Boyd ) and Hymie Kelly , ( Tony Bennett ) are two guys who grew up together and they both know each other very well . One day , Frankie goes with friends to a rehearsal and he jumps up on the stage and shows one of the actors just how to use a knife like a street criminal . This performance got the attention of an older woman who was the director of the play and she hired him and his career took off and he became a big star . The only problem is that Frankie has a complex about woman and he actually hated his mother and he also does the same thing with all women he meets and he always manages to hurt them and leaves them in tears . Tony Bennett gave an outstanding performance as a great actor and there was no singing at all , just very dramatic acting and he really gave a great supporting role . You will never be able to figure out just how this film will end and there are many surprises which seem to pop out at you . Great film , enjoy .
DOWN TO EARTH FILM AND VERY ENJOYABLE !	Taped this film years ago and thought it was just a great film about three ( 3 ) young gals striving to make a career in the dance field . It showed the hard work behind the scenes of the dancing world and gives encouragement for all those trying to follow in their footsteps . The location in Canada is depressing and the abandoned warehouse they decided to rent was unbelievable . There is lots of love and HOT romance along with a cute scene with a little boy asking a question about " Orgie's " and a very cute reply from his mother . This is a great classic film and very enjoyable to view , try to catch it on TV sometime !
Victoria Principal Look Fantastic	It was nice viewing a TV film back in 1990 , where Victoria Principal had great looks and played the role of a New Mexcio Mayor , ( Patricia Sparks ) , " Naked Lie " TV ' 89 . Patricia attends a conference in a large city and gets hit on by Ted Wass , ( Steve Warner ) , who manages to push Pat right into the bedroom with plenty of good lines . This so called affair manages to come back to haunt her in her own home town ; despite the fact that her home town also has a serial killer on the loose . This killer does not like anyone , especially a woman , to point their finger at him and tell him what to do . Unfortunately , too many young gals pointed their fingers , even a poor bus driver , teacher and many more finger pointers . The ending is rather a tease and not very much to my liking , however , it is entertaining .
Fantastic 1947 Classic Film	Enjoyed this picture from the beginning to the very end with great old time musical numbers sung by Frank Sinatra , ( Danny Webson Miller ) who returns from the Army after four years of service to his hometown of Brooklyn , New York and meets up with some of his old friends . One of the friends is Jimmy Durante , ( Nick Lombardi ) who really stole the entire film in almost every scene . Kathryn Grayson , ( Anne Fielding ) had such a fantastic opera voice and sang some very famous Classical musical numbers . It was enjoyable seeing Peter Lawford , ( Jamie Shellgrove ) give a great song and dance number and also a blooming romance between him and Anne Fielding . Even Gloria Grahame , ( Nurse ) gave a great supporting role as a nurse taking care of Danny while he was in the service and how he sort of remembers her at the very end of the picture . Great film , don't miss this great Classic from 1947 . Enjoy .
Joan Crawford was YOUNG & BEAUTIFUL ! !	Always enjoy the Classic Films of the 1930's and great stars like Clark Gable , ( Mark Whitney ) , " But Not For Me " , ' 59 , who plays a charming , trim and young looking successful lawyer who runs into a very tricky and ambitious young lady . The young lady is , Joan Crawford , ( Marian Martin ) , " Journey to Murder " , ' 72 , ( who was at the top of her career in Hollywood ) manages to leave a boring life , and a boring husband to find a richer field of endeavor in NYC with very wealthy people whom she is able to con into doing anything she wants . If you like a young looking Clark Gable and Joan Crawford and would like to see how films were made in the early 30's , this is the film for YOU ! !
Dorothy MacKaill Was a Knockout in the 30's !	Enjoyed this great 1930's film and enjoyed the down to earth language and a true to life story with a very realistic ending ! Dorothy MacKaill ( Gilda Carlson ) , " Bulldog Drummond at Bay " , ' 37 , played a great role and was very sexy and teased all her gentlemen admires in her hotel on a island with horny old men ! Gilda was down and out and had many lovers , but fell in love with Donald Cook ( Carl Bergen ) , " Bowery to Broadway " , ' 44 , who was a naval officer who was always leaving her alone and at the mercy of lusting men . Gilda and Carl decided to take their marriage vows in a church by themselves because there was no minister to marry them . Gilda remained faithful to Carl , however , you will have to view this film in order to find out what happened to these Two Lover Birds !
Great Stanley Kramer Film	This is a great film which deals with a global nuclear war which has destroyed the United States along with the entire world namely because all the nations decided they needed nuclear weapons and it destroyed the entire world . Gregory Peck plays the role as Cmdr . Dwight Towers who is in command of a nuclear submarine which has high tech equipment that can measure the radiation levels in cities like San Francisco , San Diego and Austrialia . Fred Astaire , ( Julian Osborne ) plays a straight acting role and no dancing and gave a great supporting role . Ava Gardner , ( Maria Davidson ) adds romance to this film where Maria tries to seduce Dwight Towers who is a married man with children . Anthony Perkins , ( Lt . Cmdr . Peter Holmes , Royal Australian Navy ) is a young married man with their first child and he tries to prepare his wife that this nuclear war has spread to their home town and they will all die sooner or later . Stanley Dramer asked Ava Gardner not put any makeup on in this film and she sure looked great without the make up . Enjoy this great classic film with great actors and good direction .
Great 1939 Film Classic	Have not seen this picture in a long time but it is always a great treat to view it again , because it shows just what New York City's Hell's Kitchen looked like on the East Side of Manhattan in the 30's . There were old tenement homes and people use their windows to hang out their laundry to dry in the Summer . This film starts out with two boys , Rocky Sullivan , ( James Cagney ) and Jerry Connolly , ( Pat O'Brien ) and they are typical poor boys who have fun fooling around and stealing things from people . As time goes bye , these two boys grow up and go their separate ways in life . Rocky Sullivan wound up in reform school , and then prison and took the rap for James Frazier who owed Rocky his share of the money which was $100 , 00 . 00 . When Rocky gets out of the pen , he comes looking for Frazier who is now a lawyer and he does not want to part with this money and that is when the story becomes full of action and killing . The " Dead End Kids " gave a great supporting role and Pat O'Brien , ( Jerry Connolly ) was outstanding playing the role as a priest . Enjoy .
Director John Brahm Made this a Great Classic !	Enjoyed taping this film recently , which was shown during the early hours of the AM . It is a great picture from the 1940's and director John Brahm , who also directed such film greats as , " Hangover Square " , ' 45 and " The Lodger " , ' 44 , starring Laid Cregar . Twentieth Century-Fox produced this film which is from a good novel taken from Jessie Douglas Kerruish's 1936 book . It is a tale of a family cursed since the Crusades and is rather moody stuff , quite spoilt by the British censor's scissors . Not only did he remove the carefully photographed final metamorphosis , leaving audiences to wonder why the dim thing that the police shot should suddenly look like John Howard , but he also insisted on the title being changed to The Hammond Mystery . Fortunately enough of Brahm's brilliance was devoted to less shocking sequences so that most of his mood remained . Lucien Ballard swung his camera round as ancient room , alighting on odd objects at each dour bong of midnight . He also showed a large stain glass window which made the old homestead very creapy . The phrase : When the stars are bright on a frosty night , Beware the baying in the rocky lane " You will have to see the picture to find out what the MONSTER REALLY IS !
Funny Film	Billy Wilder produced a great film and also wrote this screen play which featured Jack Lemmon , ( Harry Hinkle ) who was a TV Camera man working on a football field and is accidentally knocked over by by an all star team player and suffers injuries . However , these injuries are magnified by his brother-in-law , Willie Gingrich , ( Walter Matthau ) who is a fly by night lawyer always looking to make a buck off accidents and going to court for large amounts of money . Willie convinces Harry to fake his injuries in order to make one million dollars and so poor Willie has to stay all braced up and in a wheel chair . The insurance companies decided to have his apartment bugged and a man with a camera is watching him from a building across the street to catch him in his lies . This situation continues for a long time and even Harry's wife Sandy Hinkle , ( Judi West ) decides to visit him and when she finds out he is a fake , she wants him to continue his deception in order to get all the insurance money . There are lots of laughs and Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau hold this entire picture together . Enjoy .
Great Classic Film	This film had a great story about a small English town and its people during WWII and the poor living conditions for the average family and the poor health conditions . There was the Channing Family who ran a Mill in this town and were very rich and treated the local people over the years very poorly . Times were starting to change and the Channing family were going to lose their large mansion high on a hill over looking this town . John Mills , ( George Boswell ) ran a newspaper in town and fell in love with Martha Scott , ( Olivia Channing ) and they eventually were married . Olivia wanted her husband George to advance himself in Parliment and lift himself up to a higher position in life . Unfortunately , there became many problems facing this marriage and some very very dark secrets were uncovered about Olivia Channing . There was great acting performed by John Mills , Martha Scott , and many other great veteran actors .
Great John Gilbert Film	Turner Classic Movies presented this silent film on TV for the first time because their was a musical sound track added which made the silent film more interesting and enjoyable . John Gilbert , ( Cock Robin ) , " The Captain Hates the Sea " is part of a Circus Show that presents a skit involving some magical tricks with a lady disappearing and being raised in the air . The gal in the film is Renee Adoree , ( Salome ) , " All of the Flesh " who works in the circus act as a belly dancer and requests the head of a certain man on a platter which is quickly arranged in this skit for the circus audiences . Lionel Barrymore , ( The Greek ) , " Dragon Seed " plays the evil guy with piercing eyes and sinister looks and money crazy . John Gilbert in real life had a torrid affair with Greta Garbo and was left at the alter which devastated John and his career went down hill and MGM made sure his career was over . John was the next Rudolph Valentino and was adored by all the young ladies during this period of time . Enjoyable film Classic with great veteran actors from the past . Enjoy
HAMMER PRODUCED A VERY GRAPHIC FRANKENSTEIN !	Over the years I seemed to have missed this film made by Hammer Studio's and enjoyed the realism of a real down to earth horrible monster maker , Ralph Bates ( Victor Frankenstein ) , " Lust for a Vampire " , ' 71 who numbered all his parts so he could construct a real to life " Frankenstein " , he even could visualize a number # 25 on the forehead of one of his victims , which was his BRAIN ! The blood and gore was not spared from any scenes . Kate O'Mara , ( Alys ) , " The Road to Ithaca , " ' 99 , was ignored by Victor Frankenstein , Alys was madly in love with her master and assisted him in bed ! Dennis Price , ( The Graverobber ) , " Twins of Evil " , ' 71 played a real Down to Earth Digger and gave everyone the CHILLS ! If you love Frankenstein Films , catch this great HAMMER CLASSIC !
Enjoyable 1938 Comedy	Gary Cooper , ( Michael Brandon ) played the role as an American millionaire who had seven bad marriages , but always divorced his wife's with plenty of money to live on . Michael is in Paris on business and goes into a French Department Store to buy a pair of pajama tops and the sales people refuse to sell him just the tops , he has to buy the bottoms or there is no sale . Nicole DeLoiselle , ( Claudette Colbert ) listens to this conversation and offers to buy the bottom of these pajama's . Michael becomes very interested in Nicole and they have occasion to meet and go on dates . It is not too long before Michael proposes marriage to Nicole and she is very taken back with his request for marriage since she really does not know him very well . However , once she finds out she is going to become the Eighth wife of Michael she begins to change her mind and this story becomes quite entertaining and funny . Don't miss this film , it is great entertainment by great veteran actors . Enjoy .
Overlooked Film	This is a film that is very much overlooked by most Bogart fans , not because of his acting , but the story line may have been great in 1947 , but is not very thrilling today . Humphrey Bogart , ( Geoffrey Carroll ) , " Dead End " , ' 37 , plays a struggling artist and also a man who loves the ladies . Barbara Stanwyk , ( Sally Morton Carroll ) , " Sorry , Wrong Number " , ' 48 plays the wife and begins to become very uncomfortable living with her husband . Geoffrey hands Sally a drink of milk before going to bed and she gets all upset and throws the milk out a stain glassed window . Alexis Smith , ( Cecily Latham ) , " The Eternal Sea " , ' 55 gets herself involved with Geoffrey and they have fun as told in the days of 1947 with no sleeping in bed together was allowed . Geoffrey works on a painting of his wife and has it under lock and key and eventually she opens the door and finds a great big surprise . Even Nigel Bruce ( Dr . Tuttle ) , " Dressed to Kill " , ' 46 appears in the picture and gives a great supporting role as the family doctor . If you are a Bogart fan , you will want to see his performance and especially his facial expressions , something like the " Caine Mutiny " 54 .
Classic Veteran Actors	This is a great WW II film about an Island in the Pacific where the United States lost a great deal of their Marine soldiers . The Japs had attacked Pearl Harbor in December 1941 and their were a few Islands that the United States had bases on in the Pacific . The Japs went to the White House to visit FDR and talked about peace and prosperity , and as soon as they left Washington , D . C . the bombs started attacking and making IT A DAY TO REMEMBER at Pearl Harbor ! Brian Donlevy , ( Maj . Geoffrey Caton ) , " Waco " , ' 66 , was a commander over the grounds forces and Air Force on Wake Island , Robert Preston , ( Pvt . Joe Doyle ) , " The Music Man " , ' 62 were great supporting actors along with Albert Dekker , ( Shad McClosky ) , " Kiss Me Deadly " , 55 , and William Bendix , ( Pvt . Smacksie ) , " The Life of Riley " , ' 53 TV Series . This film is not a documentary film and has some Hollywood versions , but it still is a great film with fantastic actors . There are also plenty of vintage fighting scenes between the Jap Pilots and the Americans .
BORIS KARLOFF IS A CHINESE BANDIT !	Excellent movie directed by John Farrow , ( Mia Farrow's father ) and involves American promoters Myron Galt ( Douglas Wood ) and Gordon Creed ( Ricardo Cortez ) who arrive in a village where bandit's are infested throughout the country side of northern China . They plan to foreclose on a valuable oil concession owned by Jim Hallet ( Gordon Oliver ) . However , Creed finds his estranged wife , Jane ( Beverly Roberts ) , a medical missionary , is falling in love with Hallet . He will not give her a divorce , in the meantime an army of bandits looking for money and possessions are lead by their renegade general , Wu Yen Fang ( Boris Karloff ) , he takes over the entire city and uses the Christian Mission as a headquarters . Americans and missionaries find themselves prisoners of Boris Karloff and he does a good job of terrorizing them . West of Shanghai in 1923 was a silent film and also a talkie version in 1930 . Walter Houston repeated the role of the Mexican bandit . This is a very slow B movie . Karloff is starred , and does the best that he can to portray a Chinese bandit using the methods of American racketeers . Boris Karloff's acting and makeup is great which made this picture into a classic .
Love is Stronger Than Death	Fritz Lang produced a great 1921 silent film about the power of death which faces every living person no matter whether you are a new born person or a very young person or older . In this story a young woman's lover is taken from her by death and she is able to confront death and claim that Love is Stronger than Death and she has to prove it to the person playing death , Bernhard Goetzke , ( De Tod ) . Lil Dagover , ( Junge Maedehen ) is the young lady who is given three candles to try and gain her lover back to life and has to experience some very difficult tasks . Junge Maedehen saves a baby and then offers her life to De Tod and he tells her , " IF You Give Your Life , You will Gain Your Life " This film told me what I already know that if you love someone who death takes away they will never die so long as you always remember them in your heart and soul , even if you feel like you have a hole in your heart . Great Masterpiece by Fritz Lang way way back in 1921 Enjoy
Pecfect Name for this Film	This is a very light headed comedy about a wonderful family that has a son called Pecker because he use to Peck at his Food . Pecker loves to take all kinds of pictures of the people in a small suburb of Baltimore , Md . , and manages to get the attention of a group of photo art lovers from New York City . Pecker has a cute sister who goes simply nuts over SUGAR and is actually an ADDICT , taking spoonfuls of sugar from a bag . There are scenes of men showing off the lumps in their jockey's with grinding movements and gals doing pretty much the same . It is rather hard to keep your mind out of the gutter with this film , but who cares , it is only a film to give you a few laughs at a simple picture made in 1998 .
Great Film Classic	This film launched the career of Alan Ladd as a great actor playing the role as Philip Raven who had a horrible childhood and developed a criminal mind that just wanted to kill and he became a hired killer . Laird Cregar , " The Lodger " , ( Willard Gates ) hires Philip Raven to do away with a certain person but it becomes more than just a killing , it involves a spy operation in America dealing with Japan and secret chemical formulas . Veronica Lake , ( Ellen Graham ) is a night club performer who does magic tricks and gets herself involved with Willard Gates who also has a night club and hires her to perform there . Robert Preston , ( Det . Lt . Michael Crane ) gets involved with this case and his girlfriend is Ellen Graham . There is plenty of action involved in this film and it will keep you glued to your seat until the very end . A fantastic film with all outstanding actors and a classic that will be appreciated for many many years to come . Enjoy .
Great Film Classic	In this film Leslie Caron , ( Jane Fosset ) plays the role of a young girl who leaves her family in France and travels to London , England and finds a rooming house filled with all kinds of people . Jane tries to sleep in her bed and finds bugs crawling all over the sheets and pillow cases which forces her to sleep in a chair . As Jane is trying to sleep in her chair , her next door neighbor , Johnny , ( Brock Peters ) peeps in on her and scares her to death . Jane sort of stays by herself and eventually becomes friends with most of the people and a young man named Toby , ( Tom Bell ) who lives in the rooming house is a very unsuccessful writer who just can't seem to publish any of his writing and he becomes very interested in Jane and he even falls in love with her . Jane does not tell Toby very much about herself and has some very dark secrets she keeps from him because she always stops him when he wants to make love to her . Leslie Caron has played in many musicals , but in this film , she clearly showed her great ability to be a very dramatic actress . Brock Peters gave a great supporting role and added a great deal to this film . Don't miss this one , it is outstanding . Enjoy .
Great George Stevens Film	Enjoyed this film directed by a veteran director , George Stevens and the great acting of Cary Grant playing the role as Leopold Dilg who is convicted of burning a wool factory and killing a person in the fire . Leopold is put in prison and escapes and hurts his ankle and finds his way to an old friend he knew growing up The friend is Miss Nora Shelley , ( Jean Arthur ) who is a real estate agent and is renting her home to a Professor Michael Lightcap , ( Ronald Coleman ) and Leopold comes breaking into her home and upsetting her plans to get things ready for her new tenant . Unfortunately , Professor Lightcap arrives early and wants to move into the house this very night that Leopold has escaped . This drama turns into a complete comedy at times and is a very enjoyable film to watch and enjoy from 1942 .
Great Mystery Film	This Richard Gere film I seemed to have missed and once I started viewing it , I was completely captured to the screen and my chair . Richard Gere , ( John Klein ) , " Shall We Dance " , ' 04 , plays a Washington Post top reporter who decides to buy a nice larger older home with his wife , Debra Messing , ( Mary Klein ) , " Will & Grace " , ' TV series , ' 98 , they are both extremely happy , it is during the Christmas Season and they are very happy in love and decided the make love in one of the closets . It is from that point on in the picture when all kinds of things take a different turn of events . There is good acting by Will Patton , ( Gordon Smallwood ) , " The Agency " , TV Series 2000 , who is a person who becomes deeply involved with strange happenings effecting his entire life . Laura Linney , ( Connie Mills ) , " P . S . " ' 04 plays a Police Sgt . who tries to help John Klein with his many problems he seems to experience in a small town in West Virginia . If you like Richard Gere with good acting and lots of action , this is a great mystery .
Great Alcatraz Film	Recently visited the Alcatraz Prison which reminded me of a haunting grave yard for poor souls who wasted their entire lives for wrong turns they made in life . This film portrayed just how Alcatraz really looks with its 5 x 9 cells and all of the accommodations of a toilet , a wash basin , a single pull down seat and a very uncomfortable bed . Clint Eastwood , ( Frank Morris ) , " A Perfect World " , ' 93 , played one of the prisoners who made a career out of breaking out of prisons in Georgia and was sent to the Rock . The dinning room looked exactly as it did when I viewed it , except it is in rather bad condition and the solitary confinement cells were really black hell holes to be placed in . Warden James Johnston who was the first Warden to serve from 1934 to 1948 who treated the prisoners better than most of the other wardens and allowed the men to have hobbies and were given job opportunities within the prison . If you are interested in how a few prisoners escaped from the ROCK , this is the film for you , however , no one really knows if the three of them every lived HAPPY EVER AFTER or just plain drowned .
Great Jodie Foster Film	For some reason I missed viewing this film which held my interest from the very beginning to the end and I was amazed at the great acting of Jodie Foster . Jodie was 14 years of age making this film playing the role as Rynn who in the film was suppose to be 13 years of age . Rynn lives with her father in an old home which they leased for three years and she did not go to school , but taught herself at home along with her father's help . Martin Sheen , ( Frank Hallet ) plays the role as a married man with children but he likes little girls and even puts the make on poor little Rynn . It was nice seeing Alexis Smith , ( Mrs . Hallet ) who had a rather minor role but she was at one time a great movie star . There is some nudity , which is suppose to be Jodie Foster , but I have strong feelings these quick scenes were performed by a stand-in actress . You will never be able to figure out just how this film will end . Enjoy .
Great Classic 1969 Film	Viewed this film years ago , and seeing it again was better than the first time I viewed it . It very well could be that the top stars in this film were younger and both at the height of their careers . Paul Newman , ( Butch Cassidy ) , " Where the Money Is " 2000 , gave an outstanding performance in being dramatic , comical and deadly . His sidekick , Robert Redford , ( The Sundance Kid ) , " The Last Castle " , ' 01 , had a great time protecting Butch Cassidey in a cross fire of bullets and even convincing him to jump off a high cliff into roaring rapids far below . Katherine Ross , ( Etta Place ) , " Don't Let Go " , ' 02 , looked very pretty and had a hard time trying to settle down the true love in her life . Great film for all generations to view and enjoy two great Actors .
Hardly Recognized Janet Leigh	This was a great James Stewart , ( Howard Kemp ) film where he plays the role of a rancher who has lost everything because his wife took off with another man and left him penniless . Howard has captured a man who is wanted for murder and has a reward set at $5 , 000 . 00 and he also has with him a very young gal named Lina Patch , ( Janet Leigh ) who won't leave him , Ben Vandergroat , ( Robert Ryan ) . As this group make their way through woods and mountains , they meet up with other men , like Roy Anderson , ( Ralph Meeker ) who was a soldier in the Civil War and has a dishonorable discharge from the Army and he wants to get in on this reward money for Ben Vandergroat . There is still another older man named Jesse Tote , ( Millard Mitchell ) who also wants his cut in the reward and is also interested in finding gold . Lina has her hands full trying to keep the men's hands off of her and she does a good job of not letting any of the guys get too close for comfort . There are fights with Indians and most of the fights are among themselves . Great 1953 Classic Western which has a different twist to the story .
NIce Hitchcock Production	Always enjoyed the great acting of Joseph Cotten , ( Uncle Charlie ) who starts off this movie laying in bed and smoking a cigar and and just staring into space , with money thrown all over the floor of his boarding house room . His landlady tells him that two men were looking for him , but she told them he was not feeling very well and she did not want to disturb him . It is from this point in the film when Charlie decides to take off to visit his sister's family in a small town and hide out from who ever is trying meet up with him . Charlie is well liked by his sister's daughter , Charlie Newton , ( Teresa Wright ) who thinks the world of her uncle Charlie . Charlie Newton is a very smart young gal and starts to get suspicious of the way her uncle is acting and the story begins to get very interesting which will keep you glued to the silver screen . Great Hitchcock film with great actors and a great ending which will definitely surprise you .
Great DePalma Film	Whenever DePalma is in charge of a film , you can be very certain it will be full of action , sex , drama and hold your interest from the beginning to the very end . Melanie Griffith , ( Holly ) , " Shade " , ' 03 , played a porno star and hooker if it so required her body to perform . Holly had no problem in showing off almost everything a bride should show her husband or whatever the situation . Gregg Henry , " Silent Partner " , ' 05 offered Craig Wasson , ( Jake Scully ) , " Tracks " , ' 02 the use of his buddies fantastic apartment with the use of a telescope that viewed a very interesting bedroom scene every night , like clock work ! Even Dennis Franz , ( Rubin ) , " City of Angels " , ' 98 , played a movie director and yelled and screamed just like his role in NYPD Blue , but was a lot thinner and naturally , younger . Like I said before , DePalma created a great film and I will always like his direction of " Dressed to Kill " . Enjoy .
Entertaining TV Film	Enjoyed this TV film which portrays a young daughter who has a very burning desire to become an accomplished Ballet Dancer and puts her entire heart and soul in this endeavor . This girl is finally recommended for a noteworthy audition by her elderly teacher who suddenly up and quits his position and soon after kills himself . Reed Halton , ( Sebastian Spence ) becomes her new teacher and is very handsome and talented . Daphne Zuniga , " Beautiful People " , ' 06 is the girls mother and is presently going through a divorce , which keeps the mother and daughter's relationship on edge . If you like ballet , some romance and drama , this is definitely a great film to catch on TV . I must applaud all the actors in this film , as well as , the director and producer .
Ask Joe Keller	Enjoyed this Edward G . Robinson , where he plays the role of Joe Keller , a self made man who was poor and built up a very profitable business . Joe has a nice family he is very proud of and works hard to give them all the comforts he never had when he was a child growing up . During World War II Joe started bidding for government contracts and he was making good money until American pilots started having problems with their aircraft and many pilots were killed because of faulty parts . There is a big scandal and Joe Keller faces some very serious problems . Burt Lancaster , ( Chris Keller ) plays the role of one of Joe Keller's son's and he gives an outstanding supporting role in this film . After this airplane scandal , many people started saying , " Ask Joe Keller " what really happened . Edward G . put his heart and soul in his role and clearly showed his great professional acting abilities . This is a rather sad story , but true to life .
Olivier was a Horrible Dentist	Have seen this film many times and it always holds my interest from the beginning to the very end . Dustin Hoffman , ( Thomas Levy ) is a brilliant graduate history student and loves to prepare himself for a marathon and is running through Central Park , New York all the time . Thomas has a brother Henry Levy , ( Roy Scheider ) who is involved with the government and realizes that his brother is getting deeply involved with an international crime which involves stolen diamonds which were given to Henry Levy by Jewish people . Dr . Christian Szell , ( Laurence Olivier ) is a former Nazi doctor who performed horrible operations on poor Jewish people and wanted these diamonds very badly . There is a horrible scene where Dr . Szell does some dentistry work on Thomas Levy which simply drives him crazy . Great film with great actors and Dustin Hoffman gave a great performance along with Laurence Olivier who I understand was not feeling in good health when he made this film , but you would never know it . Enjoy .
Great 1934 Film to Enjoy	This is a great 1934 film which had a great deal of mystery and entertainment right to the very end of the film . John Prentice , ( William Powell ) , played the role as a very famous lawyer who was always busy with plenty of his clients and his wife was , Evelyn Prentice , ( Myrna Loy ) . Evelyn Prentice had a small daughter and the family was very happy , but John was constantly busy all the time and Evelyn is approached by a man who seems to charm her and tempt her into some sort of a relationship with him . At the same time , John defended a very rich client and was able to free her from any judgments in a car accident and this client showered John with all kinds of affection and wanted to have an affair with him . There is a murder which occurs and turns this film completely around and takes the story in another direction . Please don't miss this film , it is just plain great to view and enjoy with great acting by Myrna Loy and William Powell .
Geraldine Page was Outstanding	Enjoyed this dramatic love story which involves a girl named Alma Winemiller , ( Geraldine Page ) a pretty young gal who is a preacher's daughter and very straight laced . Alma grew up with the boy next door named John Buchanan Jr . , ( Laurence Harvey ) and unknowing to herself she fell in love with him a very long time ago . Alma always looks out her window in order to see what John is doing and simply cannot stop watching his whereabouts in life . John's father is a medical doctor who sends John off to medical school and when he returns back home , Alma is all grown up and still has a heart throb for Johnny . However , John has changed and became a ladies man and is a wild guy who loves women and drinking . John finds a Spanish girlfriend named Rosa Zacharias , ( Rita Moreno ) and they are always making romantic love and living it up every weekend . Alma shows an interest in John and goes after him for a date and John decides to take her out on a date and finds out she is not willing to make love to him , so he calls her a cold fish and predicts she will become an old maid . Great film and excellent acting .
Liked Stephen Kings Story	Always liked Stephen Kings books and some of his films were great and others not as interesting , with horrible endings which made very little sense . This film in my opinion was fantastic and held my interest right to the very end and his conclusion to the film was even better than I expected . Storm of the Century was very creepy with all the snow covering this small lobster town and then a man with an ugly cane coming to the door of a very old home ; and an old lady drinking tea inside hears the door bell and struggles to use a walker to see who is at her door . It is from this point on that the film never stops giving you the creeps and chills up and down your spine . This strange man keeps saying : " Give Me What I Want and I will Go Away " and the guy really means it . Stephen King even makes an appearance on a broken TV Screen , so watch out for his brief showing . Enjoy
JACK WEBB USED DNA IN 1948 !	This film was full of veteran actors , Richard Basehart , ( Roy Martin / Roy Morgan ; Scott Brady ( Sgt . Marty Brennan ) brother of former film star , Lawrence Tierney " Dillinger " . Jack Webb , was very young and thin in this picture , he was married to Julie London who starred in the film , " The Red House " with Edward G . Robinson . Jack Webb used all the equipment they had in the 1948's and even had some good CSI theories as a Crime Lab expert . This 1948 keeps you spellbound and keeps you guessing throughout the entire picture . The black and white film makes it even more chilling and mysterious . View it if you can , you won't be sorry !
Great Sean Penn Film	Greatly enjoyed this film directed by Sean Penn with a great cast of veteran actors and a very interesting story which starred David Morse , ( Joe Roberts ) who plays the role as a small town chief of police . This film starts off with Charles Bronson , ( Mr . Roberts ) and Sandy Dennis , ( Mrs . Roberts ) who raised two boys Joe Roberts and Frank Roberts , ( Viggo Mortensen ) . Frank went to the Viet Nam War and when he returned he met his brother Joe and told him he was not going to live with his father and mother and was going to leave and do just what he wants to do . Frank has some very serious mental problems and gets into all kinds of problems which cause great problems to his mother and father and it makes his brother Joe worry about him all the time . This film had great actors who gave great supporting roles , namely : Sandy Dennis and Charles Bronson . Sandy Dennis gave her last performance in this film and passed away at the early age of 54 years of age after winning an Oscar and appearing in many films and New York City Theater Stage Shows .
How People Created Their Own Problems	It was nice seeing Paul Newman and Tom Hanks perform together in a very interesting film in the 1930's during depression days . During this period of time , Al Capone and the mob were all involved with booze , sex and any kind of illegal way of making money . Tom Hanks is a hit man and has two sons and a sweet loving wife and a nice home . As the story progresses , you understand why Hanks carries a gun and one of his sons finds out the sad truth about his father and grandfather , whom he loves very much . The story points out the fact that some people are misguided by their loyalty's to superiors and the choices they choose in life can actually destroy them and the people they love . Excellent acting and great photography , depicting all the living in years gone by , especially the old cars and furniture .
Great 1937 Film In Color	Enjoy many of William A Wellman's direction of films and in this film he goes completely slapstick with his leading stars being Carole Lombard as Hazel Flagg and Fredric March as Wally Cook . Janet Gaynor was originally selected for the role as Hazel Flagg and was decided that Carole Lombard was best suited for the role and she was a great success . This is a story about Hazel Flagg who lives in a town called Warsaw , Vermont and Hazel has been advised by her physician in town that she has a very short time to live , because she has a radiation in her system and it will take her life . A New York City newspaper man picks up on her story and decides to visit her town and write a complete story about her condition and her life . This report is Wally Cook , ( Fredric March ) who visits this town and gets a very cold reception from everyone in town and especially Margaret Hamilton , ( Warsaw , Vermont Drug Store Lady ) who two year later appeared in " The Wizard of Oz " in 1939 . There is lots of comedy and Carole Lombard the wife of Clark Gable gave a great performance with lots of vitality and humor . Enjoy .
Great Classic 1948 Film	Enjoyed this great film about the world of the numbers racketeer's which were operated through out New York City and many other cities in the United States . Joe Morse , ( John Garfield ) is a crooked lawyer who is involved with big time gangsters and gives them all kinds of legal advice concerning their criminal activities . Leo Morse , ( Thomas Gomez ) is a brother of Joe and they both do not get along very well mainly because Joe went to college and made a big name for himself and Leo was just a simple numbers manager . Edna Tucker , ( Marie Windsor ) works for Leo Morse and is a very young gal and she gets romantically involved with Joe Morse which adds some female sparks to this film . Great acting by veteran actor Thomas Gomez and John Garfield gave an outstanding performance . This is a very well directed film and it will hold your interest from beginning to the very end .
Beatrice Lillie & Franklin Pangborn Were Outstanding	Greatly enjoyed this great classic 1926 silent film comedy and was amazed at the great performance that Beatrice Lillie portrayed on the screen as Violet . Violet worked as a stage hand for a theatrical company that traveled by railroad all through the small towns of America . Violet would serve meals , clean up , mend clothing , iron and washed the actors and actresses clothes , besides , acting a small role in their play as a maid . Violet meets up with a young man named Jimmy Marsh ( Jack Pickford ) who needs a job and she manages to get him into this theatrical group and falls in love with him . However , Jimmy Marsh is suspected of stealing money in his home town and has some dark secrets he is hiding from everyone . There is plenty of comedy performed by Franklin Pangborn , ( Cecil Lovelace ) who plays a big sissy and has people laughing in stitches . Jack Picford is the brother to Mary Pickford who found a career in Hollywood , but had a very short life . Great Classic Silent film . Enjoy
Height & Eyeballs of Darby Jones Made this Film	This film was made on a very low budget and was called a " B " film , which was usually shown along with another " B " film , a Newsreel and a few Cartoons as a Saturday night feature during the 1940's through out movie houses . Tom Conway , ( Paul Holland ) , " Voodoo Woman " , ' 57 , was a big success at the time in Hollywood , playing in the Falcon Series and helped to draw the crowds to see this Voodoo black and white horror film . All that Darby Jones was required to have in this film , was Height and Eyeballs that almost came out of his head and never BLINK . Tall Darby Jones played ( Carre Four ) , the zombie who towered over Frances Dee . She was the nurse who finds happiness with Tom Conway , a sugar planter whose wandering wife has been zombified by his mother . Frances Dee , ( Betsy Connell ) , Jessica Holland's nurse gave a great supporting role . This is a classic film from the 40's and if you liked Tom Conway at the height of his career , this film will entertain you .
Great British Comedy	The great Oscar Wilde wrote this play and it is one of his classic comedies with many great actors . Michael Redgrave , ( Jack Worthing ) is an English gentleman who lives in the city and calls himself Earnest and when he goes to his country estate he calls himself Jack where he has a ward who is named Cecily Cardew , ( Dorothy Tutin ) a very pretty young girl eighteen years of age . Jack Worthing is in love with a girl named Gwendolyn Fairfax who fell in love with him only because his name is Earnest and she really asks him to marry her and so they do get engaged . Jack has a cousin named Algernon Moncrieff who visits his country home and meets his ward Cecily and they become in love . Jack decides he is going to change his name to Earnest in order to please his girlfriend . However , many things become very complicated in this story and you will have to see this picture in order to find out just what happens . Enjoy .
Enjoyed Dick Haymes Acting	Enjoyed this 1974 film which deals with a couple , Helen Mercer , ( Amanda Blake ) and her boyfriend who are con-artists who go around getting the confidence of widow's that are lonely . In one scene , one widow is killed and they both move on to another woman named Gretchen Addison , ( Tisha Sterling ) who is a very clever woman who takes a liking to Helen Mercer and takes Gretchen under her wing , so to speak . Harold Porter , ( Dick Haymes ) plays the role as a judge who is good friends with Helen and also has a love interest in Helen . Some one is killed and this changes the entire story around and points the audience into another direction . This is a great Classic film and very worth your time to view and enjoy this film .
Outstanding Film	Otto Preminger presented to the public in 1962 a great film dealing with a behind the scenes of Washington D . C . politics from the President , Vice President and many Senators wheeling and dealing . The subject of homosexual behavior is introduced to this story which was a subject that was kept in the closet by the film industry in Hollywood in 1962 . Franchot Tone , ( The President ) , Henry Fonda , ( Robert A . Leffingwell ) , Charles Laughton , ( Senator Seabright Cooley ) and Gene Tierney , ( Dolly Harrison ) and many other veteran actors gave outstanding performances who all created a very realistic government . I thought that Charles Laughton strongly portrayed an old crafty and wise senior Senator and made you want to hate him for this role he created . Great Classic film from 1962 , Enjoy .
Great Fritz Lang Production	This was a very interesting film from 1943 during WW II which was a propaganda film in order to show the American people how horrible the Nazi occupation of the Czeck Nation and many other countries under the rule of the Germans . This film featured great actors like Brian Donlevy , Walter Brennan , Dennis O'Keefe and Gene Lockhart . There was a top Gestapo Officer assassination and Brian Donlevy was the man that the Nazi's were hunting for . However , the Czeck Underground was very powerful and protected him in every way possible , even will the loss of many lives who were executed by the Gestapo . The real traitor in this film is Gene Lockhart who was a beer merchant who was very rich and was willing to sell out his country to the Nazi's . At one point in the film I thought even Dennis O'Keefe was a spy as this picture went around and around in circles and was entirely too long . The title of this film sounds like a Western Film and has nothing to do with this picture at all .
Great Masterpiece of Work	Enjoyed viewing this film from the very beginning of the film to the end . Many of the actors gave outstanding performances in their roles and Sean Penn , ( Paul Rivers ) and Naomi Watts , ( Christina Peck ) were super stars in this story . There are many quick flashbacks , from one person to another and the director leaves the audience to solve the problems each man and woman is facing and some of the characters have deep dark secrets , with heart transplants and an ex-con who tries to find a more spiritual way of life and convert the towns he visits . There is love scenes and some very romantic scenes with Sean Penn and Naomi Watts along with other strange couples and families . Enjoy , this is a very different type of film and worth viewing .
Great Thriller	This film had me captured from the very beginning to the end with great acting by Christian Bale , ( Patrick Bateman ) . Patrick is a man who is a Wall Street magnet who loves to put all kinds of creams and lotions all over his body , tans himself and is as fit as a fiddle . Except his brain gets very confused and he simply loves to kill all kinds of people . Patrick loves to pal around with his buddies and goes to very expensive clubs in New York and has plenty of woman who are crazy about him , especially Evelyn Williams , ( Reese Witherspoon ) who is seriously in love with Patrick . Patrick decides to eliminate one of his buddies , Paul Allen by chopping him up with a heavy ax and simply drags his body out of the lobby with the blood staining he floor . This mad man rapes and performs horrible things to people even animals and also has an apartment filled with dead bodies . However , Detective Donald Kimball , ( Willem Dafoe ) starts visiting Patrick quite frequently and starts to get on Patrick's nerves . The is only the beginning of the film , wait till you see how it ends .
Chop Liver Any One ?	Anthony Hopkins ( Dr . Hannibal Lector ) was once again called into a case that seemed to be bothering the police and needed a good profile on who they were up against . The name of the evil doer was a " Tooth Fairy " , who did all kinds of horrible things to wonderful families that Loved each other very much and had animals and children which all added up to the average happy family in America . This sick person traveled to the Florida Keys and various other parts of the United States to find his perfect family to destroy . As the story progresses , you are given a hint that this killer's Mommy told him he was " Dirty , and did bad things on the Bed Sheets " , and she would cut it off " . If you like a good mystery and liked Hopkins in his previous role as Hannibal Lector you will simply love this film . Enjoy .
Birdman Not of Alcatraz	Greatly enjoyed this great film about Robert Stroud portrayed by Burt Lancaster as the Birdman from Leavenworth Prison . However , Robert Stroud never was permitted to take his birds to Alcatraz , he was very much hated by the entire prison system which had to deal with him . Karl Malden , " On the Water Front " , seemed to be the warden at most of the prison's Stroud stayed at and gave an outstanding performance through out the entire picture . Telly Sevalas , ( Feto Gomez ) , " Horror Express " , was about the only prisoner who became close with Bob Stroud because of their interest in birds at Levenworth prison . Sevalas put his heart and soul into this role and also put some humor in many of the scenes . There were many other great veteran actors , Thelma Ritter , ( Elizabeth Stroud ) , " The Misfits " who played the role as Robert Stoud's mother who even went to President Wilson to prevent her son from being hanged in prison . Neville Brand , ( Bull Ransom ) played the prison guard and grew old with Robert and became a very close friend . There were no scenes photographed from the actual cells on Alcatraz and any place on Alcatraz . This film clearly showed the horrible conditions of prison life in those years with 5 x 9 cells and very little rehabilitation for the poor souls to have a new lease in Life .
Great Story about Violette Slabo	Never had the opportunity to view this 1958 film , however , I did have knowledge of the story behind Violette Salbo , ( Virginia McKenna ) and the wonderful poem she used as a code to destroy the Nazi's during WW 11 . This picture clearly shows the horror of Hitler and his bunch of goons killing innocent men , woman and children in concentration camps and behind closed doors . Virginia McKenna gave an outstanding performance of Violette Salbo as a very brave woman who stood firm against the strong forces of evil and went on to be remembered in the hearts and minds of many generations to come . Don't miss this film , it is truly a great film Classic , however , it is very down to earth and rather sad and yet happy .
Getting Married was Routine	This is a true story about a lonely hearts club which was recommended to Martha Beck , ( Shirley Stoler ) who was a nurse and a very frustrated gal who was obese and desired to be married . Martha started writing to Raymond Fernandaz , ( Tony Lo Bianco ) , and they both grew very close to each other , however , Martha was very possessive and decided to join into Raymond's scam to rob old and young women , marry them and drain them out of their savings . Martha convinced Raymond to buy a home in Valley Stream , Long Island , N . Y . after having lived in Albany , N . Y . and then killings start to happen and many marriages took place constantly . Martha always says that she is the sister to Raymond and are constantly making love to each other . However , Martha finds out that Raymond has made one of these women pregnant and the story takes on a different direction . This is a very brutal and down to earth film which clearly shows how horrible murder really happens .
Man with Ring in Nose Beware !	The film started out with a boot camp situation with a drill instructor breaking in his new company of Army enlistments . All of a sudden there is a horror show going on in a local convenient store , where things start being turned into Swiss Cheese and lots of tomato juice . The Army instructor is Brian Bosworth , ( John North ) , " Mach 2 " , ' 01 , who winds up in a hospital for a few weeks and when he gets outside the door , all hell breaks loose . In this picture there is a very young boy who deals with drugs and is very street smart , which in today's society is being used all the time . These kids are under age and cannot be given hard sentences , so they do the dirty work of the Older Boys . Bruce Payne , ( Karl Savak ) , " Hellborn " , ' 03 gives an outstanding performance as an FBI agent who seems to like evil more than good . This is an entertaining film , but there is nothing you will remember about this film after an hour goes bye - ! This film was called two names : " One Man's Justice " and " One Tough Bastard " , whatever you prefer
Outstanding Film Classic	Once I see the name Howard Hawks , I know immediately the picture is going to be a great film with outstanding actors . Hawks produced such great films as : " Sergeant York " , ' 41 ; " Red River " , ' 48 ; Gentlemen Prefer Blondes " , ' 53 along with many other great film Classics . Even though the film is in black and white , it still captures your imagination as to those early pioneer days and the desire for men to fight the many odds against them ; Indian attacks , fur traders and even a single female Indian Blackfoot , Elizabeth Threatt , ( Blackfoot Princess ) who managed to entertain the old timers and the young French bucks in the camp . Kirk Douglas , ( Jim Deakins ) , " The Bad & The Beautiful " , ' 53 , was very young looking and also slim and trim and was the star of the picture . However , Jim Deakins played a very low key role in this picture compared to all the veteran character actors , who gave the picture a great deal of depth . This is truly a great attempt of portraying the American Scene years ago . I almost forgot , the one and only gal in this picture , Elizabeth Threatt , gave her one and only performance in this film , I guess all those guys hitting on her in the film , made her decided to change her career in life real Fast !
Organ Music Had a Magic Spell	This film opens up with some guys in a small town offering to drag some local gals in a car race and as a result , the girls cars falls from a bridge and is never found . However , one lone girl survives the wreck named Mary Henry , ( Candace Hilligoss ) who works for an organ making company and desires to seek employment with a church playing as their organist on Sundays and during the week . Mary's organ playing attracts many people and they adore her great talent and selection of music . In a few weeks Mary is drawn to an old run down carnival palace and then she begins to see the face of a horrible looking man who is always running after her . If you like organ music or not , this film will hold your interest from the very beginning of this film to the very end . Enjoy .
A Sibling Causes Horrible Trouble	This was a very entertaining film in which human life was taken at the drop of a hat . William R . Moses , ( James / Max ) " Hangman's Curse " , ' 03 was a very successful CEO and had very little time for his wife and spoiled son . All of a sudden a very close relationship appears and turns his entire life upside down and causes all kinds of problems . However , James's wife , Barbara Niven , ( Sandy Kennington ) , " The Drone Virus " , ' 04 , seems to enjoy the different changes that go on in the bedroom and how James has become so very romantic and attentive to her desires . If you look close , you will see Mindy Cohn , ( Toni ) , " Facts of Life Down Under " , ' 87 TV Series , who is a secretary to Sandy Kennington . There are lots of thrills and chills in this film and the story line is outstanding .
Great 1955 Classic Film	This was a very enjoyable film from 1955 and this is not your average type of Western starring James Stewart , ( Will Lockhart ) , who has several wagons of house goods driven by mules to delivery to a Alec Waggoman . Will delivers the merchandise to a Barbara Waggoman , ( Cathy O'Donnell ) , who is not very happy about receiving this merchandise , as she wants to quit the business and move away from her father Alec Waggoman , ( Donald Crisp ) who is very rich and owns almost everything in town and the outskirts . Will decides to travel back to Laramie and takes some salt to transport back and winds up getting into all kinds of trouble with Arthur Kennedy , ( Vic Hansbro ) over this simple taking of table salt . Will Lockhart decides to stay around and solve some very dark past events which happened to his family in this town . Great Classic James Stewart Film .
Great John Ford Classic	John Ford directed many great classic films over the years , however , this film was outstanding with great special effects for a 1937 film . All the actors were great film veterans of the silver screen , who contributed a great deal of their great talent during the 30's 40's and 50's . ; Dorothy Lamour , ( Marama ) " Man Handled " , was very young and extremely sexy on an island with Jon Hall , ( Terangie ) , " The Invisible Man's Revenger " who was very handsome and the two of them created a very warm romance through out the entire film . Raymond Massey , ( Gov . Eugene DeLaage ) , " Abe Lincoln in Illinois " , ' hated poor Terangie for murdering a man and wanted to keep him in prison for the rest of his natural life . Thomas Mitchell , ( Dr . Kersaint ) , " Gone With the Wind " , was a doctor who liked to drink and was still able to deliver a baby in a horrible Hurrican . John Carradine , ( Warden ) , " House of Frankenstein " , was the warden of a prison and an extremely hateful person who was good friends with Gov . Eugene DeLaage . There is a great fight scene with a shark between Jon Hall ( Terangie ) and Jaws which was very dramatic . This entire film is a great masterpiece from 1937 .
Rita Hayworth Was Beautiful	Fantastic film Classic from 1947 which stars Rita Hayworth , ( Elsa Bannister ) who is married to a crippled husband named Arthur Bannister , ( Everett Sloane ) who loves to have fun with his wife and is very loving and yet very cruel to her . Arthur always wants his wife to cheat on him with another man and this lucky guy is Michael O'Hara , ( Orson Wells ) who finds employment on a yacht that Arthur Bannister is the skipper of and Michael attempts to charm the beautiful Elsa who immediately falls in love with Michael at the same time there are plenty of other men aboard the yacht that are planning for a murder and a possible scape goat for the crime . There are many failed attempts at trying to kill Arthur Bannister , but there are also tricky characters who are also interested in seeing Arthur killed . Just who is going to be the fall guy will be quite interesting as you view the ending of this great film Classic from 1947 .
Excellent Mystery & Great Acting	Always enjoy the great acting of Harrison Ford , ( Dr . Norman Spencer ) who played an entirely different role than he usually performs . His wife , Michelle Pfeiffer , ( Claire Spencer ) , gives an outstanding performance as an upset wife who seems to imagine all kinds of strange things happening with her neighbors next door . Claire also observed a woman in her bathtub and doors always open . Dr . Spencer is wrapped up with his work project which is very important and he has very little time to waste with his wife's crazy dreams and visions . This film will capture your attention from beginning to end and you will not want to leave your chair . Enjoy .
Great Super Stars	Never viewed this film and was very surprised at the great acting by Shirley MacLaine , ( Ginnie Moorehead ) who found herself on a bus with her one night stand an Army Soldier named Dave Hirsh ( Frank Sinatra ) who is so bombed with booze he almost misses his bus stop in a small Indiana town . As soon as Dave Hirsh gets into the town he starts a bundle of trouble , because his brother Frank Hirsh , ( Arthur Kennedy ) , is a very successful man and is highly respected , however , he is not liked by his brother Frank who has not seen him for many years . Dave Hirsh was a writer who had written about two books and also had another book he would like to have published . Ginnie Moorehead who has been around the block a few times , likes Dave Hirsh and he in turn likes her also , but knows her past and is looking for a woman with character and class . Gwen French , ( Martha Hyer ) has read Dave Hirsh's books and he begins to fall in love with her because she is a teacher who teaches literature and wants him to publish his book and gives him confidence in himself . There is plenty of laughs with Dean Martin , ( Bama Dilert ) who is a gambler and heavy boozer . Great Classic Film , enjoy .
Great Actors playing Difficult Roles	In 1958 I would never have enjoyed this film , I would have found it boring and dull . However , just recently I viewed this film on TCM and was amazed at the great acting by such great stars all put together at Separate Tables . Deborah Kerr , ( Sibyl Railton Bell ) , " Eye of the Devil " , ' 67 , played a very wimpy sort of young lady who was tied to her mothers apron strings . All of the characters lived at this hotel with the exception of Rita Hayworth , ( Ann Shankland ) , " The Naked Zoo " , ' 71 , who shared a very interesting past with Burt Lancaster , ( John Malcolm ) , " Apache " , ' 54 . David Niven , ( Major Pollack ) , " The Moon is Blue " , ' 53 , played a very unusual person in this story and his performance won him the Oscar in 1959 as Best Actor in a Leading role . It seems that most of the characters in this film were like Lost Souls who had dark secrets that eventually came into the open . Some of the dark secrets in todays world would have put them behind bars for a very long time . Try viewing the film , you just might LIKE IT .
Nice Black & White Film	Enjoyed the great direction of John Frankenheimer in this film which did not deal with hand to hand combat with the German Nazi's during WW II . The story is concerned with saving very expensive art paintings from being stolen by the German Army by railroad . Burt Lancaster plays the role of a French Station Master ( Paul Labiche ) and a German Colonel Von Waldheim ( Paul Scofield ) who fight against each other in order to accomplish their goals . Paul Labiche at first is not interested in what happens to these art treasurers and then understands the importance of not letting the German's steal these famous paintings . There is a very big struggle through out this film by Paul Labiche to stop this train and defeat the determined German Colonel . Burt Lancaster and Paul Scofield gave an outstanding performance in this 1964 Classic .
Oscar Winning Film	A truly great film with a very fantastic story about a deaf / mute young girl named Belinda McDonald , ( Jane Wyman ) who lives with her father Black McDonald , ( Charles Bickford ) and Aggie McDonald , ( Agnes Moorehead ) who live on a farm and work very hard to make a living . Belinda is called a dummy by most of the people in town until a Dr . Robert Richardson , ( Lew Ayres ) meets her and decides to teach her sign language and is able to communicate with her and other people . Unfortunately , a cruel person rapes Belinda and she becomes pregnant and that is when the story becomes very interesting and the story takes on many twists and turns . Agnes Moorehead gave an outstanding supporting role along with Stephen McNally , ( Locky McCormick ) . This is a great Academy Award Winning Film from 1948 . Enjoy .
Classic Barrymore Film	This film starts out with Mrs . O'Leary milking a cow in a barn who kicks over the pail into a lantern and burns the City of Chicago . Daniel Pardway , ( Lionel Barrymore ) arrives in this city and has a dream of starting a department store like Marshall Field's . However , Daniel has to start from nothing and his first bed room is shared by chickens and his wife is a very prim and proper lady and starts to cry , which makes Daniel bound and determined to make a success of his goal for a super department store . After five years , the store grows and grows and in the mean time Daniel has three sons and one daughter and at a rather early age he losses his wife and has to carry on with plans that all his children will eventually take over his business . This entire story deals with Daniel Pardway and his children with all of their ups and downs in life . Lionel Barrymore gave an excellent performance that makes this a great film classic from 1933 .
Lots of Blood on Their Lips !	Wow , this sure was a very very bloody film , which starts out very calm and quiet , with a guy in a hospital bed and then he finds himself wandering all over London , England . This poor guy winds up meeting another human being , a female who gives him guidance and romance . However , I forgot to mention that there also was a scene in the beginning which dealt with monkeys in a laboratory who seemed to have very bad tempers . All I can say about this picture without making it a SPOILER for everyone is this : It is the most horrifying , blood thirsty film I have seen in a very long time ; there are even French Kissing with blood all over the lips and face . This is just a warning !
Excellent Comedy	This picture deals with a high school boy named Ferris Bueller , ( Matthew Broderick ) who is a very well liked young man by everyone in his community and decides he wants to take a day off from high school and he seeks his best friend Cameron Frye ( Alan Ruck ) to loan him his father's car which is a super sports car and the pride and joy of his father . Cameron is rather reluctant about getting his father's car but Ferris over comes and they also take along a gal named Sloane Peterson , ( Mia Sara ) who is a girl friend of Ferris and they all head to Chicago , Illinios and have a ball going to baseball games at Wrigley Field , an expensive place to eat and visit the Art Museum . This film is filled with very comical situations and this film is a great entertaining film which is lots of fun to view .
Outstanding Film	Always enjoyed the great talents of Ray Charles during the 60's and especially his other great hits during his career . However , I never realized all the horrible hardships he faced being blind and how strong an influence his mother played in giving him the strength to get through his life and stand up tall and proud . This is truly a great picture which has many flashbacks and shows in detail every aspect of Ray Charles life , including his love of women and heroin addiction which he utilized most of his life . However , despite his faults he gave America great music and outstanding songs we will long remember . Jamie Foxx , ( Ray Charles ) gave one of the best performance I have seen in a very long time . A film you will want to view over and over again .
Nice Tragic Love Story	Enjoyed viewing this 1948 film starring Cathy O'Donnell , ( Catherine Mobley ) who is a lonely young girl and a virgin who lives with her father who is a drunk and she longs for a better life . Arthur Bowers , ( Farley Granger ) is an ex-con who has committed crimes concerning bank robberies and meets up with Catherine Mobley who become very attracted to each other . One-Eye Mobley a relation to Catherine is also involved with this bank robbery and Arthur . However , Catherine tries to keep him away from One-Eye because he is trouble and only wants to commit more crime and killing . Eventually , Catherine and Arthur run off and get married for twenty dollars and they try to find a life for them selves and make fantastic love and a closer relationship . This is a rather sad story , but very well produced and directed in 1948 . Enjoy .
Very Unusual Film	This is truly a great classic film which was located on an Island called Foula near Scotland and this film calls it the Shetland Island where a group of Scotish people dwell in the fog and a stormy sea against huge rocks and cliffs . There is naturally a love story between a man and a woman who are unable to get married because the young lady's father will not give his permission for the marriage . You see a very primitive way of living and it is rather depressing to see nothing but gloomy and stormy days all the time on this island that is not able to support itself and will eventually have to be vacated . The film makers had a very hard job in trying to bring their camera equipment up the steep cliffs of this island and the weather conditions also gave a great deal of problems to the production of this film . In many ways this is a very unusual film and the title for this film is very suitable for this film which is almost hard to believe that people could possibly ever live on an island like this .
Classic from 1962	We all have seen a recent picture of " Saving Private Ryan " and other films depicting the War at Normandy . However , this film is a classic because of all the great actors who appeared in this film and put their hearts and souls into the different roles , Army Privates right up to the Generals's . This film even in black and white is a great film Classic which is worth viewing every once in a while . I remember seeing this film years ago and I think about all those men and women who gave their lives for this country in order to destroy the evils of Adolph Hitler and his wicked country who allowed this man to have such power and control . " Saving Pivate Ryan " was a great film and broke out hearts but this film is truly a great film classic .
Gary Cooper , Lee J . Cobb & Julie London Were Fantastic !	Anytime that Gary Cooper appeared in a Western film you could definitely count on it to be very special during the late 1950's films . The photography through out the entire picture was outstanding in every way . Gary Cooper ( Link Jones ) , " The Naked Edge " , ' 61 , was leaving his past behind him and wound up getting on a train with Julie London , ( Billie Ellis ) , " A Question of Adultery " , and found themselves deeply involved with some outlaws who were lead by Lee J . Cobb , ( Dock Tobin ) , " That Lucky Touch " , ' 75 , who at one time had a soft spot in his heart for Link Jones and taught him all the wrong ways to live in life . These outlaws were so called Cousin's and lots of bad feelings are put on the fire when they get together . Billie Ellis gets the guys all hot and bothered and there is lots of lust and plenty of action . All these actors made this film into a great Classic Western for all future generations to enjoy .
Great Michael Powell Film	Never viewed this film before and always enjoy James Mason pictures and was surprised to see that it was showing for the first time on TCM TV and Robert Osborne and Michael Powell's wife gave a review and history of this film . There is plenty of comedy , and a very interesting story about an elderly artist named , Bradley Monahan , ( James Mason ) who is getting tired of being recognized for his great paintings and wants to find a very quite place where he can create some new paintings and he selects Australia's Great Barrier Reef for his retreat . Bradley soon finds out he is not alone on this island and runs into all kinds of people . However , he does meet a very cute young girl named Cora Ryan , ( Helen Mirren ) who is only a young teenager and he makes a deal with her to buy her fish that she catches and chicken's that she steals for a living to support her old aunt who loves gin . Eventually Bradley convinces Cora to pose for him in the nude and he draws all sorts of paintings of her . This is truly a great film and I was so glad I was able to view this film which is rarely seen in the United States , enjoy .
A Richard Burton Masterpiece of Acting	This film reminded me of a film in which Richard Burton and Elizebeth Taylor both starred together in " Who's Afraid of Virginia Wolf " , 1966 where there is nothing but a shouting and screaming husband and wife . This film has a rating and raving husband , Richard Burton , ( Jimmy Porter ) who plays a hot jazz trumpet and also sells sweets on a peddler's cart in the London streets of a small town . Mary Ure , ( Alison Porter ) plays the wife to Jimmy Porter and is a very abused wife who never fights back or even slaps his face when he abuses her endlessly , day in and day out . Claire Bloom , ( Helena Charles ) , is a good friend of Alison and also an actress who decides to live with the Porters for a few weeks as she is an actress in a play performing in the town . When Jimmy Porter and Alison Porter are not arguing or fighting , they call each other nicknames , a Bear and a Squirrel who cuddle next to each other and pretend to eat nuts . This is a very depressing film , however , Richard Burton gave a magnificent performance through out the entire film .
Great Classic Film with Great Veteran Actors	Always enjoy Orson Welles screen writing and film direction and all the great films he produced in black and white , I remember one film he did in color and it was a flop . In this film , Orson Welles , ( Gregory Arkadin ) , " Butterfly " , ' 82 , plays a very rich mysterious man who has problems trying to remember the past and is extremely devoted to his daughter . Akim Tamiroff , ( Jakob Zouk ) , " The Great Bank RObbery , " , ' 69 plays a very comical role and has a very great desire to have GOOSE LIVER with gravy and all the trimmings and somehow manages to get his request . Patricia Medina , ( Mily ) , " Count Your Blessings " , ' 59 , is a very hot sexy gal who gets deeply involved with Gregory Arkadin and gets a very hard time of the affair . Patricia Medina was the wife of veteran actor , Joseph Cotton and gave an outstanding performance . Mischa Auer , ( The Professor ) , " Nathalie " , ' 57 , played a very weird role as a con-artist who trained fleas in a Circus and let them bite his arm for food . If you like Orson Welles and missed this film , you will greatly enjoy this very mysterious film .
Very Entertaining Film	Eduardo Noriega , ( Cesar ) plays the role as a handsome rich playboy who scores almost every night and whenever his best friend finds a gal for himself , Cesar manages to sweep her away . There is one gal who wears a red dress and follows Cesar everywhere he goes and he can't remember if they went to bed before or not . Cesar manages to get away with another gal named Sofia , ( Penelope Cruz ) who he falls for immediately and it takes a long time before this couple become romantic in bed . The girl in the red dress changes the plot in the story and that is when everything goes crazy right to the very end . Enjoyable film , and you will never figure out the ending .
Excellent Comedy	Enjoyed this film and the great acting by Alec Baldwin , ( Adam ) and Geena Davis , ( Barbara ) who are a married young couple who move into a home they are very happy with and they are both deeply in love with each other and are kissing each other all the time . One day they have to go into town and buy groceries and on their return trip they try to avoid a little dog in the road and the car runs through the side of a red covered bridge and at this point the picture makes a different change . After a little while Adam and Barbara realize they have died and someone else is moving into their home and they are not very happy about this event and decided to become ghosts to scare the family away . Michael Keaton , ( Beattlejucie ) gives a great supporting role along with veteran actress Sylvia SIdney , ( June ) , Robert Goulet , ( Maxie Dean ) and Dick Cavett , ( Bernard ) Great entertaining film from beginning to end . Enjoy .
Great Anothony Mann Production	The director of this picture was Anthony Mann , who always managed to make a low budget film into a masterpiece and provided great films in black and white . In this picture , Dennis O'Keefe , ( Joe Sullivan ) , " Las Vegas Shakedown " , plays a convict in prison , who takes the rap for Raymond Burr , ( Rick Coyle ) , " Ironside TV Series , ' 69 , who is a big time hood who promises Joe Sullivan he will give him $50 , 000 . when he gets out of prison . Marsha Hunt , ( Ann Martin ) , " Carnegie Hall " , ' 47 , visits Joe Sullivan in prison who has a sort of romantic interest in Joe and is trying to work with lawyers to get him out in three years . Claire Trevor , ( Pat Cameron ) , " Key Largo " , ' 48 , is really Joe's girlfriend who manages to help Joe break out of prison with a car waiting for him outside the walls . When this film was made in 1948 , it was considered to be very violent and had lots of bad sexual themes throughout the picture , what a change in the 21st Century !
Pretty Good Italian Western	Always viewed the ending of this picture and never viewed the complete picture . Now I found out about what all the musical railroad watches were all about and the horrible history it had for a very bad dude . Enjoyed seeing action taking place in El Paso , Texas and how the bad guys had orchestrated a bank hold up and wound up tricking Clint Eastwood , ( Monco ) , " Blood Work " , ' 02 , who was a bounty hunter and very clever at his job , but the evil guys seemed to out smart him in many ways . If it was not for Lee Van Cleef , ( Col Douglas Mortimer ) , " The Octagon " , ' 80 , Manco would have found himself cut up in little pieces for the vultures . There is absolutely no romance , just hunting around for the Most Wanted Guys and their REWARD MONEY !
Gem of a Film	This a great film with outstanding actors and is a take off on , " Hello Dolly " . Shirley Booth , ( Dolly Gallgher Levi ) plays the role as a matchmaker who is always broke but manages to get by one way or the other . Dolly has her eyes set on Horace Vandergelder , ( Paul Ford ) who is a very rich man and is very tight with his money and pays horrible wages to his employees at his General Store . Cornelius Hackl , ( Anthony Perkins ) is the chief clerk in the store along with another male co-worker who are very under-paid and actually are given no time off and work seven days a week . This story takes place in Yonkers , N . Y . in the 1800's , and one day , Dolly decides to find a young girl for Horace in New York City who sells ladies hats and is very pretty . Horace says he will go with her and meet this young woman named Irene Molly and possibly ask her to marry him . This is a very romantic and great comedy from 1958 and Paul Ford and Shirley Booth give outstanding performances , don't miss seeing this film .
Excellent / Entertaining Film	Enjoyed reading this story by Washington Irving and even visited the area in New York where Washington Irving is buried and the story was created . Johnny Depp , ( Ichabod Crane ) , " Charlie & The Chocolate Factory " , ' 05 , played the role of the constable investigating the various crimes happening in Sleepy Hollow and brings along all his up-to-date CSI equipment , that looked like it came from a scrap metal dump . Ichabod comes face to face with his murder , who seems to disappear as soon as he appears . Christina Ricci , ( Katrina ) , " Cursed " , ' 05 , takes a liking to Ichabod and tries to help him only for her own self interests . Christopher Lee , ( Burgomaster ) , " Charlie & the Chocolate Factory " , ' 05 gives a great supporting role with his sinister facial expressions . This film has everything , Comedy , Fantasy , Horror and some romance . Enjoy
A Great Step Back in Time	This is a very well produced picture from 1940 with Errol Flynn , ( Geoffrey Thorpe ) playing the starring role as a so called pirate for the Queen of England against the country of Spain . Spain at the time was superior in their naval fleet of sailing ships and were seeking world conquest according to this story . Brenda Marshall , ( Doria Maria ) gives a great supporting role with great beauty and falls in love with Geoffrey Thorpe after a very bitter experience with each other aboard his pirate ship along with her uncle , Claude Rains , ( Don Jose Alverez De Cordabo ) . Jose Alverez De Cordabo plays the role as a Spanish Ambasador to the King of Spain . Henry Daniell , ( Lord Wolfingham ) , " The Body Snatcher " , ' 45 is a British subject who is very sympathetic to Spain and is sort of a spy against the Queen of England . There is a good sword battle between Geoffrey Thorpe and Lord Wolfingham in one of the final scenes and plenty of swashbuckling action . These Sea Hawk seamen wind up in a jungle wadding through swamp land and then becoming slaves on a ship as oarsmen and beaten constantly . This is definitely a picture that will take you back in time when Errol Flynn was at the height of his career after playing Robin Hood . It was interesting to learn that Brenda Marshall was married to William Holden in real life . This is a must see picture , enjoy ,
Nice Paul Newman Picture	Enjoyed this picture which takes place in upstate New York in the town of Bath , N . Y . The story is about a man ( Paul Newman ) who abandoned his family , and is now getting old and wants to find himself in life and at least create a relationship with his grandson . Of course there is always problems where a parent abandons their family and it causes mental problems for the entire family and their acceptance and confidence is not easy for them to give back . Paul Newman along with other veteran actors made this a rather bitter sweet film and at the same time a few comical scenes . There is a scene during a poker game and Newman is enjoying his long neck bottle of Bud and a girl sits next to him naked , he even gets flashed by another famous star . I know Newman enjoyed making this film .
Susan Hayward was Outstanding	Always liked Susan Hayward , ( Mildred Douglas ) who played the role of a gold digger , who would use men to her own advantage , get what she wanted and dump all the guys with a swift kick you know where . Mildred Douglas has to sail on a ship and meets up with Hank Smith , ( William Bendix ) a steam room coal shoveler who is hairy and she gets one look at him aboard ship and calls him a Hairy Ape . This comment brings a great deal of rage to Hank and Mildred becomes very fearful of this person and can hardly sleep at night . Hank even goes to a traveling Circus and views a large Ape in his cage and watches the Ape crush a rubber tire like it was a pretzel stick and gets the idea that he is going to smash Mildred's body just like the Ape was doing to the tire . There is a surprise ending to a rather entertaining 1944 film .
Great POW Film	Never viewed this film before and recently viewed this film on TCM and was amazed at the great acting of George Segal , ( Corporal King ) who was a wheel and dealer at the POW camp and was able to make plenty of money and was able to provide jobs for a few of his American and British POW's . This POW Camp was located in Changi in Singpore and was not a prison with large fences , because the prisoners were surrounded by water and a jungle . The officers had huts made of straw and this was considered a hell hole of a place where you went to bed in sweat and woke up in sweat with plenty of flies to keep you company . Some people were fed rat meat and on one occasion they had dog for supper . George Segal and James Fox both gave an excellent performance in this film about prisoners of war during World War II .
Short Silent Sci-Fi Film	This silent film took me by complete surprise and I could hardly believe this film was so advanced for this production in 1925 . Henri Rollan , plays the role as a watchman on the top level of the Eiffel Tower in Paris , France and comes down into the city and finds people all sleeping and in suspended motion standing like frozen statues . It seems a certain scientist had discovered an invisible ray which could not reach people in airplanes or Henri who worked at the top of the Eiffel Tower . If you want to see how France looked in Paris in 1925 , you will enjoy all the old cars and the 1925 fashions for men and women . By the way , this film is only 21 minutes long and went along as a second feature on a much longer film I purchased . Great film to view and enjoy .
Masterpiece of Acting & Direction	This film was a very controversial in 1950 , mainly because of Ingrid Bergman's personal life which was talked about from every pulpit in the country and was actually banned by the Catholic Church . However , in today's standard of living , this would not have made much difference , we hear about such things going on in Hollywood all the time . Ingrid Bergman , ( Karin ) , " Cactus Flower " , ' 69 , played a very frustrated young gal who tried to escape from one place and married a fisherman and witnessed a horrible smelly fishy scene with large tuna being hauled into small fishing boats . Karin also had the experience of having to go out into the sea in order to avoid being burned up by a volcano that was pouring down lava into her town . Poor Karin also gets locked up in her own home and starts flirting with a local man to help her escape . Karin winds up climbing up a huge mountain without a suitcase and only the clothes on her back . Ingrid Bergman gave an outstanding performance that will be long remembered . Great Film to view in Black & White .
A Bette Davis Classic	It seems like this film was especially made for Bette Davis , as this was the type of role that Davis always appeared in if not horror films later on in life . Bette Davis , ( Leslie Crosbie ) , " The Corn Is Green " , ' 45 , played a horrible wife that did every thing she could , except love her husband . The poor husband was Herbert Marshall , ( Robert Crosbie ) , " Duel in the Sun " , ' 46 who worshiped Leslie and put up with all her evil ways with adultery and plenty of lies . Robert Crosbie finally asked her one question , " Do You Love Me ? " and from then on Gale Sondergaard , ( Mrs . Hammond ) finally showed her true feelings for Leslie and gave a great supporting role . Gale Sondergaard played very evil roles through out her career in Hollywood and turned down the role of the " Wicked Witch in the Wizard of Oz " . If you want to see a Bette Davis Classic film , this is the film for you .
Great Cagney Film	Never viewed this film and enjoyed the singing and dancing by Cagney and the other cast members namely : Dick Powell , ( Scott Blair ) who had a great tenor voice and Ruby Keeler , ( Bea Thorn ) . James Cagney plays the role as Chester Kent who writes musicals and eventually goes into producing Prologues which are shown in between the feature films shown in movie theater's during the 1930's . Chester has trouble with people trying to steal his ideas for his shows . This is a very entertaining film with lots of comedy and plenty of laughs . Joan Blondell , ( Nan Prescott ) gave a great supporting role who was also very young and pretty . Dick Powell was great as a singer and dancer and just starting out with his long and successful screen career . Enjoy .
A Great Classic Film	Have seen this film many times over the years and always enjoy watching Dick Powell playing the role as Philip Marlowe a private investigator who is a rough and tough guy who has a very warm heart for all kinds of women . One attractive blonde named Mrs . Helen Grayle , ( Claire Trevor ) seeks Marlowe to locate her stolen Jade necklace , Helen is married to a very rich sixty-five year old man and of course Philip greatly enjoys her company in more ways than one . There is another character named Moose Malloy , ( Mike Mazurki ) who wants Marlowe to find his girl friend who he has not seen her for many years because he was in prison . Marlowe meets up with a crook named Jules Amthor , ( Otto Kruger ) who hits Marlowe on the head so many times and even has a doctor shoot dope in his veins and causes him to be knocked out for three days and he goes through plenty of nightmares . Raymond Chandler wrote this story and the veteran producer was Edward Dmytrk , don't miss this film , enjoy .
Boris Karloff Just Starting His Career	Viewed this picture on late , late , late night TV in the mid 1950's and taped this hard to view picture , " Graft " . Boris Karloff was beginning to get the breaks he needed , this film was made before " Frankenstein " and it was also around the time he made , " Criminal Code " which launched his career as the KING OF HORROR . In this picture , Dusty ( Regis Toomey ) , a young cub reporter on a big-city newspaper , wants to have a huge story by-line . A crooked politician learns Pearl ( Dorothy Revier ) , his former mistress , is going to reveal their affair to the District Attorney . Afraid of an indictment , the politician orders the D . A . to be killed and Pearl kidnapped . Dusty gets involved with the murder and accuses Constance , ( Sue Carol , wife of Alan Ladd of " Shane " ) , the reformed candidate's daughter , of the murder . The story appears in the paper and the editor fires Dusty . Dusty still continues to follow the crooks and Pearl to a yacht , where she is being held prisoner . After a big fight , Dusty captures Terry , the leading Crime Boss , ( Boris Karloff ) and frees Pearl as the police arrive . The young reporter gets back to the newspaper in time to give them his story . Dusty eventually gets his position on the newspaper back and also wins the heart of Constance . This is a newspaper story revolving around the City Desk . " GRAFT " is like " FIVE STAR FINAL " 1931 . This movie is so crazy and unrealistic , it would really make a good COMEDY with lots of laughs . ( This film is rare and is not for sale or a gift )
This X 2 Out Shined the Original	The entire production was first class and all the actors did outstanding acting . The effects of seeing a dam on the verge of possible destruction in the high snow covered mountains with a helicopter hovering over head , kept me spellbound . When I viewed the original X 2 film , I was very impressed and found to my great delight than more funds were put into this production and the cast of credits is endless . The outfits on the gals was super and very very sexy , skin type outfits , with very skinny bodies as the weapons fired away and also killing a very brave gal who stood her ground to the bitter END ! Forgot to mention the devilish looking creatures who had tails like a devil did a nice job on the so called good guys .
Great Classic Film	Enjoyed this story filmed in New York City involving a man named Jerry Kingsley , ( Fredric March ) who owned a garment business in lower Manhattan . Jerry had recently lost his wife of many years and his family and friends wanted him to go out and meet other women . Jerry becomes interested in a very beautiful young blonde gal named Betty Preisser , ( Kim Novak ) who works in his office , and Betty is so young she could be his daughter . Once the family finds out about this relationship they strongly object , however , Betty and Jerry have the problem of finding out just what they want to do with their love and should they proceed and get married despite the difference in age . Great film , excellent acting and a gem of a story .
Great Dark Dark Vampire Film	If you really like the dark side to real young chicks , who have very strange spiritual abilities to suck blood from all different parts of the body , this is the film to watch and enjoy . Lorenzo Lamas , ( Mr . Jones ) , " The Nowhere Man " , ' 05 , is a sort of pimp of a Vampire and has strange powers over some very hot hot females . Siri Baruc , ( Ashley ) , " Glass Trap " , ' 05 , tries to locate her sister in the big city and gets deeply involved with this wild and exciting night spot where her sister works and is controlled by a Cult . Leah Cairns , ( Leslie ) gives a great supporting role through out the picture . This is certainly a different type of vampire film and the sexy gals make it a lot more interesting than the Classic Bela Lugosi film !
Fashion Models in the 1930's !	Decided to watch this film and see what was going on in 1937 and what the charming ladies looked like in order to attract the opposite sex . Well , hats were the in THING , along with FURS , and some pretty nice styles with wild woman's hairdo's . Joan Bennett , ( Wendy Van Klettering ) , " Scarlet Street " , ' 45 , was very slim and trim and very attractive with a rather sexy voice . Wendy was not very happy about getting married and became " A Runaway Bride " in the 1930's . The husband she was to marry was , Alan Mowbray , ( Henry Morgan ) , " I Wake Up Screaming " , ' 41 , who played a rather dumb role and gave a great supporting role . Warner Baxter , ( George Curson ) , " Shadows in the Night " , ' 41 , ran a model agency and had all the best looking gals show off their fancy clothing . There was a great scene at the " COTTON CLUB " , and fantastic dancing and way out musicians . If you want to take a look way back into the past and see how that generation enjoyed themselves , this is worth viewing .
Great Film Classic	It was hard for me to believe that this film story was written by a female named Francis Marion who had studied prison life at San Quentin . Chester Morris plays the role as a con named John Morgan and is good friends with Butch Schmidt , ( Wallace Berry ) who is a hard nose prisoner with lots of power and connections among the other prison mates . Robert Montgomery , ( Kent Marlowe ) is a man who comes from a rich family , however , Kent is a weak minded guy or you could also call him a stool pigeon . There is a big prison break scene with all kinds of bullets flying all over the place and machine guns blasting away . Even the National Guard is call to action in one of the worst prison breaks I have ever seen . This is a great film with great actors and an outstanding Classic Film from 1930 .
Great Drama & Romance Film	Joely Richardson , ( Eleanor Dunston ) , " The Fever " , ' 04 , was very attractive in this film and at times very sexy and hot in bed . Joely played the role of Eleanor , who was very rich and had a beautiful home and fantastic landscape and gardens full of flowers . Uden Young , ( Buck ) , " Human Touch " , was a worker at Eleanor's home along with Molly Parker ( Cynthia ) , " Break a Leg " , ' 05 . Uden and Molly had some hidden secrets between the two of them and managed to get deeply involved with Eleanor , doing all kinds of tasks until she finds out some horrible facts . Eleanor has health problems which seem to change the direction of the film . Eleanor buys Cynthia a very sexy outfit and Cynthia decides to show Buck how very pretty the dress looks , which is skin tight and she wears no under garments which does a big number on poor Buck . Great story , and a few tissues will be required , don't miss it , great acting and some very steamy romantic events !
Entertaining Mystery	Always like a film that starts out in an old cemetery where lost souls hang around and people sometimes wind up in trouble . That is what happens in this story , you see a young girl drive her car near an old cemetery , needing tender loving care and all of a sudden she speaks to a man through a fence and that is when the story really starts to get interesting . Jovanna Huguet , ( Christie McDermott ) , gives a great performance as a TV reporter who manages to get deeply involved with the circumstances of this case and brings in many other great supporting actors . There are many twists and turns to the plot and you are kept pretty much in the dark as to what is really going on . I will tell you this , the film does return to that Old Cemetery and reveals some interesting secrets to this case . Enjoy
Great 1948 Classic	It was very hard for me to believe that this film was produced in 1948 and portrayed such great professional dancing and music with a story that touched the heart strings . There was never a dull moment throughout the entire picture as Moira Shearer , ( Victoria Page ) tries to break into the world of ballet and has to meet up with Anton Walbrook , ( Boris Lermontov ) who rules the entire world of ballet . Marius Goring , ( Julian Craster ) is a composer who realizes that some of his music compositions have been stolen by Boris Lermontov and works out an arrangement to compensate for his trouble . Victoria Page gives a great performance wearing her Red Shoes and dancing herself to death . This is a great classic and will be for many generations and people who love the arts and especially ballet .
Michael Caine was Fantastic	Seemed to have missed this great picture starring Michael Caine where he is very young and at the top of his career and shows forth his fantastic acting skills . All the English characters make this film into a great spy thriller with all kinds of special effects and the torture of human beings you will not be able to believe . Sue Llyod , ( Agent , Jean Courtney ) , " Eat the Rich " , ' 87 was very sexy and had her eyes on Sergeant Harry Palmer , ( Michael Caine ) , " Bewitched " , ' 05 , who worked with Jean and at times you just found her to be a rather dark and mysterious person . Great spy thriller and worth your while to view and enjoy . However , it is a bit long and drawn out for a period of time and you do have to be patient , remember it was produced in 1965 .
A Great Classic Gem of a FILM for all Future Generations ! !	There is nothing sluggish or dated about this film or the great actors . Greta Garbo was a true Classic sex symbol and great actress of the Golden Era of Films ! Her Classic films are studied in many drama departments of our finest Universities . Greta Garbo ( Yvonne Valbert ) , " Conquest " , ' 37 , portrayed a woman who had many lovers over the years of her life and who fell deeply in love with a much younger man , whom you are led to believe took his virginity away from him . Robert Montgomery ( Andre Mantell ) , " Lady in the Lake " , ' 47 , was a student and very inexperienced , however , he was charmed by the flirting of Yvonne . This is a very powerful love story which never grows old , the ending was well written and I am sure this ending was the same for many people in the same situation unfortunately !
Beauty is In the Eye of the Beholder !	Greatly enjoyed this film and it had me laughing through most of the film . Gwyneth Paltrow , ( Rosemary Shanahan ) , " Sylvia " , ' 03 , did a fantastic job of acting her role as the tin gal vs . the not so thin gal ! Jason Alexander ( Mauricio Wilson ) , " Odessa or Bust " , ' 01 , was outstanding in his supporting role and had a short TAIL to tell at one point in the picture . There was a great moral truth to this picture , that a person should look deeper into a person and not always feel that their Soul Mate in life has to be slim and trim or look like a fashion model . This picture made you realize that Beauty is only SKIN DEEP and the warmth and love that can come from a person's inner soul is more Important . This is a great film and very entertaining !
Clifton Webb & William Holden Were Fantastic	Always enjoyed the great acting of Clifton Webb , ( Father Bovard ) , " Cheaper by the Dozen " , ' 50 and his great performance in " Stars & Stripes Forever , " , ' 52 ( John Phillip Sousa Story ) . In this picture , Webb plays an elderly Priest who is very strong willed against the Chinese Communists and the way they hurt the people and missionary's in China . William Holden , ( Father O'Banion ) , " Picnic " , ' 55 gives a great performance as Father Bovard's assisting Priest . There is comedy and also very sad situations in this film which made the film very entertaining for a 1960 film . Unfortunately , Clifton Webb made this film his Swan Song and gave one of his best performance in his career . Great Classic film actors made this film a film for all generations to view .
Shannen Doherty was Outstanding	Always liked Shannen Doherty and in this film she really put her heart and soul into her role and showed what a great talent she really has to offer Hollywood . Shannen plays ( Sarah Reynolds ) , " Another Day " TV , 01 , who is married and seems to be drifting a part from her husband who wants children , but Sarah is just not quite ready for the patter of little feet around the home . The film starts right from the beginning with lots of violence and manages to have a story that never seems to end . The plot has many twists and turns , people go to jail who are innocent and the guilty seem to be release in order to start more torture and death . Shannen Doherty looked very sexy and attractive in this film and I only wish Shannen would get her act together in real life , so we can look forward to more of her acting career and great talents .
Three Actors Held This Picture Together	Was definitely looking forward to seeing this picture starring John Travolta , ( Hardy ) , " Swordfish " , ' 01 , who plays an expert in being able to interrogate prisoners and decides to do his buddy a favor and see how he can help him crack this case . Samuel L . Jackson , ( West ) , " The Man " , ' 05 , plays a rough and tough Drill Sgt . who really over does his training and causes all kinds of problems with his group of trainees , some even go bananas and cause people to lose their lives . Hardy finds out he has to deal with Connie Nielson , ( Osborne ) , " The Ice Harvest " , ' 05 who assists Hardy with his interrogating routine of " Good Cop , Bad Cop " . If you try to figure out how this picture will end , you will definitely get lost and you will need plenty of patience to see this film to its Final Ending !
LORETTA YOUNG AT HER VERY BEST !	Just recently I was able to tape this wonderful film classic and enjoyed the great talents of Douglas Fairbanks Jr . , " Sinbad The Sailor " ' 47 , when he was very very young as ( Larry O'Brien ) and enjoyed the funny romantic advances Larry played in order to keep Loretta Young ( Diane , " The Bishops Wife " ' 47 , from marrying a very horrible old man . There was a great deal of great comedy in this film and if you looked real close you would see an UGLY butler called Boris Karloff just starting out before his great " Frankenstein Film " debut . This great film classic lets future generations see the natural beauty of great film stars like Loretta Young and the great talents of Douglas Fairbanks Jr . , who followed in his fathers FOOTSTEPS !
GREAT CLASSIC BOXING CHAMPS IN THIS FILM !	Anthony Quinn , Jackie Gleason and Mickey Rooney made this film a great black and white film classic for all future generations . However , as a young boy living in Richmond Hill , Queens during the 1940's , I had Abe Simon ( great prize fighter , who fought Joe Lewis ) a neighbor who lived down the street . Abe Simon was an adviser for this film along with Willie Pep ( World Featherweight boxing Champion 1942-48 / 1949-50 ) Abe Simon looked like a giant and had huge hands , but was a very kind and down to earth person and well liked . Willie was also an adviser in this film for Anthony Quinn and later became a bouncer in NYC . These great boxer's gave this film the great realism that it has and it was great to see them along with another great boxer , Jack Dempsey , who owned a food establishment on Broadway NYC . This film clearly shows the horrible results of boxing in the ring for a profession , however , all boxers and future boxers should be praised for their great gifts in that field of endeavor .
A REAL HAUNTED HOUSE TALE !	In the very beginning of the film , you view a man who walks on the grounds of his home and also looks out of his bedroom windows . This figure of a man vows that no one will live in his home . However , Robert Culp , ( John Blake ) , " The Almost Guys " , ' 04 , decides to leave his job in the Big City and go to a home he owns far away from everything . He even threw his TV out the window and wanted to disassociate himself from the world of big business . John Blake takes his beautiful wife Joanna Blake ( Samantha Eggar ) , " The Astronauts's Wife " , ' 99 , along with him to enjoy this home in the mountains . Sheila Sullivan ( Luanna Baxter ) , " Hickey & Boggs " , ' 72 , plays a very cute and sexy role and goes skinny dipping in a wonderful falls in the mountains . If you love Robert Culp and wish to see his real wife ( Sheila Sullivan ) at the time of this filming , this is the film for you . The ending of this film will surprise you and make you wonder just what happened !
De Niro & Grodin at Their Very Best !	If you like De Niro and Grodin , this is definitely the film for you to enjoy . These two actors can do some very fancy and quick speaking lines back and forth with each other that will make you laugh . Along with some very deep thoughts which are tossed around by both of them , and a very sad scene facing his daughter after many years absence . Robert DeNiro , ( Jack Walsh ) , " Heat " , was an ex-cop who had a rough time and had not seen his wife or daughter for nine years and has the task of trying to transport Charles Grodin , ( Jonathan Mardukas ) , " Beethoven " , ' 92 , to Los Angles by a certain date and time . Naturally there are bondsmen involved and Mob guys who do some very comical mistakes trying to catch Jonathan Mardukas . There are car chases , railroad freight car rides , and even a brief duster plane along with many many different types of cars . This is a very Classic film and worth seeing over and over again .
Classic Western Actors	Enjoyed viewing this Western from the early 60's , and especially since it starred two of Hollywood's greatest Western stars : Randolph Scott , Joel McCrea and character actor , Edgar Buchanan . Randolph Scott , played ( Gil Westrum ) , " Carson City " , ' 52 , who was great friends with Joel McCrea , ( Steve Judd ) , " Fort Massacre " , ' 58 , had a mission to transporta young gal , with her father's permission , so she could get married to a cowboy in an other state and at the same time they both had dealings with gold . This girl finds out that her future husband is nothing but a sex starved beast and all kinds of problems occur between Gil Westrum and Steve Judd . Edgar Buchanan , ( Judge Tolliver ) , " Benji " , ' 74 is a boozer of a judge and even has a license to marry young couples . There is a point in the film where Gil becomes a real bad dude and Steve is faced with all kinds of problems . Great Classic film and great actors .
Outstanding Film	Enjoyed this great classic film from 1946 starring Claudette Colbert as Elizabeth Hamilton who was a young woman very much in love with her husband , Orson Wells , ( John MacDonald / Erik Kessler ) . John MacDonald decides to go into the Army and fight in World War II and is killed in action and his wife Elizabeth is completely heart broken . However , she finds a man , Lawrence Hamilton , ( George Brent ) who loves her very much because she works for his father's firm and he asks her to marry him after many years . Elizabeth has a son from her first husband and then a second from Lawrence . It just so happens that Elizabeth's first husband is not killed and has been severally wounded and finally returns to America with a little girl named Margaret Ludwig , ( Natalie Wood ) . As you can see this story gets very complicated and there are many secrets that are finally revealed which turn this love story into a great masterpiece with all great actors . Enjoy .
A Great TRACY FILM !	As soon as I see this film on TV , I just have to enjoy this great film of veteran actors in this wonderful film about a Japanese-American War Hero who was down graded by his home town local jerks ! Spencer Tracy , ( John T . Macreddy ) , " Inherit the Wind " , ' 60 , swings his one arm around the local bar and gives Ernest Borgnine ( Coley Trimble ) , " Marty " , ' 55 , the beating of his life , tearing down the screen door to the bar . Coley makes you hate him and you enjoy every punch that Macreddy gives out . Ann Francis , ( Liz Wirth ) , " Pancho Villa " , ' 72 , gives plenty of charm but gets her boyfriends mixed up with Robert Ryan , ( Reno Smith ) , " The Love Machine " , ' 71 , and Lee Marvin , " The Dirty Dozen " , ' 67 . All these classic actors give great supporting roles to Spencer Tracy and even veteran actor Walter Brennan ( Doc T . R . Velie , Jr . ) " Glory " , 56 gets a few words in the picture and blasts the bad guys who run the town to the ground . There is lots of booze consumed by everyone in the picture and you often wonder who is sober and who is not ! It was nice to see THE SOUTHERN PACIFIC RAILROAD , " Streamliner " make an appearance in the town after four years of never stopping in this God Forsaken town , which helped John T . Macreddy get a board this train to a better world of living and nicer people !
Looking Forward to Year 2019	Being a big fan of Harrison Ford , I just can't imagine missing the re-runs on TV of this film . Harrison Ford , ( Rick Deckard ) , " Sabrina " , ' 95 , plays a retired cop . Rick is called back into action to catch some very bad Robots and a pretty sex one that has plenty of muscle in all the right places and really puts Rick Deckard on his butt . Daryl Hannah , ( Pris ) , " The Job " , ' 03 tries to convince Rick that she is not programed and can actually cry and also be very sexy and romantic along with having a MOM years ago . WOW ! I was amazed at the production and direction of this film in the 1980's and found it to be a classic film a head of it's times . Great film and good acting was performed by all the supporting cast . I really hope things will be a lot better in the Year 2019 than this film tried to portray .
Denzel & Jennifer Were Fantastic Together !	Missed this film and recently viewed this great film going back into the 1940s . It was great to see a very young Denzel Washington ( Easy Rawlins ) , " Training Day " , ' 01 , who managed to have his own home in Los Angeles and was very well liked by his neighbors and many friends . The photography was outstanding and depicted what life was life after WWII and how living conditions were among the black and white communities . Easy Rawlins meets Jennifer Beals , ( Daphne Monet ) , " Break a Leg " , ' 03 , who seems to get him in all kinds of trouble , however , there is a great spark and attraction between the two of them . After viewing this picture , I can fully understand why this picture is Titled , " Devil in a Blue Dress " , Daphne managed to get quite a few people KILLED !
Great Spider-Man Film	Tobey Maguire , ( Spider-Man / Peter Parker ) , gave an outstanding performance as a very weak and helpless type of guy who tried to fly like a bird and fell on his face all the time , so to speak . As the picture progresses you wonder just how Spider Man will eventually put an end to his octopus friend and his evil deeds . There are many exciting scenes and especially when Spider Man is trying to save a run-away elevated train from going off its track and winding up in a river . Kirsten Dunst , ( Mary Jane Watson ) is about to get married to someone other than Peter Parker and something takes hold of her and sends her in another direction . This was a great entertaining film and very well viewing over and over again .
A Great Classic Western !	Just recently I was able to view this Western on TV and was surprised to see John Wayne ( Quirt Evans ) " Stagecoach " ' 39 so very young and handsome strutting down the streets of an old Western town . Gail Russell ( Penelopoe Worth ) " Henry Aldrich Gets Glamour " ' 43 tried to keep Quirt from going gun crazy and almost got her man killed , but finally saved by the U S Marshall ( Harry Carey ) , veteran silent film actor of 258 films , " Red River " ' 48 . John Wayne admirers must try to view this film and see how slim and trim he appeared and how he was able to put MAGIC into any Western he appeared in !
CLARA BOW CAPTURED THIS ENTIRE SILENT FILM ! !	Clara Bow , the " IT " GIRL of Hollywood , who was exploited by her directors and under-paid for all her roles , showed her great talent in this film . Clara Bow played " Dot " Morgan , daughter to Patience Morgan ( Marguerite Courtat ) " Silas Marner " ' 22 and Raymond McKee ( Thomas Allan Dexter ) " Uncle Tom " 1929 . If you have never seen a silent screen film with a great actress of all time , view this film and enjoy the great talents of Clara Bow who was given low budget films and never complained , she just wanted to perform from her very heart ( Even her own mother tried to Kill Her ) and soul and that is all that matter to this great Classic Film Star , who will be remembered forever and ever !
Womanizer Film !	Unfortunately this film made me reflect on a good friend who was married just like Harry Hamlin ( Cameron Thomas ) , " Strange Hearts " , ' 01 , and had a nice family , good job and made a nice career for himself and family . However , just like Cameron Thomas , he was not able to stay faithful to his wife and family and ran after every woman he could find . This is a dreadful illness and leads to many other problems which this film portrays . Lisa Rinna , ( Joanna Thomas ) , " Good Advice " , ' 01 , finally found out about her husband and went through a living hell . Cameron promised his wife Lisa , he would try to straighten out , but wound up looking at Porno on the Internet and just simply could not do anything else but fill his brain with SEX . If you have a friend or family member like this , get them HELP !
Too Many Flashbacks	Any film that Shannen Doherty appears in usually is outstanding , and she gave a fantastic job of acting through out the entire picture . Doherty played the part of Kate , who lived with a guy named Paul and was deeply in love with him . There is an accident which occurs to Kate and from then on the entire picture is made up of constant flashbacks , almost to the very end of the picture . There was a point during the picture that I was beginning to feel like the story was repeating itself over and over again . As the story unfolded , it became quite an interesting story , but WAY OUT in Left Field . The romance that Kate has with two guys is quite interesting and Kate sure looked hot and sexy attracting for the poor two guys .
Excellent Film to Enjoy	If you like pictures about fire fighters and the police who deal with arson and what sparks people into enjoying the flame and causing many people to die . The story deals with a young girl , ( Alica Witt ) who witnesses a fire that burned down her family restaurant which made a deep impression on her mind and stayed with her into adulthood . It is because of this incident that she becomes a policewoman and has to take a final test which is going into a burning building in an allot period of time . This story will surprise you with plenty of sudden surprises right to the very end . This well written story by Nora Roberts will keep you glued to your TV screen and keep you guessing just who is the FIRE BUG ! Enjoy
TONY DANZA WAS A GREAT JUNKYARD CHARACTER !	Tony Danza ( Tom Action ) surprised me with his complete change of character from anything he has ever performed , he gave up his NY ( Brooklyn ) accent for a real down to earth SOUTHERN DRAWL ! ! If you liked him in " Who's The Boss " , get ready to completely hate the role he plays . If you had any doubts about Tony Danza as an actor , his junkyard character will change your mind completely . His wife Pamela Reed ( Carol ) ( " Proof of Life " ' 02 and " Standing on Fishes " ' 99 ) played a great supporting role as a very simple minded down to earth good mother and wife who depends completely on her husband Tom and looks up to him NO matter how he seems to ACT at TIMES ! ! Ving Rhames ( Detective Jackson ) ( " Sin " ' 03 ) was fantastic in his role trying to figure out this crazy household and just what happened to the missing daughter Kathy Action , ( Heather Tom ) " Young & The Restless'73 TV series ) This is a great film to view the next time it is on the TV Screen .
GREAT FAMILY TV FILM !	When Ted Danson ( George ) , " Mumford " , ' 99 , and Mary Steenburgen ( Clem ) , " Elf " , ' 03 , get together as husband and wife in real life and on the SCREEN ! , sparks fly and you see a great combination of excellent acting at its very best . George & Clem decided to work out divorce problems with their " DIVORCE CAMPER " , where they decided to split up their property between themselves without a lawyer and also find out personal things about each other and at the same time find time to make love and keep warm at the same time . Great Comedy / Drama with all kinds of surprises at the END ! If you love Ted Danson , " Cheers " and his wonderful wife Mary , don't miss this TV FILM ! ! !
President's have Affair's But not Murder !	Viewed this film quite a few times and greatly enjoyed the entire plot . I did think about former President Clinton and his affair , however , I doubt very much that anyone very close to the President , including the Secret Service would cover up a MURDER ! Clint Eastwood made this a great mystery with his great acting skills and directing talent . Luther Whitney ( Clint Eastwood ) , " Unforgiven " , ' 02 , was doing a great job in house stealing from E . G . Marshall ( Walter Sullivan ) , " Russian Holiday " , ' 92 , and at the same time his wife , Melora Hardin ( Christy Sullivan ) , " The Hot Chick " , ' 02 was plenty Hot and passionate with Gene Hackman , ( Pres . Allen Richmond ) , " Welcome to Mooseport " , ' 04 . It seems that Walter Sullivan was use to watching his wife have affairs with other men , as he had a perfect hidden room which permitted him observe EVERYTHING GOING ON AND MORE in his bedroom . Laura Linney ( Kate Whitney ) , " Mystic River " , ' 04 , was Clint Eastwood's daughter in this film and she was always after him to give up the love of his life JOB , ROBBING THE RICH ! This is definitely a great film to view off and on and just simply enjoy the great acting by great Veteran Screen Actors and Director !
A LINDSAY WAGNER CLASSIC FILM !	It is always refreshing to look back in time and see the great performances of actors like Lindsay Wagner as ( Susan ) , Timothy Bottoms ( James T . Hart ) and John Houseman ( Charles Kingsfield ) . The photography was fantastic and the actors all performed their roles with the greatest of easy . This is a film that can be enjoyed by anyone going to college with the aspirations of becoming a lawyer or doctor and have to deal with their professor's old fashioned IDEAS and at the same time , love to give them a hard time and upset the so called APPLE CART of LEARNING ! Professor Kingsfield acted like a WISE OLD OWL , and knew everything that James Hart was going to say and do in his class . It is quite apparent he deep down liked his qualities and he also played with his head ! This film should never be taken seriously , it is a very enjoyable film showing how you can fly your grades into the OCEAN !
Morgan Freeman was Outstanding	If Morgan Freeman , ( Eddie Scrap-Iron Dupris ) did not appear in this film it would have failed on its face , because he gave the best supporting performance I have ever seen him create . Hilary Swank , ( Maggie Fitgerald ) put her heart and soul into this role as a prize fighter who climbs to unbelievable heights in the world of women boxing with the great help of both Eddie Dupris and Clint Eastwood , ( Frankie Dunn ) . Frankie Dunn constantly has gone to his church and asked the priest many questions concerning the Catholic Faith and even runs into trouble with the Priest trying to understand his frame of thinking . Frnkie Dunn asks the priest a question that will change the entire mood of the film and put it into a very controversial film concerning Life or Death . Nice film .
JANE MARCH IS A SUPER STAR !	When this film started off , I had no idea in just what direction this film was going to take me . The photography in Vietnam was outstanding and Jane March ( The Young girl ) and her famous " Mans Hat " had me quite confused . However , when Tony Leung Ka ( The Chinaman ) appeared on the screen and started making SPARKS with Jane March , I realized that this was a very deep and beautiful love story that really went way beyond the bedroom mattress . This film showed that LOVE will break down all walls of bigotry , race or religious beliefs and even an age gap cannot stop the love between a man or woman or young lady . It is very sad that this couple could never grow old together and be able to look back at their wonderful romantic experiences ! A deep film with a great message , don't miss it !
George Hamilton & Lisa Rinna Were Great !	Lifetime shows some great TV films if you are interested in some romance and drama , this particular film held my interest because of the great acting and kept me guessing just how the story would end . George Hamilton , ( Malcolm Patterson ) , " Off Key " , ' 01 , performed great acting abilities as a very rich young man who was married a few times and never seemed to be able to have a son . Malcolm hires Lisa Rinna , ( Marielle ) , " Robot Wars " , ' 93 , who was looking for employment and was referred to Malcolm by her father who knew him over the years . Lisa Rinna gave a great performance and was very sexy and attractive along with the handsome tanned George Hamilton . Give it a look sometime and see if you can guess how film will END !
Male & Female Duel it Out !	Some how I missed this series of films and enjoyed this flick from the beginning to the very end . Cynthia Rothrock , ( Kris Fairfield ) , " Manhattan Chase " , ' 2000 , was a high school teacher and decided after work to use an ATM and had some very nasty encounters by some real bad bad dudes , who hit on her in more ways than one ! Richard Norton ( Preston Michaels ) , " Mind Games " , ' 03 , played a cop who got himself messed up with all kinds of characters and mainly a very hot , hot sexy everywhere Red Head and things started to POP ! Terri Treas , " House IV ' 92 , was a very sexy mean mama , who did not mess around and had her eyes set on giving Preston Michaels a real hard time in more ways than what she wanted . There was lots of combat and it is up to you to figure out if the Male or Female won the battle of the bulges .
Entertaining Film !	If you are looking for a film to keep you interested , this is the film for you . You will see lots of lightning , thunder and a very old New Orleans home and antiques . A local area is preparing for a very bad storm and they are starting to sandbag and are getting assistance from convicts . Melissa Gilbert , ( Cassie Broadbeck ) , " Ice House " , ' 89 , was put in a position to protect her daughters from wild convicts who escaped . Cassie even told one of the convicts that she would offer herself for sexual favors if they would only leave her two daughters alone and not abuse them . However , the daughters were very willing to cook up some chili and a few tuna fish sandwiches for the convicts pleasure ! Thomas Cavanaugh ( Simpson ) , " Something More " , ' 99 , played a great role as the gang leader who was mean right down to his toes ! This is a very entertaining film and worth watching !
Very Entertaining Two Hours	Decided to watch this film on " Lifetime " Channel and was quite surprised with the great acting and a very tricky plot , which kept you just wondering who was the bad guy or girl . The opening scene has lots of blood all over the place as a person gets chopped up like CHOPPED LIVER . The knife is removed and from then on the story has many twists and turns that keeps you on the edge of your seat . Lots of romantic scenes and you will never guess how the picture ends . A divorce lawyer comes to the aid of a client and winds up having to defend her ex-husband who is accused of killing his wife . This is a rather different murder mystery and it is a film that is very worth your while to sit back and ENJOY !
Great Ida Lupino & Robert Ryan Classic Film ! !	Viewed this film years ago and liked the directing of Nicholas Ray , who directed " King of Kings " , ' 61 . During the filming of this picture Nicholas Ray was going through a very steamy divorce and actually needed the talents of Ida Lupino and Robert Ryan to give this film a proper conclusion . Robert Ryan , ( Jim Wilson ) , " The Love Machine " , ' 71 , a detective from the Big City was becoming a NUT CASE , beating up all his criminals and just plain burning out on the JOB ! Jim Wilson was assigned to another case North where he could possibly calm down and mellow out his feelings towards society in general . As the film progressed , I began to wonder when Ida Lupino would appear on the screen as Mary Malden , " Backtrack , " ' 69 . Ida did a fantastic job with her acting role and was completely in the dark in a very strange and old home in the woods . Ward Bond , ( Walter Brent ) , " China Doll " , ' 58 , played a great supporting role in this picture , who was a great actor for many years in Hollywood . This is truly a great 1950's classic film and very enjoyable viewing in Black & White !
Fantastic Biography	Simply admire Morgan Freeman ( Malcolm X ) , as a great actor with outstanding talents and a person who puts his very heart and soul into any role he tries to portray . In this film , Morgan stars as a dynamic African-American activist who fought for racial equality during the rough and tough 1960s . Unfortunately , this film only portrays the final twenty-four hours of the civil rights leader's life . Morgan Freeman made you feel the great power that this crusader had within his very soul and how he truly loved his calling to help the poverty stricken people and to bring his race into the light of the entire world . If you like Morgan Freeman and a cast of great actors , please don't miss this film .
Love Without Money Does Not Work !	This is a very excellent film for all young gals and guys who feel they are deeply in LOVE and cannot do without each other and just Plain elope and run around until their money runs out . Mark Paul Gosselaar , ( Chris ) , " NYPD Blue " , TV Series'93 , looks very young in this film and gives a great performance as a love sick guy who falls madly in love with Gina Philips , ( Holly Nolan ) , " The Woodsman " , ' 04 . This couple run into all kinds of problems with a truck driver who wants sex in the worst way and there are scenes where this young couple have to sleep in a FLOP HOUSE in LA ! This film clearly shows that falling in love and running away from your families that love you will only cause great harm to everyone involved . There ARE NO FREE HAND OUTS ! ! !
Paltrow & Lang Were Excellent	Greatly enjoyed this film and the wonderful photography of New York City and beautiful scenery in various Historical Towns in Virginia , namely : Charlottesville , Culpeper and Orange , Virginia . Jessica Lang , ( Martha Baring ) , " Big Fish " , ' 03 played the very over powering mother-in-law to Gwyneth Paltrow , ( Helen Baring ) , " A Perfect Murder " , ' 98 , who is very much in love with her husband and there are many scenes where they are making love most of the time . Jessica Lang is very protective of her son and even goes through their luggage looking at Helens method of Birth Control . Nina Foch , ( Alice Baring ) , " A Song to Remember " , ' 45 , a great veteran actress , gives very important information to Helen Baring concerning the Baring Family past secrets . If you look close , you will see Hal Holbrook , ( Dr . Franklin Hill ) , " Purpose " , ' 02 , giving advice to Martha Baring concerning prescriptions for horses . If you love Gwyneth Paltrow and Jessica Lang , this film will greatly entertain you from beginning to end .
Seen This Film Over & Over	Many times I have viewed this film over the years mainly because I am a big fan of Sandy Dennis , ( Gwen Kelleman ) who plays the role of a wife from Ohio and her husband , George Kelleman , ( Jack Lemmon ) who wants to go to New York City for a job position that George would like to have and they encounter many problems that they never expected . This couple find themselves having to sleep in Central Park and are robbed of everything they have and there is plenty more situations that they are faced with . In the beginning of this film Sandy Dennis and Jack Lemmon were flying in from Ohio and landing in a real airport on Long Island MacArthur Airport in Ronkonkoma , New York where I actually worked at the Army Aviation Support Facility # 1 . It was great seeing this entire scene of great movie stars being filmed at this New York Airport . It is a great shame that Sandy Dennis had a very short life which cancer overpowered her , she gave a great performance .
Great Acting by Bruce Willis !	Greatly enjoyed the acting performed by Bruce Willis , ( David Dunn ) , " The Whole Ten Yards , " ' 04 , David Dunn was a man who escaped death and was trying to find out WHY ! and what his purpose in life should be . Samuel L . Jackson , ( Elijah Price ) , " South Africa " , ' 04 , tried to find David Dunn in order to direct his life and his destiny . It is very easy to find this film boring if you do not understand the deep Spiritual meaning the director of the film is trying to portray . Bruce Willis and Samuel L . Jackson both had difficult roles to perform and did an outstanding job . The director of this film has also produced another great picture for the Summer called , " The Village " , ' 04 with William Hurt in the starring role . If you love Bruce Willis and his acting , this is the film for YOU !
FRANKENSTEIN LEARNS TO SPEAK !	Authoress Mary Shelley ( Elsa Lanchester ) wife of Charles Laughton the actor ) is persuaded by Lord Byron ( Gavin Gordon ) to continue her story of Frankenstein's creation ( Boris Karloff ) after his previous death in a burning mill . After the parents of the drowned girl discover the Monster had escaped the fire , they are both killed by the Monster . The Monster is then befriended by a blind hermit ( O . P . Heggie ) who teaches him to speak . A bride is created ( Elsa Lanchester ) to give him companionship which becomes a horrible relationship from the first look at his face ! Remember reading in the newspaper that Karloff injured his left side during the shooting of the flooded cellar scene and received a special infrared ray treatment . This film has a cast of all time greats , Director James Whale and Cameraman John Mescall along with makeup artist , Jack Pierce . Franz Waxman , who created the musical score use to be employed by Adolf Hitler before WWII . Waxman escaped to America and became a great asset to the movie industry . Karloff did a great job of scaring the children and frightening the women in many movie houses during the mid 1930 ' . Karloff's acting and long career in the movies made it possible for the US Government to place him on a Postal Stamp to honor him as the KING OF HORROR ! This film should be among all horror film fans libraries .
Great FILM , GREAT ACTORS , WONDERFUL STORY ! ! !	This film opened my eyes to the very difficult problems that people have to face whether they are young , old , Moms and Dads , daughters and sons who LOVE LIFE AND EACH OTHER in a different way than the average man or woman . This world is full of hate and evil , but we must remember that GOD is LOVE and no human beings can ever stand between anyone who loves each other . Stockard Channing ( Janice ) , " Anything Else " , ' 03 gave a great performance as a mother who had a hard time trying to accept the fact that her daughter was Gay . Ellen Muth ( Jane ) , " A Gentleman's Game , " ' 01 , was the daughter who discovered she had great love to offer , not only for her family but other woman . Ellen Muth gave a great performance and I am sure we will be seeing a great deal of her talents in the future . Kelly Rowan ( Ms . Lynn Walcott ) , " Jet Boy " , ' 01 , was a great English teacher and helped Ellen Muth grow to accept her strong feelings . If you want to see a great honest and down to earth film about being GAY , and all the emotional pain that goes through coming out of the CLOSET , this is a film for people who want to be OPEN MINDED !
CAST OF ALL TIME GREAT ACTORS !	This 1959 black and white Western story had very eerie photography which was about a town with very few people , high in the mountains , snow covered and plenty of fog . It had some very depressing scenes with hardly any groceries on the store shelves and very few bottles of booze behind the bar . Horses and men had trouble walking in the snow and you never knew who was going to kill who , a horse was even killed because it fell and broke his leg . Burl Ives , ( Jack Bruhn ) did not sing a song , but gave orders to his men , and kept them from any women or drink . Bruhn sort of took over the town and layed the law down and had a bullet removed without even a drop of booze to ease the pain . Robert Ryan ( Blaise Starrett ) was in love with a married woman and managed to leave the town and then return as a hero . Tina Louise ( Helen Crane ) was the sweetheart of this film and Elisha Cook Jr . , " I Wake Up Screaming " and " Rosemary's Baby " , was a barber in this picture , however , you never saw him give a haircut , nor his usual bulging eyes and nervous looks . Believe it or not , there was some laughs in this film , especially when the men were allowed to dance with the few local woman , they went wild and just jumped and threw them all around , only to try to get a kiss . This is still a classic film and is worth viewing .
THIS PICTURE WARMED MY HEART !	This film brought back great memories of my growing up in NYC and enjoying the wonderful relationships of Jewish families and friends . Their funny jokes and good humor every day . This picture showed in great detail how people struggled and took care of each other no matter who you were . Joe Smith and George Sidney ( Mendel ) gave excellent performances and his wife Ruth Hall ( Lillian ) It is a must see picture , especially when the washing machine is invented !
Never Stopped Laughing	Missed seeing this very entertaining film with Jeff Bridges , ( Jeffrey Lebowski , The Dude ) and John Goodman , ( Walter Sobchak ) who are great pals and bowl using every curse word ever used and even more ! Jeffrey Lebowski is a very lazy guy and loves to drink White Russians and manages to get himself involved with a kidnapping of a young girl , named Bunny , ( Tara Reid ) who is married to a very rich older man . A woman named Maude Lebowski , ( Julianne Moore ) wants to have a baby and she decides to make love to Jeffrey who is not his wife and never intends to marry a man , rather way out in left field scene . Steve Busemi , ( Jeffrey Lebowski ) gives a great supporting role . This is a great comedy filled with all kinds of surprises and plenty of shocking words thrown back and forth with each of the actors .
Ben-Hur'59 vs . The Passion of Jesus Christ ' 04	Have not viewed " Ben Hur " since it first came out in 1959 , and was thrilled by the great acting of Charlton Heston , ( Judah Ben-Hur ) , " Any Given Sunday " , ' 99 . Heston , portrayed a Jewish man beaten down by the Roman's and even his best friend turned against him and he was a slave on a ship , rowing himself to death . This film was a Hollywood production , but it showed the great Passion of Jesus Christ in different ways that all the family could enjoy , both YOUNG and OLD , were able to view this picture without any : - SHOCK FACTORS ! You could actually see Jesus carrying his CROSS and also hanging on the CROSS which was graphic enough for me ! Sam Jaffe , ( Simonides ) , " Ben Casey " , ' 61 tv series , gave an outstanding supporting role to this picture along with Stephen Boyd ( Messala ) , " Kill " , ' 72 , who passed away early in life and Martha Scott ( Miriam ) , " Sayonara " , ' 57 . Future pictures like this one should be created with more details given to the Life Of Jesus and his great healing powers and the great influence He had while he was living briefly on this earth !
GREAT CLASSIC FILM STARS OF THE PAST !	This film has a cast of Giants of the Silver Screen , Frank Sinatra looking like a baby face who was American's Top Male Singer of the 1940's , every young ladies heart throb ! Robert Walker ( Jerome Kern ) " Stranger's on A Train " ' 52 played a great role as the composer of " Show Boat " and many other great musicals . The cast of June Allyson , Van Heflin and Lena Horne " Stormy Weather " ' 40s and even Angela Lansbury , of " Murder She Wrote " appeared in this great film . Vincenti Minnelli , Judy Garland's husband at the time made this a must see film for all generations to enjoy . If you love good romantic music which will live on forever and ever , see this wonderful refreshing film which will warm your heart and soul !
LARAINE DAY FANS WILL LOVE THIS CLASSIC FILM !	Laraine Day ( Carol Banning ) " Dr . Kildare's Crisis " ' 40 was in full bloom as a very beautiful young actress in this great Western Classic in 1938 , it was a story about the miners and the cattle ranchers playing their good and bad roles , with crooks wearing black hats always waiting to capitalize and rob the innocent town folk of their property . If you were a fan of Laraine Day , this picture shows why she became a great star in the Dr . Kildare films and was loved by the film audiences of the 1940's . Laraine Day later married a famous Brooklyn Dodgers Manager by the name of LEO " D " ! Guess his name ?
Betty Davis was Outstanding	Never viewed this film which has great veteran actors from our past and Betty Davis , ( Charlotte Vale ) is an ugly spinster who lives with her mother who drives her simply crazy and by a chance of luck she meets up with Dr . Jaquith , ( Claude Rains ) who feels he can do her a great deal of good and straighten out her life and to dissolve the problems with her mother's domination over her . Charlotte Vale improves and seeks to get out of her shell of a life and does meet up with a very handsome man named Jerry Durrance , ( Paul Henreid ) who is a married man and they both fall madly in love with each other . Charlotte breaks off their relationship because she feels it is not a wise thing to do and especially since he has a young girl to take care of also . Over a period of years Charlotte meets up with Jerry Durrance's child Tina and they become very close and of course eventually Charlotte meets up once again with Jerry Durrance . This is truly a great film classic and Max Steiner won an Oscar for his fantastic musical score for this great picture . Enjoy .
One Soul Reaching Another Soul	This was a very soul searching film with great acting by Jane Seymour who played ( Jenny Cole / Mary Sutton , " Touching Wild Horses " , ' 02 . Jenny Cole seems to have troubling dreams about a family in a small town in Ireland where a woman has to put up with a drunkard of a husband and a child abuser . He is told that his wife with lose her life if she has any more children and her husband is too busy drinking to really care . There is great photography in Ireland and former veteran actor Hume Cronyn , ( Sonny Sutton ) , " The Pelican Brief " , ' 92 , plays the older son to Mary Sutton and gives a great supporting role . You will need some tissues to view this film and some belief in the Spiritual World !
Leelee Sobieski was Outstanding	Thought at first this film was going to be a slow boring film about a sister and her brother having problems . However , this film took me by surprise and I could hardly believe what Leelee Sobieski ( Ruby Baker ) , " Max " , ' 02 had to go through in her godfather's Glass House , who was 16 years of age and had to share a bedroom with her younger brother . Bruce Dern , ( Begleiter ) , " Madison " , ' 01 , played a foxy old man who offered Ruby Baker a helping hand and got himself into a big mess he never dreamed would happen to him in the House of Glass . The story has many twists and turns and does keep you on the edge of your seats , watching fancy cars going crazy on narrow mountain roads with plenty of sharp turns . Ruby even gets hit on by her godfather and even tries to avoid injections with a needle . Sit back and enjoy this very entertaining film with a great new Hot Star Leelee Sobieski .
Great John Ritter Film !	I thought that I had seen all of John Ritter's TV films and movies and this film took me by surprise . It was great seeing John looking so healthy and very sad knowing that he passed on to a stage in HEAVEN and a higher level of experience . John Ritter , ( Rick Knowlton ) , " Manhood " , ' 03 , was a successful business man and wanted to better himself and his wife in a larger home in a crime free neighborhood . Hal Linden , ( Philip Denig ) , " Barney Miller " , ' 75 TV Series , managed to make Rick's dream home become a reality and things were working out just fantastic . June Lockhart , ( Mrs . Billingsley ) , " Lassie " , ' 54 TV Series , helped Ricks children get situated in their new school programs . This is truly a great film with veteran actors and a very interesting and entertaining story .
One of the Best Classic Sherlock Holmes Films !	Movie goers in the late 1930's and 40's thought this team of actors performed exactly how Sherlock Holmes was suppose to be in real life . Basil Rathbone , ( Sherlock Holmes ) , " The Black Cat " , ' 41 always gave an outstanding performance and his very appearance added greatly to his role as the famous English detective from London , England . Nigel Bruce ( Dr . John H . Watson ) , " The Corn Is Green " , ' 45 played the sidekick to Holmes and appeared goofy at sometimes . This entire film dealt with a long train ride , running in and out of compartments and even looking into a coffin . Alan Mowbray , ( Maj . Duncan-Bleek ) , " I Wake Up Screaming " , ' 41 gave a great supporting role and kept Dr . Watson busy playing Gin Rummy during the " Lionel Train Ride " in Black & White ! Skelton Knaggs , ( Sands ) , " Bedlam " , ' 46 , put his ugly face into the plot and as always gave a great supporting role . If you love Classic Holmes Films and these great veteran actors , this is just one of the great films Rathbone & Bruce appeared in !
Jitterbug / Swing Dancing	This film will bring you way back to the Big Band era and the entire picture is filled with outstanding actors , great musicians and dancers . Glenn Miller , ( Gene Morrison ) played the role of Gene and had to put up with all the band wives and their secret affairs between each other . One of the real trouble makers was Carole Landis , ( Natalie Mercer ) , " I Wake Up Screaming " , who was a big gossip and acted like a big Cat with large claws . Natalie wore outrageous hats with all kinds of flowers on top and did her very best to break up some newly weds who just got married . There was plenty of old time tunes and plenty of jitterbug , or what we call today , SWING DANCING . There are two African American dancers who gave an outstanding performance almost towards the end of film that was very entertaining . Jackie Gleason was a string bass player in the Gene Morrison ( Glen Miller Band ) and said quite a few lines . This is a great Classic Musical Film with all time great jazz players . Enjoy
Greta Garbo Teased the MEN	Over the years I have seen pictures with Greta Garbo and thought she had that very special talent that brought her to such fame years ago ; the so-called Pin Up Girl of the early 20's and 30's . After viewing this film , I could actually enjoy Greta Garbo playing ( Elena , ) , " Anna Christie " , ' 31 , and truly see her great acting skills in action as she played her role as an evil woman who drained men like a spider , spinning a web for every man she decided to claim as a lover . The expressions in her face and eyes were acting all the time and she also had a great cast of supporting actors . If you looked close , you could see a very young Lionel Barrymore , ( Conterac ) , " The Bells " , ' 26 , not sitting in a wheel chair like in " Key Largo " , but straight and tall . This is truly a great Classic Film from the Silent era and very worth while viewing .
LIZABETH SCOTT STEALS SCENES !	Van Helfin and Lizabeth Scott were like a magical couple , lots of romance and steamy scenes which stole the show from the other actors . Kirk Douglas was making his first film debut and was hardly noticed , he was always drunk and over acted throughout the entire picture . Lizabeth Scott was never given great roles to star in and therefore never could have fullfilled her great acting talents . Her films will always have a class all by themselves .
A Famous Classic Film !	Whenever Edward G . Robinson appeared in a picture and Orson Welles directed and starred , you could always count on a great film and this particular film will be enjoyed for many generations because of a great plot and fantastic acting . Edward G . Robinson , ( Mr . Wilson ) , " The Red House " , ' 47 played the role of an investigator , looking for a man who committed horrible crimes during WW II and also a missing friend of his who recently visited this town . Mr . Wilson connects himself with the local town people and plays checkers with a man in town who knows just about everything that goes on with everyone in an New England town . Loretta Young ( Mary Longstreet Rankin ) , " Second Honeymoon " , ' 37 , falls in love with Orson Welles , ( Dr . Charles Rankin / Franz Kindler ) , " Butterfly , " , ' 82 and marries the doctor and all kinds of strange things start to happen . Dr . Rankin loves to fix all kinds of clocks and especially a large church steeple clock which has not been working for many years . This story will keep you glued to the silver screen and the ending is very exciting .
CRIMINAL CODE HELPED KARLOF	Boris Karloff appeared on the stage of the Belasco Theatre , New York City in the role of Galloway in a Martin Flavin stage play . It was a minor part , however , it was an important one : Galloway , the prison trusty who becomes a killer . On the strength of his performance , he was soon cast in the film version . During 1931-32 , twenty-three of his films were released , an average of nearly one a month which included Frankenstein . Criminal Code was the big break Karloff was waiting for and he never gave up acting until the very end .
Great Realistic Film about the U S NAVY	Enjoyed this film because it clearly shows the American public that all Military Forces have a slogan , which is simply : CYA in more ways than one . In this film there had to be a fall guy for a problem of this magnitude , where many lives were lost , and the gay sailors took the brunt of all the blame and were not able to defend themselves . In the picture a Navy Officer clearly pointed out the many problems that existed ; the sailors in the gunnery section were taking parts from one place to repair another problem . The Navy was not allocating any funds for these old Battleships from World War II . James Caan , ( Capt . Fred Moosally did an outstanding acting role and stood up for all the enlisted Naval Personnel and made the stink go away . However , the big wigs in the Naval Department in Washington still stood their own ground . The American public cannot be fooled any long by such incidents and the truth will come out today without any cover ups . Great picture , but very graphic and maybe it needed to be shown .
Comedy & Drama	Found this film for sale for only one dollar on DVD and enjoyed every minute of the story which involved two young girls who were tourists and wound up getting caught in a sort of triangle . Peter O'Toole , ( Emil Saber ) , " Romeo & Me " , ' 06 was a coin collector and was seeking another coin to increase the value of his collection . Emil was a sort of nut , who would do anything to obtain another coin . Alexandria Powers ( Ronnie ) , " Zigs " , ' 01 was a young boy who went around stealing items from the tourists in order to feed and care for his elderly grandfather . Ally Walker , ( Lisa ) " Happy Texas " , ' 99 and Jill Novick , ( Brenda ) are young ladies who get deeply involved with Ronnie and the nut case , Emil . There are quite a few funny scenes where nudity is shown , especially when men go into a woman's public bath and vice versa . All the actors gave an outstanding performance and it was quite an entertaining film to view and enjoy .
Reagan Was at his BEST !	Viewed this film when it was first shown in NYC and our hearts went out to the great acting Ronald Reagan performed in this picture . Reagan wanted this role and was in competition with other great actors who also desired this role , which made Ron work even harder to give an outstanding performance . Claude Rains , ( Dr . Alexander Q . Tower ) , " The Wolfman " , ' 66 , was a famous and great veteran actor of the screen along with Betty Field ( Cassie Tower ) , " Peyton Place " , ' 57 who gave a great supporting role along with Maria Ouspenskaya ( Madame von Eln ) , " The Wolfman " , ' 66 . This film had a great deal of mystery surrounding a small town and told the deep horrors of murder , incest and mental illness that was being hidden behind closed doors . Many of the citizens of the town had many secrets to hide from each other . Robert Cummings played a great role as a very successful young man trying to become a great doctor . However , Ronald Reagan made this one of his greatest acting roles , and brought tears to your eyes through out many scenes !
Great Fiction Story of Early Texas Events	Greatly enjoyed this film which is not a documentary film on the history of Texas , but a very enjoyable film with great actors like Clark Gable . Clark Gable plays ( Devereaux Burke ) , " Mogambo " , ' 53 , who wants Texas to become part of the Union and met with Lionel Barrymore , ( Andrew Jackson ) , " Key Largo " , ' 48 , in Washington , and decided to find a very powerful Texan , named Thomas Craden , ( Broderick Crawford ) , " Hightway Patrol " , ' 55 TV Series , who was against Texas from joining the Union and wanted it to remain a LONE STAR STATE . Ava Gardner , ( Martha Ronda ) , " The Snows of Kilimanjaro , " , 52 , who was a very strong willed woman who ran a newspaper and was also a so called girl friend of Thomas Craden which caused great problems between Burke . This is a Hollywood story that is meant to entertain and the veteran actors in this film have created this film into a great black and white Classic .
Excellent Film	This film is everything I had hoped it would be and even more so in many ways . If you want to see a film that portrays men's and women's feelings about life and sex , both straight and gay , this is a film that will enlighten you to what goes on in the minds of men and woman . You will experience titles of the film backwards , gay men enjoying themselves and also hookers having a wonderful time as well as a poor young gal getting raped in horrible graphic details , also a man's face being busted into pieces of blood and gore . There is also a scene about a he / she gal who shows her / his private parts . If all these things interest you or you are curious about what this film is all about and want to view these scenes , by all means try to view it without getting sick .
A Classic Submarine Picture !	If you are interested in the way the Navy crew operates under the ocean floors , you will love this great Navy story about how the U . S . Navy was able to out wit the enemy which was Japan during WWII and all the tricks of the trade that were utilized under the very depths of the Pacific Ocean . The photography was great for a 1958 film and Glenn Ford ( Lt . Cmdr . Barney Doyle ) , " Pocket Full of Miracles " , ' 61 , gave a great performance along with some mental blocks that was interfering with his command of his submarine . However , Ernest Borgnine ( Lt . Archer Sloan ) , " Marty " , ' 55 , was a loyal officer to Barney and turned down his own commission as Commander to assist Barney in his hopes to destroy a FLAT TOP ( aircraft carrier ) of the Japanese Navy . There was a very interesting scene where the submarine crew was able to evacuate their sub and be able to surface to another submarine for safety . This is truly a Classic film from the past and I am quite sure some of these events actually happened during WWII .
NOT LIKE THE TYPICAL BLOOD SUCKING DRACULA FILMS !	It was very refreshing to view this Dracula film without the sexy women and the two ( 2 ) marks on their neck , like the Bela Lugosi classic films . I could write two-hundred words about this film and even tell you the ending . However , if you are a fan of Jane March ( Lidia ) " Amdnt , L " 91 you will love her performance as the wife of Rudolf Martin ( Vlad the Impaler ) " Swordfish " ' 01 . Lidia plays a young sweet and innocent virgin who plans to become a Nun and is charmed by Vlad and the sparks fly immediately and the baby soon arrives . Peter Weller ( Father Stefan ) " Styx " ' 01 tries to prevent Dracula from spreading his evil in the world , unfortunately , Dracula movies must continue to be produced from one generation to another . If you like History of Dracula , this is the film for you ! !
Classic Drama Story	Enjoyed this Classic B & W film with a fisherman's house of stone build high on a hill top , over looking the ocean and a very rocky coast line and plenty of fog . It starts out with Greer Garson , ( Marise Aubert ) , " Strange Lady in Town " , ' 55 , who is see a shrink and has many flash backs . They show two soldier's in the war , one being Richard Hart ( Jean Renaud ) , " Green Dolphin Street " , ' 47 and Robert Mitchem , ( Paul Aubert ) , " Cape Fear " , ' 91 , Paul is married to Marise Aubert and Jean Renaud is a very close friend . Paul shares a great deal of information about his wife with Jean . Eventually the story unfolds and you start to realize there is a rather twisted and demented brain trying to work out an evil plan . George Zucco , ( Father Donnard ) , " Lured " , ' 47 , confronts the evil force and tries to bring shame upon the guilty person involved . It was refreshing not seeing George Zucco play his usual roles in the many horror pictures he appeared in . All the actors gave outstanding performances and this is a really worth while film to view and enjoy .
KARLOFF IS REALLY GRUESOME !	Yes , this was a B picture in the late 40's and actors still had to make a living and ( Boris Karloff ) as Gruesome was the best selection by director John Rawlins . It seems a mysterious gas which temporarily paralyzes people falls into the possession of a disreputable doctor , L . E . Thal ( Edward Ashley ) . Realizing the great criminal opportunities of the strange gas , Gruesome , an ex-convict , enlists Thal's aid in a bank robbery . " Dick Tracy Meets Gruesome " is a thriller-diller only because Boris Karloff is the star performer . The picture has Karloff putting his victims in a huge furnace for safekeeping . Chester Gould , the creator of the comic-strip was proud of this picture in 1947 .
Cast of Great Actors !	Greatly enjoyed this B & W Film and the wonderful performances of all the leading actors . Jan Fonda , ( Hallie Gerard ) , " The 7th Dawn " , gave an outstanding performance jumping in and out of box cars on the railroad , sleeping in large conduit and being very very sexy , young and pretty . Hallie meets Laurence Harvey ( Dave Linkhorn ) , " Welcome to Arrow Beach " , ' 74 , a drifter going on his way to New Orleans , La . , to find his long lost sweetheart . Dave however , shares a night in the outdoors like a homeless person with his new found friend Hallie . The couple run into kind hearted Anne Baxter ( Teresina Vidaverri ) , " Jane Austen in Manhattan " , ' 80 , who has a nice Spanish diner and helps the couple get on their way to New Orleans . Barbara Stanwyck , ( Jo Courtney , " The Night Walker " , ' 65 runs a brothel where Dave's girlfriend seems to have employment . This is a worthwhile Classic film to view along with fantastic acting !
Delightful Film	This film presented a different story than the original we all associate with a slipper and having to return at Mid-Night . Leslie Caron , ( Ella ) played the role as a girl who became a servant in her own home and was treated poorly by her mother and two sisters . Ella was the laugh of the town because she always looked dirty from ashes she had to handle along with all the other menial duties she had to perform on a daily basis . When Prince Charles , ( Michael Wilding ) arrives in town after many years going to college , he eventually meets up with Ella who he remembers when she was a very little girl . There is plenty of dancing and Ella performs a great ballet performance along with Prince Charles . Estelle Winwood , ( Mrs . Toquet ) played the role as a fairy god mother and gave a great supporting role . This is a great entertaining film and is rather delightful to view .
Hallmark Gave Frankenstein a New Face LIFT !	Any time " Frankenstein " is shown , whether in 1931 or to this present day , this story will remain basically the same , however , in this TV presentation , Hallmark gave the story more reality with its great photography of the countryside and the local people who were very colorful and enjoyable to view . Luke Goss , ( Creature ) , " Cold & Dark " , ' 04 , gave an outstanding performance as a man made creature who has to learn his lessons about life from a mother teaching her little girl in the backyard . Alec Newman , ( Victor Frankenstein ) , " Bright Young Things " , ' 03 , brought a frog back to life and a dog and drove his professor , William Hurt , ( Waldman ) , " Body Heat " , ' 81 , absolutely CRAZY trying to tell him he could bring the dead back to life . The professor kept telling him over and over , " God is the only Person to Give LIFE " . I enjoyed seeing Donald Sutherland , ( Captain Walton ) , " A Time to Kill " , ' 96 appearing on a sort of Ghost Ship sitting in foggy , ice bound waters . I will always love Boris Karloff as Frankenstein , in 1931 , however , this was a great attempt to make Frankenstein more up to date with this CENTURY !
Excellent Film About Drugs	This film reminded me about a film called , " The Man with the Golden Arm " starring Frank Sinatra and Kim Novack and this film clearly shows the horrors of withdrawal from the drug of heroin . Three young men get involved with a suitcase that holds a very large supply of uncut heroin and wind up throwing it away , thinking it was a cleansing powder and it winds up in a garbage dump which they manage to rescue . The young men decided to sell this drug and are able to make plenty of money by filtering it out through and old time heroin user . There are some girl friends in this film who try to stop these guys and tell them to turn the drugs into the police , but they do not face the consequences of turning themselves in . This is a great 1958 classic film filmed in Los Angeles , California and there is also some pretty way out music through out the film that makes this a very exciting black and white film .
Ethel Barrymore gave a Fantastic Performance !	Ethel Barrymore , ( " The Spiral Staircase " ' 46 ) , gave one of her greatest performances as an old lady captured in her home with all her favorites treasures along with other film greats like : - Maurice Evans , ( " Beneath the Planet of the Apes " ' s ' 70 , Angela Lansbury , ( Mrs . Edwards ) " Murder She Wrote " , ' 03 and Keenan Wynn , son of Ed Wynn the veteran comedian of the ' 30's and 40's . Every film that Ethel Barrymore ever appeared in was a great success because of her great family of actors , John , Lionel and presently Drew .
Cast of Classic Giants of the Silver Screen	When I first viewed this film I was very impressed and as the years past , I see that many generations have felt the same way about a masterpiece of American Film Production . Orson Wells put his complete heart and soul into the production of this film ; it certainly topped all his other films . It seems Wells loved Joseph Cotton who appeared in this film as , Eugene , " Niagra " , ' 53 , who was very deeply in love with Dolores Costello , ( Isabel ) , " Outside These Walls " , ' 39 , who was simply beautiful in those days and was a very elegant lady and sweet as sugar . Ann Baxter , ( Lucy ) , " The Blue Gardenia " , ' 52 , was full of joy and pep in this film and also fell in love with Tim Holt , ( George ) , " Hot Lead " , 51 . However , poor Lucy seemed to wait and wait for George to decide how he was ever going to earn a living , and did not really want to do anything in life except live and love his MOTHER . Enjoyed the great acting of Agnes Moorehead , ( Fanny ) , " Bewitched " , ' 64 TV Series , who played a spinster and added greatly to her supporting role . Glad I viewed this film again , it had deeper meaning to me this time around . Tim Holt was always a cowboy to me and appeared in many Westerns , in this film he completely surprised me , except when he was in the horse and carriage with Lucy !
Susan George Looked Great in 1970	If you like a good thriller this is the film for you , there are scenes which will keep you glued to your seats . Ziggy , ( Mark Lester ) plays the role as a little boy who has an older sister named Pippa , ( Susan George ) and they live with their grandfather who lives in a lighthouse on the Island of Malta . Ziggy has a great imagination and many times tell stories that are not true and no one really believes anything he tells them . One day Ziggy sees an assassination and also knows what he looks like and can identify this person who is in high authority on Malta . Ziggy is hunted down by this person and no one will believe him when he tries to tell his sister Pippa , they all get mad at him except his grandfather . Susan George looked radiant and very charming playing a great role along with a great child star , Mark Lester . Don't miss this film , it is great entertainment .
A Novice Monk Has Sex & Falls in " LOVE " ! !	Always enjoying Sean Connery films , I some how missed this film and became completely absorbed in the entire plot . Sean Connery ( William of Baskerville ) , " Finding Forrester " , 2000 , played an outstanding and difficult role trying to teach his young student monk , Christian Slater , ( Ados von Melk ) , " Mindhunters " , ' 04 , who was seduced by a young peasant gal and immediately fell deeply in love with her . Ados even prayed to the Virgin Mary to save her from being burned as a witch . There was plenty of horrible looking monks running all around and plenty of secret passage ways . In order to open one secret panel , you had to press the eyes of a SKULL . William & Ados did their very best to try and locate some very forbidden books which dealt with Laughing and Comedy . This film would make a very excellent film to view at Halloween if you want to spend a very boring evening inside ! !
Great Medieval Mystery Series	Enjoyed this series of " Cadfael " which ran on TV in 1994 about a monk named Brother Cadfael , ( Derek Jacobi ) who gives Spiritual help and heals the wounded and sick and also is a detective who delves into the human soul and manages to get criminals and evil people to either turn over a new way of living or just face their punishment and be hanged or sent to prison . In one of these TV Series , " The Devil's Novice " a young man decides to enter the monastery and become a monk and he is questioned about why he wants to become a monk and at night he seems to have nightmares and starts screaming and causing all kinds of problems which make the monks think he is possessed by the Devil . However , it turns out that this young man was in love with his brother's girl-friend and his heart was broken and his father suggested he go immediately to the monastery and become a monk . Brother Cadfael searches this young man's heart and soul and finds very dark deep secrets which involves many other people in his family .
LOTS OF INFIDELITY AND LIES !	Enjoyed viewing this great film classic and the great acting of Kay Francis ( Georgiana Summers ) , " Play Girl " , ' 41 who loved to fool around with George Brent ( " Bob " McNear ) , " The Great Lie " , ' 41 who was a married man . It seemed that everyone else in the picture played husband and wife with lots of infidelity and everyone telling little white lies about who is married to who and why we have to have different rooms to sleep in and why we have twin beds in our rooms . It seems that being divorced was a very evil thing and talking about their " EX " husbands was the in THING ! . Genevieve Tobin ( Betty Summers ) , " The Petrified Forest " , ' 36 and John Eldridge ( Lawrence Thurston ) , " Superman " , ' 73 enjoyed stealing automobiles ( coupe type ) and even going into being a jewel thief . It was great viewing this film and seeing just what people were watching during the YEAR 1935 . This film was probably considered X rated . The old gas stations , furniture and women's fashions , plus the modern auto's in the 1930's made this a great film classic with all these young actors starting out in their film careers .
Lawrence Tierney was EVIL in this FILM !	First viewed this film in 1947 , and Lawrence Tierney ( Sam Wilde ) " Dillinger " ' 45 , terrified me with his evil eyes and hateful expressions , Sam Wilde truly portrayed a man without a soul and created before your very eyes a cold blooded killer who stopped at nothing . Walter Slezak ( Albert Arnett ) followed him around and quoted from the Bible and at the same time , was a crook himself . Walter Slezak was an unappreciated great actor who gave a great performance in " Wonderful Life " ' 64 and unfortunately took his own life . Claire Trevor ( Helen Brent ) " Key Largo " ' 48 could not make up her mind between lovers , but deep down loved and identified with Sam Wilde . Elisha Cook Jr . , ( Marty Waterman ) " I Wake Up Screaming " ' 41 , was Sam Wilde's henchman , who did all of his dirty work and had a great deal of trouble on the sand dunes with an old lady . In 1967 , I ran into Lawrence Tierney in a bar on Broadway , NYC and bought him a beer , he was a construction worker at the time with a hard hat , and was a great down to earth guy , however , you had to weigh your words with him . Lawrence Tierney performed the best Dillinger film that ever came out of Hollywood , this film is a great classic which will be seen for many generations to view and enjoy !
Great Cast of Classic ACTORS !	This B & W film is a great film to view because of the many famous actors who contributed their great acting skills . Robert Mitchum ( Dan Milner ) , " BackFire " , ' 95 , gave a great performance as usual . Vincent Price , ( Mark Cardigan ) , " Edward Scissorhands " , ' 90 , provided humor and drama to his supporting role in this film . Jane Russell , ( Liz Brady ) , " Darker Than Amber " , ' 70 , provided sexual charm to all the gentleman she met , along with dresses that showed plenty of Jane , nothing like the " OutLaw " 1947 . Raymond Burr , ( Nick Ferraro ) played a real bad bad gangster from Chicago and if you look close , you will see Jim Backus , famous for the voice of Mr . Magoo ! Great entertaining of the 1950's ! ENJOY .
Not Just an Event in a History Book !	Every time I see this picture , I relive the horrible event that took place on Sunday , Dec 7 , 1941 and the way in which people reacted to the news over the RADIO ( no TV's in those days ) It was the same way America heard about , but people were able to actually view this HORROR ! This film is one of the best true stories of what actually did happen and how America was unprepared for the attack . This was not history for me and my family which makes it hurt every time I visit the site of Pearl Harbor on Veteran's Day ! Martin Balsam ( Admiral Husband E . Himmel ) , " Psycho " , ' 60 , learned well in advance that Japan had plans to attack America , not knowing the exact position . Jason Roberts , ( Lt . General Walter C . Short ) , " F . D . R . The Last Year " , ' 80 ( TV ) was very ill informed and was not capable to utilize his great ability to assist in stopping the blood shed ! There was too much Red Tape and America did not really want to get involved with Japan , as well as fighting with Nazi Germany ! Joseph Cotton , ( Sec . of War , Henry L . Stimson ) , " Niagara " , ' 53 and E . G . Marshall ) ( Lt . Colonel Rufus G . Bratton ) , " Town Without Pity " , ' 62 gave great supporting roles . Some of the airplane fighting between Japan and America was not very realistic . The Japanese Air Force was short on fuel for their planes , and they were just able to drop their bombs and if they ran out of fuel , they flew their planes into the ships and buildings in order to accomplish their mission . The Japanese Aircraft Carrier was able to get them as close as they could , but fuel was a problem for the Navy & Air Force at the time . As early as 1937 , the Japanese Nation invaded China , where they did horrible crimes against the People of China , " The Rape of Nanking " was remembered in the War Crimes Court after the War . This is a very good film about WAR , and I hope and pray that WAR among people and Nations will come to an END ! Unfortunately , Harry S . Truman , President of the U . S . had to drop the " A Bomb " on Japan and caused more death and destruction ! It is a shame that both nations had to suffer because of lack of communication and understanding ! We will always need the United Nations !
Lawrence Tierney Gave a Great Performance !	This film is truly a great classic film and all the actors gave a realistic and down to earth performance . However , this was really a great come back film for Lawrence Tierney , who had to fight a very powerful chemical dependency which prevented him from becoming a greater film actor than he was given credit for . In my estimation , this was Tierney's Hollywood Oscar for his role playing " Joe Cabot " . He will always be remembered as a great " John Dillinger " 1945 !
A Great John Garfield Film !	Every one of John Garfield's ( Charlie Davis ) , " He Ran all the Way " , ' 51 , films was outstanding and in this picture he did a fantastic job as a boxer struggling to make a living in very poor surroundings in New York City along with his mother , Anne Revere ( Anna Davis ) , " Birch Interval " , ' 77 , who tired to go on welfare but her son Charlie would not hear of it and decided to reach to the top of the boxing field . His girlfriend , Lilli Palmer , ( Peg Born ) , " The Other Side of the Wind " , ' 72 , played a great supporting role . However , Lilli Palmer was not exactly the greatest person to play this character . Greatly admired John Garfield and all his films , unfortunately he died making love and his career came to a sudden END !
Excellent Film	This is the very first time I viewed this film and it held my interest from the very beginning of the film to the very end . Van Heflin , ( Luke Fargo ) plays the role of a Civil War soldier who returns to his home town and is very well known for his past with wine , women and song . Luke takes it upon himself to become a minister and set up a church which had been burned down to the ground . The rectory was still standing but a wild young girl was living in the house and was using a shot gun mainly at Luke's head and did not want him anywhere near her home as she called it . This wild young gal's name is Lissy , ( Joanne Woodward ) who never takes a bath and is a typical tom boy so to speak . There is a bad dude in town named Yancey Huggins , ( Raymond Burr ) who hates Luke and does everything in his power to destroy Luke's chances of building a church and accuses Luke of living with a girl under age and things not be fitting a man of the cloth . There is lots of laughs and some very dramatic scenes which makes this film a great family film and very worth your while to view this picture from 1955 .
GOOD CLEAN CLASSIC FILM	Susan George and Mickey Rooney gave an excellent performance and Susan's love of horses made it very enjoyable . A great film , because it was pure and a sweet story and relaxing to watch . Susan George showed her age from Illness , but still gave a great performance .
Outstanding Western from 1951	This film starring Tim Holt had a great story and was not just one of the mill old time Western . This story starts out with a young boy named Chip Martin , ( Harper Carter ) and his father who are traveling through the countryside and heading into town . The father wants to visit a man named Matt Potter , aka Curt Landry , ( Mauritz Hugo ) who cheated him out of his mining investment and he seeks out Curt to get back all the funds . Curt gives the father two-thousands dollars as a down payment and plans to make a settlement . However , as soon as Chip Martin and his father leave he sends men after him and they take the law into their own hands and hang the young boys father . There is plenty of action and Mauritz Hugo gave an outstanding performance . Joan Dixon , ( Terry Blake ) gave an outstanding supporting role and female charm to this film . Don't miss this one .
Great Entertaining Film !	Always enjoy a film which takes place in an old castle with all fantastic antiques from the past and the huge doors and large rooms with all kinds of creepy hidden mysteries surrounding these dwellings . The photography through out the picture was great and the acting of Catherine Zeta Jones , ( Theo ) , " Chicago " , ' 02 , was very outstanding . Theo was very sexy and showed her great beauty in all the modern fashions that she wore in many of the scenes . Liam Neison , ( Dr . David Marrow ) , " Gangs of New York " , ' 02 gave a great supporting role and appeared as a very confused Doctor who had a bad experience climbing on a spiral staircase ! Bruce Dern , ( Mr . Dudley ) , " Madison " , ' 01 , was a mysterious grounds keeper who gave a few quick chills as he opened and closed the huge castle gates . If you love Catherine Zeta Jones , this is the film for you !
Super Film to View	Katherine Hepburn , ( Linda Seton ) is a young girl who's father is a millionaire and also has another daughter named Julia Seton , ( Doris Nolan ) and they get along with each other until one day when Julia meets up with Johnney Case , ( Cary Grant ) and they fall in love . Johnney does not realize that he is fallen in love with a very rich young lady and when he calls on her in order to ask for her fathers permission to marry Julia he is quite surprised with the large home in which they all dwell in . It seems that both of these daughters seem to fall in love with Johnney Case and Linda tries to hide this fact and encourages Julia to marry Johnney . There is some problems that occur between wanting to make money all your life or just get off the merry-go-round and be just an ordinary person and take time to enjoy the real pleasures of living . Great film with great acting and truly a great film Classic .
Brent & Davis were Great Together	Greatly enjoyed this Betty Davis film which I had never viewed and found Davis at her very best in appearance and in a very light hearted role she portrayed as Ellen Garfield . I believe Davis was around 27 years of age when she appeared in this film and she was very charming and had a good supporting actor , George Brent , ( Curt Devlin ) who was a star reporter for his newspaper and was in competition with Ellen Garfield to get the big scoop or headline stopper for their respective newspapers . This couple were also love birds who had intentions to get married only under certain terms they agreed upon together , a sort of contest that would lead to some very important big steps in their lives . Veteran actor Roscoe Karns , ( Toots O'Grady ) was the photographer for Curt Devlin and gave a great supporting comical role through out the entire picture . This is a very enjoyable 1935 Classic film and I believe that Davis and Brent both gave outstanding performances . Enjoy .
Those Poor Nuns	Somehow I seemed to have missed this film about some nuns who were directed to a very mysterious place high up in the mountains where only the wind blew constantly and where very strange people dwelled . This film could very well have been banned by the Church in 1947 , however , I found it very interesting and with outstanding acting by all the actors . Deborah Kerr , ( Sister Clodagh ) , " Eye of the Devil " , ' 67 , was the Mother-Superior , and very young to hold this position among the other nuns . Jean Simmons , ( Kanchi ) , " How to Make An American Quilt " , ' 95 , played a very young hot to trot gal who wore very pretty nose rings , which must have made a big hit in 1947 in comparison to 2006 . There was one nun , Kathleen Byron , ( Sister Ruth ) who some what loses her composure and acts like she would really like to have Fun . Enjoyable film , but still very strange and mysterious ; I can hardly believe it was produced and directed in 1947 on a low budget at the Pinewood Studios in England .
Great Film with Lots of DEEP INNER FEELINGS !	Greatly enjoyed this film which delves into the personal lives of a young geek looking guy named Corey Haim ( Lucas ) , " Busted " , ' 96 , who pretends to be an entirely different person and falls deeply in love with Kerri Green ( Maggie ) , " Three for the Road " and is the new girl in town who happens to run into Lucas on a tennis court . Charlie Sheen , ( Cappie ) , " No Code of Conduct " , ' 98 , is a close friend to Lucas and tries to protect him from all the BULLIES who love to pester him on a daily basis . Courtney Thorne Smith , ( Alise ) , " Side Out " , ' 90 , is Cappie's girlfriend who is very attractive and becomes jealous of Maggie . Winona Ryder ( Rina ) , " Lost Souls " , 2000 , is very pretty and is very much in love with Lucas , but he just does not seem to feel the same way towards her . There is lots of comedy and dramatic scenes and fantastic acting which tells a cute story and has some very deep feelings which teenagers encounter in real life !
Great Christmas Special Film from 1947	Enjoyed this film years ago and recently viewed this film on TCM and enjoyed this great Classic film where Cary Grant , ( Dudley ) plays the role as an angel who visits Bishop Henry Brougham , ( David Niven ) . It seems that Bishop Henry is in trouble with his wife and they are sort of drifting apart because of his concerns of trying to help a very rich lady who wants to build a huge cathedral in memory of her husband . As soon as the Bishop prays , Dudley appears and he introduces himself and tells him he is an angel who wants to be his assistant and help him solve some of his problems . Julia Brougham , ( Loretta Young ) plays the role as the Bishop's wife and she loves him very much but the Bishop never seems to have any time to be with her . This film is full of comedy , drama and romance and Cary Grant and Loretta Young have a great chemistry between them and they make this film a gem of a classic to enjoy .
Depicts the Same Problems , Only with Police in the Hallways !	This is a great classic film with great veteran actors who portrayed the horrible conditions that teachers have to face in the larger cities and small towns . Glenn Ford ( Richard Dadier ) , " Pocket Full of Miracles " , ' 61 , started out as a young teacher who actually had to learn the hard way about teaching in the BIG CITY ! Anne Francis ( Anne Dadier ) , " Born Again " , ' 78 went through hell trying to teach the ABC's to her classes in more ways that one ! Louis Calhern ( Jim Murdock ) , " The Asphalt Jungle " , ' 50 , was the more experienced teacher and turned his back on many things and eventually became a broken down teacher by the STUDENTS ! Sidney Poiter , ( Gregory W . Miller ) , " A Raisin in the Sun " , ' 61 stole the entire picture with his great performance and great acting skills . Things have changed in many ways since this picture was made , however , we still had horrible events through out our country in High Schools and the only solution is having Guards and Policemen patrol the hallways and even putting up Metal Detectors at the school doors ! Lets hope the situation is being put under control . Thank God it is not happening in every school in AMERICA ! Have things really changed since this picture was made , 49 years ago ?
Great Look Back in the Past	Viewing this Classic film from the 1920's was fascinating and especially viewing Gloria Swanson and Rudolph Valentino both in the same picture was very unusual in films during the Silent Era . Rudolph Valentino was the heart throb of all the young girls and ladies and Gloria Swanson was very petite and cute looking and had a certain spark to her acting skills . Rudolph Valentino , ( Lord Bracondale ) , played the playboy which he was in real life and gave an outstanding performance trying to win the heart and soul of Gloria Swanson , ( Theodora Fitzgerald ) . Theodora was married to an old man with a beer barrel belly and very rich , but he did deeply love Theodora and would do anything to make her very happy . This is a rare picture that was lost and restored in the Netherlands . If you like Classic Silent films and great film stars , this is the film for you .
A Must See Film	This film opens up with a sports car going at high speeds through narrow roads and almost running into cars and then this car turns off on a lonely road in Arkansas . The car then proceeds to run through streams in the woods and making its on path through woods and bushes and then the driver leaves the car and you see this same car sitting in the same position through all seasons of Winter , Spring , Summer and Fall . The driver of the car is Robert Logan , ( Recluse Lawyer ) who lives like a hermit in the woods with only the bare essentials of living alone with his dog . Kathleen Quinlan , ( Grace Freemont ) is a teacher and one of her students shows her pictures of this hermit and she becomes very interested in him and decides to visit him in the woods . This story has a great deal more to tell and full of suspense and horror . Kathleen Quinlan gave an outstanding performance as well as Robert Logan . Enjoy .
Lots of Thrilling Moments	This film starts out with a babysitter going to a home she has never visited and the parents rush off , as they are late . The poor baby sitter , tells the parents that she will find the room where the children are sleeping , a young boy and girl . As the babysitter looks at TV and then decides to do her homework , she hears a knock on the door , and a mysterious man speaks through the door and asks for help and assistance as his car broke down and he needs to make a telephone call . It is from this point on in the story and five ( 5 ) years later , that the horror really starts to begin . However , a great deal of this Horror still remains in the brain of the babysitter . Great acting by Carol Kane , ( Jill Johnson ) , and Charles Durning , ( John Clifford ) .
KARLOFF PLAYS A DIFFERENT ROLE !	This film starts out with Pvt . Eddie Pratt ( Eddie Craven ) , " Down Missouri Way " , ' 46 manages to bring his new bride , Sally ( Marie Wilson ) , " My Friend Irma " TV Series , ' 52 on to Powder Island Arsenal , a government reservation . He tries to hide her in a vacant building , the military discover a murdered body of an officer . After intense investigations and mysterious attempts are made on the lives of the Army officers in charge , every member on the post falls under suspicion . Colonel Rogers ( Cy Kendall ) , " Call Northside 777 " , ' 48 assists in the investigation and recognizes one of the civilians , Jevries ( Boris Karloff ) , " Bedlam " ' 46 , to be an embezzler who was arrested years ago . It is also revealed that the murdered man was his enemy . Found out this picture was based on a 1937 Broadway play , " Without Warning " and actor Eddie Craven repeated his original stage role in this picture . Warner Bros . remade this film five years later as " Murder on the Waterfront " . I was amazed to see that Boris Karloff played an entirely different role as a Number One Bogie Man , ( Frankenstein ) and noticed that his role was a sympathetic one , meek , mild . I believe the audiences felt sorry for him in this picture . As always , Boris gave a great performance . This is a great Classic Film to view .
Very Entertaining FILM ! !	Was unable to leave my chair when I viewed this film and was greatly entertained by Steve Zahn , ( Fuller Thomas ) , " Speak " , ' 04 , who gave a great performance along with his calmer brother , Paul Walker , ( Lewis Thomas ) , " Timeline " , ' 03 , who had a very charming and sexy girl acquaintance , Leelee Sobieski ( Venna ) , " Uprising " , ' 03 , who was a college student he was going to pick up and drive home . Fuller has to make a side trip in order to get his brother out of jail and then the plot begins to go wild . There is a weird truck driver they talk to on their CB and then Fuller and Lewis decided to tease this driver and all Hell breaks loose . This film will keep you on the edge of your seat in more ways than one . There is even bare male butts running around a gas station and food establishment . Leelee Sobieski was very pretty and looked a great deal like actress Helen Hunt . Enjoy ! !
The Best Ruby Story !	When I first watched the real Jack Ruby kill Oswald on the TV screen , we all felt like Jack was a hero and this picture came very close in telling the actual truth about what really went on in the White House , in Cuba , and all the so called HOODS involved . Danny Aiello , ( Jack Ruby ) , " Mambo Cafe " , 2000 , was the perfect choice to play the way Jack Ruby really looked and acted , I am sure Danny Aiello did a great deal of homework studying Ruby's characteristics . Sherilyn Fenn , ( Candy Cane ) , " Lonelife " , ' 97 , put a big sparkle into the film with her sexy figure , she looked just like M . Monroe ! Veteran actor Marc Lawrence , ( Santos Alicante ) who has performed in 178 films playing mostly gangsters and real bad guys gave a great supporting role . In my estimation , this is a great film about JACK RUBY !
Kim Novak was Radiant	Have not seen this film in a very long time and greatly enjoyed the great acting by Kim Novak , ( Madeline Elster / Jude Barton ) . I also enjoyed the great film locations in San Francisco , California where I lived for a few years and recognized all the places that took place in this film . Alfred Hickcock did an outstanding job of directing this film and in most of his films , he loves beautiful blonde's and he sure pick a great actress in this film . Detective , Scottie Ferguson is asked by a long time good friend to keep an eye on his wife because she has started acting very peculiar . Scottie has just retired from the police force because of a problem he encountered chasing a fugitive on a high building and he developed vertigo . Scottie follows Madeline Elster all over San Francisco and even saving her from jumping into San Francisco Bay . These two people begin to fall in love with each other and that is when the plot gets very interesting . This is a great film you can watch over and over again over the years . Enjoy .
GREAT HORROR FILM !	This film kept my interest from beginning to end . The great film direction and fantastic talents of the music composer , Michael Rubini , gave great mysterious musical sounds , like organ music . Mr . Rubini composed great music for the " Tales from The Crypt " , ' 89 TV Series and " Hitchhiker " , ' 03 . William L . Petersen ( FBI Agent Will Graham ) , " The Skulls " 2000 , appeared slim and trim in this picture and was starting out his career as a profiler and CSI expert long before the TV show ever was conceived in the minds of TV Producers . Dennis Farina Jack Crawford ) , " Stealing Harvard " , ' 02 , gave a great supporting role to Will Graham with his mid-west Chicago accent . Tom Noonan , ( Francis Collarhyde ) , " Madness & Genius " , ' 03 , played the very sick Monster who had to put in a pair of Dental Plates in order to put a few BITES into his victims ! Kim Greist , ( Molly Graham ) , " ZOE " , ' 01 , was the supportive wife to Will Graham , she had a hard time trying to get him to retire and find time to talk to his son , which was down the isles of a food store . In one of the scenes Will Graham is standing on a dock over looking a sunset over a lake with the mournful sound of a passing train which gave a very creepy feeling up and down my spine . This is a great film to sit back and enjoy .
Actors all Had B O !	This certainly was a very unusual film where people are invited to dinner and as they no sooner reach the front door and enter , quite a few of the servants decide all of a sudden to just up and leave the entire dinner affair and their jobs . You can only find this film more like a comedy , with people complaining because they just can't seem to leave the darn dinning room . All the characters in the film also seem to complain about each other having a bad Body Odor . There was some sexual fooling around and a few sheep wandering all around the place and a big bad bear who was as frustrated as the people who came for a dinner . One lady had a roaster claws in her purse and somebody was using an electric razor on a lady's legs . If you really want to watch actors doing a fantastic job of acting and a film that repeats itself over and over again . Watch This ONE !
GREAT SCIENCE FICTION CLASSIC !	Have not viewed this film in years and was amazed at how well made this picture was for the year 1951 . It depicts what was going on in th 50's , clothing , cars and the strong desire to see world peace . Michael Rennie ( Klaatu / Carpenter , " The Third Man " , ' 59 TV series ( as Harry Lime ) gave an outstanding performance as a very calm and gentle person from SPACE . His space ship was quite elaborate for the 50's and Patricia Neal , ( Helen Bensen ) , " The Fountainhead " , ' 49 fell in love with Klaatu and remembered the secret pig latin language to save the world from destruction . Sam Jaffe ( Prof . Jacob Barnhardt ) , " Ben Casey " ' 61 TV series acted liked an Einstein and needed Klaatu to figure out his Math problems . There was a great moral to this picture and it was simply this , Wars accomplish nothing and trying to get along with all nations might someday bring about PEACE ! We have had plenty of wars since this picture Korea , Vet-Nam and the list goes on and on !
A GREAT FILM CLASSIC OF GARY COOPER !	Besides being a great fan of Gary Cooper ( Capt . Quincy Wyatt ) " Love In The Afternoon " , ' 57 ; my family wanted to visit Florida and the Castillo de San Marcos Fort in 1951 where a great scene in the film depicts a fight in this famous fort , now a National Monument . My family visited the fort the day after Gary Cooper was at this fort . As many have said , there is great under water photography , actual scenes of Florida during the 1950's which made it more realistic . Gary Cooper carried this entire film on his back and it is truly a great film classic .
Famous French Classic Film	This film was produced while the Nazi's occupied France in 1943 and was financed by the Germans . After the war with Germany , France was very upset with the film and would not allow it to be shown . However , as we know today , it has become a great French film classic and has many awards . This film was considered a mystery thriller , with a person writing poison pen letters under the name Le Corbeau ( English Translation : The Raven ) Most of these poison pen letters were written to all the towns people and told of many dark secrets they were hiding . One person was in a hospital which was numbered # 13 and wanted desperately to change his bed because it was bad luck . All kinds of problems resulted from these letters signed by the Raven and before you know it , this story becomes a mystery that seems to never end . Great film to view and enjoy , try to view it some time on late time TV .
Bobby Darin Showed His Great Talents	This film has many great Classic Actors and the entire film is very entertaining and has lots of laughs . Gregory Peck , ( Capt . Josiah Newman , M . D . ) , " Cape Fear " , ' 62 , was the officer in charge of the mental section of the Army and had a great ability to calm his patients on some occasions and wrap them around his finger . He managed to recruit Angie Dickinson , ( Lt . Francie Corum ) , " Dressed To Kill " , ' 80 , who was a very young and sexy nurse who was not certain if she really wanted to work for Capt . Newman . Tony Curtis , ( Cpl . Jackson ' Jake ' , Leibowitz ) , " The Mirror Crack'd " , ' 80 , gave a great supporting role but the character he played did not seem to fit into this story . The real star of the film was Bobby Darin , ( Cpl . Jim Tompkins ) , " State Fair " , ' 62 who showed his great abilities as an actor and entertainer . Darin performed a few musical numbers and really made this film into a great Classic .
A Great Film about Good Witches vs . Bad Witches !	Some how I missed this film over the years and was greatly surprised with the fantastic acting and a very well written story about a Good Witch gal , Kelly Preston , ( Miranda Reed ) , " What a Girl Wants " , ' 03 who is running away from a horrible life and manages to get deeply involved with Timothy Daly , ( Jeff Mills ) , " Against the Ropes " , ' 04 , who is a lawyer and begins to fall deeply in love with Miranda . This horror film kept me glued to the screen from beginning to end . There is plenty of action dealing with witchcraft , devil worship and very hot steamy sex scenes . The couple even have to draw a circle on the floor and kept themselves close together in order to keep the evil spirits outside . Don't miss this film !
Ryan Gosling & Michael Pitt Were Fantastic !	Greatly enjoyed this film starring Sandra Bullock , ( Casie Mayweather ) , " Two Weeks Notice " , ' 02 , who was a mixed up police detective who had some very deep dark secrets in her past and managed to show these weakness to her co-workers . Ben Chaplin , ( Sam Kennedy ) , " Lost Souls " , ' 2000 , was Casie's partner and had a very hard time trying to keep her in line with their investigation and her personality flare ups with Ryan Gosling , ( Richie Haywood ) , " The Believer " , ' 01 . Richie Haywood and Michael Pitt , ( Justin Pendleton ) , " Bully " , ' 01 , were very good friends who had families that paid very little attention to them . Richie & Justin decided to do just about anything they wanted and were both very sick mentally . This was a very entertaining film and it is easy to be critical about this film which never was intended to win an Academy Award . Sandra Bullock held this picture together , however , Ryan Gosling and Michael Pitt both showed great acting abilities and I am quite sure these two actors will become greater stars in the future .
CLASSIC SUPER STARS !	This film has a great cast of super stars , Humphrey Bogart ( Dist . Atty . Martin Ferguson ) " The Caine Mutiny " ' 54 who wears a bow-tie and was in the prime of his acting career which ended in 1957 . He had great supporting actors namely : Zero Mostel ( Big Babe Lazich ) " Fiddler On The Roof " ' 64 ; Everett Sloane ( Albert Mendoza ) " Somebody Up There Likes Me " ' 56 ' ; Jack Lambert ( Tom Zaca ) " Riverboat'59 " TV Series ' 59-'61 who played gangster and hoodlum roles in Western's for many years . Tito Vuolo ( Tony Vetto ) was the top gangster who gave Martin Ferguson a hard time . If you look close enough , you will see Veteran actor Bob Steele ( a great actor of the 30's and 40's mostly appeared in Western's ) If you like Bogart and good actors from the past , by all means view this film !
Wal-Mart Special for a Dollar	This is a very interesting film for only $1 . 00 at Wal-Mart and Franco Columbu , ( Enrico Cosata ) gave a great performance with some very sexy ladies , namely : Barbara Nevink ( Veronica ) . Enrico Cosata has a ball in Sardina , Italy and Costa Smeralda trying to help a U S . Senator and at the same time being a tour guide for a very sexy looking blonde . For six years of being a secret agent , Cosata grows tired of his job hunting down multi-national arms dealers in Los Angles and decides to enjoy a nice retirement in Sardina , Italy . However , he meets up with old friends and very bad enemies . There is plenty of action with cars going over cliff's and Enrico finding weapons under every bush in order to fend off his attackers . Great entertaining film and lots of nice looking actresses . Enjoy
Little Brown Jug How I Love Thee	This is a very unusual film which I had never seen starring Cornel Wilde as THE MAN . The man leads a group of people on a safari in Africa and everything goes quite smoothly and they are able to kill wild elephants for their tusks and encounter a tribe who want them to give them their bounty of tusks and one of the members refuses . As a result , these tribal people become very angry and decided to hunt this party down and kill them and they manage to kill everyone except THE MAN who runs around Africa naked and escapes from all kinds of bugs , snakes , plenty of bows and arrows . There are no females in this picture and Cornel Wilde does find a young tribal boy who helps him and saves him from drowning . The Boy and Cornel Wilde do sing a song which I thought was rather funny which was " Little Brown Jug How I Love Thee " . A very different film which clearly shows how the wild creatures in Africa exists .
Great Story & Excellent Actors !	This film would make a great TV Series because it was very down to earth about every day living with average American people in a town which manages to solve its own problems . There is a wife who just simply cannot stand the every day life of having two sons and a husband to care for and just wants to stay in bed or run away to her sister who lives in a big city apartment . There is also a young girl who finds out she is going to have a baby and her mother throws her out of the house and she winds up living with two old kind men on their ranch ! This was a film the entire family could enjoy and learn a very important message about love and caring for your fellow neighbor and close friends . All problems have a solution and good comes out of all bad situations .
Outstanding Musical Classic	Luise Rainer , ( Poldi Vogelhuber ) gave an outstanding performance with her great singing talents and great acting . Fernand Gravey , ( Johann Strauss gave a great supporting role in this 1938 black and white film . If you like great Strauss Waltz's and a very romantic picture concerning what inspired Strauss to compose his famous waltz's and also an affair he has with Poldi . Count Anton Hohenfried , ( Lionel Atwill ) gives a great supporting role as the other man who is in love with Poldi and even goes to Richard Strauss wife and tells her what is going on and tells her to fight for her husband . There is plenty of comedy and great scenes with men and women dancing with fancy dresses and large dance halls . This is a must see great Classic Film which will be enjoyed by many generations to come .
A Real Mystery !	Always enjoy the great acting talents of Harry Hamlin , ( Jim Lansford ) , " Strange Hearts " , ' 01 , who plays a straight as an arrow husband , who seems to get all kinds of attention from very charming young women , namely , Lisa Zane , ( Lynne ) , " Monkeybone " , ' 01 , who is a co-worker with Jim Lansford and you wonder why he doesn't try to hit on her for some fun . Annie Potts , ( Kris Lansford ) , " Breaking the Rules " , ' 92 , is a very warm and sweet loving wife to Jim and has complete trust in her husband . Kris wants to always keep her husband happy and even buys him a home with out him even seeing it for himself . This film will keep you guessing right to the very END !
ANY ABUSE SHOULD BE REPORTED IMMEDIATELY !	This true story shocked me with the fact that women are given longer prison sentences than men for killing . Women receive 40 years for killing a husband and men get from 2 to 6 years . WHY IS THAT ? The same goes for the wages that men receive over the years , vs women . Jackie Smith ( Donna Yaklich ) gave an excellent performance in her acting as Donna Yaklich . Brad Johnson ( Dennis ) made you hate him beyond words , the way he treated his wife . However , there is always a better way to solve a problem in a marriage when the husband becomes a Frankenstein . ( even if he is a policeman ) Having someone kill for you is no solution to any problem and only makes matters worse . Having to sit in a jail cell for 40 years and think about your horrible decision is WORSE ! Donna Yaklich should have screamed HELP , while her husband was busy lifting his WEIGHTS !
Classic Western with Great Actors !	Every time this film is shown on TV , I just have to watch this amazing Western with many great actors too long to mention . Steve McQueen ( Nevada Smith ) , " The Hunter " , ' 80 went from a Work Camp in the Swamps to the Cowboy Country trying to track down a great actor Karl Malden ( Tom Fitch ) , " On The Waterfront " , ' 54 , who played a hateful person who destroyed Nevada Smith's family and forced him to seek revenge . Suzanne Pleshette ( Pilar , Cajun Girl ) , " Hot Stuff " , ' 79 helped Nevada obtain a boat to help him through the swamps despite a horrible snake bite and many horrible encounters . Howard DaSilva ( Warden of the Work Camp ) , " 1776 " , ' 72 ( Ben Franklin ) , was a horrible Warden with many cruel ways and definitely out for Nevada Smith's blood . If you love good Westerns with great Classic actors , don't miss this film !
Joslyn & Keyes Were Fantastic	Greatly enjoyed this mystery , comedy classic from 1943 starring Allyn Joslyn , ( Barry Craig ) , " I Wake Up Screaming " and Evelyn Keyes , ( Jane Craig ) , " Gone With the Wind " . These two actors team up as a husband and wife detectives who try to solve a murder and seem to go around in complete circles through out the entire picture . This is really a comedy with plenty of 1943 jokes and laughter ; there is an elevator operator who takes a year and a day to reach each floor and tells his complete life's history before you even reach the main lobby . Evelyn Keys was very young at the age of 27 and had not too long ago completed her appearance in " Gone With The Wind " 1939 , where is gave an outstanding performance . Allyn Joslyn gave a great performance as a hen pecked detective who had a wife follow him every where he decided to go . Nice Classic Film and very entertaining .
SUSAN GEORGE AND BRONSON HAVE A BALL !	Susan George explodes with great acting and a very sexy performance with Bronson , they make a fantastic couple running around London and New York City , in the late 60's . It is a very sweet love story , and you warm to these two actors , with a few laughs in between . Paul Ford , Trevor Howard and Jack Hawkins give fantastic supporting roles .
Kirstie Alley Gave a Fantastic Performance !	This is a very horrible sad and depressing TRUE STORY , which makes it even worse to view . Kirstie Alley , ( Brenda Geck ) , " Back by Midnight " , ' 02 , put her heart and soul into this horrible role and made you hate her over and over again . Will Patton , ( Philip Rothman ) , " The Agency " , ' 01 TV Series , acted his usual calm ways and was soft spoken , but very powerful in his building a case against Brenda Geck . It is a shame that such a person did exists and did so much mental and physical harm too so very many people's lives . It is a great film to alert the general public as to what can actually happen in their own neighborhoods or even your next door friend . It was nice to see Kirstie Alley give such a great performance in this very sick TRUE STORY !
If You Really Love Someone-GET MARRIED ! !	Some how I seemed to have missed this film and was not certain if I was going to like the theme of this story . It did not take me very long before I was spellbound with each character in the film and my heart went out to the young boy and the threat of breast cancer and the great warm and lovely love between two same sex gals . Bernadette Peters , ( Bailey Lewis ) , " Snow Days " , ' 99 , gave an outstanding performance along with Rachel Ward , ( Roberta Langham ) , " The Ascent " , ' 94 . Bailey & Roberta were madly in love with each other and their co-worker Jewish friends made quite a combination of team players . The background and photography in Ireland was a perfect location . If you love someone very very deeply , don't miss out on the opportunity of sharing your entire life with them . Great Story About LOVE !
A Great Classic Film in 1948	This was a very outstanding film for viewers who loved Merle Oberon , Dana Andrews , Ethel Barrymore and Hoagy Carmichael during the height of their careers in 1948 . In this film , Cathy , ( Merle Oberon ) , " The Broken Melody " , ' 34 , a rich woman who falls deeply in love with Dana Andrews , ( Dan ) , " The Best Years of Our Lives " , ' 46 , who is blind and is a down and out piano player and composer . Dan has a great pal who is also a musician and they work and live together in a Jazz club and try to make ends meet . Dan's buddy is Hoagy Carmichael , ( Chick ) , " To Have & Have Not " , ' 44 who gives a great supporting role and is quite funny through out the entire picture . There is plenty of Classical music and a great appearance of a famous conductor and pianist . The is lots of romance , drama and comedy and a very unusual ending .
Fantastic Montgomery Clift Film !	Have not seen this film in many years and was able to view it on late late late night TV . Montgomery Clift , ( Adam White ) , " Wild River " , ' 60 gave forth a deep power from within his very soul and cried out through out the entire picture as a frustrated writer in his love relations and the conflict with his own father . Adam encounters a woman who seeks his help through a column in the local newspaper and she complains about her husband's performance in bed after so many years and then all things break loose . Robert Ryan , ( William Shrike ) , " The Outfit " , ' 74 is a very bitter man who heads the newspaper and is constantly beating down his wife , Myrna Loy , ( Florence Shrike ) , " Song of the Thin Man " , ' 47 for having an affair with a man ten years in the past . Maureen Stampleton , ( Fay Doyle ) , " Cocoon " , ' 85 gave a great supporting role and spins a close web around Adam . Montgomery Clift showed a great deal of physical and mental pain in this film , but it seemed to make his performance a MASTER PIECE of great acting for all generations to view .
Kirk Douglas was Outstanding	This is a great film about a newspaper reporter who burned himself out in New York City with lots of boozing and fooling around with plenty of women . This reporter is Chuck Tatum , ( Kirk Douglas ) who comes to town in Albuquerque , New Mexico in a tow truck after all his tires blew out . Chuck seeks employment from a local Albuquerque Newspaper and manages to get a position on the paper . Chuck gets a big assignment to cover a rattlesnake convention but finds a more interesting story about the cave in of a mine which traps Leo Minosa , ( Richard Benedict ) . Chuck knows from past experience that this will make a great story and he contacts all the right connections for a doctor , construction engineers and the local sheriff . Lorraine Minosa , ( Jan Sterling ) is the wife of Leo and is really bored with her marriage and Lorraine becomes interested in Chuck Tatum . This entire event brings a media circus to this New Mexico story . This is a film that will capture your attention from the very beginning to the very end , there is some very serious signs of violence and romance . This is a great Kirk Douglas film who gave an outstanding performance along with Jan Sterling who was very sexy and also a very tough and rough gal .
About Love & Hate and the Slip of the Pen	Have not viewed this film in years and was completely surprised at almost everything in the entire film . It starts out rather slow , a bit boring and all of a sudden everything seems to happen . Lana Turner , ( Marianne Patourel ) , " The Bad & The Beautiful " , ' 52 , gave one of her greatest performances with a very dramatic acting role along with Van Heflin ( Timothy Haslam ) , " Tap Roots " , ' 46 who could not help but follow Marianne's business advice and also gave in to all her demands . Donna Reed , ( Marguerite Patourel ) , " The Last Time I Saw Paris " , ' 54 , played a woman who was deeply in love through out the entire picture and became very frustrated . Donna Reed gave an outstanding performance and could bring tears to your eyes . Edmund Gwenn ( Octavius Patourel ) , " Miracle on 34th St . " , ' 47 was the father to the two sisters and revealed great secrets as the film progressed . Frank Morgan , ( Dr . Edmund Ozanne ) , " The Wizard of Oz " , ' 39 , played a great supporting role as a heavy drinking doctor who greatly loved his son . I noticed Linda Christian , ( Hin Moa ) , " Thunderstorm " , ' 56 playing a brief role in this film , Linda Christian was the former wife of Tyrone Power . This is a masterpiece of a Classic Film which even had great pictures of Old Clipper Ships with their majestic Sails . Don't miss this Picture .
Excellent Presentation of Child Sex Salvery !	It is great that Lifetime is allowing the presentation of what is going on through out the entire world and very little is mentioned in our local newspapers . However , we do hear about an occasional girl or boy that is missing and is never heard from and I can imagine the police files must be over flowing with plenty of Cold Cases . This film clearly depicts the horrible PIGS and Sex Offenders who thrive on young innocent children . These poor human beings with a spiritual soul are required to perform degrading services , which hurts their chances to live normal lives or even want to be married to any man in their future lives ! I applaud the showing of this type of material , but making this a regular program with all these type of cases is more than my stomach can handle . Enough is Enough !
Masterpiece by Francois Truffaut	This was an extremely down to earth film about a young boy living in Paris , France with his mother , Gilberte Doinel , ( Claire Maurier ) and his father Julien Doinel , ( Albert Remy ) . This young boy is Antoine Doinel , ( Jean-Pierre Leaud ) who is a rather rebellious young man in school and causes all kinds of problems with his teachers . Antoine steals money from his parents , skips school and pals around with his friends who are not much better than he is . This young man proceeds to almost burn his apartment house down and is constantly hearing his father and mother fighting among each other . One day , Antoine cuts school and sees his mother kissing passionately another man on a Paris street . This story clearly shows what can happen to a child who is not really loved and has mental problems trying to fit into society and has no ambitions to better himself in life and is always looking for any easy way out of the routine of living . There is lots of laughs in this film and some very sad and heart breaking events that continue to drive Antoine to a complete dead end .
Robert Stack is a Light Blonde !	This is a great film showing the horrors of bullfighting with excellent photography and directed by a former bullfighter himself , Budd Boetticher . John Wayne produced this picture but did not appear in this film and presented a film that was originally cut into pieces but has been restored to its original print , which is seen today . Robert Stack , ( Johnny Regan ) plays the role as a U . S . Citizen who has connections with Hollywood and has become interested in becoming a bullfighter and so he travels to Mexico to met a real famous matador . Johnny meets up with Manolo Estgrada , ( Gilbert Roland ) at a famous eating place and forces his attentions to Manolo in order to become friendly with him and to break into his inner circles of life . It it not very long before Johnny makes an arrangement with Manolo to teach him how to shoot birds in exchange for Matador lessons . This film goes into great detail about how to fight a bull and the dangers of the sport in Mexico . Johnny also meets up with a woman he falls in love with at first sight and just can't get her out of his mind both day in and day out , this woman is Anita De La Vega , ( Joy Page ) who does keep a distance from Johnny , but things do warm up between these two couples . Great film and a wonderful Classic Bullfighting film with great realism . Enjoy .
Great Foreign Film	This story is basically centered around two little sisters living in Spain who are able to view the classic film " Frankenstein " starring Boris Karloff for the first time . This film leaves a great impression on the younger sister , Ana who is seven years of age and is told by her older sister that she will be able to see the monster at an old farm near a well and if she closes her eyes he will appear to her . Besides the attention being given to these two girls , there is a father who is in his own world of beehives who never makes love to his wife or even speaks to her . The wife is in her dream world and rides her bike everyday and is also writing letters to a romantic encounter in the past . As all this is going on , Ana is teased by her older sister Teresa about the whereabouts of Frankenstein and why he killed a little girl .
Do What Your Heart Wants	Very entertaining film , had its funny moments , and some very serious situations that needed to be resolved . This film opened the door for many people to observe what goes on between two human beings , whether it is same sex or simply male and female . Jennifer Westfeldt , ( Jessica Stein ) , " Keep Your Distance " , ' 05 , wanted to find love and the men she did meet were all creeps . Jessica finally ran into Heather Juergensen , ( Helen Cooper ) , " Red Roses & Petrol " , ' 03 , and fell deeply in love with her , their mind , body and soul exploded when they were with each other . Jessica's Jewish family accepted Helen , provided she practiced the Jewish Faith and had lots of laughs among the family . Things started to change and like some male and female marriages , one partner needed more sex than the other and had the " I have a headache syndrome . " Jessica & Helen gave an outstanding performance and showed that people who are in love , male vs . male , female vs . female must cling to each other if Love is the main reason they want to be together . Enjoy
We Need More Musicals Like This ONE !	I first viewed " Chicago " at the Pheasant Run / Dinner Theatre , near St . Charles , Illinois , and was captivated by the actors who put their hearts and souls into this production on a rather small stage . After viewing " Chicago " with Queen Latifah , ( Matron Mama ) , " Brown Sugar " , ' 02 I could not believe the great talent Matron Mama had , she was outstanding and practically stole the entire show . However , Catherine-Zeta-Jones , ( Velma Kelly ) , " Intolerably Cruelty " , 03 burned up the stage with her dancing and singing along with Renee Zellweger ( Roxie Hart ) , " Nurse Betty " , 2000 . These two Jail Birds performed great acting skills and gave their lawyer , Richard Gere , ( Billy Flynn ) , " Runaway Bride " , ' 99 a run for his money in more ways than none . Enjoyed seeing Christine Baranski ( Mary Sunshine ) " Cybill " , TV series , acting as a newspaper reporter who kept you laughing through out the entire picture . Most musicals I do not care for , but this " Chicago " is a must see film about the 1920's and that wild generation of senior citizen's TODAY !
Bill Vol . 2 was Outstanding	Enjoyed Bill Vol . 1 , however , this film went back to the same characters and gave more of a history into the Bride and how she learned all the secret powers of becoming a super killer in order to get revenge from all the people who harmed her . Uma Thurman gave an outstanding performance when she is being taught by a very old wise teacher of defense and some very important deadly parts of the body which can destroy a person even if they are almost sitting on top of you , face to face or nose to nose . Uma Thurman did a great job of sword swinging and got herself out of almost impossible situations , like being buried alive and many other horrible situations . David Carradine , ( Bill ) had a larger role in this film and showed his great acting abilities , just like his father John Carradine , " Dracula ' 40 and " House of Frankenstein ) This is a film you can watch from the beginning to the end and enjoy every minute of great entertainment by all the actors .
Public Enemy Will LAST FOREVER !	This is a classic of all classic's Cagney and Harlow and Joan Blondell will live on forever and ever . The grapefruit in the face , was classic also . This film depicts how it was in the bootleg era and how corrupt big cities became , it is great that we can just look back and say these days are gone forever and ever . WHPRATT
BORIS KARLOFF AS A PROFESSOR !	Taped this Richard Dix film in the early 70's and never realized that Boris Karloff made an appearance in this film . Dix ( Pike Winslow ) plays a Robin Hood in this film and seeks to correct all the wrong doing of blue collar executives in high places , ( which sounds like 2003 ) who try to cheat people with their share holdings . Pike leaves his calling card , " The Reckoner " , which means you are in trouble and will likely go to jail . He has sidekicks , namely Boris Karloff ( Professor ) who do all the undercover work so Pike Winslow can get them behind bars . A sweet charming and sexy looking young blond girl ( or lady like she wants to be called ) Barbara Gerry ( Shirley Grey ) fell in love with Pike when she was 12 and he was 18 . Winslow finds out that her father has lost his entire fortune to these crooks and she will be out in the street with her aunt . The acting and film direction is fantastic , all the actors were very professional . This was Shirley Grey's first film debut and Boris Karloff was eager for work and was beginning to be seen in Hollywood , around the time of " Criminal Code " and " Frankenstein " . I noticed that Max Steiner wrote the music for his film and was uncredited . This was a great film classic that I was happy I taped years ago and will enjoy for many years in the future . Richard Dix had a great magic in his acting that will live on forever andever .
Baron Frankenstein had Time for Sex !	Never viewed this Hammer Production until just recently , and was completely surprised with a very different film version about Baron Victor Frankenstein ( Peter Cushing , " Mad House " ' 74 ) The Baron kept himself busy sawing open human skulls with very detailed images and a body buried in a backyard garden had a water main burst and pop up one of the Barons experiments . Lots of blood and gore and nothing left for your imagination . However , Baron Frankenstein took time from his brain transferring to actually rape Veronica Carlson ( Anna Spengler ) " Black Easter " , who very well could have been his daughter . The Hammer Studios in England gave one of their best horror films , even if I had to tape this film in the early hours of Halloween Morning !
Greenstreet & Lorre were a TEAM !	This is truly a great Classic 1940's B & W film with a great cast of actors , George Raft , ( Joe Barton ) , " Oceans ' Eleven " , ' 60 , was a so called salesman and a spy who ran into all kinds of problems on a train with a woman and obtained war time maps and plans which the Nazi's and Russians wanted very desperately . Sydney Greenstreet , ( Colonel Robinson ) , " Devotion " , ' 46 , worked for the Russians and wanted to get rid of Joe Barton in the worst way . Much to my surprise , Peter Lorre ( Nikolai Zaleshoff ) , " Beat the Devil " , ' 53 , was a good spy for a change . Brenda Marshall , ( Tamara Zaleshoff ) , " Constant Nymph " , ' 43 gave a good supporting role and managed to her herself beaten up a few times . If you love Greenstreet , Raft & Lorre , this is a must see film !
Brides & Grooms Take a BEATING !	Enjoyed this TV film from beginning to end and the plot kept me wondering just how this story was suppose to come to a conclusion ! Tracy Pollan , ( Lindsay Boxer ) , " A Stranger Among Us " , ' 92 , gave an outstanding depiction of a detective who was bound and determined to find out what was happening to all the Brides and Grooms . Gil Bellows , ( Chris Raleigh ) , " EMR " , ' 04 was another cop who had a hard time trying to understand Lindsay and her way of thinking about her job and life . Robert Patrick , ( Nicholas Jenks ) , " Supercross " , ' 04 gave an outstanding performance and was able to make everyone grow to HATE HIM . It was horrible to see all these young couples happy on their honeymoons and having to face such TERROR ! Great entertaining FILM !
ROY SCHEIDER GAVE A GREAT PERFORMANCE !	Have always enjoyed viewing this very unusual film and Roy Scheider ( Joseph Gideon ) " Dracula II " ' 03 , who put his heart and soul into the making of this film and showed Hollywood he was more than just a cop in " JAWS " ' 74 . Jessica Lange ( Angelique ) " Normal " ' 03 was Joe Gideon's guardian angel and the wife of his dreams . If you look closely , you will see a great actress who was never given a break in the film business , she is Irene Kane ( Lesie Perry , TV Movie Critic ) who starred in " Killer's Kiss " ' 55 where she gave a very dramtic role , this was Irene Kane's last performance in this film . This film over the years has become a great classic to be followed-up with " CHICAGO " , view it whenever you can .
Great Horror Film !	Enjoyed the ' Salem Lot ' pictures , however , this picture was well produced and there was plenty of action , lots of blood and gore and very little sex . Rob Lowe ( Ben Mears ) , " View from the Top " , ' 03 , had horrible flashbacks to his early childhood and the horror's of a haunted house . Donald Sutherland , ( Richard Straker ) , " Cold Mountain " , ' 03 , purchases this haunted home and gives a great chilling performance with his facial expressions and wild white hair going in every direction . Samantha Matthis , ( Susan Norton ) , " Fathers & Sons " , 04 , becomes closely involved with Ben Mears and tries to help him solve his nightmares . Andre Braugher , ( Matt Burke ) , " Hack " , ' 02 , was outstanding in his supporting role as a high school teacher who knew the creepy town and all the young kids and their parents and did his very best to support Ben Mears and his endeavors . This is a big improvement over the past Salem Lot Film and very enjoyable and much credit should be given to Steven King !
Movie Serials From the Past	Years ago many big studios promoted serial films that were shown in movie theaters's in between the actual features along with a Newsreel of current events , plus cartoons , especially on a Saturday afternoon . ( The parents loved it mostly ) " The Return of Chandu " was a 12 episode serial where Chandu , ( Bela Lugosi ) , " The Mysterious Mr . Wong " , ' 34 is a magician with super natural powers and travels to the island of Lemuria to rescue the kidnapped princess of Egypt , ( Nadji ) Maria Alba , " Dr . Terror's House of Horrors " , ' 43 . Princess Nadji is held captive by the black magic cult of Ubasti , who believe that she is a reincarnation of their long-dead goddess Ossana . These 12-episode serials take you way back in time and are very well produced , considering we are talking about 1934 !
Natalie Wood & Robert Wagner Were Magic !	Over the years I missed this TV Film and was completely surprised by the great performance of Natalie Wood , ( Courtney Patterson ) , " Meteor " , ' 79 , a cripple who was taken advantage of by Robert Wagner ( Marcus Simon ) , " El Padrino , ' 03 . Marcus Simon fell madly in love with Courtney and drove Courtney crazy until she finally paid attention to him and went to bed with him . Marcus should never have started a romance with Courtney , because he was only going to Break Her Heart . The acting between Marcus & Courtney was fantastic and at times made you very angry at Marcus for having started this entire " AFFAIR " . Bruce Davison , ( Jamie Patterson ) , Courtney's brother tells her , " At least someone loved you in this world " and it was good you got to see what the REAL WORLD IS ALL ABOUT " ! Natlie Wood & Robert Wagner were married for the second time during this film and they were really a match made in Heaven ! Natlie is greatly missed !
John Goodman & Charles Durning Stole the SHOW ! ! !	This Chain Gang Classic film , brought back memories from the past . I remember traveling in the South and seeing these men in chains along the side of the road and thought what a horrible punishment in the hot steamy sun and the great physical pain the men had to endure . George Clooney ( Ulysses Everett McGill ) along with John Turturro ( Pete ) gave excellent drama and comedy with their great acting skills . However , John Goodman ( Big Dan Teague ) with a one-eyed patch and a suppose to be " Bible Salesman " gave some good punches to Ulysses over a picnic lunch . Charles Durning ( Gov . Pappy ) shook his big round bottom along with Ulysses to all the Western Tunes and even cut a Top Hit Country Western Song . This is a must see Classic film which will keep you guessing through-out the entire film .
Classic Film With Great Actors !	Have not seen this film in years and decided to look at all the great Classic actors who were all very young and at the height of their careers ! Douglas Fairbanks , Jr . ( Sinbad ) , " Red & Blue " , ' 67 , played an excellent Sinbad and followed in his fathers footsteps , Fairbanks Senior . Maureen O'Hara , ( Shireen ) , " Big Jake " , ' 71 , was beautiful and put her heart and soul into her role as a captured lady among savages on old sailing vessels . Walter Slezak , ( Melik ) , " Black Beauty " , ' 71 , played a crafty old fox who was able to find treasure that no one ever thought he was capable of finding . Anthony Quinn ( Emir ) , " Last Action Hero " , ' 93 kept after Sinbad and tried to capture the heart strings of Shireen and plenty of wealth ! Great Classic film to enjoy , the background scenery is very typical 1947 !
Outstanding Film	Enjoyed this film starring Catherine Mouchet , ( St . Therese of Lisieux ) who wanted at a very early age to become a Nun and was refused by her own Priest and clergy of her faith . Therese also went to the Pope and was declined and had to wait for about two years . This film shows the deep love Therese had for her Lord and other sister's whom she pours her heart and soul into helping others . There is a grave illness that Therese develops and she refuses to take any medicine for the pain and suffering and prays constantly to her Lord and Savior . Great look into the life of a young girl who wanted nothing else in life but to become a loving person for others .
PATRICIA ARQUETTE WAS THE GREATEST !	In 1994 I taped this film because I knew that I would want to see it again and again . Patricia Arquette showed her great talents and made you feel sorry for her while she was being killed and thrown down a hill like a piece of garbage . She was very attractive as an informant for the FBI and the agent took advantage of her petite sexy figure and good looks . ( But still loved his wife and kids ! ) Her sister tried to warn her about fooling around with a married man , but she just did not want to listen and got PG . However , nowadays , there would be no doubt at all as to who the father really was , with DNA and CSI experts , Murder Does Not PAY and Never WILL ! . The FBI agent did a bad job of trying to pass the lie detector test and even turned to his Catholic Faith , but had a hard time going to confession . The only way they could determine what happened to the victim was a Cross that was placed around her neck by her loving sister . This is a true story which makes it very much like real life and the mistakes that young gals and guys make thinking the GRASS IS GREENER ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE FENCE !
A Great Reagan Film Classic to VIEW !	Over the years I seemed to have missed this picture of Ronald Reagan , and due to his recent passing to the big screen in heaven , it was shown on TV recently . This is a great low budget B & W film of the late 1930's , however , it is very interesting to see how criminals used their talents to steal money from insurance companies with false claims during this particular time frame . I was surprised at the role Ronald Reagan , ( Eric Gregg ) , " The Killer's , ' 64 , played in this picture , along with a great veteran film star , Sheila Bromley , ( Nona Gregg ) , " Nightmare Circus " , ' 73 , who was a great supporting actor . It was a great film that showed Ronald Reagan as a very young man reaching for the stars in his career in Hollywood at the time . God Bless HIM !
Love Never Dies	Just had to view this film on a Friday night , as it was listed as " Friday Nite Horror Show " . Much to my surprise , it was more than I had bargained for and held my interest from beginning to end . George Clooney , ( Chris Kelvin ) , " Ocean's Eleven " , ' 01 , played a head shrink and wound up almost a complete Nut Case . Natascha McElhone ( Rheya ) , " City of Ghosts " , ' 02 played his wife that was with Chris one minute and off somewhere in space the next . There was a clear message in this film , which they called a Poem , that some what mentions the fact that real love between two people never dies after Death and continues on into the Spiritual world or simply Resurrection . So in other words , you really got a Sermon on Life & Death in this film .
Peeping Tom Film	Interesting film concerning a young couple who have some very dark secrets and are running away from problems which they created . Their yellow sports car begins to have car problems and they resort to finding a sort of a Bed & Breakfast place to crash for the night . This young couple tell the owners they are newly weds and they settle in for an eventful night . The male owner of the B & B decides to look in on the married couple and see all the goodies going on in their bedroom . Of course he sees plenty of nudity on a special designed TV Monitor . Carrie Hitchcock , ( Jackie ) , Brian Mani , ( Edward Slayter ) and Heather Prete , ( Madalyn ) all give an outstanding performance . This film has many twists and turns and you really begin to wonder just what kind of an ending this picture will eventually have , Flowers and Rose Bushes ?
Great TV CLASSIC !	Taped this TV film in 1984 and just recently viewed this film again and greatly enjoyed the talents of veteran actors like , Stefanie Powers , ( Jessie Callaway ) , " Invisible Strangler " , ' 76 , who showed her great acting abilities as a complicated young woman who has many mental problems and tries to help her mother move out of her home where she lived for forty ( 40 ) years . Melissa Gilbert , ( Sara Callaway ) , " Ice House " , ' 89 , does not get along very well with her mother and simply loves her grandmother , Maureen Stapleton , ( Maggie Lukauer ) , " Living & Dining " , ' 03 , who tries to help her daughter and granddaughter get over many of their problems which seem to pop up all over the house . There are some deep Family Secrets which finally come to everyones attention . If you like good acting and a great TV film , you just might be able to view this film on LIFETIME !
Cool Musical Sounds	Greatly enjoyed this fantastic film from 1963 with plenty of cameos of Marc Lawrence , Elisha Cook Jr . , ( " I Wake Up Screaming " ) , Telly Savalas , " Kojak " , Joey Bishop ( Comedian ) and Jim Backus , ( Mr . Magoo ) Henry Silva , ( Johnny Cool ) was given a job from a retired Mob gangster hiding out in Rome , ( Marc Lawrence ) who wanted him to repay some guys with a nice Mob Hit . Elizabeth Montgomery , gets involved with Johnny Cool and starts going on a killing spree with him doing all sorts of wild things and at the same time falling in love with this guy . There are plenty of great musical sounds in this picture by Billy May which adds a great deal to the entire picture . This is the type of film that will never grow old and will keep you interested right to the very end . Enjoy .
Great Chili Mining Story	Greatly enjoyed viewing this fantastic portrayal of a rich man who owns a Coal Mine and treats the miners as slaves with low wages and poor working conditions . This rich man puts Ernesto Malbran , ( Mister Davis ) as foreman who brutalizes the men and even kills them if they ever think about having a Miners Association , or type of union . Francisco Reyes , ( Fernando ) , " Docteur Chance " , ' 97 grew up in the mine and lost his own father while he was working deep down below in Hell . Paulina Galvez , ( Virginia ) , " Face of Terror " , ' 03 was a former girl friend of Fernando and their romances is renewed as she returns to Lota , Chili to teach in the local school . Virginia and Fernando burn up the bedroom and bed sheets in quite a few scenes and they also look great dancing together . The story of Coal Miners is true in every country in this world , they are never given the true wages they deserve or the safe working conditions , lets hope things improve in the 21st Century . Good Film to Enjoy Watching .
Great Classic Film	Viewed this film years ago and never forgot the great acting and comedy scenes between Cheech Marin , ( Pedro ) and Tommy Chang , ( Anthony ) . Anthony is a rich kid who simply will not go to work or conform to anything his parents want him to accomplish in life . His dad tells him to get a job or else he is on his very own . Cheech manages to pick Anthony up along a highway and is even carrying his complete set of drums . There is one scene when a gal drives me crazy with laughter , when she sniffs up AJAX like the real Stuff and makes wild faces and tongue expressions you have never seen before . This is a film you need to see over and over again , it is great entertainment and a true Hollywood Classic .
Excellent Hammer Film Production !	Enjoyed catching this film on very late late late TV and it kept my interest through out the entire picture . This wonderful creepy , yet mysterious looking English home , with evil looking decorations and weired furniture and rooms that make you wonder just why anyone would want to rent this home or even own it . There are four ( 4 ) Tales concerning this house , and each resident of the home meets with all kinds of problems . You will notice the beautiful lake and pond around the home and also the sweet singing of birds , but don't let that fool you , there is horror all over the place . Peter Cushing , " Black Jack " , ' 80 gives a great performance as one of the person's living in the home and even Christopher Lee , " Curse of the Crimson Altar " , 68 and his little daughter , Chloe Franks , ( Jane Reid ) make a wonderful exciting story together , his daughter for some reason loves to read WITCHCRAFT BOOKS ! If you love creepy , horrible and mysterious films , with lots of surprises , this is the FILM FOR YOU ! ! ! !
Great Close Up of Burke & Hare	As soon as I started to view this film , I knew I was going to enjoy every minute of the entire story . It reminded me of " The Bodysnatcher " , 1945 , starring Boris Karloff & Bela Lugosi , where Karloff tells the story of Burke & Hare and sings a song to Bela Lugosi and asks him if he would like to be BURKED ? ? . In this film , Peter Cushing , ( Doctor Robert Knox ) , Monster Island " , ' 81 plays the surgeon who teaches and desires fresh bodies to experiment with and Donald Pleasence ( William Hare ) , " Safe Haven " , ' 95 , does everything he can to help Dr . Knox with his experiments and at the same time earn schillings and pounds for his assistance . George Rose , ( William Burke ) , " The Tree " , ' 69 , works hand in hand with his buddy Bill Hare , and even goes to a great deal of trouble arranging for these many experiments to become possible . This is a great Classic from the late 1950's , just sit back and have Burke & Hare do a number on YOU ! !
Christian Film Giving Their Point of View	In this wonderful world that our Maker created , there are many religions , races and people who have never been introduced to the Bible and Jesus Christ . This film deals with the Book of Revelation and the Anti-Christ that is trying to win human souls into eternal Hell . The struggle of Evil & Good always remains with us . This is what I would call a wake up call from religious groups who hope and pray that people will follow the right path in life and find out about their Soul , Body , Self-Love and the Holy Spirit . Greatly enjoyed this film , and can appreciate the wonderful production staff and actors who believe deeply in their religious convictions . Hopefully , it will lead people on the correct path in life with their GOD . Amen
Let the Dead Rest in Peace !	Enjoyed this film and its location in New Orleans , Louisiana , with its historic old buildings , old homes and their antique furnishings . This film deals mainly with the spiritual world and a lost soul who is trying to communicate with a young girl , Kate Jennings Grant ( Claire ) and also manages to involve her boyfriend , Michael Arata . If a person's life is cut short , the spirit needs to advance to a higher spiritual level and this poor soul was definitely not Resting in Peace and caused all kinds of problems for everyone ! If you like films dealing with Ghosts and the supernatural , this is the film for you , and especially around Halloween ! ENJOY
Quinn & Masina were Fantastic !	This is truly a great Classic 1954 masterpiece with fantastic acting by Anthony Quinn , ( Zampano ) and Guilietta Masina , ( Gelsomina ) who pour their heart and souls into their roles . Zampano was an entertainer , like Houdini , breaking out of chains and traveled around with a motorcycle hitched on to a wagon and traveled from small Italian towns throughout the countryside , in all kinds of weather . Zampano purchased Gelsomina from her mother who could not afford to keep her daughter at home any longer . Gelsomina plays a very simple minded young girl who starts to learn the hard way how to deal with her male companion . There is very deep and spiritual meanings portrayed throughout the film and it is a must see film .
Great Classic Western !	Enjoyed viewing this great Classic Western with great stars who all looked very young and most of them were starting out in their early careers . Shelley Winters , ( Lola Manners ) , " The Poseidon Adventure " , ' 68 played a rough and ready gal who could handle any kind of man , Coward , Bandit or Lover ! Lola was given a hard time by Dan Duryea ( Waco Johnnie Dean ) , " The Bamboo Saucer " , ' 68 , who played the real bad guy and stopped at nothing to obtain a Winchester Rifle . James Stewart , ( Lin McAdam ) , " Bandolero " , ' 68 , was hunting down one of the bandits who had destroyed his family and was out to get revenge . If you look real close , you will see a very very young Rock Hudson , ( Young Bull ) , " The Crack'd Mirror " , ' 80 , made a brief appearance . A great Classic Western you will not want to miss seeing !
Great Steve McQueen Film	This film deals with POW's who are sent to a new German prison camp with very tight security mainly because most of these POW's were all professional escape artists who have dug tunnels from many other German camps or simply escaped by climbing over fences and many other ways of escape . Steve MacQueen , ( Capt . Hilts , ) was also called " The Cooler King " because he always wound up in solitary confinement which was called the Cooler . James Garner , ( Flight Lt . Hendley ) was called the " Scounger " because he could obtain all kinds of necessary items in order to make escapes , like forged identification and many other items . Charles Bronson , ( Flight Lt . Donny Velinski ) was called the " Tunnel King " because he was great for making all kinds of tunnels . This film will keep you on the edge of your seat and the entire picture is not spent in the prison camp . There is great photography throughout Bavaria , Germany and Munich , Bavaria and great scenes with Steve MacQueen riding his bike and James Garner flying a German Training plane . Don't miss this film , it is great .
OUTSTANDING ACTING & PHOTOGRAPHY !	This was a great film concerning a talented young man who developed a mental condition which greatly interfered with his career and many gifts that he would have been normally able to give to the entire world and the world of mathematics . Russell Crowe ( John Nash ) , " Proof of Life " , 2000 , put his heart and soul into this role and made you wonder just how his life would eventually end . Jennifer Connelly ( Alicia Larde Nash ) , " Hulk " , ' 03 , was very beautiful and gave a wonderful supporting role . This John Nash story will keep you glued to the screen and it is a great master piece of acting for Russell Crowe and Jennifer Connelly . The photography and flash backs to the 1940's was done to great perfection ! Don't miss this film ! !
Girl Problems	Enjoyed this very down to earth film about a bunch of guys who are all looking for something special in the gals they meet and the boredom of the routine dating system everyone goes through in order to find a lasting relationship . This one guy goes with a gal for six years and then all of a sudden they drift a part yet the guy never stops thinking about her even though he meets other women and nothing seems to compare to this relationship . For some reason , this guy never seems to realize that he is deeply in love with this gal and needs to made her number one on his list of dates or better yet a simple phone call . Lots of comedy , drama and fantastic acting by all the actors .
PETER BOYLE WAS THE BIGOT OF BIGOT'S ! !	Peter Boyle was always a great actor and he proved it by his performance as a gun-ho Bigot , making me hate him everytime he used the " N " word , I watched him and his big mouth and wanted to punch his lights out . ( Just think , Peter Boyle was a Monk once ) ( Now a supporting actor in " Everybody Loves Raymond " ) Susan Sarandon making her first debut need a bath right away and enjoyed sharing it with someone else in his own dirty water . I noticed a large Raggerty Ann Doll ( creator , John Gruelle ) was the only thing that Susan could actually trust and love and the doll appeared in quite a few scenes . If you really want to know about the way out 70's with drugs , free love and pipe dreams , then , enjoy the excellent direction of John G . Avildsen ( " Rocky and " The Karate Kid " ) I always thought that Peter Boyle should have been blown away in the end ! ! This is definitely a cult classic well worth viewing and sharing with others .
Robert Mitchum was FANTASTIC !	Many great male actors refused to play the leading role in this picture , Humphrey Bogart and even John Garfield . However , I was very happy that Robert Mitchum , ( Jeff Bailey ) , " Pokten " , ' 95 , took this part and was outstanding through out the entire picture . The film was very well directed by a great director and Kirk Douglas ( Whit Sterling , " Diamonds " , ' 99 , was just starting out as a film actor with his second role on the big Silver Screen , as a slippery evil mobster who stopped at nothing to make a buck ! Rhonda Fleming , ( Meta Carson ) , " Waiting for the Wind " , played a very foxy lady and had all her charming men hanging by a shoe string . Jeff Bailey tries to run away from the past and settle down in a nice country town where he pumps gas and has as very faithful young man who is deaf and helps Jeff in every way possible . You will be quite surprised how the film ENDS , enjoy !
Great Classic Film	The film producers of this Thin Man Film never realized this first film starring William Powell , ( Nick Charles ) and Myrna Loy , ( Nora Charles ) would be such a great success and would go on and have six other Thin Man series . Nick & Nora Charles are newlyweds very much in love and are going to San Francisco for a honeymoon train ride . However , Nick is a detective and gets himself in a murder investigation in New York City and works with the police to solve a very mysterious story with murders and plenty of twists and turns right to the very end . This film is very fast paced and has lots of comedy with a fox terrier who steals lots of the scenes from the actors . Cesar Romero makes a brief appearance in this film along with Maureen O'Sullivan , ( Dorothy Wynant ) who was the wife of John Farrow a producer and was the mother of Mia Farrow . In my opinion this is the best of the Thin Man Films , and William Powell and Myrna Loy had a great magic with their performance as husband and wife . Enjoy .
A Film for Real Movie Lovers	This film touched my very heart and soul from the very beginning to the end . As a young boy I went to the movie theater with my Mom every Friday afternoon at the Lefferts Theater on Liberty Ave . , in Richmond Hill , N . Y . and grew to love all the films just as the young boy in this film . It is very easy to see why this film received so much wonderful praise and awards . There was plenty of funny comedy when the Roman Catholic Priest censored all the films shown in the theater that showed any form of kissing or physical contact between a male or female . It was a great down to earth film which words cannot describe fully , and can only be appreciated by people who love to escape into the World of Film and stories . The Actors , Producers and Directors out did themselves with this great masterpiece of JOY . By the way , when I attended those Friday afternoon showing of films with Mom , she also received a free plate or dish to go with her set of matching dinner dishes .
Fritz Lang gave Peter Lorre a Career in Films !	Peter Lorre ( Franz Becker ) , " Arsenic & Old Lace " , ' 44 made his first great screen debut and was type-cast throughout his entire career because of this film . The same situation happened to Boris Karloff after " The Criminal Code " ' 31 and " Frankenstein " . Bela Lugosi , " Dracula " , experienced the same doom into the Horror or Evil character roles . All these actors were under-rated by Hollywood and were great actors who were capable of performing in great acting roles and were never given the chance , because of box office dollars and cents . I am quite sure they did not regret having appeared in these films , for we would never have known these great Classic Actors who were very under paid compared to the pay checks of actors today .
GOOD LIGHT HEADED ENTERTAINTMENT !	Viewed this film recently and enjoyed the great acting of Billy Crystal , Catherine Zeta-Jones , Julie Roberts and Christopher Walken . The story was fast paced , with good writers , I did begin to wonder when Julie Roberts would thin down her waist line and become the beauty that she portrays in all her pictures . It was nice to see Zeta-Jones , slim and trim ( " Chicago " super star ) in competition with her sister Julie Roberts . Lots of sexy writing , the picture is worth watching if you want to have a good laugh . However , you must be a Julie Roberts fan to really enjoy this film , she can actually do any character role that comes her way !
Richard Benjamin Directed an Entertaining FILM !	Found this film very entertaining and loved the excellent direction of Richard Benjamin , " Lift " , ' 92 , who also portrayed former Secretary of Defense , Casper Weinberger . Kelsey Grammer ( Maj . Gen . Partridge ) , " New Jersey Turnpikes , " , ' 99 , was an Army General who was in charge of a Tank production which had lots of problems and Cary Elwes ( Lt . Col . James Burton ) , " Saw " , ' 04 , an Air Force officer who found all kinds of things wrong with the project , which lead to an all out Senate Investigation . The film made fun of all the " Red Tape " that is involved in the Military and how some high ranking officers got carried away with their TOP SECRET PROJECTS . There are lots of laughs and good entertainment .
Robert Mitchem & Claude Rains Gave a Classic Performance !	All fans of Robert Mitchem , ( Dr . Jeff Cameron ) " Cape Fear " ' 62 , must see this great classic film , with Claude Rains ( Frederic Lannington ) " The Invisible Man " ' 33 , who fight over a mixed up gal , Faith Domerque ( Margo Lannington ) , " It Came from Beneath the Sea " , ' 55 . Dr . Jeff unfortunately falls in love with the wrong gal and goes through hell trying to cope with murder and is forced into a marriage without a divorce . Even Maureen O'Sullivan , wife of Tarzan , ( Jane ) who is Julie Dawn in this picture gives an excellent performance . It is a must see picture with great acting by Mitchem and Rains !
Julia & Gere Burned Up the Screen	Never got a chance to see this film from beginning to end and I must say , Julia Roberts , ( Vivian Ward ) , " Closer " , ' 04 played the role of a hooker and put her complete heart and soul into this role . Julia was comical , dramatic and very sexy to say the very least . Richard Gere , ( Edward Lewis ) , " Shall We Dance " , ' 64 , decides to pick up Vivian Ward on Hollywood Blvd . , and takes her to the best Hotel in town and the both of them get very much involved with each other . The big scene is when he finally kisses her on the lips and the steamy heat blows up on the screen . Ralph Bellamy , ( James Morse ) , " Rosemary's Baby " , ' 68 , played a business man in this picture and made this his final film , going to the big screen in the Sky . Ralph Bellamy was a veteran actor from the early 20's , 30's & 40's . If you missed this film , make sure to see it the next time it is on TV . The music is fantastic and you will remember these songs like they were yesterday .
A Great Classic Hammer Film !	Some how I missed this Vampire film and was able to view this film in the wee hours of the AM . It starts off with a very young English couple who are just married and very much in love who run out of gasoline . The groom decides to look for fuel and his bride becomes restless waiting and is cautioned by Dr . Davna ( Noel Williams ) , " The Odessa File " , ' 74 , not to wander very far them her antique vehicle . The couple eventually meet Clifford Evans ( Professor Zimmer ) , " One Brief Summer " , ' 66 who is the Vampire of all Vamps , and falls in love with Jennifer Daniel ( Marianne Harcourt ) , " Love Is all There Is " , ' 96 , the young bride and does everything possible to steal her for his own . Edward de Souza ( Gerald Harcourt ) , " Jane Eyre " , ' 96 seeks the assistance of Dr . Davna . There are lots of BATS flying around and the bride even spits in the grooms face . This is a worth while film to view , it is different than most Vampire films and is good entertainment !
A GREAT FILM OF ANTHONY PERKINS !	If you are an Anthony Perkins fan , you will enjoy the great acting talents that he performed in this picture along with Kathleen Turner ( China Doll Blue ) It took a great deal of talent for Perkins to play ( Rev . Peter Shayne ) . It is a film that cannot be taken seriously and has a great deal of laughs and is a great escape from reality . Perkins preached and preached about sex and sin and tried so hard to convert China Blue , but failed very badly as a preacher ! Kathleen Turner went wild trying to please all her men customers , she had a different hat for every occasion .
Masterpiece of Work in 1931	The name of this film alone made me want to see just what it was all about , so I taped this film during the early hours of the AM . If you ever wanted to see what miners had to go through during the early days and actually see a dramatic scene when the mine crumbles in on the men . This film clearly wants to show that Germany and France can work together and be friends after WW I and how the Germans came to the aid of the French miners much to the unbelief of the French townsfolk . The actors were all outstanding , with unusual scenes in the mine with a horse and a small young boy who worked in the mine . There is an old old retired miner who manges to go down the mine by ladder when the elevator breaks down . If you are a real film buff , this is a film you will not want to miss .
Shocking	This film starts off with a young girl talking on the Internet with an older man and eventually they both agree to meet at a certain place . This girl is Hayley Stark , ( Ellen Page ) and she is a very mature girl at the age of 14 years compared to Jeff Kohlver , ( Patrick Wilson ) age 32 . Hayley goes along with their visit together and there are times when she teases him , but in the back of her mind she believes he is a pedophile . All of a sudden Hayley decides to take matters into her own hands and she decides to practice being a surgeon from a textbook . This is a very shocking film and I know you will never be able to figure out how this film will end . Surprise WOW
One of Billy Wilder's Greatest films !	The first time I viewed this film in 1950 , I was spellbound , even though it was in black and white , just seeing a man floating in a swimming pool face down in a dead man's float , had me wondering just where this picture was going to take me . William Holden ( Joe Gillis ) " Picnic " ' 55 I had seen before in other films . Gloria Swanson ( Norma Desmond ) " Airport " ' 75 kept me wondering why she was so attracted to Joe Gillis , who could have been her grandson in this picture . After seeing Erich von Stroheim ( Max von Mayerling ) " The Mask of Dijon " ' 46 who gave a very strange performance as a butler , housekeeper and who was madly in love with Norma Desmond along with acting like a Nazi and her personal film director . I just wondered how the story was going to turn out in the end . Billy Wilder brought back to the screen in 1950 , great Silent film stars with Gloria Swanson and Erich von Stroheim who was an assistant director to D . W . Griffith , " Birth of a Nation " . Gloria Swanson was a famous actress and after this film , her career took off once again , with Films , Television and many business ventures . When Billy Wilder made pictures , they all became great CLASSICS for all generations to view and enjoy .
Classic Acting	Had no idea just how I was going to react to this film and after being rather patient with the slow action taking place in the beginning of the picture , it became interesting . The story is about monks who live in a rather remote area and live with only the bare necessities of life . Their leader is Trevor Howard , ( The Abbot ) , who has caused a great deal of problems with Rome by wanting to say Mass in Latin rather than English . There are other controversial subjects which are mentioned in the film about Communion and how the Body and Blood of Christ is portrayed and how Faith plays a big role in determining how a person wants to believe . Martin Sheen , ( Father Kinsella ) , is a young priest who travels to Rome and tries to stop the problem with Mass still being said in Latin . The Abbot , has some very deep dark secrets which are quite unbelievable , because of the position he holds in the church . If you are not interested in any kind of religion , this is not the film for you .
GREAT 1931 CLASSIC FILM !	I have never seen this film up until recently and was amazed at the great talent of Joan Crawford ( Ivy " Bunny " Stevens ) " Humoresque " ' 46 with John Garfield . Joan was very sexy and wore very revealing clothes for the early 1930's , her dancing and singing was unbelievable and she was so very pretty , slim and trim , not like the real " Mommie Dearest " character her daughter told us about . Clark Gable ( Carl Loomis ) , " Gone With the Wind " ' 39 was Ivy's prince charming as a Salvation Army convert and when she appears in the park with her beautiful white dress , you just knew there was going to be an immediate CONVERSION OF SOULS ! Veteran actor , Roscoe Karns , ( Gred Geer ) played a great supporting role . This film is filled with surprises , even a little African American Boy stealing a bite from a girls doughnut tore me up , there is many deep soul searching messages in this film and LOTS OF LAUGHTER and one attempted jump off a bridge . ENJOY !
Classic Film from 1966	Enjoyed this great presentation of Sr . Thomas More played by Paul Scofield who opposed King Henry VIII marriage without a divorce being granted by the Roman Catholic church . Thomas More went face to face with the King and around and around in circles but would never change his mind and disagreed with the King and all his subjects . During this period of time , Martin Luther broke away from the Catholic church and formed the Lutheran Church and there were many people mixing politics with religion , which never is a good mixture even today . Robert Shaw , ( King Henry VIII ) , " Jaws " gave a great supporting role and there was a brief role played by Orson Welles , ( Cardinal Walsey ) which was quite surprising . If you have read some of writings of Sir Thomas More you will also enjoy this film and going way back in time .
Widmark Tries To Be Kirk Douglas !	Greatly enjoy films concerning the Vikings and their history , and the entire way they constructed their sailing ships . However , I admire Richard Widmark , ( Rolfe ) , " Kiss of Death " , ' 47 , trying to play the role of a Norwegian explorer and treasure hunter looking for a huge " BELL " , but every time I saw Rolfe on the big screen I kept seeing Kirk Douglas , Sr . in the role he played in the " VIKINGS " and unfortunately Widmark did not measure up Kirk Douglas as a great Viking . Sidney Poitier ( Aly Monsuh ) , " A Patch of Blue " , ' 65 , was a great supporting actor and finally found his BELL which sorta did him IN ! Oskar Hamalka ( Krok ) , " War & Peace " , ' 56 put some comedy into this film and helped Rolfe right to the bitter END ! ! Glad to see they did not start looking for anything else .
Battleground Was Fantastic	The beginning of this film held my interest because William Hurt , ( John Renshaw ) , " Body Heat " , makes a bad mistake with a CEO of a large Toy Manufacturing Company . Apparently , John Renshaw is a sort of high class hit man and paid very well for his services , because his apartment suite is out of this world with a large indoor pool and more than the comforts of the average person . As John sits back and has a nice cocktail and enjoys having accomplished one of his tasks , he is taken by surprise and his entire life is completely changed . John becomes trapped in his own world and almost feels like he has been in an actual battlefield . Great story by Stephen King and I look forward to more of this Mini-Series .
Natalie Wood & Steve MacQueen Were Great	Have always been a great fan of Natalie Wood and Steve MacQueen and they both gave an outstanding performance in this film , their chemistry together was like magic and it made your eyes glued to the screen . Steve McQueen , ( Rocky Papasano ) plays the role as a musician who goes to a musician's gathering for jobs in New York City and all of a sudden , out of the blue , Angie Rossini , ( Natalie Wood ) goes up and meets Rocky and tells him she is pregnant and Rocky acts extremely shocked and makes her run off and eventually he catches up with Angie and he tells her he is going to get a doctor for her in order to have an abortion . Rocky & Angie both are Italian and their families practice the Roman Catholic Faith and of course abortion is a big NO NO . These two couples begin to find some inner truths to their lives and become very close together in their big problems and both their families are eager to come to their aid . Wonderful romance and a cute story which will captivate your attention right to the very end . Enjoy
Lots of Blood & Plenty of GORE !	Decided to tape this film early in the AM television programing and was greatly surprised at the entire plot . If you love graveyards , and watching steel balls flying through the air that can make your insides turn in a few minutes to Swiss Cheese , this film is definitely for YOU ! James LeGros , ( Mike ) , " Sexual Life " , ' 04 and Paula Irvine ( Liz ) , " Party Lamp " , ' 86 put their hearts and soul into their roles and experienced horrible situations you will never forget . I missed all the other Phantasm flicks , however , I do intend to catch up and view all the present and past other Horrible " Phantasm " films . If you are a nut about blood and seeing human bodies crumble in front of your very eyes , THIS IS YOUR FILM ! ENJOY ! ! !
Robert Wagner wore BANGS in this Film	Have not seen this film in years and enjoyed viewing the youth of all the veteran actors . James Mason , ( Sir Brack ) , " Lolita " , ' 62 , played an outstanding role , who did some very fancy sword swinging among King Arthur's Knights of the Round Table . Robert Wagner , ( Prince Valiant ) , " Banning " , ' 67 , had great interests with the Vikings and England's King Arthur . Prince Valiant wore bangs as a very young inexperienced man striving to solve some problems his family were placed in and had a difficult time in carrying out this mission . Janet Leigh , ( Princes Aleta ) , " Houdini " , ' 53 , looks very young and is attractive to both Prince Valiant and Sir Garwin . Sir Garwin is played by Sterling Hayden , " Crime of Passion " , ' who takes Prince Valiant under his supervision and plays a great supporting role through out the picture . There is great scenery at an old Castle in Scotland , which adds greatly to the production of this great Classic film from the 50's . Enjoy .
Lon Chaney Made this Pic !	Taped this film during the wee hours of the AM , as I have never viewed this picture starring Lon Chaney and wanted to find out what the audiences of 1927 viewed and enjoyed . I thought that Lon Chaney was fantastic with his own make up and great acting skills , he was truly a master of his craft . There was a great deal of racism concerning the Chinese nation in this film . However , in those days , there was racism for all nationalities , Irish , Italian , Polish , and many religions were hated and bigotry was depicted in the films and newspapers . Thank God we have progressed in our film making world and people are trying to respect each other . Lon Chaney made this a very interesting film and I recommend it for all fans who adore and liked his many films .
Peter Lorre Classic Film !	This series of Mr . Moto films were very low budget films and during the year 1937 the country was not in prosperity like it is today . Actors like Peter Lorre had to find work and therefore , we find him in pictures like Mr . Moto . Lorre was also starting out his career in America and this was a great opportunity for Peter Lorre to become a great character actor ! Peter Lorre ( Kentaro Moto ) , " The Beast With Five Fingers " , ' 46 , did a great job of performing a role like Charlie Chan and manged to keep you guessing just who the criminal really was . Virginia Field , ( Gloria Danton ) , " The Earth Dies Screaming " , ' 65 gave a great supporting role and appeared in quite a few of these Mr . Moto films . Sig Ruman , ( Nicholas Marloff ) , " Doom of Dracula " , ' 66 , played a different role and did all he could to trick Mr . Moto . If you look real close , you will see J . Carrol Naish , ( Adram , Shop Keeper ) , who adds some mystery to the plot . These Mr . Moto films were usually shown as a second feature at the local movie houses along with Newsreels and Cartoons which created a big Saturday night treat for the local families during 1937 !
Lots of Sex Starved MEN	Thought at first this film would be your typical Western film , however , it turned out to be very interesting and kept me spellbound right to the very end , which turned out very unusual . Charlton Heston , ( Sam Burgade ) , " Midway " , ' 76 , had past experiences with James Coburn , ( Zach Provo ) , " Deadfall " , ' 93 , and Zach never forgave Sam and would stop at nothing to make sure he caught up with him and paid him back . Unfortunately , Barbara Hershey , ( Susan Burgade ) , " The Portrait of a Lady " , ' 96 , managed to get caught up in this situation and found herself among sex starved men who never seemed to leave her alone . Sam Burgade had to make some very hard decisions and and I was quite surprised at the conclusion . This is a very entertaining film and the acting was outstanding .
Great Film Thriller	It is hard for me to believe that for some reason I missed viewing this film , which took me by great surprise . The photography around NYC and Times Square was great and that special phone booth drove me crazy . The film started out with a con artist who never stop lying and had everybody completely fooled until one fatal day when he made a phone call as his daily routine at the end of his baloney days work . It drove me crazy when he had to confess his sins to an audience , including his mistress and wife . The con artist turned his complete life around and even helped a NYC detective wish he had told the complete truth to his own wife . There is plenty of deep suspense that keeps you glued to the screen and your seat . Refreshing film and worth viewing .
Good 1970 Underwater Film	Enjoyed viewing this film which had a cast of some great film stars who went on to great careers in the film industry . Keir Dullea , ( Christofer Perdeger ) , " Brain Waves " , ' 83 , discovered very valuable golden treasure by accident while a murder is being committed almost on top of him . Christofer seeks the assistance of Richardo Montalban , ( Alejandro Zayas ) , " Conquest of the Planet of the Apes " , ' 72 , who was for many years searching for this very treasure that Perdeger just found and knows where this sunken treasure can be located . Lana Wood , " Santan's Mistress " , ' 82 gave plenty of beautiful charm to her role . There is plenty of action underwater with plenty of hungry sharks and a great film for the 1970's . In present day life , Lana Wood is struggling with an illness and my thoughts are with her family and I wish her the very best .
A Very Hard Film to Obtain	Over the years I have always admired everything that Carole Landis performed in on the Silver Screen . This was her last film before her untimely death and a friend loaned me the tape which I have always wanted to see . I was not disappointed in the story or the acting , however , Carole Landis was simply beautiful and very sexy in her final role and was able to keep this film from completely falling a part . I simply cannot understand why this film is not shown on our regular TV stations in America , it is truly a great Landis Film . However , a real great film that Carole Landis performed in was , " I Wake Up Screaming " , along with many other great veteran actors . If you love her films , try and view this last Swan Song for Carole .
Edward G . Robinson at His Very Best	This is a great Western story with outstanding veteran actors who made this film great entertainment to view and enjoy . Glenn Ford , ( John Parrish ) , " Midway " , ' 76 tries to play low key after having experienced battles in the war and plays the peace maker role for the time being . John Parrish decides the town is entirely too rough and tough and goes to visit Barbara Stanwyck , ( Martha Wilkison ) , " Crime of Passion " , 57 , who is the wife of Edward G . Robinson , ( Lee Wilkison ) , " The Red House " , ' 47 . Lee Wilkison , offers John Parrish Fifteen Thousand Dollars for his ranch and John turns down the offer . Lee Wilkson decides to have his son , Brian Keith , ( Cole Wilkison ) , " The Wind & the Lion " , ' 75 , change his mind in more ways than one . There are romantic scenes between May Wynn , ( Caroline Vail ) , " The Caine Mutiny " , ' 54 , and John Parrish and some hot encounters with Dianne Foster ( Judith Wilkison ) , " Three Hours to Kill " , ' 54 , who hates her father Lee . If you like Edward G . Robinson and Glenn Ford films , this is a film you will want to view and enjoy from beginning to end .
Outstanding Film with Glover & Hackman	Missed this 1988 film and just recently viewed this outstanding film concerning the Vietnam War . Danny Glover , ( Capt . Bartholomew Clark ) , " Missing in America " , ' 05 , who has a flying mission concerning the whereabouts of Gene Hackman , ( Lt . Col . Iceal Hambleton ) , " Class Action " , ' 91 , who experiences many difficulties and finds out the real truth about what WAR IS ALL ABOUT . They even map out a plan to use a golf course in order to accomplish their mission . There is plenty of action to keep you on the edge of your seats . Whenever Gene Hackman or Danny Glover appear in a film , you know it will be well worth your time . ENJOY
Transporter Broke the Rules	Glad I decided to watch this film on TV as I really wanted an action filled film with a great plot and I soon found out this film had everything from Soup to Nuts . Jason Statham , ( Frank Martin ) , " Cellular " , ' 04 , was a no mess around guy , who did all his work by the book , in other words , Step 1 . , Step 2 . , & Step 3 . No names mentioned and a prompt delivery of the merchandise and never open up the cargo to be delivered . Frank Martin had a fancy life style and lived in a fabulous home and had great talents in driving a car where no one else would dream of driving . However , Frank made a bad mistake and happened to opened up a bag of hot enjoyment and trouble . In this film there is plenty of action , even romantic and sexy scenes and bloody fights and very fancy steps of self-defense . QI Shu ( Lai ) , " Mei Ren Cao " , ' 03 , gave a great supporting role to Frank Martin and managed to get him just where she wanted him , flat on his back . If you want to see a really great entertaining film , this flick will never bore you to death .
Great Thriller	This was a great 1981 film which had a great story about three men and two girls who go on a camping trip together and go through thick woods and high mountains with a great water fall . This group of people run into property owned by George Kennedy , ( Roy McLean ) who plays the role as a Forest Ranger and rides a white horse . Roy McLean warns these young people that where they are going is no area for camping and they should turn back . Of course these young people pay no attention and proceed to have a ball swimming in the nude near the water fall and playing great music and dancing by the fire and having plenty of beer and wine . There is an old wooden one room school house that draws the gals and guys inside and it is from that point on the film starts to get very scary . There is one occasion when a young girl has to climb a tree in order to get away from a human beast who desires her body and starts chopping the tree down in order to capture her . Don't miss this film , there is plenty of everything .
A Great Cast of Superstars !	This film classic of 1958 depicts all the superstars of the silver screen very young , Angie Dickinson ( Eileen Kelly ) " Dressed to Kill " ' 80 is very hard to recognize , however , her sexual charm is always present in this film . Ingar Stevens ( Mrs . John Molner ) " The Farmers Daughter " ' 63 TV Series , was very young and beautiful as James Mason's ( John Molner ) " Lolita " ' 62 wife , Ingar Stevens was an unappreciated actress and unfortunately took her own life in 1970 at the very height of her career . Rod Steiger ( Paul Hoplin ) " No Way to Treat A Lady " ' 68 played the role of a mastermind with a fool proof way of making a half a million dollars by kidnapping Mr . & Mrs . Molner and their daughter . The black & white photography of NYC made this picture a real classic film for many future generations to enjoy and the wonderful talent of these great SUPERSTARS ! Be sure to view it the next time it is on TV .
A very Naughty General's Daughter !	Enjoyed reading Nelson DeMille's novel which went into more detail concerning the General's Daughter and all the characters who played a major role in this film . John Travolta , ( Warr . Off . Paul Brenner / Sgt . Frank White ) , " Basic " , ' 03 , played an undercover agent , who at times used a Southern accent to accomplish his investigations . The General's Daughter was able to help Sgt . Frank White change a tire and he was charmed by her very sexy looks and great personality . Madeleine Stowe ( Warr . Off . Sara Sunhill ) , " Octave " , ' 03 , worked side by side with Paul Brenner in order to find out just what Timothy Hutton ( Col . William Kent ) , " Secret Window " , ' 04 was doing in his spare time with the General's Daughter , who had a very active sex life with many men . James Woods , ( Col . Robert Moore ) , " The Girl's Life " , ' 03 , had many many secrets that Paul Brenner and Sara Sunhill had to investigate . This is a good John Travolta film , with out his dancing around , and an entirely different role of acting . Enjoy !
Fantastic WESTERN !	Must have been busy during the year 1968 to have missed such a great Western film with Great Actors of the Silver Screen ! The picture captured my interest from the very start to the finish . The photography of the pioneer days with a railroad being built in great detail , old railroad cars and outstanding scenery made this a Classic Film . Henry Fonda , ( Frank ) , " Home to Stay " , ' 78 TV , played a very very hateful character who caused a great deal of pain to many people in this film . Claudia Cardinale , ( Jill McBain ) , " Sniper " , ' 87 , was a very strong willed woman who would do ANYTHING to save her life or her ambitions and had some very warm and sexy scenes . Jason Robards , ( Manuel ' Cheyenne ' Gulierrez ) , " Square Dance " , ' 87 , played a very interesting character who had a great deal of depth to his way of thinking ! Charles Bronson , ( Harmonica ) , " Love & Bullets " , ' 79 , made his eyes pierce right into your body and soul and had a great PAYBACK to finalize with a certain PERSON ! Great film , ENJOY !
MARGAUX HEMINGWAY WAS A GREAT ACTRESS !	Just viewed this film and found it fantastic , there was no mention in the horrible rape case about DNA , no such thing existed . This film showed exactly what a woman goes through when she is raped , it needs to be viewed and observed by appreciative fans of Margaux Hemingway , who gave a wonderful performance .
Need a Tissue Box with this Film	Enjoyed this great Hallmark Theatre Presentation which had a very down to earth dramatic event which happens in people's lives and two women who both experience horrible events in their lives . One is a married woman with teenage boys and a great husband who loves her and they have a young one year old baby girl who has a babysitter who is distracted by her brothers and the baby falls to her death down a flight of stairs . This woman is named Lorainne Morrisey , ( Jennifer Ehle ) and the babysitter is Sarah Russell , ( Amber Tamblyn ) . This tragic event occurred six years ago and time has passed by and Sarah Russell is a buyer for Macy's Department Store in Chicago and is also informed that she has been accepted in Northwestern University in Chicago to pursue a medical profession . Unfortunately , Sarah is also informed by medical doctors that she has an aggressive leukemia which must be treated immediately . This is a great story about a mother who lost her baby daughter and blames a babysitter for this tragedy and the babysitter feeling that she caused this babies death . Don't miss this TV film the next time it is shown .
The Truth is the Only Way to Solve a Problem	Whenever Al Pacino appears in a film you can just bet the film is going to be a complete knock out punch for the viewers . In this picture , Al Pacino ( Detective Will Dormer , ) , " Any Given Sunday " , ' 99 , plays a very successful cop who has a very keen sense in a crime situation and can almost smell the criminal . When Det . Dormer questions a suspect he looks right through them and his questions turn them into pure Butter . Hilary Swank , ( Det . Ellie Burr ) , " The Core " , ' 03 , simply had the hots for Will Dormer and adored his great history of solving crimes over the many years . Robin Williams , ( Walter Finch ) , " One Hour Photo " , ' 02 , gave an outstanding supporting role , who played a real weird character who wanted to work out a deal with Will Dormer to solve his problems and Will's . The moral to this story is that the Truth is the only path to follow in any situation in LIFE .
A Film That Touches the Heart !	This film caught me off guard when I viewed young boys picking adults pockets in a crowd in NYC and policemen blowing their whistles like in London , England . Then you observe a young girl placing a basket on a wagon and the boys taking off with a baby in the basket . These boys manage to purchase a train ticket and head West with the baby girl , Mary Rose , ( Jennifer Garner ) . It was hard to believe these boys planned on taking care of Mary Rose since they were very poor and very young . This picture clearly shows the great love these young boys had for their adopted sister and people of all different races and backgrounds who were able to join their family of love . This is a film I could very well see over and over again .
A very Slow Paced Film but Excellent Moral Story	This black and white picture was filmed while Denmark was occupied by the Nazi in World War II . This film clearly shows the simple living conditions with a family who has a mentally disturbed son who thinks he is Jesus Christ and goes around quoting Bible scripture and is able to tell tragic situations that seem to face the family long before they happen . The acting was very well performed by all the actors and the director of the film showed his great talent in portraying deep facts about LIFE & DEATH and what LIFE is all about , which we all eventually face in the course of our lives on earth , sooner or later . You have to have a great deal of patience with this film , as it is very slow paced and very long and drawn out . Try to view the picture to the very End .
They Got Away with it In the 1930's 40's 50's	This type of film is always needed to be produced because every new generation is like lambs to the slaughter . However , years ago men took advantage of women at early ages in life , grade school , high school and college and they got away with date rape and just plain man handling of woman because no one spoke about such things and the gals kept quiet . This film portrays things that happen in our colleges today and the practice will never STOP , but films like this will always help enlighten young people men and woman to treat each other with respect and attend to matters of learning than just drinking and have a party in the local campus bars . In this picture , Candance Cameron Bure ( Melissa Connell ) , portrays a young gal starting her freshman year and meets up with Scott Baker , ( Mark-Paul Gosselaar ) , " NYPDBLUE ' 05 who is an older student at the college and happens to be good friends with Candance brother who attends the same college . They are all invited to a party where all the snacks are mostly saturated with liquor of some kind and of course , the main goal of the men is to get the gals plastered to the gills . If you find yourself getting involved with such situations , GUYS OR GALS make certain you don't fall into this big trap that will destroy your life and career and maybe even MORE !
ELI WALLACH WAS THE STAR !	As many times as I have viewed this film , I greatly admire the entire picture for just plain enjoyable entertainment and seeing great actors such as Clint Eastwood ( Joe ) " Absolute Power " ' 97 and the entire cast make this an all time classic . However , Eli Wallach ( Tuco ) " Mackenna's Gold " ' 69 put his very heart and soul into his film role and gave a fantastic performance that over powered the entire cast . Trying to put this film under a magnifying glass and trying to be critical and tearing it into little pieces is not necessary , just sit back and enjoy a great masterpiece of GOOD ENTERTAINMENT !
The House of Rothschild was the most lavish film by Daryl F . Zanuck	In the person of Nathan Rothschild , overlord of the international banking house that shaped the destiny of Europe , George Arliss has found his most congenial role since Disraeli . The story provides a fasinating study of internatinal intrigue in the nineteenth century . It is presented straight-forwardly , without apology or sentimentality . Because of its lack of dramatic sequence , the picture lapses into passages that become monotonous . The injection of a romantic episode between Nathan's daughter and a Gentile British office , with its mixed-marriage problem during those years , is tritely handled . This film is rarely shown over the years in America and is controversal at times . On the whole , the picture has been skillfully cast , and there are good performances by George Arliss , Reginald Owen and Boris Karloff who gives an excellent performance as Baron Ledrantz .
William Holden & Jeanne Crain were Great Lovers !	Jeannie Crain ( Peggy ) " Pinky " ' 49 and William Holden ( Jason ) " Sabrina " ' 54 showed how a young couple with just love in their hearts for each other can overcome all materialistic problems in life and still strive to obtain a college degree . However , they needed the help of Edmund Gweenn , ( Professor Henry Barnes ) " Miracle on 34th St . " ' 47 ( Santa Claus ) and Gene Lockhart ( Prof . Edward Bell ) , father of Gene Lockhart , who gave excellent supporting roles . If you get a chance to view this film on TV , it is a film to view and enjoy even in the 21 Century , where young people have the same struggles to pay the high costs of getting a simple college education even in the late 1940's .
Great Film about the English , Minutemen & The French !	My friends told me how incorrect some of the historical facts were in the picture and ' Knit Picked ' , the entire picture . This film is worth watching any time of the year . However , around the celebration of the 4th of July each year , it is the film to VIEW ! Mel Gibson , ( Benjamin Martin ) , " The Singing Detective " , ' 03 put his heart and soul into this role from the very beginning to the end of the picture . This film made you hate a certain English officer who murdered and butchered innocent women , children and was even despised by his own commanding General . There was lots of great battle scenes which showed all the methods that were used during that period of time in history . A must see film about the blood that was shed by our early settlers , who helped us to have the greatest country in the world , the Good Ole USA !
This was a BANNED FILM !	Believe it or NOT , this film was considered a very EVIL film in 1943 and Jane Russell was considered a very bad woman for showing so very much of her BODY ! ! Howard Hughes was linked to her romantically and all kinds of stories were written , however , it became a great CLASSIC and will go on for Generations after Generations . I thought the film was very funny and kept me laughing through most of the scenes . Jack Buetel , ( Billy the Kid ) , " Mustang " , ' 59 was a baby faced criminal who wanted the horse that belonged to Walter Houston , ( Doc Holliday ) , " Dragon Seed " , ' 44 , who gave an outstanding performance through out the entire picture . Thomas Mitchell , ( Pat Garrett ) , " While the City Sleeps " , ' 56 , was a sheriff who tried to get along with everybody and tried to keep Billy the Kid and Doc Holliday from killing each other . Jane Russell , ( Rio ) , " Waco " , 66 was definitely the Star of the film and advanced to a great career on the Silver Screen . This is truly a great CLASSIC FILM ! ENJOY .
Thomas Gomez Was Fantastic	Greatly enjoyed this film which had great photography in Arizona and showed in great detail the Native American dwellings and customs . Tyrone Power ( Constable Duncan MacDonald ) , " The Eddy Duchin Story " , ' 56 , played a young Canadian Mounted Police Constable who was on a mission to rescue settlers who were captured and held hostage . Thomas Gomez , ( Natayo Smith ) , " Key Largo " , ' 48 gave an outstanding performance as a guide to Duncan through the Indian country and demanded great rewards for his services . Penny Edwards , ( Emerald Neeley ) , " Two Guys from Texas " , ' 48 was the only white woman around and was greatly abused through out the entire picture . Despite all the conflicts among the Indians and the White folks , Duncan MacDonald was able to adopt a young boy as his son with the Indian community blessings . I have seen Thomas Gomez perform in many Classic films , but I truly enjoyed his great acting abilities in this film and regret he had a very short lived career .
KARLOFF TRIES TO ELIMINATE ALL PAIN & SUFFERING !	Long before anesthesia , operations in London hospitals were wards of screaming patients in great pain and suffering . In 1840 , Dr . Thomas Bolton ( Boris Karloff ) , a great humanitarian surgeon , tries to eliminate all the pain and suffering connected with surgery . Bolton tries out experiments on himself and as a result becomes addicted to the drugs which he is taking . Some of Dr . Bolton's pain-killing gas works against him and a patient revives and attacks employee's of the hospital , therefore , Dr . Bolton is dismissed . Bolton wanders into the Seven Dials , a disreputable tavern and is taken over by the innkeeper , Black Ben ( Francis De Wolff ) and his assistant , Resurrection Joe ( Christopher Lee ) ( The Dracula of the 60's ) This film was originally titled " Doctor from Seven Dials , and this film was produced back-to-back with " The Haunted Strangler " by the same director , Robert Day . This film is a great old gaslite melodrama of Old London in B & W and gives you the creeps with all the cries of pain , blood and pain . Karloff plays a very calm doctor in Wolf's clothing , ready to do his THING !
No Justice At All	This is a great film because it shows how people took the law into their own hands and judged men before they had a fair trial in this Western Film from 1943 . Henry Fonda , ( Gil Carter ) gave a great performance in this film and it was a film that Fonda enjoyed making and even requested being able to play this role . Anthony Quinn , ( Juan Martinez ) portrayed a Mexican man who spoke many languages and was being accused of a crime he did not commit and gave a great supporting role through out the entire film . Dana Andrews , ( Donald Martin ) also was accused of a crime he did not commit and had a young wife and children who was blamed for cattle stealing and murder . I was surprise to see Jane Darwell , ( Jenny Grier ) being the only woman who was out for blood and loved to see a hanging . Great Fonda film , worth seeing , enjoy .
Marsha Hunt Gave a Great Performance !	It was great seeing this picture and seeing a great beautiful Lady , and actress named Marsha Hunt . She appeared in many pictures in Hollywood and in this picture she stars with a leading man of the 30's and 40's Franchot Tone , ( Lt . George Braynor Collins ) , " Advise and Consent " , ' 62 . Marsha Hunt , Fredie Andrew / Collins ) , " Blue Denium " , ' 59 , was not appreciated as she should have been in Hollywood and was not given the proper roles she deserved . In this picture she plays a woman caught between two men , Gene Kelly ( Lt . Vito S . Alessandro ) , " Brigadoon " , ' 54 , who is madly in love with her and also lets her know how he really feels . There are flash backs in this film about all these men who are pilots and fighting against Japan in WW II . It was very interesting seeing Gene Kelly acting instead of " Dancing In The Rain " , as he did in the many musicals he use to appear in for MGM . Van Johnson ( Lt . Everett Arnold ) , " Subway in the Sky " , ' 59 , even appeared in this picture very young and just starting out in his career . A great film with many great Classic actors . It is nice to know that Marsha Hunt will have a Birthday on Oct 17th , she will be 87 years younger !
Lots of Picture Taking	Some how I seemed to have missed this picture and was amazed at the great acting of Robin Williams as a photo clerk who took his job very serious and envied a local family , especially the young attractive mom , Connie Nielsen , ( Nina Yorkin ) , " Return to Sender " , ' 04 , who enjoyed all the comforts of home and some what neglected her husband in the bedroom . Robin Williams , ( Sy Parrish ) , " The Final Cut " , ' 04 , put his heart and soul into every picture that he developed and had a very very large Album of his own at home . Sy Parrish had a very dark dark mental problem from his youth and it seemed to give him problems as he became very close to the Yorkin family and their son . If you like Robin Williams talent , this is definitely an entirely different role he had to perform in .
Lopez Was Fantastic	Jennifer Lopez ( Slim Hiller ) , " The Cell " , 2000 , gave an outstanding performance as a waitress in a diner who becomes star struck with Bill Campbell ( Mitch Hiller ) , who happens to visit the diner and manages to spring a web of wealth and love all around Slim Hiller and a sweet daughter is even born from their marriage . Slim Hiller is completely happy and content , until she listens into a cell phone and problems seem to steam roll into a complete disaster . Mitch Hiller and Slim seem to run from one place to another and it seems to never end . Eventually Slim decides to get some lessons in defense and the film starts all over again and has some very thrilling events . Jennifer Lopez is very sexy and beautiful and gives a great acting performance along with a great cast of supporting actors . This is a very entertaining film , very exciting and keeps you on the complete edge of your seat .
Naomi Watts Stole the Film	Figured this was going to be another typical Western until I noticed that Naomi Watts , ( Rebecca Yoder ) , " King Kong " , ' 05 , was playing the role of an Amish woman who had recently lost her husband by some Evil Dudes . The opening scene shows love making going on between Rebecca Watts and her husband and not long after he is put to death by Cattle Ranchers who did not want sheep on their property after they had deliberately cut the wire fence around their property . Rebecca seems to always hear music in her mind , and her religion forbids listening to or making any musical sounds . Rebecca meets up with Timothy Daly , ( Johnny Gault ) , " Return of Sender " , ' 04 who manages to start a very nice warm and loving relationship . It was nice seeing Keith Carradine and David Carradine in this film , David played a Dr . Lucas Henry in this story and gave a great supporting role . This was a very entertaining Hallmark film and worth viewing from beginning to end .
SARANDON & CHAMBERLAIN MADE A CLASSIC TOGETHER !	Viewed this TV film in 1974 and after seeing " THE GREAT GATSBY " , it was a big let down . Just recently I viewed this film again and it had an entire different meaning , Susan Sarandon and Richard Chamberlain made this a great short story film of drama , romance and young passoniate love . The director , George Schaefer , clearing showed what life was like during WW1 , the music , the Southern way of living and the same exact situations America had to face when going to War and having to say goodby to their sweethearts and the broken hearts . At times I found myself getting mad at Susan , she just seemed to give all the men in her life a hard time and made you want to see her an OLD MAID ! That is good acting and that is why this film is a great Classic to view .
Carpenter & Marino Burn Up the Screen	Enjoyed this TV film and the great acting , romance and mystery involved with so many men getting bumped off . Chrisma Carpenter , ( Laura Clifford ) , " Angel TV series , ' 99'-'03 " , took one look at James Thomas , ( Rafe Marino ) and fell madly in love and had some very torrid scenes together . This romance took James's mind off his recent loss , however , the police were starting to question James and his old friend from the past , Victoria Sanchez , ( Gloria Moretti ) , " Noel " , ' 04 , who was a police officer , comes to his aid . You could almost see that Victoria was also very attracted to James , however , James just did not seem the gleam in her eyes or her attractive body . This film entertained and is worth your time to view it the next time it appears on TV . Enjoy
Great Acting / Great Film	Viewed this film years ago and I was too young at the time to fully enjoy this film which is a great entertaining film and full of mystery and suspense . Vanessa Redgrave , ( Jane ) played the role of a young woman who was in a park with an older Grey hair man and they were lovers kissing and hugging . While this couple were enjoying each other , a professional photographer named Thomas , ( David Hemmings ) was taking their picture and it was not too long before Jane realizes that she is having her picture taken and she runs after Thomas and demands having the film . Thomas refuses and rushes home to develop the film and discovers the fact that there was a murder committed on the film and this event makes the film very interesting and mysterious . There are scenes with two young females who visit Thomas's studio looking to become models and they all wind up making love to each other . You will never believe how this film ENDS . Enjoy .
Horror's of Men in Prison	Jean-Claude Van Damme , ( Kyle ) , " Wake of Death " , ' 04 , wound up in prison just because of police stupidity and has a life sentence in a place no person would ever want to stay even for five ( 5 ) minutes . Kyle encounters all kinds of strange people and very horny men who desire sex the Hersey way and lots more . The prison personnel and their wives enjoyed watching boxing matches in which the prisoners fought to kill each other . There was all kinds of corruption among the guards and inmates , some of them betrayed their fellow inmates , which sent them to sewers and filthy conditions to sleep and eat . Jean-Claude Van Damme and the cast of actors did a fantastic acting performance , a very graphic story about the horrors of men in prison .
Marlon Brando was Fantastic !	When I first viewed this film I was completely captivated by the great acting of both Jack Nicholson , " The Last Tycoon " , ' 76 and Marlon Brando , " Sayonara " , ' 57 . I was completely shocked by the way this picture ended and I always remembered the ending and forgot the entire story . The entire picture starts off weird , where you are seeing a man swinging from a rope around his neck and dying quite slowly . However , this unfortunate guy stole a horse and it was a major offense in the State of Missouri and the story revolves around a gang lead by Jack Nicholson who is burning out from trying to steal horses for a living and decides to send some of his gang into Canada for some fresh horses . Kathleen Floyd ( Jane Braxton ) , " The Car " , ' 77 , who plays a very sexy role and is bold enough to ask Jack Nicholson if he wants sexual intercourse on their second date . Marlon Brando plays the role of a Hawk , who searches out horse thieves and uses every horrible way in order to torture them with a horrible evil deed . I believe Brando put his heart and soul completely into playing this role and it is truly a masterpiece which I will never forget . He is and always will be one of our great Film Actors of all TIME !
Page Finally Won an Oscar	Always have been a big fan of Geraldine Page and in this film Page played the role of an older woman , ( Mrs . Carrie Watts ) who lives with her son , Ludie Watts , ( John Heard ) and his wife , Jessie Mae , ( Carlin Glynor ) in a very small apartment in Houston , Texas . All these people do not get along very well because Carrie Watts wants to return to her old home in Bountiful , Texas which she misses so dearly . Ludie feels that his mother is not very well to travel by herself and live alone and does not want his mother to leave . Jessie Mae wants her mother-in-law to stay because she can use her social security check which Carrie tries to hind in order to make her escape . Carrie has tried many times to get away and you will have to view this film in order to see if Carrie ever does get away to her dream town of Bountiful , Texas .
Interesting TV FILM !	This film held my interest in the very beginning , going back to the WWII years and a guy named Aidan Quinn dressed in an Army Uniform and starting out with his war bride , Marcia Gay Harden . They were very much in love and their favorite song was , ' See You In My Dreams ' , which is played through out the entire film . The sweet and in love couple have a son who the father loves very dearly and wants him to achieve all the best things that life has to offer . Lots of drinking goes on and words are said and there is the possibility that a wife is cheating on her husband . The ending of the picture is what life is all about and the prices we pay for the lives we LIVE !
Very Entertaining Film	Viewed the first " Cruel Intentions " and was not certain if this second film would measure up to the first one . Keri Lynn Pratt , ( Cherie Claymon ) , " Fat Albert " , ' 04 , put her heart and soul into this picture and was able to make it a great success along with Robin Dunne , ( Sebastian Valmont ) , " The Skulls II " , ' 02 . Sebastian and Cherie burned up the screen with sex , double meaning statements and lots of comic action through out the entire picture . The fathers and mothers in this film did their own thing sexually and there was plenty of AC & DC secrets being with held that will surprise you . Sit back , relax and let this film entertain you to know END .
Joseph Goebels Wanted to be like Disney	The Nazis took film making very seriously . It was one of the many areas covered by the Ministry of Propaganda led by Joseph Goebels . In 1943 , Germany was beginning to face defeat and Goebels decided to make a comedy , drama like the Americans were able to accomplish , like , " Wizard of Oz " and many other films . I decided to view this film and find out just who Baron Munchhausen was and why they picked this person to make a film about . It seems Munchhausen pretends to be 200 years old , narrates his supposed travels and fantastical experiences with his band of misfits . He had hunting adventures , his experiences in the Turkinsh wars and an account of his incredible travels - - be it on the Ocean , the Moon or in a Volcano and in Venice . I was surprised in one adventure that they even showed women bouncing around near a pool Topless , hardly a Walt Disney film or American entertainment in the 1940's . Hans Albers , ( Baron Munchhausen ) , " Carl Peters " , ' 41 played an outstanding role and was a good actor . However , just knowing that Joseph Goebels , who was the promoter of this film , gives me the creeps . Goebels hated everyone in the world except Germans and the Jewish people who were his main target . This sure is a Nazi circus of a film which is the complete distortion of what that country stood for during those war years . Thank God America WON !
Great 50's Classic	After viewing this film , it is truly a great 1950's classic with outstanding acting by the entire cast ; and a great story with a realistic view of what the Rodeo life really is and the pain and suffering that is experienced by men and woman . Robert Mitchum ( Jeff McCloud ) , " Farewell ' , My Lovely " , ' 75 , played a real calm cool veteran star of the Cowboy game shows and was very successful , but was beginning to show wear and tear . Arthur Kennedy , ( Wes Merritt ) , " Peyton Place " , ' 57 , was originally a ranch hand trying to buy his dream house for his wife Louise Merritt , ( Susan Hayward ) , " With A Song in My Heart " , ' 52 , and loved her husband very much . However , when Wes Merritt got together with Jeff McCloud , all hell broke loose and Louise did everything she could to hog tie her husband down from very hot women , wild horses , and bulls with angry tempers . Great film , don't miss it , it will be around for many generations to enjoy .
Classic Comedy Film	Over the years I missed this film and really appreciated viewing great actors from the past and present who were able to perform Drama as well as , COMEDY . The story starts out with all the famous Hollywood detectives from the past namely , Charlie Chan , Nick & Nora Charles etc . , who were all called different names in this picture . They are invited to a dinner where a murder is going to be witnessed and of course there will be clues to the guilt person or persons . Eileen Brennan , ( Tess Skeffington ) , was a partner to Peter Falk and was very young looking in 1976 , she was the Sgt . in " Private Benjamin " , and gave a great performance in this film as a tipsy blonde gal . Truman Capote , ( Lionel Twain ) , " In Cold Blood " , made an appearance but his acting was horrible , but funny , considering he is an author and not in the acting field . This is a great film to view and enjoy , even if you have not seen it in a long time . Nancy Walker was a maid and did a great job of saying not a WORD !
Very Very Enjoyable Comedy	Rob Schneider ( Deuce Bigalow ) , " The Hot Chick " , ' 02 , had me laughing through out the entire film . Bigalow starts out as a very simple guy who cleans fish tanks and other details , like plunging a toilet bowl . He meets up with a guy who lets him use his home while he goes on a trip and things start to happen . As the picture progresses , Bigalow finds himself having to service all kinds of women with very crazy personalities and wild desires . One gal has such bad language he takes her to a baseball game where she can use all kinds of filthy words and be applauded by the crowd . However , Deuce Bigalow does meet up with a gal Arija Bareikis and falls madly in love with her , however , he pulls her leg too much and gets her very hot and bothered . Deuce eventually goes to trial and you will have the view the film to find out how it ends . Great Comedy and a fantastic performance by Rob Schneider .
The Mystery Still Remains ? ?	As far as I am concerned , Robert Wagner and Natalie Wood were the perfect Hollywood couple , who had their ups and downs like any other marriage . Michael Weatherly ( Robert Wagner ) , " Trigger Happy " , ' 01 , did a fantastic job of acting like Bob Wagner and was able to show great emotions when Natalie had her first child and it was not his child , which he wanted it to be . Later on in their second marriage they were able to have a child from their " Second Time Around Marriage " . Matthew Settle ( Warren Beatty ) , " The In Crowd " , ' 2000 , portrayed a great role when he was asking Natalie to appear in his film " Bonnie & Clyde " , in which she declined . Justine Waddell ( Natalie Wood ) , " Anna Karenina " , ' 97 was outstanding in her performance and was radiant in every scene . I never realized what a horrible effect Natalie's mother had in her life and the evil control she had over everything she did . In this TV film , you really have to draw your own conclusions as to what really happened to Natalie Wood and READ BETWEEN THE LINES ! in order to come to an honest Ending to this story !
Under Rated Film	This is a very unusual film dealing with a stranger , ( Tony Anthony ) who has a double reason for picking out this lonely abandoned looking town and finds some tough and rough looking characters who are really a bunch of cut-throats . The Stranger is looking for wanted men for a reward and also a gold shipment which is suppose to take place in this town . The Stranger keeps hidden and manages to watch everyone , even a woman who is a bi-sexual woman who has a man named Aguilar , ( Frank Wolff ) and a young girl with a baby . The Stranger gets caught and he makes a deal with Aguilar to give them some of the gold when it comes to town . There is very little conversation throughout this film and sometimes long periods of silence which keeps you anxious as to who is going to be beaten to death or killed . Don't miss this film , it has a great musical score and it seems like a film you have seen with Clint Eastwood as the star . Enjoy .
A MUST SEE FILM FOR MEN AND WOMEN !	This film kept my interest right to the very end and gave me lots of food for thought afterwards . Everything about this film is down to earth , just like everyday Life is . Rebecca DeMornay , ( Arlene Holsclaw ) starts out running away from prison through the woods with a child in her belly and hitchhikes to the nearest town . Lots of trouble starts in this town which you cannot even imagine . Arlie , ( which she hates to be called , perferring Arlene ) tries to live a normal life after being introduced to religion from ( Richard Jenkins ) Prison Chaplin . She is helped by a kind soul ( Carole Mitchell Leon ) Ruby , who sort of takes her under her wing and tries to get her a job as a dishwasher , however , Arlene perfers to sell her fantastic knitting art work . She runs into an old devil of a boyfriend ( Robert Knepper ) Carl , who tries to become her pimp and tells her to stop reading the Bible . Arlene is tricked out of her prision money to the tune of $500 . 00 and seems to wear the same old prison dress she was issued at the beginning of the picture . Your heart goes out to Arlene , she just cannot get things to work out for her and life deals her a very bad hand in everyway possible . Her mother , ( Ellen Burstyn ) is a heartless and evil mommie who gives her child away and watches her own flesh and blood be molested by a family member . This picture clearly depicts what mother's and father's can do to their children with physical and mental abuse . Arlene represents all the young girls who have gone through CHILD ABUSE and have never had a normal life since . It is a sad picture , but a picture that has a great deal of TRUTH and realism . Young men and Young woman should SPEAK OUT RIGHT AWAY ! whenever these people ( family or friends ) try to abuse you in anyway .
Masterpiece of a Film	Enjoyed this film starring Roger Livesey , ( Clive Candy ) who is a general who returned from the Boer War during the First World War and gets himself involved with politics and decides he is going to try and create better relations with German . This better relations in Germany involves a very pretty young woman named Edith Hunter , ( Deborah Kerr ) who plays different roles in this film and there are many different situations that Clive Candy experiences as he learns who are his friends and enemies and at the same time he gets deeply involved with a woman who is 20 years younger than he is . This film goes into great detail about the times in London and Germany during the First World War and at the same time creates a nice romance with a very young Deborah Kerr who was only twenty-two years of age in 1943 . Good Film , Enjoy .
Great Classic Actors Just Starting their Careers !	This is truly a great film and was very well produced considering it was in the early 30's . Lew Ayres ( Louie Ricarno ) , " Calling Dr . Kildare " , ' 38 , was a crook trying to go straight and start a new life for himself and did everything to protect James Cagney , ( Steve Mileaway ) , " The Public Enemy " , ' 31 , who was a fellow side kick in the rackets and was also fooling around with his wife . Louie's wife decided that by taking off her wedding ring it made it legal for her to fool around , which must have shocked the audiences of the 1930's . All these actors were just starting their careers in this film and gangster films were very popular . If you look close , you will also see Dwight Frye ( Monk , a gangster ) , " Frankenstein " , ' 31 and Ward Bond ( a policeman that was uncredited in this picture ) Ward Bond appeared in many of John Wayne Western Films . The producer of this film wanted the public to realize that " CRIME DOES NOT PAY " .
1970 Gem of a Film	This is a film you can view and enjoy because it is a story about a Red Neck Capt . Beau Carter , ( Stephen Boyd ) who is ordered by a General to lead an all Black Brigade to protect a Dam that will be blown up by the Nazi forces . Capt . Beau was not so upset with having an all Black Brigade , but he learned that this Brigade was given for three , ( 3 ) years menial duties and had no experience in combat . One man was deaf and there was a soldier Pvt . Jonathan Crunk , ( Richard Pryor ) who did not want to die and he would run away from the enemy . This film tells a great story about the past and I am so glad we have progressed beyond racial barriers . This is a Gem of a film and very worth your time viewing this story . Enjoy .
Classic Film For 1955	This was the last picture that Howard Hughes , Executive Producer , would produce with Jane Russell . Howard produced " The Outlaw " with Russell years ago and it was a big success because it was baned by many Christian churches , because too much cleveage was exposed by Jane R . In this film , Jane Russell , ( Theresa Gray ) , " Young Widow " , ' 46 , appears mostly in a bathing suit and shows off her body in all the right places and was the wife of Richard Egan , ( Johnny Gray ) , " Untamed " , ' 55 , who had a great addiction to trying to find treasure and was down on his luck and just got married ; so he was looking for a big find . Gilbert Roland , ( Dominic ) , " Sonora " , 69 was also a skilled diver who also desired to find sunken riches from the deep coral reefs . Lori Nelson , ( Gloria ) , " The Naked Monster " , ' 05 , was a cute petite blond friend of Dominic and played a rather dumb role . In 1955 , scuba diving was a new feature and underwater films were of great interest to the public . There even was a priest who went along on the boat , who had great interest in religious relics that had sunken into the sea . There is some exciting scenes which captured the audiences of the 50's ; it is truly a great Classic Film .
A Funeral Service Never Takes Place	This is truly a great Classic film which was produced while President , Dwight D . Eisenhower was in office . In those days , this picture was not very well received and considered a very poor comedy and in bad taste . However , over the many years this film has found itself as a great Classic . Edmund Gwenn , ( Capt . Albert Wiles ) , " The Keys of the Kingdom " , ' 44 , put his heart and soul into this part and carried this picture on his back . Another great actress , Mildred Natwich , ( Miss Ivy Gravely ) , " The Kissing Bandit " , ' 48 gave a great supporting role as a lonely older woman looking very hard at Capt . Albert Wiles as her later in life Soul Mate . John Forsythe , ( Sam Marlowe ) , " Charlie's Angels " , ' 76 TV Series starts falling in love with Shirley McLaine and even hints about wanting to see her in the nude on his very first meeting with her . Sam Marlowe , is an artist and draws very very way out pictures . Jerry Mathers , ( Arnie Rogers ) , " Leave it to Beaver " , ' 57 TV Series , gave a wonderful supporting role . Everyone over the years seems to either love this picture or find it TROUBLING to VIEW and consider it a very poor film .
Duvall Knock Himself Out	When ever I know that Robert Duvall is going to appear in a film , it will be a good story and a great part for him to portray . In this picture he plays a real down to earth old time Western man who grew up from the school of hard knocks . Duvall , ( Prentice Ritter ) , " Open Range " , ' 03 , takes on a big venture to herd a large amount of horses over mountains and valleys . Prentice has the help of Thomas Haden Church , ( Tom Harte ) , " Sideways " , who had become distant with his mother and father over the years and is finding a solution to his past problems with himself . This is not your regular type of Western , it has its bad guys and quite a few Chinese young girls who have an experience in the Wild West they will never forget . These poor Chinese girls were going to be exploited into the world of prostitution and both Tom Harte and Prentice Ritter do their very best to keep these girls safe from harm . Greta Scacchi , Flight Plan " , ' 05 plays the role of a woman who has been around the block many times and shows the wear and tear on her face . She takes a liking to poor old Prentice . In this picture , Robert Duvall knock himself out playing his character role in this picture and I mean complete body and soul to make this a great picture .
Outstanding Comedy Film	Have not had the great experience of seeing any of these films with Jay & Silent Bob and throughly enjoyed every minute of pure great entertainment . However , I taped this film in the wee hours of the AM and the film was Bleeped constantly because of the F word and quite a few others . The picture featured many great entertainers and the best part was when Jay & Silent Bob invaded Hollywood and made a Merry-go-round of all the studios and even had a security guard go crazy trying to track them down . The gals were fantastic in the picture , and the double meaning jokes make you burst out in complete laughter . Sorry if the gay community found this film offensive ; Hollywood and the media always pick on various groups to make fun of . Sit back , and completely enjoy this great COMEDY !
Gem of a Classic Film	Betty Davis , ( Mildred Rogers ) gave an outstanding performance that will be admired for many generations and the great acting of Leslie Howard , ( Philip Carey ) who fell madly in love with Mildred . Philip was watching Mildred working as a waitress in a London caf and fell immediately in love and he went way out of his way to win her heart and this feeling never left him . However , Philip had a club foot and was really a shy quite man and his relationship with Mildred was horrible because Mildred looked down on him and played around with other men right in front of Philip . Philip is trying to become a doctor and is going to college and trying to study and Mildred disrupts his whole career and then has a baby from someone else and Philip still loves and protects her . Betty Davis and Leslie Howard were both made for this role and it is a film you can see over and over again because it is a Gem of a Classic
The German version of this Picture was Excellent !	Viewed this GREAT Classic film of Greta Garbo and thought her performance was excellent . However , the German film version which had English captions was her greatest performance . Greta Garbo even mentioned to the press that the German film was her favorite where she had to make the change from Silent films to sound . Greta had a high pitched voice and had to take lessons in order to lower her voice for her future roles in films . This story was very sad because Greta Garbo ( Anna Christie ) , " Ninotchka " , ' 39 , was abused on a farm by young boys and her father left her years ago as a sailor and then as a coal barge captain . There were many scenes of Old NYC , the Brooklyn Bridge , Coney Island and the sky line of Manhattan . Charles Bickford ( Matt Burke ) , " Days of Wine & Roses " , ' 62 a Classic veteran actor gave a great supporting role .
Sal Mineo was Outstanding	Have always been a great fan of Sal Mineo , ( Les Henderson ) who plays a great role in this film as an orphan in this school for boys who encounters some very dangerous men . Les's orphanage is located near a prisoner colony with harden criminals and he meets up with Rudy Krist , ( James Whitmore ) who becomes friendly with him and they both exchange words dealing about Les's great interest in boating . Les brings vegetables and fresh fruits to the guards and that is why Les is allowed to speak the the prisoners . Rudy is very interested in the boat that Les has because he finds this is a great way to escape from his captivity . However , there is a warden named Plug , ( J . Carrol Naish ) who runs this prison camp and he is rough and tough and will stop at nothing to kill anyone who tries to escape . This is a very interesting 1957 film in black and white and it is great to see such great veteran actors as J . Carrol Naish and James Whitmore give outstanding performances .
Great Old Time Classic	In this picture we have a cast of veteran actors , namely : John Carradine , ( Mike Clancy ) known for his acting as a vampire with Boris Karloff and also Sidney Toler , ( Capt . Kruger ) who played the role as Charlie Chan in many 1940's serials . Then , Gale Sondergaard , ( Marge Wilson ) who appeared in many horror films and also with Basil Rathbone in Sherlock Holmes . In this picture the cast is all involved in trying to find 30 million dollars in gold on a sunken ship and believe it or not Sidney Toler plays the bad guy . If you like real old black and white films starring these actors , this is a film you will not want to miss viewing . Enjoy .
Enjoyed the BOOK !	Greatly enjoyed John Grisham's great story about a warm and kind family in the South who had the hard task of picking Cotton for a living and never painting their home . All the actors did a fantastic job of portraying what a very hard life it was in 1952 trying to find Mexican help and poor White families to assist in the picking process . Grisham's book went into more detail and the picture sort of chopped up the entire story , especially the scene where Luke , a young boy takes a peek at a girl taking a swim in the nude . Luke also witnesses a murder and plays a funny trick on a Yankee Lady who has to use the OUT HOUSE ! Great film which makes you laugh and CRY !
Barbara Niven Was Red HOT	This picture opens up with a murder being committed and you see the killer and understand almost immediately why this person was permitted to have a very short life on earth . There was a great deal of hatred in the killers face and a real dark dark side , along with a tortured deep mental problem . Barbara Niven , ( Donna Germaine ) , " The Drone Virus " , ' 04 , put her heart and soul into this role and showed what a great talent she has to offer Hollywood . Donna gets her complete mind , body and soul into getting a SOUL MATE for life and will do anything that will accomplish her goal . Human life is taken left and right through out the picture and everything is a perfect crime to go along with the Title of the film , " A Perfect Neighbor " . Enjoy .
James Stewart played a Different Role	This is the only picture that I can remember James Stewart playing a con artist and all out cruel human being as Marshal Guthrie McCabe , " The Big Sleep " , ' 78 . Marshal Guthrie sort of runs his local town and has investments in the saloon and local business and sits and drinks beer and smokes long cigars on a porch with his feet high in the air . Along comes Richard Widmark , ( First Lt . , Jim Gary ) " Hanky Panky " , ' 82 , a Calvary Lt . , on orders to get the Marshall to face some Indian tribes and obtain prisoners who were taken years ago . Shirley Jones , ( Marty Purcell ) , " Raising Genius " , ' 04 , runs around in very tight jeans and plays a music box that her brother use to play with before he was taken away by bad Indians ! John Ford produced this film but really did not have his heart and soul in its production , however , the leadings actors managed to carry the entire picture on their backs . If you look real close in the beginning , you will see Ward Bond , who passed away during the filming . If you are big fans of Stewart and Widmark , and remember Harry Carey and Andy Devine , this is the film for YOU .
Story to tell the Young / Never ever Forget	This was a very heartbreaking story of human beings , Children of God , being tortured on a daily basis by people without any souls and heartless beasts , called Nazi's . It is easy for the Nazi soldiers to say , " Hitler told me to do it , " but deep down in their own hearts they all knew it was wrong to treat any race or religion in this fashion . Kirsten Dunst , ( Hannah Stern ) , " Elizabethtown " , ' 05 played the role of a Jewish gal who had a mind of her own and wound up in a concentration camp in Poland and was placed in a camp for women only . Unfortunately , there is a baby born in this horrible place and the women did everything in the world to save the child's life . There is a scene which really shows how the Nazi's killed innocent beaten down human souls . A film you must tell the younger generation about and NEVER FORGET and never let anyone tell you it NEVER HAPPENED ! It sure DID !
This Film was a BIG SURPRISE !	For some reason I seemed to have missed this picture and was completely surprised from the very beginning of the picture to the end . The film opened with a beautiful young girl full of life and happiness and meets a strange dark figure and her entire being changes into an a Senior Citizen ! ! . Hoast Janson , ( Captain Kronos ) , " Singles " , ' 97 TV Series , has a different approach to hunting for VAMPIRES ! Captain Kronos is an excellent swordsman and has very good taste in women , namely : Caroline Munro , ( Carla ) , " Flesh For the Beast " , 03 who is very sexy and tries to tame Kronos to her ways and bend him around her little finger . You will see boxes filled with frogs and bells on a string and different crosses made of Steel in order to capture the vampire who loves YOUTH . You will also see a hunchback in the film which makes it a true HORROR FILM ! ! ! ! It is certainly a different story and very enjoyable .
An Amazing Film	Recently viewed this film which was called , " Blood In Blood Out " and could hardly believe the great details and realistic way this film was produced . There is no doubt that it showed what Prison Life really is like among all races , Black , Brown , White and many more and how each group has to struggle to exist and at the same time have fun , make money and kill each other . If you wanted sex in prison , you had plenty of willing partners and it just might be a very difficult and hard way to deal with it , or just simply getting raped when you least expect it . A young guy gets out of jail and tries to go down the straight and narrow path and winds up losing a body part and is constantly trying to become a gang member . There is a guy who has a great ability of being an artist , drawing great paintings and he gets cut up and his back twisted like a pretzel . If you want to go to prison , watch this film and it just might change your mind completely . Plenty of action and it goes none stop through out the entire picture .
Great Acting , Great FILM !	Enjoyed this film and the great acting skills performed by all the great stars . The complete family was nuts and also quite normal at times and went to all kinds of extremes in showing the various personalities of each member of the Tenenbaums Family . Gene Hackman ( Royal Tenenbaum ) , " Behind Enemy Lines " , ' 01 , was a very misunderstood dad who did everything possible to get the respect he needed as an up standing DAD ! Angelica Huston , ( Etheline Tenenbaum ) , " Daddy Day Care " , ' 03 , tried to be a faithful wife and seemed to get deeply involved with Danny Glover ( Henry Sherman ) , " The Cook Out " , ' 04 who was quite funny and very entertaining through out the entire film . Gwyneth Paltrow , ( Margot Tenenbaum ) , " View From the Top " , ' 03 , looked very comical and had me laughing about her horrible habit of smoking and she never seemed to stop through out almost every scene . If you love these actors , you will see them perform very difficult roles with great professional skills .
Great STORY and Fantastic ACTING !	This made for TV Film had a wonderful cast of actors , fantastic photography of the coast line of Ireland with its quaint cottages and lighthouse . Keith McErlean ( Declan ) , " At Death's Door " , ' 99 became sick with AIDS and his family came to his aid along with his faithful loving men friends . His mother , Dianne Wiest , " I am Sam " , ' 02 and grandmother , Angela Lansbury ( Dora ) , " Gaslight " , ' 44 " , along with his sister found out he was gay and did not realize how deeply he was loved . Coping with the AIDS in the family magically drew all the immediate family together and they came to terms with their great misunderstanding of each other . Old and Young a like had a great learning experience and were able to accept the FEELINGS they all deeply shared with its other . Words cannot describe the great message this film had to offer along with the great physical suffering AIDS can cause to the human body . If you missed this picture , view it the next time it is shown on TV ! !
John Payne Did Not Sing a Song !	Over the years I have seen John Payne sing and dance in all kinds of MGM Musicals and in this picture , John played an entirely different role . John Payne was an ex-con , ( Joe Rolfe / Peter Harris ) , " They Ran for their Lives " , ' 68 , and got himself involved with some hard nosed criminals . Coleen Gray , ( Helen Foster ) , " The Late Liz " , ' 71 , fell in love with Joe Rolfe . However , her father , Preston Foster , ( Tim Foster ) , " Law & Order " , ' 53 , did not want his daughter to get involved with Helen and did everything in his power to stop this love affair . Neville Brand , ( Boyd Kane ) , " Evils of the Night " , ' 85 , played the crime boss who would stop at nothing to blow your head OFF ! If you like veteran actors with a good story , this is the film for YOU !
Great Film to View Over & Over	Have not seen this film in years and decided to enjoy the great masterpiece of a slap stick Western by Mel Brooks . This story deals with a small Western town that needs a sheriff and there are not too many people that are willing to accept this position . There are bad dudes running the town by their powerful boss , Hedley Lamarr , ( Harvey Korman ) who does not like the new sheriff recently elected mainly because he is African American and he does not want the law enforced in his town . The name of the sheriff is Bart , ( Cleavon Little ) who is being helped by a prisoner named Jim , ( Gene Wilder ) who is a fast gunslinger and he does hit the bottle quite often , like all day . There are some great veteran actors in this film , Slim Pickens , ( Taggart ) , Madeline Kahn , ( Lili Von Shtupp ) and even Mel Brooks appears in his film as a governor and Indian . Cleavon Little was not the original actor that Mel Brooks was considering for this role , Mel wanted Richard Pryor who was turned down for the role . Great Comedy of a film and worth seeing over and over again . Enjoy .
Film Told A Great Deal of Truths !	Most people have viewed films about problems on commercial airliners and usually it is the Same Old , Same Old theme . Well , this film had the same basic story line , but dealt with a different situation . The Military got involved and wanted to abort the entire plane and even the CEO of the Airline wanted to abort . Kelly Hu , ( Sharon Crandall ) , " Cradle 2 the Grave " , ' 03 , was a very sexy and good looking airline attendant who had plenty of smarts in the cockpit and gave a great supporting role . Aidan Quinn , ( John Berry ) , " Proud " , ' 04 , played an ordinary passenger on this Flight # 52 from San Francisco to Tokyo , Japan and had a pilot license . Gail O'Grady , ( Ann Metz ) , " NYPD Blue TV Series , ' 93 , was an insurance specialist , who made the statement , " There is a certain price we can pay on Dead Passengers " Many people were involved with the problems on this aircraft and each party had their own solution to trying to cover it up , even the helpful Insurance Company . This film did uncover what really goes on in real life , behind the scenes , when such events do happen , like the Hurrican in New Orleans . Nice entertainment for an evening .
Outstanding TV Film !	This was an outstanding TV film on " Lifetime " and had lots of action and suspense . This family had a great home and were running into financial problems and all of a sudden a long lost son appears at their doorstep , Andrew Kraulis , ( Jamie Fisher ) , who gains the love and support of this family and is adored by his mom , Linda Purl , ( Katherine Norris ) . The plot gets quite involved and there is plenty of action through out the entire film . If you want to see a great film with great acting , some romance , and the suspense of not knowing how the film with end , watch and enjoy this one ! The ending is quite interesting and I bet you will never guess what happens .
Exceptional Great Acting	This film and its story line kept me guessing through out the entire picture and each of the characters had acting roles that were very difficult to portray on screen . Jake Gyllenhaal , ( Joe Nast ) , " Proof " , ' 05 , lost his bride to be in horrible circumstances and remained with the girl's parents . Dustin Hoffman , ( Ben Floss ) , " Meet the Fockers " , ' 04 , and Susan Sarandon , ( Jojo Floss ) , " Alfie " , ' 04 , both were husband and wife and did an outstanding acting performance . Ellen Pompeo , ( Bertie Knox ) , " Daredevil " , ' 03 played the role of a postal employee and bar worker who enters Joe Nast's life and gives him a hard time at times trying to find Wedding Invitations which had to be returned . If you like these veteran actors , you also will appreciate Jake Gyllenhall and Ellen Pompeo great acting abilities .
Nicolette Sheridan Is a Super Star !	This is a great TV movie , it keeps you on the edge of your seat and you are kept guessing just where this picture is leading you throughout the entire movie . Nicolette Sheridan ( Donna ) gives an excellent performance and makes you believe in her character as Donna . Andrew Jackson II ( Adam Hamilton ) goes from lover and charmer to a complete MONSTER . He portrays a very sick man with very sick ideas against women in general . Roz ( Leni Parker ) a bookstore owner tries to help Donna with the horrible situation she has put herself in and gives a great supporting role . This is a must see film , if you like plenty of drama and excitement , a lesson can be learned from this film , simply , fooling around with a married man and also being married yourself , can lead to Impossible Situations .
Great 2006 Christmas Story	Figured this TV Film was going to be the typical Christmas Story and since I like Rob Lowe , I decided to give it a try and was completely surprised through out the entire film . Rob Lowe ( Robert Harlan ) gets fired from his job and then decides to try his hand at writing a book with the constant encouragement of his wife Paget Brewster ( Allyson Harlan ) . All of a sudden Robert's life changes completely and so does his soul , so to speak . The rest of the story will make us all face up to the fact that we sometimes focus too much on material things and neglect just plain Love to our neighbors and family . This has the makings of being a great Christmas tradition for all families to watch and enjoy and take good heed to the story which is revealed to us in this Wonderful TV Film . Enjoy every year .
Great Classic	Never viewed this film until just recently when it was shown on TCM and found the film full of laughter and at times it was depressing and sad . Withnail , ( Richard E . Grant ) plays the role as an actor who cannot seem to find very much work and he lives with another actor named Marwood , ( Paul McGann ) who is also in the same situation . They live in a filthy apartment with plenty of empty booze bottles and piles of garbage throw all over the place and dirt dishes piled high up in the kitchen sink . These two characters are decided to get away from the city life for a weekend and convince an uncle to let them stay at his stone cottage in the country farm land . These two actors gave an outstanding performance which makes this a Classic Cult film which can be viewed over and over again .
Outstanding Film & Actors	Over the years I missed viewing this film and was extremely surprised at the great acting by the entire cast . I remembered that this film was created from a Tony Award winning off Broadway hit play and its deep look into the African American community in the 1970's . James Earl Jones , ( Johnny Williams ) is a house painter and has an extra hobby writing poetry . Cicely Tyson , ( Mattie Williams ) plays the wife of Johnny and tries to do her very best to work and keep the family from going down under during rough times and poverty all around them . Louis Gossett , Jr . , ( Dr . Dudley Stanton ) , is a very good friend to Johnny and helps him out financially when he spends all his income on booze and can't make the house payments . Super stars , Lou Gossett and Earl Jones make this a classic film and worth every minute of your time to view this film .
Masterpiece of great Acting	Discovered this film which was showing on TV in the early hours of the AM and enjoyed the entire story about a German actor who reached the top of his career in Nazi controlled Germany . Klaus Maria Brandauer , ( Hendrik Hoefgen ) played the role of this actor who was a perfectionist in his field of acting on the stage and was very successful in performing his role as Mephisto ( The Devil ) in " Faust " and the German people and Nazi's who loved his performance . The Nazi's decided to use Hendrik Hoefgen as their State Theatre Director and use this position as a propaganda platform in the Threate Arts and deceive the German people . Hendrik Hoefgen had a strong desire to present " Hamlet " to the German people and it seems that once this performance was presented , his career started to decline from the lime lights and the Nazi Government . There is an inter-racial love affair going on by Hendrik Hoefgen which adds a great deal of love and romance besides all his other lovers . Great Film , enjoy .
Boris Karloff was a Lawyer in this Classic Film !	Just recently taped this great film Classic and enjoyed going back in time to 1929 and enjoying a picture directed by Lionel Barrymore for MGM . This black & white film with foggy scenes of London and a group of British former officers drinking scotch and soda and singing old tunes while their fellow comrades died like flies , kept you wondering who the killer really was . There was mention of the " Green Ghost through out the picture and it seems this film was originally called " The Green Ghost " . It was funny seeing painted words on the kitchen wall , " Waste NOT " WANT NOT " The big shocker was seeing Boris Karloff , " Bedlam " ' 46 , appear as a lawyer and reading the last will of their fellow officers . Karloff was grateful that Lionel Barrymore gave him an uncredited role in this film , which boosted his recognition on the silver screen . Roland Young ( Lord Montague ) " Topper " ' 37 gave a very comical and dramatic performance and would be considered very slap stick in this generation . Dorothy Sebastian ( Lady Efra Cavander ) former Ziegfeld Gal put some so called action into the film with her very close-cut hair style . Most films in the late 1920's are very hard to find , this is a gem that was great viewing and took me way back in time . Enjoy this film , if you can find it !
Nice Close Up of Bats !	Found this film very entertaining and horrifying with a real close up to a bats face and horrible teeth and angry looks . These bats had a devil looking way of dealing with humans and animals . It took quite a while before some of the local people and mostly college students discovered the fact that bats had taken on an aggressive attitude to loud , wild music and were mostly turned on to red hot blood flowing humans . Lucy Lawless , ( Maddy Rierdon ) , gave an outstanding performance and showed off her great body form . There was lots of wild parties and plenty of young gals and guys getting really spaced out . One girl started foaming at the mouth in class and caused a great deal of gasps in the classroom . Great film and lots of fun to watch , especially the Vampire Bats !
Will Become a Classic Down the Road	Teaming the Sheen family together was not a bad idea and if you liked the great acting skills of this family , you will definitely enjoy seeing them act as a father and son on the police force . Charlie Sheen , ( Jake Peterson ) was a senior detective getting ready to retire and his son Martin Sheen , ( Bill Peterson ) , was completely devoted to his job and neglected his beautiful sexy wife and daughter , Meredith Salenger , ( Rebecca Peterson ) . There was a big scheme among the higher ups and a underworld gang which involved a group of characters who would just look at you and blow your head off . The boss of these real bad dudes was a very hot number , Tina Nguyen , ( Shi ) who had these guys doing anything she wanted and they just about licked her boots . In one scene , Shi got the hots for Rebecca Peterson and I was beginning to wonder just where this picture was going . Plenty of balls of fire and a classic mustang being feather dusted . As years past by , this film will become a classic , only because the Sheen Family both appeared together .
Fantastic Silent Film	Always liked Lon Chaney films and his great acting skills and fantastic make up which many times gave him a great deal of pain while he was acting his many roles . In this film Lon played a double role as The Blackbird / The Bishop where he twisted himself into a pretzel . In this film there is a struggle between an evil brother , Blackbird and a good brother , The Bishop who is beloved by his neighbors and friends . There is also lots of romance between West End Bertie , ( Owen Moore ) and Renee Adoree , ( Fifi ) and the Blackbird tries to interfere with their love relationship . There are plenty of ugly looking faces in these British pubs with lots of smoke and plenty of draft beers being rolled around in mugs and glasses and down plenty of people's throats . This is a masterpiece of Lon Chaney Films . One of his Best , Enjoy .
Karl Malden & Angela Lansbury Were Fantastic !	This is truly a great B & W Classic film with a wonderful cast of great actors . Eva Marie Saint , ( Echo O'Brien ) , " On The Waterfront " , ' 54 tried to keep Warren Beatty ( Berry Berry Willart ) , " Shampoo " , ' 75 , Berry was pumping gas for a sexy blond at a gas station and decided to up and drive off with her , leaving the gas station unattended . Berry was definitely a womanizer who found it very hard to stay with just ONE WOMAN ! Karl Malden ( Ralph Willart ) , " On the Waterfront " , ' 54 like to hit the booze every time he had an argument with his wife , Angela Lansbury ( Annabell Willart ) , " Gaslight " , ' 44 . Annabell gave Ralph a very hard time when he invited some homeless people home for Christmas . There are plenty of laughs and drama . A great Classic Film !
Two Monsters Meet Each Other	Just knew the moment that this picture start out with a BBQ sign and a car that seemed to move back and forth , like love making was going on inside , this was going to be a wild film to watch and enjoy . Eric Roberts , " Break a Leg " , ' 05 , had some real mental problems and was driving up and down a highway , from one diner , motel and vehicle he could find available . However , Eric decides to latch onto Lance Henriksen , " Dream Warrior " , ' 04 , who looked like a nice easy mark to latch onto and pester to death , which he did very well through out the picture . There are murders going on left and right and a person who has a million bucks he was able to steal from a casino . There are many twists and turns during the picture and the ending will shock you completely . There is even a Bible quotation from a prophet at the ending .
BRANDO AND SAXON MAKE THIS A CLASSIC FILM !	Over the years I seemed to have missed " THE APPOLOSSA " and was thrilled to see Marlon Brando and John Saxon perform excellent roles as bandit and horse owner . The photography and close-ups kept you glued to the screen . Brando was at his best and eleven years later made " Missouri Breakes " another picture to match this one .
Holmes Had A Drug Problem	Always enjoyed the great Sherlock Holmes films during the 1940's and in this picture we see a different side to Sherlock Holmes and many of his deep mental secrets concerning Professor James Moriarity . Alan Arkin , ( Dr . Sigmund Freud ) , " The Novice " , ' 04 gave a great performance trying to put Holmes back together as a human being and a great detective . Robert Duvall , ( Dr . John Watson ) , " John Q " , ' 02 , played an entirely different Dr . Watson , who did everything he could be help his sidekick get back to a better way of living . Laurence Oliver , ( Professor James Moriarity ) , " Inchon " , ' 81 , gave another great performance to his role as the sinister dark monster of a personality . There is all kinds of action concerning trains and lots of swords swinging in the breeze . This is a very different kind of Holmes film and shows that the famous detective has human faults like everyone else .
KARLOFF HAS BEEN ROBBED !	Dave Mallory ( Boris Karloff ) is robbed of his invention , a burglar alarm system and a gang of thieves kidnap Karloff so they can use his invention to commit robberies . In this picture Karloff changes from a medieval monster and in NIGHT KEY he has relaxed into a soft-spoken , hazy-eyed old man who promises to become Hollywood's favorite grandpa . However , his invention performs Si-Fi gamma rays which proves deadly in a novel and exciting way to his enemies . The story does slow down for occasional time out for side romance .
A Great Classic Film	Remember my parents telling me how great this film was and the great acting performed by all the actors . It is great to see other generations enjoying this great story that was performed on the New York City stage and then the 1937 film version . Robert Montgomery , ( Danny ' Babyface ' ) , " Lady in the Lake " , ' 47 , played a rather strange fellow who became quite involved with Rosalind Russell , ( Olivia Grayne ) , " Wonderful Town " , ' 58 who lived with her Aunt , Dame May Witty , ( Mrs . Bramson ) , " The White Cliffs of Dover " , ' 44 . Danny was hired by Mrs . Bramson , who was delighted with his great wit and charming personality . This is certainly a very dramatic film which reveals deep hidden secrets about each persons mental feelings and childhood problems that some of them share with each other . Dame May Witty , was the first woman awarded the title of Dame in 1918 , which stands for Knight in the United Kingdom . A must see great Classic film of 1937
Great Acting	Had no idea just what this film was going to present and became quite surprised by the great acting and fantastic character study of people of all races and problems who entered a police station and were booked . Lea Thompson , ( Christine Paley ) , " The Unknown Cyclist " , ' 98 played a young rookie on the police force , who obtained the highest grades in the Police Academy , however , she needed to learn about human nature and how to approach people with a sort of kind understanding . Robert Loggia , ( Lt . Mike Brosloe ) , " The Deal " , ' 05 was the boss of the police station and took Annie under his wing and tried to teach her some of 101 Police Work . There was a nice appearance by Carl Reiner , ( Norman Friedler ) , " Oceans's Twelve " , ' 04 , who was involved with a mercy killing of his wife . There is also a cross dresser who looks pretty good in woman's cloths depending on how you feel about such matters , as the police had to deal with this person . The actors all did an outstanding performance with their great skills , however , I thought Lea Thompson showed her great acting talents in this film . Enjoy
Great Western Classic	Whenever William Wyler directs a picture , you know the film is going to be good along with great actors . Gregory Peck , ( James McKay ) , " Pork Chop Hill " , plays the role of a retired Sea Captain who is rich and travels two thousand miles to marry Carroll Baker , ( Patricia Terrill ) , " Harlow " who is a spoiled brat and does not really know what she wants in life . There is a very long fist fight between Charlton Heston , ( Steve Leech ) " The Last Hard Men " and James McKay way out in the desert with no one around for miles and they don't seem to even let up for air . Jean Simmoms , ( Julie Maragon ) , " Dominique " plays a sweet young gal who gets herself in a brutal sexual attack and takes sides with the wrong people . Those wrong people are the Hannassey family , ruled by Burl Ives , ( Rufus Hannassey ) , " The Spiral Road " who gives an outstanding performance an even rides a horse . Charles Bickford , ( Maj Henry Terrill ) " The Devil's Children " gave a great supporting role . Great Classic ' 58 film which fantastic photography and lots of action and some romance .
Lots of Laughs	Really enjoyed viewing this film which starts off with two crazy looking guys in a Bronx , N . Y . stationery store waiting for a shipment of ice-cream , which is believed to be a drug shipment . Shawn Wayans , ( Kevin Copeland ) and Marlon Wayans , ( Marcus Copeland ) are the crazy guys and are suppose to be undercover FBI agents . This mission gets all messed up and these two guys get assigned to some very rich white chicks who are going to the Hamptons on Long Island , N . Y . Things get messed up again and the guys decided to dress in drag will all the bulges in the right places . There is drama and plenty of laughs and if you want a good entertaining film , this is your best bet .
JACK PALANCE IS & ALWAYS WILL BE , A CLASSIC ACTOR !	Jack Palance was always a great star , ugly face and hateful roles with lots of heavy breathing through his nose . In this picture as Lt . Joe Costa , he could do anything , blacksmith to all time Army Hero ! I call him PUSH UP JACK , after his acceptance of his Oscar in ' 92 for " City Slickers " 91 . Eddie Albert ( Capt . Erskine Cooney ) made you hate him , especially when he ignored a request from Lt . Joe Costa to back up his platoon when trying to attack a German Pill Box . If Eddie made you hate him , he performed his role just as the director wanted . However , he was better cast in " Green Acres " ' 65 TV Series along with one of the GABOR'S ! ! Lee Marvin , ( Lt . Col . Clyde Bartlett ) clearly showed his great acting talents and quickly became a Super Star after his performance in this great Classic Film . This is a must see movie for all generations .
Lots of Electricity Between Fonda & Redford	Over the years I seemed to have missed seeing this film and enjoyed the very young looking Jane Fonda and Robert Redford . The best part of the picture takes place when these two actors are in the outdoors and enjoying the so called comforts of a rough camping routine . Their first warm kiss gets the film interesting and their conversations become very comical and entertaining over sleeping habits and cold coffee . Jane Fonda played ( Alice ( Hallie ) Martin ) and Robert Redford was ( Norman ' Sonny ' Steele ) who made plenty of electricity in this cute romantic film . If you like great photography of the West and two outstanding great actors , this is a film to enjoy .
Elia Kazan & Tennessee Williams Film Was a Winner	Any picture produced by Elia Kazan turned to GOLD because of his great talent . In the 1950's Elia Kazan name called film actors who he claimed were Communists before a Senate Hearing and became very unpopular in Hollywood , however , he still produced many great films and this was one of them . Karl Malden , ( Archie Lee Meighan ) , " Patton " , ' 70 , played a worn out drunken cotton mill owner who lost his business and some how managed to get himself a very young bride who he was not allowed to make love to until she was 20 years of age . Archie went around the house being a peeping tom looking through holes in the walls at his bride and never being able to even touch her . Carroll Baker , ( Baby Doll ) , " Jackpot " , ' 92 , was the young child bride to Archie and seemed to tease him constantly , it is a wonder he didn't take cold showers all the time . Eli Wallach , ( Silva Vacarro ) " Mystic River " , ' 03 played an outstanding role as an Italian who was called all kinds of racial names and had to put up with the stupidity of Archie and his treatment of all races and nationalities . It is a very interesting film and Putty Nose Malden did an outstanding job along with Eli Wallach . Don't miss this film , you will enjoy it . I am sure in 1956 this film was considered RXXR rated , however , today , it probably could be seen on the Disney Channel .
Remarkable Performance by Kathy Bates	For some reason I missed seeing this picture in 1995 and was spellbound from the very beginning of the film to the end . Kathy Bates , ( Dolores Claiborne ) , " Bruno " , ' 2000 played a very down to earth woman who loved her daughter very much and did everything to make certain she had a good education and free from the conditions that prevailed in her home town . Jennifer Jason Leigh , ( Selena St . George ) , " In The Cut " , ' 03 , played the daughter who is a very successful reporter / writer living in New York City . Selena found out that her mother was in trouble back home and needed her help and it is about this time that the story starts to unfold and plenty of action starts happening . Judy Parfitt , ( Vera Donovan ) , " Ever After " , ' 98 , was a very wealthy woman who hired Dolores Claiborne to be her live in maid or so called , " SLAVE " . Christopher Plummer , ( Det . John Mackey ) , " Blizzard " , ' 03 , gives a great supporting role in trying to solve all the mystery that seems to surround the life of Dolores in her past and present day happenings . This story keeps you wondering just what happened in the past and how this film will end . Great entertainment and outstanding acting .
Lewis Stone Was Angry with Greta Garbo	The reason this silent film is still viewed today and enjoyed , is simply because the director of this film was Sidney Franklin who was a very famous director during the 20's 30's and 40's . His famous film was , " The Good Earth " , 1937 , a story written by Pearl Buck , and received large audience attendance . Of course , Greta Garbo , ( Lillie Sterling ) , looked very sexy and rather young and having an old looking husband , who was Lewis Stone , ( John Sterling ) , who loved and adored everything about Lillie . Things go smoothly for a while in the jungle , but a two legged gigolo decides to have some fun with young and hot looking Lillie . It is great entertainment if you like the old time Classics and great acting and directors .
Long Island New Yorker's will like this FILM !	If you were born or grew up on Long Island , New York , you just might relate in some way to the plot of this film and the great acting by all the actors who portray various backgrounds , Italian , Jewish , and the league of Nations ! In many ways this film makes people think that the only way to make a living is cheating , stealing or just plain Wheeling & Dealing . Many families moved from Brooklyn , N . Y . to the suburbs of Long Island , like Merrick , Freeport , Lindenhurst , Lynbrook , and Valley Stream . This film does paint a horrible picture of evil young people following in the footsteps of gangs and mobsters ! The ending of this picture was rather sad , lacking in any love or romance , just plain BORING !
Very Well Produced " Dracula " !	Greatly enjoyed viewing this Dracula film which had great direction and production . Frank Langella , ( Count Dracula ) , " House of D " , ' 04 , was very young and actually put his heart and soul into this role . Dracula was able to defy all the Crosses , Garlic and weapons place in his path . Laurence Oliver , ( Prof . Abraham Van Helsing ) , " The Bounty " , ' 84 , did everything he could in order to prevent Dracula from destroying all the sexy and beautiful women he wanted for his evil plans . Donald Pleasence , ( Dr . Jack Seward ) , " Hour of the Pig " , ' 93 , gave a great supporting role as a helper for Professor Van Helsing . Frank Langella , and Laurence Oliver made this one of the best Classic Dracula films in the late 1970's . Enjoy
A Film Rarely Seen !	Universal created this picture with a horror theme that was too upsetting for the British and it was censored . " Life Returns " was fiction and created by director Eugene Frenke and his writers James Hogan , John Goodrich , Arthur Homan , Wolfe Gilbert and Mary McCarthy . Onslow Stevens , formerly the invisible scientist of Universal's science-fiction serial " The Vanishing Shadow " , ' 34 , played John Kendrick , a doctor devoted to seeking a formula to restore life after death . He succeeds when his son's pet , called Lazarus is gassed by the dog-catcher . It was surprising to see Valerie Hobson playing the faithful doctor's wife . Great Film for 1935 !
Great Tom Conway Classic Film !	Always enjoyed the Falcon series and especially the acting of Tom Conway who acted his part with great easy and especially since he was on his own in this second Falcon film . In the first series , his brother in real life was George Sanders who played a role with Tom . This film is a typical B film , however , there were great veteran actresses like Harriet Hillard , ( Gwynne Gregory ) , Jane Randolph ( Marcia Brooks ) , and Richard Loo , ( Jerry ) , " The Bamboo Prison " , ' 54 , who gave a great supporting role . Richard Loo was famous for his vicious roles as a horrible Japanese Soldier in many WWII films . If you would like to see a very entertaining B film from the past , this is the film for YOU !
ROBERT DE NIRO NOT CONVINCING AS CAPONE ! !	Love Robert De Niro " Analyze That " ' 02 , in almost every film that he every made , however , as a big time crook like Al Capone , he fell short of portraying him on screen . He over acted and made you think Al Capone was a spoiled BRAT ! ( He was more than that ! ) Kevin Costner ( Eliot Ness ) " Dragonfly " ' 02 , stole the entire picture along with Sean Connery ( Jim Malone ) " Playing By Heart " ' 98 as a Chicago cop who turned Treasury Agent and gave Eliot Ness all the support he could in order to capture BIG AL ! This was a great entertaining film with lots of action , but Al Capone was made to look like a pussy cat !
Classic Musical Love Story	If you like old time pictures that portray simple down to earth innocent love and beautiful voices , this is the picture for you . Jeanette MacDonald , ( Marcia Mornay ) , " The Sun Comes Up " , ' 49 , always wanted to sing professionally and was tutored by John Barrymore , ( Nicolai ) , " Playmates " , ' 41 who was very much older than Marcia and helped her achieve great importance in the world of Opera . Nelson Eddy , ( Paul Allison ) , " Northwest Outpost " , ' 47 , was a young singer and was lazy about becoming a great singer and often frequented local bars and sang and drank with all his friends . The close ups of Jeanette MacDonald reveal her great beauty and wonderful acting skills besides a great talent for singing . This is a sweet and very sour picture about two people who fall deeply in love which enchanted all the audiences of 1937 and will continue for many generations to come .
Gregory Peck Classic Film !	It has been a long time since I first viewed this film and can appreciate the great acting of former veteran actor Gregory Peck . Gregory Peck ( Jim Douglass ) , " Old Gringo " , ' 89 , played a man who was deeply hurt with the rape and death of his wife and followed the bandits to a small town where they were going to be hung for their evil deeds to this town and its people . Peck meets a former female gal , Joan Collins , ( Josefa Vilaide ) , " Ozzie " , ' 01 , who is still madly in love with him and never married . Josefa invites Jim for a drink and even to Mass at the town church and things start to pick up with their relationship . Stephen Boyd , ( Bill Zachary ) , " The Squeeze " , ' 77 , gave a great supporting role . I noticed that the church in this picture was a huge structure with marble walls and for a town this size , I do not think the town people could possibly afford such a building along with a great organ . Gregory Peck made this a Classic film with his great acting along with Joan Collins .
Ava Gardner Looked Fantastic	Enjoyed viewing this B & W film from the late 40's with Robert Walker , ( Eddie Hatch ) , " Strangers On a Train " , ' 51 , who played a window dresser in a department store and kissed a statue of Venus which was owned by his boss Tom Conway , the store owner and after than one Kiss , Eddie Hatch had his hands Full . Ava Gardner , ( Venus & Venus Jones ) , " Mogambo " , ' 53 did a great acting performance and looked very beautiful as Venus , she even sang a few songs through out the picture . Dick Haymes , ( Joe Grant ) , " State Fair " , ' 45 was a big singing and acting star during the 30's , 40's and late 50's and gave a nice supporting role . Eva Arden , ( Molly Stewart ) , " Falcon Crest " , ' 87 TV Series , played a secretary to Tom Conway and had plenty of funny comments which got quite a few laughs . This was a great look back in the past and if you like old timers , this is the one for YOU .
Great THRILLER !	Peter Cushing ( Dr . Christopher Maitland ) , " Monster Island " , ' 81 , gave a great performance as a collector of Horror items and came into contact with the young looking Christopher Lee , ( Sir Matthew Phillips ) , " The Gorgon " , ' 64 , who also had a very large collection of strange and mysterious items of murder and devil worship . Sir Matthew had in his possession the SKULL of the famous Marques de Sade , a gentlemen who loved horror and torture and also wrote the " Story of O " . The two gentlemen combined their collection and this story becomes a thriller all seen through the very eyes of the SKULL ! . This film will keep your eyes glued to the screen through out the entire picture . ENJOY !
Ida Lupino was a Great Actress & Director !	Whenever Ida Lupino appeared or directed a film in the 30's , 40's and 50's , you were guaranteed great entertainment even if the picture was black and white . Ida was able to capture audiences and keep them spellbound until the very end of her pictures . In this film as Mrs . Helen Gordon , " High Sierra " , ' 41 along with Robert Ryan , ( Howard Wilton ) , " Golden Gloves " , ' 40 she keeps you guessing just how the relationship is going to turn out and just how poor Mrs . Gordon will be able to have a normal and happy marriage with love and real affection . If you liked Ida Lupino , who could play the roles as a criminal in a woman's prison and prison warden who was hated , this is the film for you to enjoy . I truly believe that Ida Lupino was not given the true credit she deserved for her great talents in the Movie Industry ! ! !
THIS WAS A SHIP OF CLASSIC ACTORS !	" Ship of Fools " is a great film and always will be , because of great actors like : Vivien Leigh ( Mary Treadwell ) " Gone With the Wind " ' 39 ; Simone Signoret , ( La Condesa ) " Room At The Top " ' 59 ; Jose Ferrer ( Siegfried Riebu ) " Vovage of the Damned " ' 76 along with Oskar Werner ( Willie Schumann ) " Fahrenheit 451 " ' 66 . All these actors gave great supporting roles to each other and allowed Lee Marvin to rise up and put his name on the Silver Screen as a true Oscar Winner . As you view this picture , you learn moral lessons about how people of all races and religion are all brothers and sister's who have to overlook the bigotry that clings to people's hearts and souls . No matter if you are in First Class , Second Class or Third Class , you have a great role in life with various talents to share with others . Lets hope our own individual ship causes us to treat others with understanding and kindness . This is a great FILM CLASSIC with a very deep message for all generations to enjoy if you look close enough !
Great Karloff Classic Film	All Boris Karloff fans will love this classic film , where Karloff is the castle physician and gives his patients excellent attention . Sir Ronald Burton , ( Richard Greene ) , an eighteenth-century English adventurer , believes his two friends have been murdered by Count Von Bruno , ( Stephen McNally ) on his Black Forest estate . Arriving at Von Bruno's castle to accumulate evidence , Burton learns Von Bruno's unhappy wife Elga ( Paula Corday ) , . and Dr . Meissen ( Boris Karloff ) , the castle physician , are virtual prisoners . Suspecting Burton's motives , Von Bruno and Gargon ( Lon Chaney Jr . , ) a giant , mute scarred henchman , discover the Englishman was responsible for their being captured and tortured . You will definitely have to view this great Classic Karloff Film to enjoy the ending .
Great Story / Great Acting	Robert DeNiro , ( Travis Beckle ) plays the role of a Viet-Nam veteran who is trying to find himself in the wild city of New York and drives a Taxi for a living . Travis witnesses all kinds of crimes against society and how a young girl named Jodie Foster , ( Iris Steensma ) , is being used as a hooker and exploited by some very low life creatures . Travis becomes very committed to Iris and tries to straighten her life out . Travis decides he is going to do away with a certain politician and senator who is running for President . Cybill Shepherd , ( Betsy ) plays a great supporting role along with Peter Boyle , ( Wizard ) . Robert DeNiro is so very young looking , I had to look twice in order to recognize him ; there is lots of action , drama and some humor . Enjoy .
This is a REALISTIC FILM !	This is truly a very great Classic Film about how living conditions were for the very young and old . It clearly shows how the Depression Years effected everyone in America and were very bad times for people of all races . Mothers and Fathers were unable to support their families and children had to go on their own , or run away and find some sort of child labor . Frankie Darro , " Saratoga " , ' 37 and Dorothy Coonan Wellman , ( Sally ) . gave great performances eating sandwiches on a flatbed railroad car and headed to Chicago . Sally had an aunt who lived in Chicago and when she arrived , she was greeted with a huge cake to share with her friends . However , her aunt seemed very successful and greeted her with open arms , but her apartment was soon raided , as she was a HOOKER ! This is a sad film , but tells the truth about the growing pains in America !
Find a Garden of Eden	This is truly a great classic film from 1937 with an all star cast of veteran actors and a great producer , Frank Capra . Ronald Colman , ( Bob Conway ) ; Jane Wyatt , ( Sondra Bizet ) were the stars of this picture along with great supporting actors : Edward Everett Horton , George Mitchell . Sam Jaffe ( High Lama ) gave an outstanding performance as the Supreme Lama with a soft spoken voice and a man full of deep wisdom and spiritual knowledge . This is a film about a Lost Horizon where most people want to go and live after experiencing the horrors of World War 1 & 2 . Bob Conway and his passengers were flying in an airplane when the pilot crashes into a mountain top and they are stranded in deep snow and it looks like there is absolutely no way to survive . One of the passengers finds some Mountain Grass and offers it to the other people on the plane , this Mountain Grass looks like big clumps of a dead plant . There is deep meaning to this film , which seems to indicate that men and women are still seeking to find another Garden of Eden where they can live in harmony with their other brother and sisters . However , man's human nature will never allow this to happen . Good Film Enjoy
JULIA ROBERTS CAN PERFORM ALL ACTING ROLES !	Julia Roberts ( Mary Reilly ) fell in love with two ( 2 ) men in this picture , MR . GOOD & MR . EVIL , Dr . Henry Jekyll / Mr . Edward Hyde ( John Malkovich ) It was a very well directed film and these two actors kept you on the edge of your seats . It was a different experience sharing the very dark secrets of Dr . Hyde and his evil and devil like ways . The scene where Dr . Jekyll struggles with Dr . Hyde poping out of his skin , could very well been cut out . This picture is about the on going struggle which people face dealing with Good & Evil within themselves . Julia Roberts asked the question : " Does Good Overcome Evil ! " in this world ? All Julia Roberts fans must see this picture sometime or other .
The Creatures in this film are a complete HORROR !	Found this Steven King story quite interesting in how it dealt with four guys who put up a Dreamcatcher to catch all their nightmares . There are plenty of flashbacks between the four guys and each experiences their own problems and how they deal with them . All of a sudden you find Helicopters flying all over the place and the Government Top Brass trying to prevent a tragic situation which will effect the entire country and world . At one point , you come face to face with this really horrible looking creature you really hope you never have to face in real life . There is only one person who can think up something so Horrifying , and that is Steven King . Enjoy !
Hitchcock's Great Silent Classic !	Viewed most of The Lodger films and always loved the different versions depicting the Jack-The-Ripper horrible murders . Alfred Hitchcock was twenty-eight ( 28 ) years of age when he produced and directed this film , and as usual , appeared in several of the scenes in the film . The London public thought his talents were fantastic and we all know what happened to Hitchcock's film career . The Bunting Family decided to lease a room upstairs and Ivor Novello , ( Jonathan Drew ) , played the Lodger , who hated pictures of young attractive gals that were placed in his room and even turned them around . However , the Bunting's had a very attractive blonde hair daughter , June ( Daisy ) that Jonathan Drew seemed to take a fancy to , even though she had a boyfriend who was a detective looking for the Ripper . There was a black doctor's bag in this picture which contained many different items you will never suspect , and the Ending is typical Hitchcock !
REHAB COMEDY MIXED WITH PAINFUL WITHDRAWAL SYMPTOMS !	The producers of this film did a great job of showing everyday life in a chemical dependent center , where Gwen Cummings ( Sandra Bullock ) finally wound up after almost killing herself and destroying her sister's entire Wedding . This film showed what it is like in a REHAB CENTER and the horrible struggles the human body has to go through in order to get rid of the drug and alcohol " Monkies On Their Backs " . There is a great deal of humor as the patients start to get back to normal and try to help each other . Mike O'Malley , ( Yes , Dear TV series star ) is a patient , who tries to help Gwen and still wears his trademark BASEBALL CAP ! If you are somewhat interested in what a REHAB is basically about , this is an excellent film , where they show group therapy and others trying to share their horrible experiences and at the same time help each other to recover on a DAY AT A TIME BASIS , which takes a life time ! Being Drunk is not a funny matter like Hollywood use to make it out to be , it is simply a loss of SELF CONTROL ! Enjoy the picture , it is a good one , and Sandra Bullock carried the entire picture on her back !
Dean Cain's FILM !	Dean Cain ( Scott Peterson ) , " Dragon Fighter " , ' 03 , gave a great performance with the actual facts of the story as we presently have seen them over and over again . Dean Cain copied all the characteristics of Scott Peterson , which was a very difficult task to perform under all the circumstances concerning this case . I wonder if Scott will ever get a fair trial after the showing of this picture . The jurors in this case have a very hard job in trying to be fair and just !
EXTREMELY HOT !	Viewed this film many years ago and was always spellbound by the music and the tricky plot that kept you wondering until the very end . The talents of William Hurt ( Ned Racine ) and Kathleen Turner ( Matty Walker ) ( " Crimes of Passion " with Anthony Perkins ) along with the late Richard Crenna ( " Judging Amy " TV Series ) and last but not least Ted Danson ( Peter Lowenstein ) of " Cheers " and " Becker " made this a great 1980's classic . The tricky and passionate Matty Walker made this a very steamy flick , even the outdoor chimes and the trumpet playing jazz in the beginning of the picture set the pace and of course the ICE CREAM CONE SPILLING ON Kathleen Turner's dress and her choice words afterwards , last but not least , the chair thrown into the window and the fun on the stairs ! This film was just the stepping stone for these great actors and it is a must see film to be placed in your library of great flicks .
Audiences Were Different in the 1930's !	Never viewed this film and consider it a great Classic with great veteran actors . In the period that this film was made , people in America were different , there was no TV or all the modern things we have today , except the Radio and the starting out of great films being made in Hollywood . Sweet innocent tales of young romance between a young girl or guy was viewed differently than it is today . Ann Shirley , " Murder My Sweet " , ' 44 played a young orphan gal who was called Carrot Top because of her red hair and found herself being taken into a home of two elderly folks , who were like two wise owls and watched over Ann Shirley . It was a small town and everyone knew everyone and if anything happened , the entire town found out about it within minutes . It is a down to earth film with nice decent people trying to help each other in a very very simple way of living . Today , it seems very corn ball and stupid , but believe me , this was the way people were in America during the 1920 ' . & 30's and they were a great generation that loved good family films .
Outstanding 1955 Classic	Always enjoy any film dealing with the Mike Hammer character and for some reason missed viewing this film and was completely taken by surprise at how violent and cruel this film was for the Year 1955 . Ralph Meeker , ( Mike Hammer ) , " Winter Kills " gives an outstanding performance who stops for a woman running straight down a dark road with only a trench coat and nothing on underneath . This gal , was Cloris Leachman who managed to get Mike Hammer deeply involved with a very interesting story . Albert Dekker , ( Dr . G . E . Soberin ) , " Suddenly , Last Summer " , plays a very sinister role along with Paul Stewart , ( Carl Evello ) , " SOB " , ' 91 , and both of them manage to use all kinds of tortures to accomplish their goals , a pair of pliers on a sweet young gal . There is a secret that is revealed at the ending of this picture which will blow your Mind Away . Enjoy this really great film from 1955 which was really way a head of its times .
God is Speaking to Us All !	After , America has been made aware how very short our lives are on this earth and the great struggle between the Powers of Evil vs . Good , which is a struggle everyone of us has to fight in our very souls daily . This film appears to many as a very cruel and horrible account of the way in which Jesus was murdered by an angry crowd of mainly political people in high places who thought that Jesus was a King and going to interfere with their comfortable way of life . The suffering in this picture that Jesus endured are also the many crosses we have to bear in life , War and loss of our dear ones to Cancer and events like . This film will awaken America to realize that we have a promise of life after death through the precious Body and Blood of Jesus that was shed for all people to have victory over Sin and Death and the promise of Eternal Life . The people killed Jesus and not any particular group , everyday we Kill Jesus with our unbelief and the lack of love for your neighbors . This is a great film , but not for young children to view , wait for them to understand the true meaning before you let them see the great gift Jesus gave US .
Outstanding Acting / Great Picture	This was an outstanding film dealing with two young people who had mental problems that were deep seeded into their minds and how they both struggled ; to help each other find the light at the end of the tunnel . Keir Dullea , ( David Clemens ) " De Sade " , ' 69 , played the role of ayoung man coming from a rich family , who had a big hang up about anyone touching him in any way , even with a pinkie finger . If you did touch him , he went crazy and carried on like a brat of a child . Janet Margolin , ( Lisa Brandt ) , " Annie Hall " , ' 77 , was another mentally disturbed young girl , pretty and seemed to glow when she looked at David . Howard Da Silva , ( Dr . Swinford ) , " The Great Gatsby " , ' 74 was the shrink in charge of the mental facility and had a full time job just trying to get David & Lisa to open up their twisted and disturbed minds . Great acting and a very enjoyable film , which at times is depressing and very down to earth .
Gwyneth Paltrow Did Not Like The BIG CITY !	Morgan Freeman ( Detective Lt . , William Somerset ) , " Levity " , ' 03 was outstanding in this film and has always given a great performance in any picture that he has appeared in . Somerset was about to retire from the force and much to his surprise he had a new partner , Brad Pitt , ( Detective David Mills ) , " Full Frontal " , ' 02 , the two of them finally got along and became great partners trying to solve horrible murders concerning the seven ( 7 ) deadly Sins ! Gwyneth Paltrow , ( Tracy Mills ) , " Sylvia " , ' 03 , was married to David and was about to have a baby and did not like the big city living and the horrible apartment they had over a subway system that shook their entire building . She confides in Bill Somerset about having a baby and her family situation , as she has no family nearby , the acting in this scene was fantastic between Tracy & Bill . Anytime I see this film , I simply hate the ending and the torture David Mills goes through in making a very serious decision . Great film with great actors . The final outcome is left up to YOU !
Diane Keaton was Fantastic	Diane Keaton gave an outstanding performance in this rather sad but funny story which involved quite a few young people and their deep dark secrets . Diane Keaton , ( Natalie ) , " The Family Stone " , ' 05 , who had an only daughter and loved her beyond words can describe . She always called her and told her , " Surrender Dorothy " , which was an expression used in the ' Wizard of Oz ' , 1939 . A sudden car accident occurs and Natalie gets herself deeply involved with her daughter's friends and lovers . As Natalie investigates , the more truths she finds out about herself and her real relationship with her daughter . Great film to view and enjoy , especially all the good acting from all the supporting actors .
Delightful 1948 Film	Enjoyed this great entertaining film with Glenn Ford , ( Doug Andrews ) who is looking for a job after being in the Army and goes to the personnel department of a large department store and meets the store personnel manager , Millie McGonigle , ( Evelyn Keyes ) . Millie interviews Doug and finds out he would like to be a floor walker in this department store . Doug notices that Millie is very concerned with a young boy she is fond of and wants to adopt , however , she needs a husband and so Doug tries to help her find a husband who likes children and is attracted to Millie . This is a very funny film with all kinds of funny situations between Evelyn Keyes and Glenn Ford . Evelyn Keyes had a nice role in " Gone With The Wind " and after this film Glenn Ford went on to make many great films which brought him to great fame on the silver screen . Enjoy .
Great Fritz Lang Film	This is a great film created in the Year 1927 which was way ahead of itself in the creation of such a story that clearly showed a cast system among a society where the medium income people had to work in poor conditions way below the city with their tall buildings and fancy living conditions . There is reference to a Babel and a very high tower which is constructed and more about moral living like the Bible teaches and the possible establishment of everyone coming to a mutual understanding that the working class of people and the rich must join hands , hearts and souls and all work together . This is truly a great masterpiece from 1927 which was way beyond its years .
Great Jean Claude Van Damme Film !	Every time I view this film , I enjoy the great photography of Honk Kong , the beauty of the country , excitement of the night lights and the forbidden areas of the dark back streets and its perils ! Claude Van Damme ( Alex Wagner ) gave the audience a double take every time he made a fantastic martial arts endeavor . His great supporting actor was the veteran actor , Geoffry Lewis , ( Frank Avery ) , " Mind Games " , ' 03 , whose main goal was to protect the twin boys who were almost killed as infants and see that they obtained the wealth that belonged to the both of them . The gals in the picture add some hot steamy scenes , especially in the Boiler Room ! If you are not a Jean Claude Van Damme fan or do not like the great acting of Geoffrey Lewis , this is not the film for you . You will probably like the " Terminator Films " !
Gregory Peck & Tamara Toumanova were Fantastic	When I viewed this film I was quite surprised to see a very young Gregory Peck , " Spellbound " , ' 45 , give an outstanding performance in a black and white film about a few Russian citizens defending their country against the Nazi take over of their town . The Nazi Army utilized many tanks in order to take over this town and out numbered the Russian's by a very large percentage . Tamara Toumanova , ( Nina Ivanova ) , Torn Curtain " , ' 66 gave an outstanding supporting role who was very young and attractive . Nina was able to put some romance into this picture with her good looks and sexy boots . Tamara Toumanova and Gregory Peck were a great couple in this film and it is too bad she decided to marry the director of this film right after production . A great Classic film that is worth while viewing .
Good Thriller Film	This film starts out with a big manson and two policemen going into the home and what they observe inside looks like a butcher shop never cleaned up . The dinning room looks like people forgot their napkins . There is a psychiatrist , Mel Harris , ( Laurel O'Connor " , " Purple Heart " , ' 05 who has to deal with a 16 year old named Sharon , ( Cadace Cameron Bure ) , who acts like a lunatic and is being accused of all kinds of horrible deeds . Laurel encounters all kinds of problems trying to help Sharon , who refuses to talk and acts like a Zombie . There are many suspects and some romance , which is a rather brief scene . This film is good entertainment and great to view in the middle of the week .
Nick Nolte Gave A Great Performance !	If you are a fan of Nick Nolte and enjoy the easy way in which he acts and portrays really himself in most of his roles , this is the film for you . Max Hoover ( Nick Nolte ) plays a great hard drinking and rough , tough detective who has a warm heart for great looking ladies ( Melanie Griffith ) , Katherine Hoover , his wife . In one scene Katherine tells Max to stop drooling all over her while he was in a drunken stupor and falling all over the place . John Malkovich , General Thomas Timms , plays a very sick role and makes you grow to hate and despise him . Max gets kissed on the cheek by a gay person and goes ballistic , he just hated being filmed in bed with his hot mistress . Nolte films cannot be put under a microscope , just plain sit back and enjoy a great actor who loves playing HIMSELF !
Don't Take this Film Serious , ENJOY !	Looked forward to seeing this film and especially Leslie Nielsen , ( Ryan Harrison ) , " FoxFire Light " , ' 82 , going crazy through out the entire picture non-stop at the age of 72 . Richard Crenna , ( Lt . Fergus Falls ) , " Sabrina " , ' 95 kept after Ryan Harrison , who did every thing funny to try and catch his most wanted Criminal . The entire picture was CORNBALL , but the film was intended to make you laugh , relax and enjoy an old timer pull the wool over his entire cast of stars . Please don't take this film serious and don't pick it a part , it is not worth IT ! Someday , this film just might become one of Leslie Nielsen's Classic Films , even if the jokes were really off the wall and some of the scenes were NUTS !
Sissorshands , Magnetic Forces , & Plenty of Action !	Great film to sit back and enjoy , especially the great acting of Hugh Jackman , ( Logan / Woverine ) , " Van Helsing " , ' 04 , who did not care to pick up a hitchhiker gal who had more power than an Electric Company . Patrick Stewart , ( Professor Charles Xavier ) , " King of Texas " , ' 02 , headed a private school for very very special talented young men and women ; with powers that would knock your socks off standing up . Famke Janssen , ( Jean Grey ) , " Eulogy " , ' 04 was a very sexy powerhouse of joy and played a very great supporting role . The film locations were really great in New York Harbor , Liberty Island and nice backgrounds scenes of the Manhattan Skyline . This film will entertain you through out the entire film .
A GREAT FILM ABOUT A WORTHLESS WAR !	The musical theme of " Shenandoah " added a great touch through out this picture , it blended well into the background . Jimmy Stewart ( Charlie Anderson ) , " Bell Book & Candle " , ' 58 gave an outstanding performance in depicting a man who could see no sense to killing fellow Americans from the North , who thought it was a great waste of human life and suffering and a war that made no sense at all . George Kennedy ( Colonel Fairchild ) , " Hit & Run " , ' 86 , in the Northern Army opened his heart to Charlie Anderson in his efforts to locate his son , who was taken prisoner . This is a great Classic film with a great actor , James Stewart , who loved this country in real life and was very particular about the pictures that he performed in . The Civil War was a great mistake like most Wars and some how no one learns any lessons from History . I guess it will always be the fight between Evil & Good !
Joel Schumacher Produced A Great Film As Usual ! !	Producer Joel Schumacher who also directed " Phone Booth " , ' 02 , and many other great films showed in great detail how no one person can really be trained to be a killing machine with out destroying their own personalities and the real fears that a person has to face when going into COMBAT ! ! Colin Farrell ( Roland Bozz ) , " Intermission " , ' 03 , gave one of his best performances and actually carried this entire picture on his back . Matthew Davis ( Jim Paxton ) , " Blue Crush " , ' 02 , gave a great supporting role and Shea Whigham ( Pvt . Wilson ) , " All The Real Girls " , ' 03 , showed his true acting skills in the role that he played . There was two brief scenes where the soldiers were able to find some hot romance on a short leave in the local town and had to pay for their love and sexual desires . One Army Veteran instructor from Viet Nam told the soldiers how to really torture the enemy by using electrical wires in all the wrong places on a human male body . Enjoyable and entertaining film to view .
Daryl Hannah Gave a Great Performance !	Some how I missed this film and was very glad to have viewed it on TV . Daryl Hannah ( Anne ) , " Northfork " , ' 03 , appeared as a very happy and beautiful young lady who has her life changed completely over night and is presumed dead . Jennifer Tilly ( Helen ) , " Lil ' Pimp " , ' 04 , appeared as a woman who was mentally disturbed and did everything she could to make Anne comfortable and at times very Uncomfortable . Helen gave a great supporting role and her husband ( Vincent Gallo ) , Frank , " The Brown Bunny " , ' 03 , was a quack doctor and even tried to rape Anne ( Daryl Hannah ) . You never know just how this picture will ever end and if justice will ever be accomplished . This is a great film to view and offers great entertainment , ENJOY !
Very Enjoyable & Funny	This film took me by surprise from the very beginning to the end , it is truly a great comedy with lots of action and plenty of belly laughs . As a baby , the Chosen One ( Steve Oedekerk ) , " Thumbtanic " , ' 02 , does some very unusual things , like rolling down hills and is ready to handle his own against his enemies . Fei Lung , ( Master Pain ( Betty ) , " Angel of Fury " , ' 92 plays the wicked man who does everything to kill the Chosen One as an infant right up to being a full grown man . Jennifer Tung , ( Whoa ) , " Conlagion " , ' 01 gives some romance to the film and also manages to assist the Chosen One from making any wrong decisions . This is an excellent film with plenty of entertainment and something entirely different in the way of Comedy . Enjoy
Great Classic Musical	Enjoy viewing Classic Musical films that were made in the 50's and this film was full of great talented actors , singers and dancers . Jane Powell , ( Susan Smith ) was at the top of her career along with a great performance by Debbie Reynolds , ( Carol Pace ) who put her heart and soul into her role as a girl whose father was Walter Pidgeon , ( Rear Adm . Daniel Xavier Smith . Vic Damone , ( Rico Ferrari ) sang some great songs along with Tony Martin , ( Chief Boatswain's Mate William F . Clark ) . J . Carrol Naish , ( Mr . Peroni ) played the role of a florist who wanted to marry Rico Ferrari mother and his acting kept me laughing at his great performance . If you looked close , you will see the great comedian Alan King perform as a Shore Patrol Petty officer . I almost forgot that Ann Miller , ( Ginger ) showed her great talent as a fantastic dancer . Enjoy
James Mason Had the Last Laugh !	Greatly enjoyed this 1952 film which was very well produced and the wonderful photography through out Istanbul , Turkey was outstanding . The Nazi agents and British tried to keep tabs on a spy who was giving out very important information and was sometimes not believed by the German Government . James Mason , ( Ulysses Diello ) , " Voyage of the Damned " , ' 76 , gave an excellent performance and had lots of fun changing light bulbs and taking fuses out of the fuse boxes and setting alarms off , giving the cleaning lady a hard time trying to vacuum the rugs ! Michael Rennie ( George Travers ) , " The Lost World " , ' 60 , was a British Agent trying to track down the SPY . Ulysses Diello at one point in the film went into a wild laughing spell that just could not STOP ! This is a great James Mason film , ENJOY !
Great Classic Directed by Robert Wise	The real reason that this picture was a great success for many generations , was the simple fact that Robert Wise , directed this picture and also , " The Sound Of Music , ' 65 , " West Side Story " , ' 61 along with " The Sand Pebbles " , ' 66 and many other great films . Unfortunately , Mr . Wise passed on to a greater stage in the Spiritual World . This film concentrates on a little girl , Ann Carter , ( Amy Reed ) , " Child of Divorce " , ' 46 , who views cats in trees that disappear and invites children to her birthday party and mails the invitations to her own special mail box . Amy encounters a strange old time Victorian mansion and is given a ring by a mysterious elderly lady . Amy has a hard time getting along at school and her school mates and even her parents get very upset with her mental state of mind . Simone Simon , ( Irena Reed ) , " Cat People " , ' 42 , appears once again in this series of Cat People and adds plenty of mystery to this great Class Film . Enjoy .
Great Film about the Mentally ILL !	It seems that more and more we see and hear about people who act like Ted Bundy , who are serial killers and others who murder their wives and children . Bruce Greenwood , ( Robert Keppel ) , " The Republic of Love " , ' 03 , gave an outstanding performance having to deal with Ted Bundy and making the audience even think at times that he was going to follow down the same path as BUNDY himself ! Kathleen Quinlan , ( Sande Keppel ) , " Blessings TV , " ' 03 , was the wife of Robert Keppel who was going crazy with the effects that Ted Bundy was making on her husband's personality , as well as his children . This film is morbid and difficult to view , especially with the horrible torture of his victims and the needless waste of human LIFE !
PETER BOGDANOVICH AND BORIS WERE A TEAM !	TARGETS is like yesterday's headlines , today's and possibly tomorrow's no matter what generation we live in . This is a timely piece that cries out loud for " GUN CONTROL " and should not be taken lightly even though the object lesson is slightly out of focus . Targets is a modern horror film about a figure increasingly commonplace in America , the mass murderer who kills without apparent motive . It is a cinematic dynamic and shrewd first effort , though it is ultimately a glorified B film , or exploitation shocker which we do not need in this day and age or ever . Boris Karloff plays the part of Byron Orlok beautifully and cannot be blamed for the killings .
James Brolin had His Hands Full	This was a very entertaining film shown on Lifetime and it kept my interest from beginning to end . There is good reason you might have guessed how the story ends , however , you could have been easily fooled . Natasha Henstridge ( Linda Cavanaugh ) , " A Better Way to Die " , 2000 , played a sweet and very sexy evil gal , who enjoyed herself in every way possible and was bound and determined to over power everyone she came into contact with . James Brolin , ( Hank Cavanaugh ) , " Traffic " , 2000 , gave a great performance in the romantic department and even in the funeral parlor , which I did not think was necessary at all . If you want to see romance and flirting in the church , barn and everywhere , this is the film for YOU .
Jason Roberts was Outstanding	Always enjoy the great acting of Jason Roberts who was great in the " Ice Man Cometh " and in this film he created a character that is completely against all society with a very deep meaning . Jason plays the role as Murray N . Burns , who has been unemployed for over 6 months who was an entertainer of children on a TV Show and just simply dropped off the show . Murray also raises a young boy named Nick , ( Barry Gordon ) and they both get along very well , however , social services in New York City are concerned about Nick who is a young boy and raised by a man without a job and they send Dr . Sandra , ( Barbara Harris ) to investigate their situation . Dr . Sandra becomes deeply involved with this case and begins to fall madly in love with Murray and the plot begins to become a complete comedy with lots of laughs . Excellent acting by Jason Roberts and Barbara Harris and Barry Gordon gave great supporting roles . Enjoy .
If you Find Love , Hold On to IT	This is a very unusual film which starts out with a rich dude getting a brand new sports car for graduation and decides to take it for a spin in the local town . Rich boy meets poor girl in ' Mabels Diner'who is a waitress and local boy friend gets very upset and a fight starts out . There is a car chase and all kinds of problems seem to take place and the Rich boy and Poor boy wind up having to do Community Service as ordered by the town judge . Rich boy and Poor boy just do not get along and the Rich boy winds up winning the heart and soul of the poor boy's girl friend . There are plenty of walks in the woods and poetry is quoted and some very deep thoughts about life . Poor Girl says , " Some people go through life and never find Love , I can say that I found love and am holding on to It " . You will need some tissue's if you are sensitive , there are plenty of romantic scenes and I doubt very much if you will guess how this picture will end . The producer and director came up with a good idea and finally put an end to a film . If you like true to life stories with poetry and very sensitive subjects , this is your film .
1922 Classic Film	Love to look at old films way before my time and especially this film which was made up of mostly still photos and about one-third of the film on tape . Fanny Midgley gives a great performance with Rudolph Valentino who captures his heart and Valentino does everything in his power to bring her to the altar , but Fanny is not convinced because of the color of his skin being from India . Fanny reads in a book that skin color should not make a difference if you are in love and Fanny discovers she changes her mind and her way of thinking . This film will take you to India , Connecticut and some people are able to foretell about the future . If you like very old films , this is a great 1922 Classic . Enjoy
Texas Ranger Sings Like An Opera Star !	Dick Foran , ( Steve Ainslee ) , " The Mummy's Hand " , ' 40 , was an under cover Texas Ranger who merrily sang his tunes and wound up joining a gang of outlaws who worked for a crooked Judge who seemed to have a run of the local town and held his court room in his Bar / Hotel . There were horse stealing which involved a sweet young gal named Anne Nigel , ( Alice Burton ) , " Black Friday " , ' 40 , who was being run off her ranch after her father was murdered in Cold Blood . Alice Burton was not a very trusting young lady and gave Steve Ainslee a very hard time and almost had him hung by the neck . No matter how you feel about a singing Cowboy and this Corn Ball B Film , it is still a Classic Western and many people in 1937 were very entertained by this WESTERN , probably your Great Great Grandfathers & Mothers ! Foran really sounded like Nelson Eddy !
Great Story About a Norwegian Family	Enjoyed viewing this film concerning a family who came to San Francisco , California from Norway who wanted to join other members of their family living in California . Martha Hanson , ( Irene Dunne ) plays the mother of the family who move to California and she has two daughters and one son and the oldest daughter is Katrin Hanson , ( Barbara Bel Geddes ) who is always interested in writing in her diary's and hopes to be a writer someday . There are many problems that face this Norwegian family in San Francisco and the struggle to obtain money and face everyday problems sometimes bring great darkness to this family Uncle Chris Halverson , ( Oskar Homolka ) gives a great supporting role along with Edgar Bergen , ( Peter Thorkelson ) who was the creator of Charlie McCarthy the puppet master during the 1940's . I still do not know why this film gave these actors names like Martha Hanson and Katrin Hanson , as Norwegian people use the words sen's at the end of their names and never use the words as son which is Swedish . This is a great film to view and will always remain as a great classic film .
Great Classic Film in 1955 !	Greatly enjoyed viewing this film in the 1950's and all the audiences were thrilled at seeing this sea monster tackle the Golden Gate Bridge and terrify all the people in San Francisco . This film cannot compare to the films being made in 2000 , however , in 1955 it was a great B Film and is presently and always will be a great Classic . Kenneth Tobey , who was a submarine captain , " Body Shot " , ' 93 gave an outstanding performance along with Faith Domerque , " The House of Seven Corpses " , ' 74 who was a beautiful young actress and acted like a very strong willed woman who was hard to charm off her feet . Unfortunately , Faith had a short career due to her struggle with cancer . This is truly a great Classic Film of the 50's . Enjoy !
GREAT MOVIE , GREAT ACTING AND A MORAL CLIMAX	Ellen Barkin as a detective was exceptional as usual . Ellen gave one of her best performances along with Peta Wilson and Julian Sands , the doctor with many hang ups . There was a great moral in this picture , that child abuse causes great heart break and hardships for men and women that lasts their entire life time . " MERCY " presented an excellent movie about the mental hang-ups caused by family members to each other . Sexual abuse should be reported immediately no matter who the person IS in life .
JOHN TRAVOLTA SHOWED HIS DARK SIDE OF ACTING !	John Travolta ( Gabriel Shear ) , " Blow Out " , 81 , was able to perform as an evil , misguided Robin Hood who enjoyed the wonderful company of Halle Berry ( Ginger ) , " Race The Sun " , ' 96 . The director put everything into this movie that he could think of : Flying Bus , Computer puzzles to solve , lots of shoot it up action and torrid steamy scenes with Halle Berry . These two actors carried this picture on their backs . This film showed the public that John Travolta can perform in any role he is given a chance to act in . Sit back , enjoy and try not to be tooo critical with the plot . The ending is something like this : " Crime Does Not Pay " . ! ! !
Fantastic Photography & Great Western Story !	This is truly a great Classic Western with the best super stars of all time . The special photography with cattle going up and down rocky hills and the many covered wagons and beautiful scenery of the Northwest was outstanding . James Stewart , ( Glyn McLyntock ) , " Broken Arrow " , ' 50 , was a wagon train guide , and also had a wicked past life he was trying to forget about . Glyns wicked past came in hand having to face many situations that required lots of fighting and gun action . Arthur Kennedy ( Emerson Cole ) , " Nevada Smith " , ' 66 gave a very outstanding performance and also gave Glyn a real hard time because they both had past careers that were almost the same , however , Glyn was hateful deep in his very soul ! Julie Adams , ( Laura Baile ) , " Slim Carter " , ' 57 was very beautiful and had a hard time trying to find out which guy she really wanted to HOOK ! Rock Hudson , ( Trey Wilson ) , " Iron Man , " , ' 51 , was a gambler and gave a rather weak performance , however , he was just starting his career and took almost any role that he was presented with . Jimmy Stewart always was very particular about any picture that he appeared in and I can see why he liked this film . Enjoy ! !
Meg Ryan was Fantastic !	Always enjoyed " DOA " , 1950 , which starred Edmond O'Brien and was very curious about this film . Dennis Quaid , ( Dexter Cornell ) , was a professor who loved his wife and finally found out she was having an affair with one of his students . Dexter gets involved with Meg Ryan ( Sydney Fuller ) , who was a student in his college class and at the same time had a big crush on him and wound up having a one night stand and in some ways loved him deeply . Dexter learns that he received a drink which had bad contents and would cause him a great deal of health problems ! If you like Dennis Quaid and love Meg Ryan you will enjoy viewing this film , Meg gave an outstanding performance and kept this picture worth watching !
CLASSIC ACTORS MAKE THIS A GREAT CLASSIC FILM ! !	Always admired Edward G . Robinson in all his films , he has never given a poor performance and will be remembered for as long as people enjoy great acting talent . His role in this picture was completely out of character , where he played a compulsive gambler who fell in love with a greyhound DOG , named " Dark Hazard " . He tired to marry a woman who really did not love him and gave him a hard time throughout the picture . Edward G's real love was Glenda Farrell , veteran screen actress who was suppose to be very sexy according to the 1934 years and was always there to help him out when his wife ran away to another town . I also noticed Sidney Toler ( John Bright ) in this film , he was the star of the " Charlie Chan " Movies of the 1940's and very popular . This film cannot in any way be critized nor the actors in this film , lets remember , Edward G . Robinson is a National Figure even in 2003 , he is on OUR POSTAGE STAMP !
Fredric March & Evelyn Venable are a Big Bravo	Always enjoyed the great acting of Fredric March , who won two Academy Awards for " Dr . Jekyll & Mr . Hyde " , ' 31 and also " The Best Years of Our Lives " , ' 46 . In this picture , March plays a rather strange role as Prince Sirki , who is permitted to be a house guest of a rich family and is found to be quite strange in his manners . Some rather attractive young ladies sort out to flirt with the Prince and all of a Sudan decided to run away immediately . However , Evelyn Venable , ( Grazia ) , " The Little Colonel " , ' 35 , seems to capture his heart and soul , which he did not seem to know that he possessed . The ending of the picture will surprise you and make you wonder if the correct decisions were made .
Susan Hayward was Fantastic	Always enjoyed most of the films that Susan Hayward appeared in and her acting was outstanding and she was a very beautiful lady of the Silver Screen . In this True to Live Story , Susan plays , Barbara Graham , ( Valley of the Dolls " , ' 67 , who loves life , having a good time and also a con-artist who does petty things . However , Barbara gets involved with some so called friends who sort of sell her down the river and her life becomes very complicated and at times very tragic . Susan Hayward holds the picture together with outstanding acting and portrays the horrible facts of life Barbara Graham had to encounter in all kinds of disappointing situations . Great film , don't miss it .
Wonderful Acting !	It has been years since I viewed this great B & W film with great stars like Anna Magnani , ( Serafine Delle Rose ) , " Wild Is The Wind " , ' 57 , who played the role of an Italian woman who was deeply in love with her husband and thought he was a GOD ! She had a daughter who she loved and over protected until she meets a handsome young Sailor . As the story progresses , Burt Lancaster , ( Alvaro Mangiacovallo ) , " Atlantic City " , ' 80 gets involved with Serafine and the film becomes a real Spin Zone . There is lots of drama , suspense , romance , and lots of comical scenes with wild fighting and screaming . Anna Magnani made this her first American film and won many awards for her great acting skills . A young Burt Lancaster gave an outstanding supporting role which launched his great acting career !
" NANNY " AND " NYPDBLUE " STARS MAKE THIS FILM GREAT VIEWING ! !	Viewed this TV show a few times over the years and still enjoy the great talents of Charles Shaughnessy ( Tom Deese ) " The Nanny " ' 93 TV Series and Charlotte Ross ( Amanda Blake ) " NYPDBLUE " ' 93 & ' 01 . It is hard to believe that these two actors were able to play these out of character roles from what we have previously seen them perform in . This is a good signal that they are both great actors . Their sexy , warm and passionate love scenes over powered the entire film , with Tom Deese being married and having a daughter about the same age as Amanda Blake . It is no wonder that Tom Deese decided to cool off in the ocean and calm down ! Great TV show , sit back and enjoy a great murder plot .
Charlton Heston & Joan Hackett were Fantastic !	Have not seen this picture for years and enjoyed seeing this wonderful Classic film with great movie giants of the screen . Charlton Heston , ( Will Penny ) , " Solar Crisis " , ' 90 , made this film a great classic , he portrayed a man in his 50's who never married and worked hard all his life with cattle and was down on his luck . Will was involved with the killing of a preachers son and was hunted down and beaten quite often in the film by Donald Pleasence , ( Preacher Quint ) , " The Hour of the Pig , " ' 93 , the Preacher had more EVIL than good in his soul and you could really get to hate him ! Joan Hackett , ( Catherine Allen ) , " The Escape Artist " , ' 82 , was very sweet and loving and very protective of her young son . Catherine had to fight off rape attempts and also found a nice warm relationship with Will Penny as they shared a small hut during the Winter Season . The ending is not what I really wanted it to be , but in many ways I can see why the story ended this way . Worthwhile film to sit back and enjoy , you will never regret it ! !
Great Film	This film was way a head of its times in its approach to anti-war and many subjects we are facing today or had experienced in our society . Jonathan Winters , ( Rev . Glenworthy ) plays a dual role in this film as the head of a crooked funeral business and a Reverend . Rob Steiger , ( Mr . Joyboy ) works for the funeral establishment and falls in love with a girl named Aimee Thanatogenous , ( Anjanette Comer ) who plays the role of a very young innocent type who is a virgin . Dennis Barlow , ( Robert Morse ) is also interested in Aimee and is a so called poet who copies his material from a book and tries to seduce Aimee and strikes out many times . This is a very funny film and seems crazy at times but there is a great deal of truth to this story . Dana Andrews , ( Gen . Brinkman ) and Milton Berle , ( Mr . Kenton ) play brief roles along with many other great actors .
Great Directing & Acting	Al Pacino , ( Tony Montana ) showed all his great talents through out this entire picture which was directed by a very famous director . The story takes place during the time when President , Jimmy Carter allowed many people from Cuba to come into the United States ; and some of these people were hardened criminals , who had other interests rather than making an honest way of making a living . Tony Montana started out washing dishes , however , his interest went to making a fast buck and being a sort of politician at the same time . Michelle Pfeiffer , ( Elvira Hancock ) catches the eye of Tony Montana and he sets one of his goals on going to bed with her and owning her body and soul . These is so much action and wonderful acting , it is almost too hard to explain . If you never seen this film , this is one of Al Pacino's great acting films .
Elizabeth Shue Was Outstanding	This film held my interest from beginning to the very end with Joseph Fiennes , ( Stephen ) leaving a prison after serving a sentence of murdering a man and has been given a job at a dinner with some very strange people running the establishment . Dennis Hopper , ( Horace ) plays the role of a very dirty filthy old man who abuses a young waitress in sexual ways to degrade her . There are two central characters who appear in this film which has flashbacks with Elizabeth Shue , ( Mary Bloom ) who is a very attractive young woman who is married to a professor and lives in a very comfortable home and has a young girl . Mary Bloom is told that her husband is having an affair and Mary reacts by making love to a man who is painting her home and from this point in the film everything begins to turn into many different kinds of mysterious events . Great acting by the entire cast and especially the performance of Elizabeth Shue . Enjoy
Great Entertaining TV Film	This film starts out with a family who were all going in different directions and their teenage daughter Martha MacIssac ( Olivia Dunne ) was very much in love with Joe MacLeod , ( Zack ) . The mother is played by Mitzi Kapture , ( Jill Dunne ) who suddenly walks in on her daughter and Zack making out and then all kinds of problems seem to surface . Jill Dunne has a husband who is always traveling or staying away from the home quite often . There are also big problems that occur when the family decides to go on a camping trip which their daughter Olivia dislikes and just cannot adapt to sleeping outdoors and requires a tent to be kept out all the bugs . In many ways , Olivia does an outstanding performance as the teenage and Nick Mancuso , ( Richard Grant ) gives a great supporting role as a hotel owner . This film will keep you guessing how it will end and you will enjoy a film filled with plenty of horror and terror . Enjoy
Great Classic Film	This picture takes place during the depression in New York City's Hell Kitchen which ran along 10th Avenue and the living condition were not favorable during this period of time in the 1930's . Margaret O'Brien plays the role as Flavia Mills a little girl about the age of eight years old and is a very happy little girl who lives in a world of her own and is a great joy to all the people in the neighborhood . Angela Lansbury , ( Susan Bratten ) is Flavia's aunt and she plans to get married to Steve Abbutt , ( George Murphy ) . However , Steve has been away in prison for eighteen months and has kept it a secret from Flavia , who believes he went around the world . Flavia's make believe world starts crumbing as she gets older and she becomes very disillusion about what her family tells her . Margaret O'Brien gave an outstanding performance and her great acting abilities will make you reach for a box of tissues . This is another Christmas story which was great entertainment in 1948 and is a great film you don't want to miss .
Another Tony Anthony Film	Enjoyed the first film with Tony Anthony , " A Strange in Town " and this film is quite similar except there are women being raped and one shot dead while trying to hang out her laundry . There are a whole gang of laughing bandits who simply love to tease , torture and kill in cold blood . The Strange meets up with a rather crazy preacher who has all kinds of secrets to help the Stranger fight off this gang of bandits who are after a gold shipment and the Stranger assumes the identify of a murdered postal inspector . The Stranger is captured and given a good beating and was pulled by a rope behind a stagecoach and was then kicked and punched in the face constantly . The music in this picture added a great deal of sound effects throughout the entire film and I must say some of the gals in this picture were very good looking and sexy .
Great Classic Western with Singing !	This is another Classic Western with the Singing Cowboy , Dick Foran , ( Clay Brent ) , " The Big Night " , ' 60 , who gets a bum rap and has to do time in jail for something he got framed for . The real bad guy is Emmett Vogan , ( Ace Cain ) , " How To Marry A Millionaire " , ' 53 , who just can't seem to keep his eyes off the pretty bank teller , Patricia Walthall ( Judy Ware ) , " Alcatraz Island " , ' 37 , ( uncredited ) . Judy does everything she can to let Ace Cain know that she loves and wants to be with Clay Brent . Ace Cain makes certain that Clay is put out of circulation for a few years . Glenn Strange , ( Tex Roberts ) , " Bud Abbott Lou Costello Meet Frankenstein " , ' 48 gave a good supporting role . If you like Classic Westerns and a singing Cowboy , catch this film on TV sometime ! !
A Film For Carnival LOVERS !	If you love to visit carnivals and all the thrills , rides and fun , this is the film for YOU ! In this thriller you get to see a youngster try to act like Anthony Perkins in " Psycho " in the shower scene , only with a rubber blade for a knife . Two young gals looking for sexy , hot romance and fun with their boy friends decided to stay in the Fun House overnight , which is where the fun really begins . Elizabeth Berridge ( Amy Harper ) , " Break A Leg " , ' 03 and Cooper Huckabee ( Buzz ) , " Y . M . I . " , ' 02 get into all kinds of horrible situations . They even meet a creature that looks like the " CRYPT KEEPER " from the HBO TV Series , " Tales From the Crypt " . Sylvia Miles ( Madame Zena ) , gets into the action and tries to sell her body to the Child Monster for $100 . 00 dollars . When you view this film , you will definitely lose your COTTON CANDY ! ! !
Deep Dark Film	This is a great story along with outstanding actors who show the struggles of a young woman who is running far away from her past in Holland and the treatment she received from the Nazi experimental doctors . This young girl captures the eye of a British policemen who understands she wants to go to Palestine and live and is having a hard time trying to secure passage which is very expensive . The policeman agrees to stay with her until she reaches her destination . This couple encounter all kinds of crooks and some very good hearted people who are willing to help them secure passage to Palestine . This man and woman begin to fall in love but the woman does not want any physical contact with the man and tells him we can never get married . Good story and worth viewing over and over as a reminder of a horrible past that happened to the Jewish nation and other countries .
John Wayne & Lana Turner Were a Good Pair	It is quite obvious that this film is Fiction and the plot of the story or the actual directional course this ship is sailing is in correct . Hollywood wanted the public to view John Wayne and Lana Turner together on a cargo ship with only men and no women aboard . John Wayne ( Capt . Karl Ehrlich ) , " Sands of Iwo Jima " , ' 49 , was a great Captain who really did not want a women on board his vessel . However , he had no choice but to take Lana Turner , ( Elsa Keller ) , " The Postman Always Rings Twice " , ' 46 along for the very uncomfortable cruise . Tab Hunter ( Cadet Wesser ) , " Damn Yankees " , ' 58 , played a very young pretty boy who ran into some serious problems in the water and on the ship . There was lots of chopping of wood and James Arness , ( Schlieter ) , " Gunsmoke " , TV Series , gave a great supporting role as a sailor who did not necessarily get along with Capt . Ehrlich . If you love John Wayne and Lana Turner all very young looking , you just might enjoy this rather long drawn out cruise .
HELL'S KITCHEN WAS ON THE WEST SIDE OF NYC / NOT THE EAST SIDE !	" DEAD END " was depicting the daily living conditions of people on the West Side of Manhattan , near the Hudson River , which was called Hell's Kitchen and was located on the lower section of the West Side . The East Side of NYC is where the Brooklyn Bridge is located near the East River across from the Borough of Brooklyn . The East Side Kids or The Bowery Boys were suppose to be jumping into the Hudson River for a swim off the docks . The City of New York with the help of former Mayor LaGuardia cleaned up the Hell's Kitchen section and many famous people have lived in this area , namely : John F . Kennedy , Jr . - - Humphrey Bogart and the Dead End Kids made this film into an all time classic film for many generations .
Mitchum was Outstanding	This is a great film from 1955 which you will want to watch over and over again . I have not seen this film for many years but I remember how great Robert Mitchum played the role as Harry Powell , a religious nut case . Harry Powell , met up with a man called Ben Harper , ( Peter Graves ) who was sentenced to prison for killing two men and they were both prison cell mates . Apparently , Ben stole ten thousand dollars and had hid it somewhere and was being sentenced to death . Harry tries to get Ben to tell him where the money is hidden before he is hanged . However , Ben tells him about his family and a boy and girl he has in a certain town . After Ben is executed , Harry get released from prison and seeks out his family . Harry puts on a big show as a religious minister who is a God fearing man and marries Willa Harper , ( Shelly Winters ) in order to take control of the children and find out just where this money is hidden . Vetran actress Lilliam Gish plays the role as Rachael Cooper . James Gleason gives a great supporting role . Don't miss this film , you will want to see it over and over again .
Great Cast of Veteran Actors	Greatly enjoyed this great Western film directed by John Ford who produced many great Classic films . John Wayne , ( Tom Doniphon ) plays the role of a man who is admired by all the homesteaders in a local town who stands up against Liberty Valance , ( Lee Marvin ) who is a hired gun by the cattlemen against the farmers and homesteaders . Ranson Stoddard , ( James Stewart ) visits this town as a man who is a lawyer and works as a dish washer in a restaurant owned by Swedish owners who sell steaks that are so large they almost fall off the plates they are served on . There is also a newspaper man named Dutton Peabody , ( Edmond O'Brien ) who takes an interest in Ranson Stoddard and allows him to share his office space with him . Ranson tries to teach the local people in the town to read and write and he begins to fall in love with Vera Miles , ( Hallie Stoddard ) who becomes his wife after he encounters a confrontation with Liberty Valance . Great film with Andy Devine , ( Marshall Link ) and John Carradine , ( Major Cassius Starbuckle ) who gave great supporting roles . Great Classic film , Enjoy .
Mel Gibson was So Young , I did not recognize HIM	It took me a long time to finally view this film and I was quite surprise how Mel Gibson looked in this film , he had good looks then and still does today , but at first I did not recognize Mel in the picture . Mel Gibson , ( ' Mad ' Max Rockatansky ) , " Bird On a Wire " , ' 90 , plays a cop who is entirely disgusted with society and decides not to take any crap from a wild bunch of nuts . There is plenty of action and some laughs which quickly turn to cries of pain and suffering . Joanne Samuel , ( Jessie ) , " Spook " , ' 88 , gives a great supporting role as ' Mad Max's wife along with Hugh Keays Byrne , ( Toecutter ) , " Resistance " , ' 92 . There are lots of violence , rape and horrible murders going on through out the picture and will definitely keep your eyes glued to the TV Screen .
Great Story / Great Acting	Kay Francis , ( Vera Kowalska ) gave a great performance and she wore great clothes which added to her charm in 1937 . This story takes off with a young girl who is studying piano and is very close to her mother and she is very sheltered and innocent . Vera is approached by a much older man , Michael Michailow , ( Basil Rathbone ) who invites her to a concert where he is the performing artist on piano . Michael tries to sweep Vera off her feet and vows that he will never give up on becoming her lover . However , Michael is an over sexed womanizer who leaves one gal for another in a very brief period of time . Leonide Kirow , ( Ian Hunter ) is a boyfriend of Vera and they get married and have a baby girl and everything is going fine until Leonide has to go to war and Vera just pulls herself into her home with her child and has no social life . It is at this point in the film when things really start to happen in the life of Vera . This is a great Kay Francis film and her acting is outstanding . Enjoy .
Disappointing Film	Loved the film " Black Widow " , which had a very tricky plot and held my interest from beginning to end . In this film there are many tell tale signs just who the killer is but at the same time it keeps you guessing just who is responsible for these murders . There are some very attractive gals that the Widower was able to catch in his web . The story makes references to some exceptionally forbidden subjects concerning a female and can be offensive to many people . This subject was addressed in a court of law in one of the scenes and this gave the jury something to think about . This film was a big disappointment and held my interest for a short period of time and that is all I have to say about this film .
A Great Classic from 1948	Over the years I have seen this film many times and many times it reminds me of the old film , " Bedlam " , starring Boris Karloff . However , Olivia De Havilland , ( Virginia Stuart ) , " The Heiress " , ' 49 , gave such a great performance , I thought she should have won the Academy Award for this picture , instead , she won the award for " The Heiress " . Virginia Stuart was a very confused and mixed up woman who had childhood experiences which caused her great mental blocks towards living a normal life as a wife and mother . Olivia De Havilland put her very heart and soul into this film and her acting made you feel very depressed for the horrible treatment she received from the professional staff , as well as , the lunatics where she was placed . Leo Genn , ( Doctor Mark Kick ) , " Moby Dick " , ' 56 gave a great supporting role to Virginia along with her husband , Mark Stevens , ( Robert Cunningham ) , " Street With No Name " , ' 48 . This is truly a great film , however , our mental hospitals have improved greatly since 1948 !
Woody Allen Masterpiece	This is definitely a great film depicting great scenes filmed throughout the City of New York and involved Isaac Davis , ( Woody Allen ) who was a man who had three bad marriages and one son . Isaac was a television producer and writer and lost one of his wives because she left the marriage for another woman . Meryle Streep , ( Jill Jones ) was the woman who left and his son was born from Jill , who had parental visitations with the boy and his father . Jill also decides to write a book about her marriage and in this book she tells everything horrible about poor Isaac . Isaac decides to quit his television job and decides to write a book but in the meantime he meets up with a seventeen year old girl , Tracy , ( Mariel Hemingway ) who gives an outstanding performance with her great acting . Mary Wilkie , ( Diane Keaton ) is another girl that he falls in love with and always seems to be a very confused man who is trying to find a woman who loves him . George Gershwin music was played as background music throughout this film which made this film very enjoyable with a great cast of actors and plenty of laughter . Enjoy .
Harrison Ford & Kristin Thomas were Outstanding !	This film captured my interest from the very beginning to the end , I was spellbound by the shock these two individuals went through after finding out about their spouses AFFAIRS ! , which broke their hearts . Harrison Ford ( Sergeant Van De Broeck , ' Dutch ' ) , " What Lies Beneath 2000 " , was an Internal Affairs cop who had to find out just WHY his wife had an affair with another man , after she just made love to him only hours before she visited her other lover . Kristin Scott Thomas ( Kay Chandler ) , " Up At The Villa " , 2000 , was into politics and was shocked by the fact her husband had affairs with several woman , and had a secret love nest apartment . There is a heated front seat car scene which steams up the windshield with Dutch & Kay trying to comfort each other and at the same time GETTING BACK at their cheating spouses ! If you look close , you will see Paul Guilfoyle ( Dick Montoya ) , " CSI TV Las Vegas " as a detective , what else ! , helping out with the body identifications ! If you love these two actors , this is the film for you !
Don't Make Yourself a PIN CUSHION !	Horror films are a big interest to me and I enjoy them very much . However , this film made me very nervous and some what upset , I actually had to look away from the screen . Kimberlee Peterson , ( Dawn Cottrell ) , " Farewell My Love " , ' 01 , gave a great performance as a very very disturbed young gal in high school and having problems trying to adjust . A great deal of her problems were found in her own family and the way her Mom & Dad and step brother treated her . Dawn was on a stairway in the boiler room of the high school and was jamming something in her leg and at first I thought it was a needle for drugs , but later found out it was a big gash in her leg . This film clearly shows a new illness that has come to pass in our Society that needs the attention of all parents and students . It is a very hard film to watch , but very down to earth and quite possibly helpful to anyone having these Horrible Problems . Please don't make yourself a Pin Cushion , GET HELP ! ! !
Excellent Film	If you had a mother like the one in this picture , I would begin to wonder how you ever deserved such a horrible position in Life . It sure is a great comedy and at the same time a drama that keeps you wondering just how things will eventually turn out in the very end . If you go out to dinner , you had better worry about the salt and pepper shakers and all morale codes of conduct are completely disregarded . The picture is a bit drawn out and you begin to wonder just when justice will prevail . This is a true story and you really feel sorry for the poor people involved in this family , but you just have to remember it is only a film , so sit back and enjoy the Comedy in this film .
About a Girl Nynphomaniac	This story starts off with a young girl named Grace Caldwell Tate , ( Suzanne Pleshette ) who is attacked and forcefully raped and does not report the matter but assumes this is a normal procedure between a girl and boy . Grace begins to have other encounters with men and causes all kinds of problems in her home and mostly her mother and brother . Jack Hollister , ( Peter Graves ) married Grace and they have a little boy and Grace continues to have an affair with Roger Bannon , ( Ben Gazzara ) and this film continues to go on with Grace never able to say a simple word like " NO " , and leave " Me Alone " . This is a mental sickness that can be corrected , but the person involved suffers horrible consequences . Great acting by Suzanne Pleshette and the entire cast . This is a very sad story and these type of people need help .
Dick Foran Turns LAWYER !	Watched plenty of Classic Cowboy Westerns but somehow I seemed to have missed this Singing Cowboy film with Dick Foran , ( Dick Hudson ) , " The Big Night " , ' 60 , who all of a sudden puts up a sign on a tent that says ' LAWYER ' . In the opening scene you see a town just starting out with various tents all around with people of different trades starting up a new settlement . However , the so called Bad Guy has taken over the town and his name is Edmund Cobb , ( Link Carter ) , " Requiem For a Gunfighter " , ' 65 . The cowgirl sweetheart in town is Jane Bryan ( Jean Walton ) , " Girls on Probation " , ' 38 . Jane's father tries to change his ways and will not go along with the evil plans of Link Carter . Dick Hudson decides to take this problem to court and put these people on trial . A young boy has fun putting his two cents into the action and plays around with guns and their bullets and causes the story to have a great ENDING ! Great Classic Foran Film !
Fantastic Love Story	This wonderful Classic film has entertained people ever since 1948 and it will continue to warm the hearts of all people who fall in love and never stop . Jennifer Jones , ( Jennie Appleton ) and Joseph Cotton , ( Eden Adams ) played the role of these two lovers who were real Soul Mates . This film has a very haunting theme with black and white and then a color background . There is a terrifying scene with a sail boat being crashed into the rocks and waves from the ocean beating against a lighthouse almost submerged in water . Eden Adams is calling out " Jennie " " Jennie , Where are You ? " . Ethel Barrymore , ( Miss Spinney ) and Lilian Gish gave great supporting roles to make this film even a greater masterpiece for all generations to enjoy .
Sharks Become " Frankenstein's " ! !	If you know a film is going to be about Sharks , then just sit back , relax and try not to be upset with the plot or the acting , lets face it , it is for your entertainment , why waste your time and words trying to be critical with a film like this ? I personally enjoyed this film and the director , Renny Harlin who also created " Die Hard 2 " , 90 and has some great films for 2004 ! The star of this film was LL Cool J ( Sherman Dudley or Preacher ) , " Rollerball " , ' 02 , with his pet bird and kitchen skills as a cook and comic acting , like hiding in the oven , to avoid these BRAIN THINKING SHARKS ! Saffron Burrows ( Dr . Susan McCallister ) , " Hideous Man " , ' 02 , was the creator of these Monster Sharks that could think about how they would destroy their creator by knocking down the fences in which they were caged . Dr . Susan tried to find a cure for Alzheimer's , but you will have to see the film to find out if they are using these TESTS TODAY ! Great entertainment for a SHARK FILM ! , but does not compare to " Tintorera " , with Susan George .
John Ritter & Katey Sagal Were Terrific together !	Have enjoyed seeing this film many times in the past , however , I have a deeper appreciation for the great acting skills of John Ritter . It is sad to see him in this picture along with Katey Sagal , who was the last actress to work with him in " 8 Simple Rules " , TV Series , ' 02 . John Ritter ( Tom Maguire ) , and Katey Sagal ( Irene Duncan ) , had me laughing through out the entire picture . I enjoyed seeing Irene Duncan pushing Tom around in a hand DOLLY to protect his back problems . The scenes taken in the City of Chicago were outstanding . This film will always keep John Ritter's image a live for all future generations to see what a great talent he had to offer the world !
A CAR CHASE THAT NEVER ENDS ! !	This film has a cast of all time greats of the Silver Screen , James Mason ( Ross ) " Lolita " who tries to hide his British accent , but he occasionally slips . Liv Ullman ( Fabienne Martin ) looks beautiful in this picture and plays a wife to Charles Bronson ( Joe Martin ) famous for his " Death Wish flicks " and the late Jill Ireland ( Moira ) who was married to Charles Bronson in real life . Throughout the film , there is always a car being driven through mountain roads around and around , and a desperate car chase to seek a doctor and then proceeds to run back over the same mountain roads . The car hits all kinds of cars , ditches and never seems to have a dent or broken windshield . If you like Charles Bronson , Jill Ireland , Liv Ullman and James Mason when they all looked young , this is worth watching . However , the plot is way out in left field ! ! !
Sex is Powerful	Enjoyed this film because it deals with a subject that can destroy peoples lives and their marriages and also relationship's between the opposite sex . This film deals with a young man who has never had sex and his school buddies arrange to break his cherry . There is also a woman who is married and has a very hot lesbian relationship along with many wives cheating on husbands and having other men's children . There is also a man who has HIV positive and is spreading his pain with other women . Truly , this film shows how sex has a power to create good and evil , it all depends on the way you look at things and your own lives . The entire cast of actors gave outstanding performances and I am quite sure we will enjoy seeing them in the future years ahead .
Gere & Stone Were Hot Together !	If you are a big fan of Richard Gere and Sharon Stone you will enjoy this very interesting film about Vincent Eastman ( Richard Gere ) , " Shall We Dance " , ' 04 , who is a very very successful business man and has a fantastic wife , ( Sharon Stone ) , Sally , " Catwoman " , ' 04 . However , the couple are hot for each other with a quickie love making scene and the marriage seems to drift a part . Lolita Davidovich , ( Olivia Marshak ) , " Dark Blue " , ' 02 , catches Vincent's eye in more ways than one and things start to pick up romantically . Olivia is a reporter and seems like the perfect soul mate for Vincent and then the picture goes into many flash backs and twists and turns in the road . This is a very very down to earth film and worth the time to VIEW !
Old Timer's Would Enjoy this Pic !	If you grew up in the 30's when there was no TV but only RADIO , you would have found this film very entertaining . Chester Lauck was one of the veteran stars of this film on the " Lum & Abner " show on CBS , NBC in the good Old Radio Days . This film enabled the public to actually view their radio stars on the big screen and their comedy made this film a great success . The big events in the film happened in the local general store in the STICKS ( or rural country ) and the artificial invention for rubber is discovered and the local town decides to bring their invention to Washington , D . C . , where this discovery can be utilized in WW II . This is truly a great Classic film and can only be enjoyed by a select few from the Past .
A Great Classic Film !	It has been a long time since I viewed this great film masterpiece with its cast of great actors who will live on forever . When this film was shown in 1943 , there was a great deal of mixed reviews among the Catholic and Non-Catholic religions at the time . This film even showed how the Catholic clergy had their deep doubts about such events ever happening . The great acting of Jennifer Jones and Charles Bickford along with the great cast made this a film for all generations . Today , we have seen many amazing discoveries in medicine and how all faiths and religions are growing to respect each other . This film touches the very heart and soul of a person and you will need lots of tissues through out the entire picture !
Eric Close Gave a Great Performance	Gerald McRaney , ( Dave Morgan ) , " War Crimes " , ' 01 TV Series , was like a father to Tiffani Thiessen , ( Jennifer Gallagher ) , " A Kiss Before Lying " , ' 03 , who experience a very bad situation in her life and it caused Jennifer to be withdrawn with people and young men . Dave Morgan tries desperately to get her out of the house and manages to introduce Jennifer to Chris ( Gallagher ) who falls madly in love with her at their very first meeting . In almost one or two dates later , Chris asks Jennifer if she will marry him and she agrees . It is not very long after the Wedding that things start to happen , Chris is in the Navy and does not like working in submarines and things start happening to young gals in the neighborhood . This is a very excellent TV film and it sometimes makes you wonder if the guy or gal I want as a Soul Mate is the Perfect PERSON !
1937 Classic Forever	It was very unusual for me to imagine that Freddie Bartholomew ( Harvey ) took the star billing on this film over Spencer Tracey , ( Manuel ) , Lionel Barrymore , ( Disko ) and Melvyn Douglas , ( Mr . Cheyne ) . Freddie Bartholomew was a young supper star and was like a young Shirley Temple who was a big star at the same period of time . Harvey plays the role as a son of Mr . Cheyne who is very rich and has very large investments in big business and has paid very little attention to his son Harvey , who is really a spoiled brat who causes all kinds of problems in his school . Harvey is expelled from his school for a few months and his father decides to take him on a cruise and it is from this point in the film which changes the entire life of Harvey and teaches him many things to make him into a better young man and turns his life entirely around . Great Masterpiece which will be applauded from generation to generations .
Susan George Was Hot & Sexy !	Always enjoyed Susan George and her great style of acting . In this particular film she showed her great natural beauty as a young star just starting her career . It was right after this film that she filmed in " Straw Dogs " . This film had great scenes of London and their local neighborhoods and European furniture . Susan George , ( Marianne ) , " Twinky " , ' 69 , played a wild and sexy gal who had plenty of lovers and did some wild dances and was running away from a plot to kill her . Christopher Sandford , ( Sebastian ) , " Vampira " , ' 74 , chases after Marianne and looks like a vampire in this picture with wild clothing and way out acting . Leo Genn , ( The Judge ) , " Quo Vadis " , ' 51 is a veteran actor who plays the role as the leader of the Plot ! If you love Susan George and missed this film , you will enjoy her beautiful youthful look !
Classic War Film with Great Women Actors	During WW II everyone in America joined forces to fight against Japan and Germany . This film clearly portrays the great efforts of the Military Nurses who helped the wounded and even gave their lives in order to bring Victory for the USA . Claudette Colbert , ( Lt . Janet Davidson ) , " It Happened One Night " , ' 34 , spread herself very thin trying to support the nurses and the soldiers in the hospitals . Paulette Goddard , ( Lt . Joan O'Doul ) , " Reap the Wild Wind " , ' 42 gave an outstanding supporting role while under constant bombing from the Japanese Zero planes . Veronica Lake , ( Lt . Oliva D'Arcy ) , " I Married a Witch " , 42 surprised everyone in the Nurses Unit with her great act of love and service to her country . Veronica Lake in real life had a short lived career and was not truly appreciated for her great acting abilities . This 1943 War picture clearly shows the horror of War and the results which live forever in our hearts and souls , especially the Veterans who are wounded and living in the Veteran's hospitals even TODAY .
GOOD VS . EVIL !	Decided to view this film because I wanted to see what other countries in Europe were watching in their movie houses in 1921 . The director , Carl Theodor Dreyer had a great talent and produced many interesting films through out his lifetime . This film showed how the devil down through the centuries was able to destroy peoples souls , including Judas in betraying Jesus to the Roman soldiers . There was a bargain that God had with the devil according to this story , where the devil would continue to remain on earth to fight for human souls and their destruction . All the actors performed with excellent skill for the Year 1921 and the fact that it was a silent film . It was very interesting to see the outdoor scenery in various countries and also observe the old furniture and customs . In one scene in Finland , the family who had young infants , seemed to keep them in a closet with a cloth curtain as a door and hung in a cradle held by straps ! If you get a chance to view this film , it is really worth the time .
