Confusing and boring	Avoid this film like the KGB . A Ruskie cop spends a lot of time running around in the snow looking for a murderer . Meanwhile , the viewer is bombarded with dull dialogue , a meandering storyline , and pointless activity . Nothing in the whole picture made a bit of sense . I coulda been out on the porch swatting flies .
Safe at home ! But out at Home Box Office .	What a stinker ! I called this turkey out before it reached first base . Ok , it was one of those cutsey films for the whole family with a message at the end , but . . . . What about the M & M boys , you ask ? Don't , please . I've seen more animation from a corpse . A cigar store indian has more life to it . Even a diehard yankee follower would heave his guts up watching this bilge . Want a more entertaining hour and a half ? Go watch paint dry . Gad !
Grimey , grumpy grunt greets green gyrenes : makes men of milksop mama's minions	Listless blood and guts yarn typical of this genre and era . Big John plays his usual hard nose , take no crap character as he prepares his charges to die for the big money boys . The battle scenes were laughable as we hear some grunt quip , " doggonnit , they got me in the same spot as before " . The jerk got shot because , with lead popping all around , he's involved in a b . s . session with his buddy . What realism ! The touching scene that really made my stomach roil was when a group of men circled a comrade just shot by a sniper and read a letter he had written to his son . These morons should have been zapped posthaste . This bilge was nothing more than another exercise in flag waving tedium .
This eagle is made out of silly putty	A teen-age boy , who is not in the military and has not trained to be a jet pilot , takes off for a foreign country to rescue his dad . If this is not ridiculous enough , he talks a Colonel in the Air Force into helping him get his hands on a jet [ wow ! ] . To make the picture even more absurd , the Colonel risks his career and life by giving the spunky lad some hands on aid . They not only don't make Colonels like this anymore , but they never did . This sappy , corny film should be tossed into the air and blown away by a MIG .
I thought this slop would never end	Who wrote this ? I demand to know ! This person should be ashamed . What a boring , pathetic mess . Lame jokes ? They abounded . Silly dialogue ? Plenty . This was simply a bad piece of filmwork . There must be an audience for this drivel , because it seems to be selling . What a world .
This dog should be soaped thoroughly and then washed down the drain	The writer of this drivel must have slipped on the Irish Spring while showering and cracked his noodle . The thing made no sense , it just rambled thoughtlessly about from one boring , asinine scene to the next . About as funny as finding a roach in your soup .
Just what was this crap all about ?	Lucky ' Fix-it ' Mann meets an unhappy , frustrated female client and winds up in bed with her after mouthing some of the most boring one liners I've ever heard . Meanwhile , Lucky's equally frustrated wife falls into bed with Lucky's girlfriend's hubby after some equally abysmal dialogue . Is Hollywood so desperate for films that they will accept anything , or was this garbage rammed through by some powerful yet untalented mogul ? Seldom has a picture been this devastatingly dull . One gross of thumbs down . - 12 stars . Gad ! !
This bloated corpse is guaranteed to nod'ja off	What was the purpose of this gibberish unless to aggravate all lovers of vampire film . Amateur hour performances , exhausted dialogue , totally ridiculous use of the camera , and then there was the big finale [ a concoction as stale as last week's salad ] . Two fangs down to this empty casket .
How can something so big be so bad ?	What did I like about this movie . Well , it was in color . Much better than black and white . Let's see , the language used was English . Made it easier to understand than , say , Mandarin . Oh , yeah , I almost forgot . I didn't have to pay anything to see it . Financially that is ; I did have to clock off a couple hours on the dwindling meter of my life , however . I suppose it is mostly my fault tho , because I am old enough to know that , as a rule , the more a film is hyped , the more it stinks . And , ladies and gents , this rubbish pile stunk all the way out to wherever the little green men live . Hammy ? Overacted ? SILLY ! ? Yes to all ! What was Fresh Prince bringing his brand of humor laugh into a so-called serious action film for ? Know what this undeveloped mess reminds me of ? The James Bond movies with Roger Moore . I despise a movie with all the little jokes and cool asides thrown in during what is supposed to be a tense moment . Such unrealism leaves me cold , and longing for a small , quiet spell with a good book . As long as the gullible public will fork over their bucks for this pablum , showbiz types will feed it to us . Probably laugh their heads off while doing so , too .
Whores and politicos make dull bedfellows	A bored woman decides to become a whore to break the monotony . One of her clients falls in love with her and draws her into a web of inner-city political intrigue . This ' story ' meandered about like the Colorado River . Boring dialogue , confusing story , no entertainment value . I'd rather watch golf .
Not one single thing was funny	Nervous radio entertainer and his girlfriend are going to be married . So to unwind a bit , they go to his family estate which turns out to be a really huge castle replete with all manner of weird characters . Some guy dressed up like Lon Chaney was bumping folks off , then running to his secret hideout . I suppose he had his reasons . The cute little twist at the end did nothing for the film either .
Count Dracula is rolling over in his casket	What was this piece of garbage , anyway ? Was it a comedy ? Drama ? Or just a vehicle for a bunch of spoiled actors to take home a big payday ? It certainly was not entertainment . Shallow ? Yes . Insipid ? Certainly . Plain silly ? To be sure . I don't like comedy vampire films to start with , and this crap just took the cake . Don't bother with this turkey , it offered nothing in the way of excitement or chills . I rate it down there with " Buffy the Vampire Sleeper " .
Part comedy , part suspense , all bad	Excruciatingly boring tale of a thief who steals a famous painting for another man and then double crosses him . Along the way a young woman is brought into the deal to create a forgery of the painting and she winds up falling for one of the crooks . This crushing bore went on interminably as the 2 groups went about trying to outwit each other and come into possession of the valuable piece of art . Worse than " Canvas " , another stupid ' art theft ' movie .
supposed to be a fright film . . . . supposed to be	I have been more frightened watching Saturday Night Live . There was nothing scary about it . It was too juvenile to be a fright movie . Teens might like it , if they are very immature .
Sex and prudery in jolly old England	Had I known this junk was populated with a bunch of second rate Brit players I would have run for the hills . Extremely dull fare with lots of shrill , rapid talking limey accents and not a whole lot of anything else . David Niven never made a decent film his whole career , and this bilge was right down on the bottom . Everyone involved with this mess should have taken a sleeping pill and gone to bed .
More stupid Jerry	Once again Jerry stinks up the big screen with his hyperactive sthick . Here he offers the ultimate in corny jokes along with a ' hoods become angels with the right kindly influence ' story . If you really like Jerry then you'll most likely go for this one , otherwise it will bore you senseless .
This documentary is more deceased than one of Romero's zombies	Dull analysis of George Romero's films , a gentleman who apparently went to the Roger Corman School of Film Making . A lot of words were spoken about Mr . Romero and his unusual method of shooting pictures . All this excess verbal diarrhea and the fact remains that Romero is a low budget hack who can't get a big money backer . Since he can't get this backing from the legit studios he lays claim to being a maverick who does things his own way [ read : makes 2 bit , turkey movies ] . I heard a lot of jabbering about the lackluster film that comes out of mainstream " Hollywood " and a lot of hullabaloo on how much better , more innovative and honest , are the independent film makers . Sometimes this is true , but I have seen a large amount from both camps that are suitable only for ceiling drapery at a frat house party . Running low on funds does not make a producer of film less pretentious nor more valid than a larger outfit .
Nothing's up with this limp wiener	What drivel ! Lame jokes , and I do mean lame . Pitiful choreographing job with the " karate " sequences . Not to mention that incredibly stupid knife fight on the balcony . What was the purpose of this film anyway , to show the talents of the Lovin'Spoonful ? That was the only good part I saw , and they didn't even do " Do You Believe in Magic ? " Probably because it hadn't been written yet , but that is a different story . This picture was a lame duck turkey that went above and beyond the call of boredom . Avoid it at all costs ; even if it means divorcing your wife or selling your kids into slavery . Gadzooks ! !
The worst film I've seen in over a decade	I thought this was going to be a serious film on survival , but instead it was a childish romp through kiddie land . I hate crap like this where you have adults , genius adults at that , acting like half witted pre-teens . This unbelievable story could have been interesting , after all it is just a movie . But remove all the useless and downright silly scenes from this overweight epic wannabe and you are left with , maybe , 5 minutes of entertainment . What a huge letdown . - 5 stars .
What a deadly dull piece of drivel !	Well , folks , you can't get much worse than this in cinema . Silly dialogue , uninspired acting , no drama at all , and just plain boring . Even a truck load of popcorn couldn't dull the pain of having to sit through this stupid , slovenly satire . It never ceases to leave me in utterly flabbergasted consternation as to how good actors can act so bad . I suppose when one is handed a lousy script like this one was and hired to film it , one merely takes the bucks , mouths the words , and hauls butt for the bank . I wonder , though , did they laugh all the way , or were they too embarrassed ? I choose to think the latter .
like all films in this genre , it stunk	A brilliant professor and his sidekick journey to the center of the earth in a huge machine which screws its way to the core . There , naturally , they find all kinds of things that are intent on killing and eating them . Plus , of course , a love interest for the young sidekick . Ho hum , does the plot never take a different tack ?
Namath gets sacked again . . . . this time by the critics	Joe threw the biggest bomb of his career and unfortunately it was intercepted by the viewers . This wasn't the stupidest film I've ever seen , but close . It wasn't the poorest performed , but mighty close . It was awfully close to being the most boring experience of my movie career ; even Ann M . couldn't help in that area . Smooth Joe just didn't come off as an Hell's Angel type , he's just to nice looking . And that sandwich building crap at the beginning . . . what amateurism . Get half drunk with some buddies and maybe this stumpwater will be palatable . Maybe .
long on gunfire , short on story	This movie was plain sorry . Thin plot , pitiful acting , senseless action scenes . This was just another program aimed at the mindless action crowd . Two or three million rounds were fired between 2 groups at odds with each other . Very few of them hit their targets . . . who teaches these hit men to shoot ? This was nothing but " Last Man Standing " done in Chinatown . Instead of hiring a high priced actor like Bruce Willis to make the film , the producers opted for some Chinese guy named Lo Fat Wu or whatever . His performance was a joke ; I haven't seen this much ham since last Thanksgiving . 2 thumbs down .
This swill was popular television ?	You must wonder about the intelligence of TV viewers during the seventies when this gibberish was on top . I saw my first episode last week and was totally amazed at the amateur hour presented therein . A sixth grade dialogue , extremely emaciated plot , downright silly action scenes as the " girls " took on ruthless drug lords with their pipsqueak snubbies , absolutely pathetic performances , and the list goes on and on . But who could give a good performance when asked to do mindless garbage like this ? No wonder I prefer books to television .
How about calling this one Howie's Dead End	Lavish sets , gorgeous scenery , top notch acting , and flawless props and costumes couldn't make this anything but a confusing tale of upper crust British snobbery vs . the downtrodden lesser mortals . To me this picture was dull and torpid because it seemed to merely meander about the lives of 3 families whose lives intersect at various times leading to desultory dialogue and much yawning from the audience . Bloody awful .
Should have called this one ' Small Tail "	I searched for one word to describe this film and came up with dumb . That seems to fit the entire boring , badly acted , silly scripted , nonsensical mess . What was Swayze doing in this production anyway , he is usually in a more mainstream element ? I doubt if even a child got anything out of this screwy movie . I can't say anymore , it was just a bad show .
very boring , idiotic bilge	Another popular film that to me is simply awful . This was supposed to be funny , but was just plain silly . Badly written , but could have been an ok film had it been done slightly more seriously . I know it was meant to be a comedy , and that is ok . However , it just didn't play as written . Really abysmal . 1 star .
Not one bit scarey	Well , I paid good money to be frightened , and all I did was yawn . The story was ineffective , the acting was abysmal , the evening was a total loss . I've been more scared walking thru the local church's haunted house at the end of October . This turkey should be thoroughly cooked and buried deep .
they shouldn't have returned	I could have done with the seven gunslingers just staying away . This sequel should never have been done , the first did it all and better . The plot was a turkey , the acting was turkey , the direction , production , camera work . . . all turkey . Whoever put out this junk should be tarred and feathered . May they not return again !
Blown away is what should happen to the guy that wrote this bunk	This is one of the most dull action films yet . The IRA is at it again with their bombs . Hasn't this horse been beaten long enough ? Jimmy Cagney was doing this act back during the depression . Enough , already . And what was with all these brogues ? Tommy Lee is a great actor , but that irish lilt of his went over like a led balloon . What a stupid movie . Oh well , top ' o the mornin ' to ya ' !
Dull dream drama	This was a total wipeout : not one minute amount , not a smattering , of anything worth seeing . I usually like Quaid but he had nothing to work with on this flopperoo . The cycle scene was particularly annoying ; the guy could barely ride it off at first , then he is makes a spectacular jump successfully shortly thereafter . Who was the dude who looked like Russell Crowe ? Had me going for a bit .
Vinnie Barbarino dances the night away	This turkey was undercooked and served up wet . A mouthy , stupid punk in New York City gets the hots for some equally empty headed girl and spends the entire film chasing her . They kiss , they argue , she pushes him away , they wind up dancing . What a loser , really bad , movie . I must say I liked the music , but the story was lame .
Very , very dumb , boring film	I have no idea what took place in this movie . It made no sense , was pitifully acted , and the story was totally idiotic . See , this guy had an implant in his head which made him a walking computer of some sort . So then , some bad guys wanted him to do something he didn't want to do , so they tried to mess up his head computer . This crap made me gag big time .
boring cop show	Too bad the writers in tinsel town couldn't come up with a better program than this . Should have called it " Bango and Trash " , because that is what it did and what it was . Boring action scenes , dumb plot that has been done a million times , and uninspired acting . And why not ? I couldn't get excited listening to and watching this drivel , why should I expect anything else from the actors ? Don't waste your time with this camel dung . th star .
idiotic , boring , silly , corny , lousy acting , nothing new	All the hype that surrounded this garbage should be heaped upon the head of the person who submitted this piffle to the general public . Heaped upon his head after being carved in granite that is . A more juvenile movie would be hard to imagine , but I suppose the folks in Hollywood can do it if anyone can . I almost became convinced while watching this film [ ? ] that the twister had more brains than any of the characters ; they didn't show me much in the way of anything except their immaterial love spats and divorce decrees . Gad , what shallow , immature dialogue . I particularly disliked the ending . The 2 heroes [ chortle ! ] would never have survived the funnel had it gone directly over them as depicted , nor can a tornado suck a truck up its spout with such ease . In fact , it cannot be done at all . Maybe the producers of this thing expected us braindead audience types not to notice the failing of their ' big hit ' because we would be so taken with the beauty of Helen Hunt [ as Santa would say " Ho Ho Ho " ] . What a bomb !
Good grief !	One of the worst of the worst war / action films . Incredibly stupid dialogue coupled with odiously pitiful performances by some of Hollywood's most inane " stars " made for a genuinely dull evening at the drive-in . Fortunately for me , I had a nice looking , albeit empty headed female with me , so the evening wasn't a total loss . Then again , maybe it was anyway . - 5 stars .
Swab jockey falls for bar room whore	Veteran sailor meets and walks the plank for a 2 bit , drunken slut with a welfare child who lives in a hovel that was so nasty a rat wouldn't slip inside and take a dump . Plus , the hooker was pregnant from an unknown source . If swabbie marries the worthless drunk it'll make him feel good . Feel good . Can anybody spell moron ? All it will do is make certain the tramp stays on the dole so taxpayers will have something to donate their money to . This jerk couldn't wait to ruin his life . I suppose this film was striving to convey the message " this poor old soul just needs a helping hand " . What they both needed was a boot up their butts : this picture was dull and lifeless ; the characters were all losers and fools .
Ryder should stick to shoplifting ; she's better at it	Silly , impressionable young teens will probably go for this idiotic time waster but all others should be offended . I found all those schoolboys to be irritating beyond belief and Ryder to be sluggish and phony . How convenient for the young lads to have totally empty hallways in a house full of rambunctious boys as they brought in the limp body of a woman and placed her in their room . How lucky for them that they drug her all over the place for hours without anyone but their closest buddies finding out their secret . Calmest dorm I've ever witnessed . - 100 stars ; a world full of thumbs all pointing down .
Typical British flummery	At being scary this bilge failed miserably . The Jeckyl / Hyde helper was funnier than he was horrifying . This slop was probably effective 40 years ago when playing to a theater full of hyperactive 8 year olds , but it was plain silly in the here and now . What was with the opening 15 minutes of prattle by some ramrod stiff " doctor " ? Some hypnotist . Almost put me to sleep , though , gotta give him that . Good grief !
Cross this off your list	Goldie played an unfit mother with a troubled son . Very shallow story . Boring .
Boredom and trouble in the bedroom	Dull look at several couples who are no longer able to relate to each other so they either break off the relationship or start sleeping around . This was painful to sit through for me but it did point out that the boy / girl stuff is more flash than bang .
Excruciating , agonizing trip into total boredom	What a lousy , pathetic , downright dull film . Nothing even remotely amusing occured during the entire mess ; unless you want to consider the sadly laughable plot , the corny dialogue , the dispirited performances . The only thing I enjoyed about this one was the scenery and that was not nearly enough to keep me even somewhat interested . Bad ; really , really bad . . . . . .
Not a sin maybe , but still bad	A salty sailor of the seven seas , acting like Indiana Jones with a wraparound do-rag , vies with a venomous demon worshipper for a golden amulet which will allow the holder to rule the world . . . . or some such crap . The story was dumb , the special effects especially non special , and the props looked like they were purchased at Woolworth's end of the year super blowout sale . This may rate as the yawner of the decade .
2 heads aren't always better than one	Bruce Dern stars [ ? ] in this unbelievably god awful film about a really way out doctor / scientist who decides to graft the head of a criminally insane man to the body of a retardo . What followed was one of the worst movies to ever come out of the entertainment industry in many years . I saw it at a drive-in in Houston with a couple friends so getting to yuk it up with them over the horrible plot made it fairly palatable . Had I been alone I may have died of sheer boredom . What a dog : and what was Dern doing in this turkey ? Was he broke at the time ?
What a total bore !	I watched the first 45 minutes of this garbage and turned the set off just before I fell out of my chair into a deep sleep . All that was going on was a bunch of military rejects were running around in a castle somewhere acting stupid . No purpose to this drivel , just a string of really dull dialogue and silliness . - 4 stars .
A gross insult to motorcycles and cigarettes	Not one line of dialogue , not one frame of film , nothing about this piece of crap was entertaining . Don Johnson should be ashamed , Mickey Rourke probably said , " another lousy acting performance , nothing new for me . " The action scenes were pitifully set up looking ; a 5 year old couldn't get excited over this boring humdrum silliness . After emptying a trash can full of banana magazines at the 2 " heroes " , one would think professional hitmen could put at least one round where they wanted it . Absolute trash - .
they tried , but it just wasn't funny	This sequel was just not funny . The nutty professor screwed up again , but this time he made the baby into a 50 foot monster . I was not impressed .
Shiver me timbers ! This wreck belongs under the poop deck	I wonder if the players in this film hated having to go through the motions of imitating comedy . I think they were probably embarrassed because they couldn't find something better to lend their talents to . The jokes and gags in this thing were older than dirt and dumber than a gourd . The writer of this bilge should be drawn and quartered or at least banned from ever sitting in front of a word processor again . Could it be that this dud made money for the producers ?
Slower than molasses in mid-winter Michigan	Dreary , dull , endless dialogue between a disgruntled limey and various other characters . Power didn't fit the part of a young man at all , looking far older than his years . This film kept promising action but just never delivered . Nice props and lots of activity , but a deadly bore .
Pitiful , absolutely pitiful	This junk bore as much resemblance to the novel as a pickle slice does to a cucumber . The film makers took the Alamo section out of the book , made it into a movie , and said it was based on the book . Hah ! Wonder what they did to induce Mr . Michener to endorse this piece of fluff ? It was just another Davy Crockett , flintlock rifle , Santa Ana , 13 days of glory collection of poppycock . I almost started rooting for the mexicans , just to get the damn thing to end . And what was that scene where Stacey Keach was trying to get James Bowie to let him look at the knife ? The sexual innuendos he used were juvenile and unnecessary . They could have used the film they wasted on that silliness to put in some real dialogue . This show was an embarrassment to Hollywood . Or can those clowns be embarrassed ?
Romantic comedy with little romance and even less humor	Paul Reiser , a . k . a . Mr . Gesture , did ok in this one , but it was still a dog . The dialogue was beyond droll and juvenile , and the story went way beyond anything even remotely interesting . I always enjoy the shows where all the troubles and strife are overcome in the end when the pair unite in love forever . Ahhhh . . . . romance . However , this one didn't bring it off : in fact , I am amazed it even got through production . BYPASS !
SPOILERS Another droll serial killer tale	A demented killer is stalked by the police after a series of bizarre murders occurred . The cops rack their brains trying to figure out the killer's weird thinking , but finally take him in rather easily . Shrewd little killer that he is , he has a ' nice ' surprise in store for one of the cops . This picture was too complex to be completely entertaining . I feel the writer was trying to show the twisted working of a warped mind , but it just came off confusing and boring . As usual , Brad Pitt performs unconvincingly . He needs to switch acting coaches as he has yet to give anything more than a lackluster , phoney performance . I was particularly offended by his use of the handgun . One can achieve zero accuracy while holding this weapon at arms length overhead and pointing the barrel in the general direction of the target . Thumbs down low .
Jalopies of Ire	What a dull and tiring film . I managed to sit through 45 minutes of this bilge before throwing in the towel . There was nothing even remotely interesting occurring and I foresaw only more meaningless gibberish ahead . I found the Jew with attitude , Abrahams , an obnoxious , irritating twerp out to prove something ; whatever that was . Why couldn't he simply accept his lot in life without wanting to bring the world to it's knees in honor of his exalted presence by winning some silly footrace ? This junk was ignorant beyond belief - and it won some awards ? ? ?
vulgar , meaningless sexual violence	What was the purpose of this film ? I found nothing in it that I could even remotely relate to . It was just a jumble of deviant sex scenes , boring dialogue , & meaningless scenes involving foolish acting people . An utter piece of garbage .
This film was perfect . . . . perfectly awful	The makers of this bilge should be ashamed . I'll wager Jack Palance's face still turns red when this turkey is brought up in his presence . I would say the same of Joan Collins , but this movie could well be the high point of her pathetic career . The budget couldn't have gone much over a few grand , and most of that was very likely spent on dog food . Come to think of it , dog chow is all any of the cast and crew deserved . The film was constructed entirely of jerky , disconnected scenes chock full of some of the most cornball , juvenile dialogue I've ever had the bad luck of viewing . And the wolf attacks ! Why do these adventure shows always have those stupid wolf attacks ? At least there were no stupid bear attacks . The story was a familiar one in which an evil scumbag gains control of Dawson City , Alaska during the gold rush days . He hires a gang of toughs to strike fear in the gutless townsfolk by stomping or murdering anyone dumb enough to question his authority . Why didn't some enterprising soul with a good rifle simply pop the ornery tinhorn's chops from a dark alley one night ? The sorry creep has a good set-up going until a handsome stranger [ who fell in love with the bad guy's " tramp with a heart of gold " saloon girl in about 4 seconds flat ] and a couple of kids with a wild German Shepherd [ whose bark was strangely like that of a Pomeranian ] came to town and upset his apple cart . This bomb opens up whole vistas of opportunity to give new meaning to the term " not worth a tinker's damn " . Ten year olds may like this junk , but I have to wonder about even that .
Joe Petroni should have rigged this plane to crash	Too bad Bin Laden wasn't around to send a stinger missile up the tailpipe of this crowbait . Rarely have I been subjected to such mundane dialogue and tepid action as I was with this junk . Even THE PREZ couldn't help keep this vulture in the air . My main gripe with the picture was the portrayal of Helen Reddy as a nun . Say what ? Joan of Arc got hot fried for less heresy in the old days . This little pipsqueak only got in the production because of her great feminist song of the 70's . I can hear it now , " I am woman , hear me roar in numbers to big to ignore as I spread my loving legs across the land " . What a masterpiece ! My next gripe is playing Linda Blair as the sweet little girl again . So much sugar dripped off her I almost developed diabetes . She did no better here than she did in that goofy spook movie . . . . the name eludes me , " Demon Busters " or " Girl on a Bed with a Turned Around Head " . . . . something like that . The high point of it all was Joe Petroni : wrench turners like this master mechanic are as rare as a broken Snap-On ratchet . I would say this was just another in a long line of disaster movies , but these slime coated stump leavings didn't even reach that level .
This train should have been derailed in the station	Who in the name of all that is holy came up with this puppy excrement ? Who ever heard of a middle aged geezer flying missions against der fuerer ? What was the purpose of mis-casting Frank Snotra as the smooth talking flyboy ; because he was just as slick off camera ? The POW's were out in a desert area but ol ' brown eyes just had to don that leather jacket before he could even go to the latrine . If the Italians were as inept as this bunch , it's no wonder they had to bow out of the war early . Out of all the phony ' excitement ' shoveled up in this mess , I gotta say the kraut troop train that stopped on a dime after noticing the missing rail was my best belly laugh . Even on a boring rainy afternoon you'd be ahead picking up a good novel over viewing this drivel . Thumbs down .
A masterpiece turned into a disasterpiece	Seldom have I seen a great book turned into such a putrid mess as with this bomb . The make-up was pathetic , the acting even more so , and the " spooky " props were a joke . The only decent scene was when the little boy hovered outside the bedroom window begging to be let in . That was effective . The rest of the film was a study in how to make a really , really lame movie . I'll wager King was horrified with the thing .
Seemed like it ran a year	You better like Neil or this will be an interminable trip through bad music hell . Not nearly as good as his ' 72 film " Journey Through the Past " , it still had a few fun moments but was mostly dull interviews and grainy , endless concert footage . Young needs to drop the gangsta / rapper look ; in fact the entire band appears to be a bunch of washed up , burnt out , middle aged head banger wannabes who look to have been ridden hard and put up wet . I was particularly amused by Pancho as he kept insisting the producers couldn't sew up 30 years of Crazy Horse with a camera and a couple of questions . What's to sew up ? Drugs , whores , bad music , and a never ending childhood wouldn't beg more than 2 queries at most . I admit to liking a few of Young's songs but for the most part I consider him a 2 bit guitarist who pushes grunge a bit too far .
Too much ' bull ' in this pasture	Eight seconds is how long I wish this crap had lasted ; it seemed like eight hours . Two cowpokes travel around in a Cadillac , hanging around in bars boozing and chasing women . Then the action picks up when they go to rodeos . Oh , boy ! Just what I wanted to see . Some brainless cowboy getting on a steer , or whatever they are called , and riding it around an arena covered in cow flop with a group of other cowpokes yelling , " Ride ' im , cowboy ! " , and " Yeehaw ! " . A must see for all you Garth Brooks fans out there . YAAAAAHOOOOOOO ! ! ! ! ! ! !
waste of time	Boring is what this one was . All that happened was a bunch of lava rolled down the street , and the good guys re-routed it into the ocean . As this was happening Tommy Lee Jones ran around screaming orders and whining about his silly little daughter . I knew what was going to happen at every turn . What a predictable , dull mess .
sickeningly silly romp with the Beatles	Ringo has a ring belonging to a cult of murderous zealots . They think because he is wearing the ring that he has to be sacrificed . The chase is on , with all the Beatles trying to keep their drummer from being killed . This was so stupid that it would take a real Beatle nut to accept it as it is . Which I did when it first hit the screen back in ' 65 . But now ? Gag ! !
Cher needs to share this turkey with the buzzards	I don't care how many nominations this junk got for best this and that , this movie stunk . I didn't know whether to turn off the set , or file a lawsuit with O . J . ' s attorney for wrongful damage to my mental health . I have seldom been this bored ; to call this dung entertainment is a slap in the face of every movie-goer across the planet . The whole story was stupid , the acting was uninspired , the ' drama ' was emotionless . I am thankful I didn't have to pay for this unfulfilling experience .
not much to this flop	I usually like the time travel theme , but this turkey was the exception . A group of special forces toughs , and a scientist go through some kind of time and space warp into a parallel world . For my money they could have went through the warp and stopped the film right there . Coulda saved me 2 hours of intense boredom . What a loser , dog of a picture .
This could have been called " Home Alone Hits the Jackpot "	A young boy comes into a lot of money and promptly begins to live it up . Unfortunately , the man whose money it really is happens to be very bad . He wants his loot back . When he discovers who has the bucks , he begins trying to get it back . He keeps getting foiled by this little kid who is just lucky enough to keep from falling into the evil man's hands . Sounds familiar , I'll bet . Very predictable , not interesting at all . Come up with something a bit different , ok guys ?
The best thing about this film was when it was ended	Was this the worst picture I've ever seen ? No , but it was a close call . Extremely juvenile , excessively super stud / hardass dialogue , pathetic , idiotic story displaying enough spent ammo to wipe out a third of L . A . I rooted for the monster all the way through to wipe out these dumbass cops : anything to stop all those sillyass , boring " Come on ! Come and get me ! " macho screams . This rotgut bilge is strictly for the bored , folks with only one oar in the water , teens , or hopeless action freaks . Everyone associated with this crap should be horsewhipped within an inch of their lives .
To the doghouse with this puppy	What the devil is Jack Nicholson doing in this dog . Is James Spader having trouble finding good scripts these days . This was a wolfman film , for God's sake . Wolfman ! I can see a two bit actor like Lon Chaney spending his entire life making offbeat canine movies , but not these two fine actors . What is this world coming to ?
Hitch blew this one	Unutterably boring dialogue , completely silly story , but lovely scenery . I kept waiting for something to happen , but all that ever went on was a group of folks kept burying and digging up a dead guy . Two of the people thought they were responsible for the death and were trying to hide the evidence and circumstances continued to require that they keep shuffling the body around . Very tedious . I would rather watch a red oak grow that waste my time watching this drivel .
I'm not dead , but I would like some revenge	Ok . This could have been a good film if it had a total rewrite . And a different director . Plus a few decent actors would have helped . I mean , Randy Travis ? As a ranger ? PLEASE ! ! This guy has the acting ability of a seed tick . And the voice of bullfrog that has went ' rivit ' one time to many . He needs to stick with what he is good at . I hope that one day he finds out just what he is good at . This was a corny , unrealistic picture about the ' good ' prevailing over the ' bad ' . I felt like puking .
Quite , quite , QUITE ! bad	This has to be the worst garbage Peck ever came up in . This crap has more holes in it than a block of Kraft swiss cheese . How did a college professor mix it up with a hitman capable of breaking a door down with his bare hands ? How did he survive being rolled from a moving van on an expressway ? How did he manage to keep from being killed by 2 groups of savage murderers who had every chance in the world to do so ? That one's easy - I've never seen a more goofy , inept bunch of ham handed , grinning morons in my life . This bilge could have been the prototype for the 007 series , except that bilge had already been birthed . And the attempt at humor ! Pathetic ! As is the case with most spy films , the plot was a confusing mess : the dialogue was childish , the script was a total joke , and the performances were sheer amateurtown . A pack of skunks couldn't create a bigger stink : which is typical of a British production .
Although not spiral , the staircase was the most interesting aspect	The final half hour of this film was fairly entertaining but it couldn't make up for the deadly dull first hour . This cornball scarefest complete with the neverending thunderstorm never got off the ground for me ; probably was spooky 50 years ago but today was merely laughable . I did like the creepy basement .
Goofy ghost gunk	What was this all about ? A supposed to be ghostly comedy with cool animation , uproarious hilarity , really hot props and slick gizmos , and choice acting by big name stars . Instead we get one big monumental bore . This crap should make like an apparition and disappear .
People want these obnoxious little brats ?	This wasn't what I thought it was going to be . Mainly it was way too juvenile , but also the actors gave unconvincing performances . Probably a decent film for kids , and it carried a good message of forgiveness in the end , but I figure I'm too long in the tooth for this style of entertainment .
Was this show stupid , bad , dull , or silly ? Try all of these	To start off , there was way too much crooning by Dino : the producers shouldn't assume every viewer enjoys the mellifluous moanings of this drunken Italian . Phony fight scenes , " super cool " gadgets , tepid story , puny pyrotechnics , pathetic acting : all this made for one more bland 90 minutes . Furthermore , I found the fast motion camera work gave the film a cartoonish effect , not to mention amateur hour , which was irritating and added nothing to the picture . And that station wagon ! There was no back to the front seat and where was the dash ? " Silencers " should be kept silent from this day forward .
One of the worst movies ever	What was good for westerns was equally bad for the horror genre . . . and that was Roger Corman's leaving one and going to the other . What a goofy idea this was for something called entertainment . The Confederate Army was in such bad shape it had to recruit a group of scumbags from death row to bring in a traitor and 30K in gold . They couldn't find a few men in the ranks who could do the job ? Just couldn't make it without employing a handful of untrustworthy thieves and killers ? Way beyond stupid . Seldom have I seen cornier more overblown performances . And those fight scenes ! A class of sixth graders could have been more convincing . Avoid this claptrap .
Ford's worst effort yet	Cliche riddled , flimsy " Gilligan's Island " rip-off wannabe . The dialogue alone turned me to concrete , but the so-called excitement really hardened the mixture . This dull mess was a total waste of good talent ; so predictable that at times I could almost say the lines ahead of the players . Both thumbs down .
Another stupid wolf attack picture	The Far North in 1935 is the setting for this dull film . An Eskimo man falls out with his father , the tribal leader , over which of them gets " the woman " . He and the woman must flee to parts unknown after he kills a man in self defense . Soon a mountie is on his trail which forces him to brave the frozen tundra alone while being stalked by a white wolf . All this sounds like it made for a good adventure tale , but it was just plain boring . And who was the moron who cast Jennifer Tilly as an eskimo ? She looks about as much like an eskimo as the Reverend Jesse Jackson . This was a been there , done that , lame film from the very outset . Avoid !
Somewhat funny , well acted	While not as funny as " What's Up , Doc ? " , I thought this one was ok . I like a comedy to cause me to fall on the floor laughing , but it didn't happen with " Wives " . It did touch a nerve concerning the behavior of many husbands ; the guy with the younger bimbo was a classic example of a silly middle aged man trying to relive his life through excessive sex . I prefer Goldie in " Deceived " or " Bird on a Wire " .
bad guys go for the gold	Bad guy forces a sheriff to lead him and his band in search of a hoard of gold . They must go high into the mountains , and while there they cross paths with some evil cavalry men . Then a group of rascally citizens and a band of injuns take an interest in things . Below average western , not enough action and excitement . Hokey plot , hammy acting .
Had no idea bad could be this bad	Think of everything that could be wrong with a film , triple these things , cover them with a coat of raw sewage then set them on fire and you will have a piece of charbroiled pigslop called " Satisfaction " . Tepid , low rent comedy dealing with 4 simpering teen rocker wannabe girls and their dorked out boyfriend . I figure the actors had a better time making this bilge than anybody could ever have watching it . If Jagger were dead [ and watching this drivel could very well have led to his demise ] he'd be permanently spinning in his expensive English casket . Gad !
I've had more laughs watching paint dry	This was one of the most pathetic attempts at comedy to ever come out of Hollywood . A more silly script has never been written and a performance has rarely been done so badly . I did enjoy the 3 Stooges , but I have to wonder why they lowered themselves to this level . And Charles Bronson ! They made a mockery of one of the greatest bad guys ever . Dean and Frank are much better than this bunk .
Not just a bore . . . a MONUMENTAL bore	Boy , was this typical Presley . Inane , dull , and insipid from the word go . Ridiculous story , lacklustre performances that were so put on a group of high schoolers could have done better . A few good song and dance routines , in particular E's Viva Las Vegas sequence . But folks , this junk went nowhere . The most noteworthy thing about the whole mess was that for once the Big E didn't have a fight scene - he usually has to beat the hell out of somebody with his phony karate moves . What a wimpy looking pugilist he is . Avoid this one at all costs .
No amount of praying can save this lost turkey on skates	This was intended to be a sizzling action film but quickly metamorphoses into silly ass , mindless teen boredom . The acting was sub-pathetic , the choreography junior grade , and the story on a third grade level [ assurance that all the teens could easily keep up ] . And what is with all the anguishing over this Haim kid ? Just some punk second rate actor wannabe in dire need of a competent hairdresser . This bilge was so juvenile I wonder if a 10 year old could go for it .
Until I saw this I always wanted a son	Bland re-make take off on " Bad Seed " . Culkin made a decent enough psycho and everyone did a nice job but the film didn't cut it for bringing anything new to the bad boy genre . The ' hair raising ' final scene was way too over the edge [ snicker ] ; unbelievable and commonplace .
Same ol ' , same ol ' , same ol ' , same ol '	Didn't Hollywood get this putrid mess out of their systems back in the 70's when filming all those abysmal James Bond dogs ? Now they come back with a rehash of the same old crap with 2 popular actors ; who , I might add , could and have done better . This turkey never left the ground it was so weighted with a dull script and terminally stupid dialogue . Had the producers cut out all the silly one liners and unrealistic footage , the show would have lasted about 10 minutes . Travolta deserves better than this , but I guess he couldn't say no to the payday .
Ace adj : of first rank or quality	Didn't live up to the dictionary definition . I have seen Willie Nelson do a good job in a film or two , but this was one of his wooden indian episodes . I would say he needs to stick with singing , but since he falls short in that area also I'll simply claim he needs to stay with song writing . It was obvious early on who the killer was , and even more apparent where the story would end as Kris and crew ran about excitedly chasing the " elusive serial murderer " while keeping a wary eye on the wily Nelson who played a lovable criminal [ innocent , of course ] . Pass this one by and do something useful with your time . I should have .
badly done tale	This was not a well done western . You've got this nut riding around in the blazing sun in a buggy with a parasol over it , killing people for his own reasons . You've got this same person sitting in a snow cave during a blizzard , cutting off pieces of his anatomy which have been frostbitten . Then you've got some woman in a house out in the middle of somewhere shooting wolves that are not there . What is the point of this film ? Couldn't Bruce Dern find something better to do ? This was a waste of film .
I could barely sit through this nonsense	In the words of Art Bell just after the Kreskin Vegas fiasco . . . lame , lame , lame . The action jumped around like a rabbit on crank , not spending nearly enough time with many of the scenes for a complete telling of the story . The dialogue was tepid and all those rambling songs were just dull , empty filler . The producers managed to take one of the best novels of the 60's and butcher it without mercy . It was fun seeing some of the old players however this film was anything but a keeper .
Had they ridden separately this may have been better	This may have been the worst of Stewart's and Widmark's westerns . Part comedy , part drama , it never went all the way in any direction leaving the viewer awash in a horse trough of boring silliness . This was just another in a long line of indian hostage retrieval pictures . Who cast Strode as an injun anyway ?
An abominable bore	For this to have been a comedy , I sure found nothing humorous about it . For it to have had the big name comics in it , I found few laughs . It was one of those films that I thought would never end , as a bunch of folks ran around doing stupid things in an upscale hotel . Pitiful , thumbs down .
huggy , kissy war drudgery	One of the most boring movies I've ever sat through . I kept waiting for some action , and finally got some at the end , but mostly what I saw was a middle aged yankee going bonkers over a very un-Spanish looking woman . There was an overabundance of arguing and infighting among the rebels which accounted for an overabundance of dreary dialogue . Had the entire film been as fast paced as the final 20 minutes , I would have been far more satisfied .
Surf , suds , sand , sex . . . . & stupid	This has to be the worst installment of the series and usually I find something in these beach epics somewhat amusing , but this one fell flatter than a Galveston wave . Even my idols , Eric Von Zipper and his army of Ratz , weren't given decent parts . I could easily have gone without the silvery warbling of Annette as she walked along the ocean's edge ; her's and Frankie's mediocre vocals added nothing to the film . Now that I think of it , they took away . This driftwood should be heaved overboard and the lines to the lifebuoys sliced .
This should have been called " The Drunken Airheads "	Well , Big John fights and loves his way across the 7 seas in this one . Whatta guy ! What a load of propaganda drivel ! The Big Guy storms the beaches with his gang of hard drinking , 2 fisted construction workers . Amid stirring patriotic music and a touching love triangle , The Duke opens a can of whup-ass and douses the nasty Nips with it . Pathetic acting , phony battle scenes , and ditzy dialogue made for movie masochist mayhem . I'll bet this fluff swelled the ranks of the U . S . Navy back there in ' 44 . What a stinker .
Drunks go to war	The so-called hunters in this film are typical of why P . E . T . A . formed their animal rights group . These boozing bozos , who couldn't even go afield equiped with a pair of boots , sprayed and prayed the woods over until they finally ran some hapless quarry to ground . A trio of these beerheads decide to quit their jobs at the foundry to go be patriotic in the Viet Nam conflict . But first the suds suckers go to a wedding . Then they suddenly are combat vets who wind up very suddenly : A . As a reclusive paraplegic B . Becoming a member of some super secret Russian Roulette fraternity C . Going home and cruising around in a cool Airborne uniform . This must have been an art form because it didn't play out like a movie . Thumbs down to this useless , meaningless time waster .
Another Bronson Bomb	Seems like the early 70's was a bad time for old Chuck B . He put out a series of really bad , boring films during that time and this one stands out in my mind as one of the worst of the bunch . Just a series of senselessly violent scenes coupled with dull dialogue and a dreary story . For diehard Bronson fans only , I would say .
Tiresome remake	Take an utterly stupid story . Couple it with unprofessional performances , 2 bit graphics , add ultra-lame comedy bits , and you get this film . I thought the original was bad , but at least that story was simple and straightforward , though idiotic . May nobody produce another in this series .
Boy searches for God	Corny , unrealistic tale of a young boy on a quest for enlightenment after being totally confused by his empty headed religion . Now , how many little boys do you see giving up baseball and TV for that trip ? This film went absolutely nowhere ; one lame , boring scene after another featuring some little cutesy actor who was unable to keep this dead fish afloat . Bother not .
A really , really , really , bad movie	This is a very popular movie , and I don't see why . It had good actors and actresses in it [ with the glaring exception of Brad Pitt - this guy simply can't act ] , but the story was vapid to the extreme . The whole thing was silly and boring with , however , an interesting and unusual ending . A fitting end for these 2 dumb broads . I suppose it had plenty of action to it , but is that enough to carry it ? I don't think so . Thumbs down all the way .
Not too bad , not too good	The usual Batman and Robin story . This one had more overblown special effects than the others , a sexy Uma Thurman , and a vivacious Alicia Silverstone , but still managed only to be mundane . I did think the Batmobile was cool , though .
another dull , dreary swordfighting tale	This movie was not what I wanted in a tale about the Round Table . Richard Gere , a talented actor , was not right for this part . But then , maybe no one was . I found the plot to be very shallow , and the dialogue wasn't far behind . The derring-do knight and the damsel in distress is an overdone story , and this film offered nothing new . 1 star .
Missed attempt at doing something different	This , next to Volcano , is the worst Tommy Lee Jones film I've ever seen . The ghost bit didn't come off , the friends of Jones ' character added nothing to the story . . . and the story ! Just what was the story ? Something about a ghost wanting her jewels back and her hubby running some creepy game on Jones . Stupid tale plus dull , plodding dialogue equals a real loser movie .
There are some real freaks out there	Watch this one just to see a bizarre collection of the deluded , the braindead , and the plain old put-ons . The 2 most noticeable of all the weirdos in this documentary were the muscle bound she-man { Bev Francis , I think } , and unbelievably phony Rachel McLish . Miss Francis , who at least saw the competition for what it was , was a ghastly example of what a distorted mind coupled with dangerous steroids can become . As freaky as this woman was I must say that Miss McLish topped her for an outright eccentric , perhaps grotesque , mindset . I heard nothing , I insist . . . nothing , come out of this woman's mouth that was even remotely real . This has to be the most devious , deceitful person I've seen anywhere . I wonder if her whole life isn't one big hallucination . I have seldom seen a group of people more to be pitied than I did in this expose of womens ' bodybuilding . Not a well done film , but worth seeing how odd we humans can act when our minds take us down the wrong path . Strange .
Sufferin ' Sphinx !	Shoulda called this turkey " The Dummy " . Wasn't anything but a cheap knockoff of " Raiders of the Lost Ark " , with nowhere near the tension and excitement . This junk was merely ridiculous , stupid , silly , idiotic , etc . I've rarely been subjected to such cornball dialogue combined with extremely bad storytelling as I was with this tale . The excellent computer trickery could do nothing to save this putrid bilge .
Santa must live on	When the reigning Santa is no longer fit for duty his helpers must search for a replacement . This leads to a wacky , exhausting hunt and doesn't turn up exactly what Santa's angels hoped for . To make matters worse still , " Santy " winds up being just this side of totally undesirable . This is the worst Christmas tale I've seen yet , and I had no trouble spotting the shameless subliminals . The producers could have picked another genre to promote their silly assed agendas .
Too long , too slow	The 2 highlights were Dean's & Ricky's western song and Walter Brennan's portrayal of the cackling geezer . Too bad there wasn't more interesting material throughout because most of the rest was dull dialogue , very little action [ although there was a fun shoot-out near the end ] , and way , way too much romancing between The Duke and a woman young enough to be his granddaughter . Part of the reason I watched this was to see if Ricky could act . . . . he couldn't .
Absolute rot	Typical Van Damme theatrics as he leads a band of AN [ a thinly disguised glorification of the UN ] forces , taking on a madman dictator intent on world domination . How unusual ! Many full auto magazines emptied , much screaming , and boatloads of martial arts techniques . Phony and totally lacking in realism , but action fans should love it .
Join the Army . You might win a medal .	Mediocre war flic which nevertheless showed the insanity of war , the reality check of the war machine's cannon fodder when faced with a real world combat situation , and the political goings-on designed to color the opinions of the civilian population . Not as sugary as the badly done " G . I . Jane " [ I'll bet this one upped the population in military barracks ] , but no award winner either .
Sick comedy takes a bizarre look at stalking	By far the worst film yet for the talented Mr . Carey . I found Carey's character completely annoying , not to mention the pansy ass part that Broderick played . I've never been stalked , but have had obnoxious losers try to attach themselves to me in the past : this picture was an unwelcome reminder of those folks . Some of the film was funny , but for the most part it was a dud .
Bear marries Princess	In a land far , far away , a king is turned into a bear by a jealous witch . The bear travels to another far , far away land and meets a fox . Get it ? Fox ? yuk yuk Of course , the foxy princess falls for the bruin right off the bat and runs off with him to the marriage bed . If you want to find out if the couple live happily ever after and defeats the evil witch , see this film . However , if you are smart , you'll stay far , far away .
Ghouls , glasses , ghosts & greed = garbage	I never could figure out if this was a black comedy or a serious spook flic . Either way it was one of the goofiest , cornball attempts at film making I've seen lately . The plot was more transparent than any of the spirits . The lame acting and overdone facial expressions coupled with the 40 year old special effects made for a real yawner . This junk would give Anton Phibes nightmares .
Not as bad as " Lost in Space " . . . but still horrid	When a small glob of space age silly putty lands on earth it soon begins consuming earthlings and putting on weight . The only part of this senseless drivel that I enjoyed was all the cool classic cars . This dog had so many holes it could be sliced and sold for swiss cheese . This thing actually made 20 million bucks ? And McQueen's salary was 3K ? All were vastly overpaid . The ' monster ' looked a lot like a large beanbag and the ' teens ' looked as though they could have children approaching their teen-age years . And those blasts from the shotgun ; sounded like a pellet rifle with a sound suppressor . The ending was pitifully trite ; obviously the producers were leaving the door open for a sequel . . . . and there were many . Thumbs down .
Another " somebody is killing hookers " clone	Nothing new or particularly intriguing with this thriller wannabe . As is current we have the power women and their lackeys educating us all on how much better the world would run if only the girls were at the helm . The police go all out trying to figure out who is bumping off these wonderful pillars of the community as the power chick weeps and moans over their plight in life . These characters were all cut from the same pattern as in past similar films : I could only yawn and sigh as the " surprises " reeled off toward the end . I've seen worse movies , but this was a long way from being anything but another tepid whodunnit .
Another ' creature from outer space invades planet earth and kills earthlings ' film	A little more glossy and well done but still just another killer bug from Planet X bore . The group of scientists and doctors sent to combat the ' thing ' went through all the usual dramatic paces as they strove to figure out what the awful presence was and how to negate it , all the way to the final exiting [ ho-hum ] finale . Ok for sci-fi fans I suppose , but I'd rather watch a good suspense thriller without the alien crawling creature .
Not enough sauce on this spaghetti	A rancher standing in the way of the railroad getting his property is slated for killing by a convict who will escape the hangman's noose if he does the job . Instead of doing the hit , the con takes off with the rancher's wife , creating a big manhunt and many deaths . There was a big shoot-out at the end of the picture and a few high points along the way , but overall this film was a loser . Too many pointless sex and nudity scenes , not enough action . Slow and dull .
There's no ghoul like an old ghoul	If I could turn this thinly plotted , badly acted rotting corpse into blood , Dracula and all his kin could feast one time and never be forced to look for human blood again . The vampire bit was the best of the 3 , but was in no way a high grade production . This phony baloney bilge wouldn't scare a 4 year old at midnight on Halloween Night . There was so much heavy breathing in these plays it sounded a meeting of Emphesema Anonymous . And just where did all those lovely lights in the old ruins come from , Frankenstein Power & Light ?
Hollow headed horror	Goofy tale of a headless zombie who decaps a town's leading citizens for mysterious reasons . A candy assed , blackout prone cop is sent to solve the crime and uncovers more than just a simple case of a spook gone wild . Spooky , creepy atmosphere , but a little silly .
Like every other biography	Thin , sketchy story ; interesting and well enough done but , like all these life history films , too little in too small a space . Dancer aged twenty years in about fifteen minutes of stage routines , then he went through three wives in around sixty minutes . If one wants to know about Pryor , reading his bio would be a wiser choice .
Too slow paced for what could have been an exciting movie	Too much talking , not enough action . A bad injun stalks a family in the mountains . They spent all the film never seeing the indian , but constantly being harried by him . I felt there could have been more drama to this one . It wasn't a bad picture , just slow and mopey .
' B ' movie about thugs on cycles	I first saw this show in ' 66 when I was a cycle rider myself . I liked it so much that I went to see it twice . Even liked the music . After watching it again over 30 years later , I have to ask myself just what it was that I found so appealing about the film . It was corny , overacted , sometimes badly acted , and it had a juvenile storyline . I guess what I liked about it back then was all the motorcycles . Good to see that Peter Fonda has improved with age .
The horror of war , the boredom of peace	Pretty good war flic , but the producers could have lost the first dull 45 minutes . They always have to show the huggy body / kissy face family crap before the bloodletting . To me , " Platoon " was a more realistic Viet Nam film , but I must say the carnage was more graphic in WWS . Elliot was tough and amusing as the grizzled top kick , but Gibson came off as a tad wimpy for a gung-ho combat officer . His tears just after the big battle were a trifle trumped up looking . I liked the unbloodied Air Corp guys as they jumped over the parapets yelling " Air Corp ! " only to be blown away . Amazing what you can get people to do in the name of democracy and the flag . This was a real gorefest , but let's face it : it's been done and done to death . One never sees the spraying multi-jets of blood coming out a human's back on the History Channel .
The King swings and sings till your ears ring	Well , The Big E does it again . . . . fails as an actor , that is . This junk was " Jailhouse Rock " without the jail [ which is where I would rather have been than watching this piffle ] . Can't the producers find someone to teach The Big E how to lip synch . . . . and act ? I howled with glee watching The Big E " playing guitar " . It is pathetically obvious the man has no idea which end of the thing goes up . When chords change , he merely lifts his hand and lowers it to the same position on the neck [ most likely at the signal from some off stage flunky ] . I got a kick out of the finale when The King came on stage in those oily jeans with the cuffs turned half way up to his knees and did all that lock legged shakin ' . Frankenstein has more rhythm than this herky jerky stiff . The Big E should have lent his talents to other things . . . . like selling encyclopedias .
How come the whites never kidnap an indian ?	Cornball , super low budget film with amateur performances by all . . . and that includes Rich Boone . Actually , Boone gives his standard act , which seems to be basically all he cares to deliver . I suppose he has his bit down pat and doesn't care to deviate . The best performance of all came from his mutt , Bar Killer , who totally outshone all of his human counterparts . The tired old ' indian takes a white slave ' story has been done to death by Hollywood and this picture merely trods over the same old turf as the gritty little brother goes after his abducted sister with the " help " of a pusgutted wino and a dying redskin . The whole production was grade B and totally predictable all the way . I must say the scenes of Arches Monument were excellent and captured the rocky beauty of the southwestern U . S . nicely .
Laughable	If Dracula ever sees this garbage he will furiously drain every member of the cast and crew . Here we have a vampire who goes " AAARRRRRGGGGHHHHHH ! " as he attacks and strangles his victims , a terrified wife , the standard believer / unbeliever line , and lots of stormy weather [ what else ? ] . Hammy acting , lackluster dialogue , and a stupid story offering a series of " surprises " one can see coming 15 minutes before their arrival made for 1 hours of total tedium . I was particularly offended by Angie Dickenson's way overdone high school drama club gasps , expressions , and dubbed in screams , however I did somewhat appreciate the final couple minutes of the film .
Frankenstein meets the Incredible 2-Headed Transplant	Not as bad as Frankenstein or 2-headed transplant , but close . I don't appreciate the horror genre so this was not very entertaining to me . I did get a few laughs and there were some good effects but for the most part it left me cold . Buckets of blood and several walking dead for all you lurch lovers out there . . . all others beware .
Cocky car crazy Kook cruises , crashes & controls cut-off queen in kinky , corny caper	This is a prime example of been there , done that filming . Hasn't been that long since I saw one very much like this in which a pair of loonies terrorized a family with a car : a situation which could have been resolved with a good twice barrel 12 gauge scattergun . Not that this was a complete waste of time , but the producers were just operating within the old psycho / scared woman mold which has been beaten to death over the years . These folks knew who the bad guy was ; why not merely show up at his doorstep late one night and pour a SUV full of high octane whup-ass on the sucker's pointy little head till he got the message that anymore highway hijinks would be totally unacceptable . Only if you just gotta see a film and nothing else is playing .
Was the big revolt really worth it ?	Great battle scenes , but the story fell short in between . Too much crammed into to little space made for a herky jerky tale . For instance , Daisy and Tom were barely acquainted when suddenly they were madly in love without any buildup at all . Not a bad picture , but don't go out of your way to see it .
Once again we find hay bales in the old west	Rugged western with a comedy side order . Several groups of toughs go after an innocent man who is holding a large amount of cash . Of course each group is intent on out gunning , linking forces , or back stabbing the other guy for a shot at the bucks . This led to loads of spaghetti style gunplay and many bodies biting the dust . Had to wonder how many black half breeds there were in the old west who could do spinning heel kicks and a flying double front kick . Only fair .
Did Grant really say " Judy , Judy , Judy " ?	So-so picture which , like many of Grant's films , got a little ploddy in spots . Seems to me a bit unrealistic that some little pissant quack could bring charges against a fellow professional in this manner . I would have told the wormy little toilethead that if he had a problem to take me to court . Cronyn played his part best and , for my money , had the most interesting character .
Awful ! Awful !	Dull , uninspiring tale of a playwright trying to juggle a new play , his cheating wife , an incompatible live-in , and a mixed bag of children . It was more boring than a Hank Weirdo , Jr . / Kid Puke concert . Has anybody ever noticed that Dyan Cannon's laugh sounds a lot like a ruptured Bolivian swamp thing ?
Evis ? Evis ! You in the shower with a woman , boy ? Evis !	Hot headed construction worker winds up in the pen after fighting over a bar room doxie . After being released , he becomes an overnight sensation leading to his becoming a swaggering prima donna . He then shuns any emotional attachments to other people in favor of fame and fortune . Typical Elvis fare . Skip it .
not a very good war picture	This was supposed to be an account of life in the military . It was pretty thin . The war sequences were phoney looking and dull . The acting was uninspired , as was the plot . Once again Hollywood tries to cram to much life into to little time . Skip this one .
Pretty bad , but fun to see	This one started the Billy Jack craze . Personally , I think Billy is an idealistic moron . He thought he could fight city hall , and never did realize he couldn't . The gang leader had more upstairs than Billy did . And Mclaughlin never did learn how to act ; what a ham .
Farm life in the early 20th century	A small boy becomes emotionally attached to a new born black lamb and decides to enter it in the county fair . Living with his stern Granny on a farm means there is little money for frivolities , so the youngster goes out and gets the needed funds the old fashioned way . . . he earned them . Many things conspire to halt the trip to the fair : most brought on by the critter itself , but , of course , the lad and his pet enter the competition . There are lots of songs and animation in this dated but still enjoyable film , which also carries a simple but solid message about dealing with life's good and bad times .
The Nanny goes to Europe	Well , Hollywood lets Fran Drecher take her Jewish girl schtick to another country . She takes the job of teacher to a despot's children , and all the predictable jokes and predicaments follow neatly in their prescribed order . I've seen worse , but it wasn't a very watchable film . Just stay home and watch The Nanny reruns .
Overbaked turkey	Although Trixie had a certain goofy appeal , especially her reversal or confusion of certain words and phrases , I found the film way too slow moving . It was well enough done and not a complete waste of time but it tried too hard to be comedy and drama winding up being just a mishmash of silly dark comedy .
Wasn't too crazy about this one	This is probably the least entertaining Sandra Bullock film I've seen to date . All the witchery , spells , and chanting coupled with an exorcism just didn't work for me . Can't say I absolutely hated the show , but I never got real worked up over it either . Nice performances by all , good settings , pretty scenery - but just a blah story .
Here we go again	It's the same old John Wayne : lots of dead injuns , the Duke slugging a few jaws , the Big Guy taking in the Bad Guy , more dead injuns . I've never , and I mean never , seen so many horses fall down . Every time a Ranger shot one of the wily redskins , could the poor red devil simply fall off and lay there ? Noooooooooo ! He had to drag the dumb beast down with him : I suppose the director figured this added a little ' life ' heh heh to the film . One or two times maybe , but after I saw 500 horses fall down I started to get a tad jaded . Did anybody notice in the rain scene how the precipitation stopped about 50 feet from where Wayne was ? Oh well , I suppose it has to stop raining somewhere , eh ? If you like ' ol John and love to see him lay a ton of whup-ass on a group of hapless renegades then watch this . All others best avoid . Note : Wayne's son can't act any better than his pappy .
Another droll Chuckie show	Well , here we go again . Hai-Karate , chopie-sockie , butts kicked , and a boy becomes a MAN . Why does Chuckie make these dull , meaningless , fluffy little popcorn pictures ? Money , of course . Certainly not to make a point , for it takes substance to make something significant . In this gratuitous pulp an emotionally stunted , physically challenged young boy becomes an overnight sensation in the martial arts . How did he do this ? Easy . Chuckie inspired him ! How stimulating ! How moving ! What a load of dung .
Attempted murder for money	Not a real good film , not real bad . A woman is assaulted in her bathtub and beaten into a coma . Fourteen months later she awakes and goes on a crusade to find the reasons for the attack . Several people come under suspicion , and she realizes that some she thought were loyal to her are anything but . Not knowing who to trust , she reluctantly plays a desperate killer's game . 2 stars .
2 jerks take on an insane doctor out to get rich	I saw this picture many moons ago , and thought it was pretty funny then . I have gotten somewhat more sophisticated since then , therefore I consider the jokes to be very lame now . I laughed in a few spots , but most of the comedy was just plain silly . Everybody overacted their parts , probably due to the producer's plans , but it came off juvenile and corny . Price was making fun of all the old horror films he starred in , most of which were funny enough without his making light of them . Frankie Avalon turned in his usual no-talent performance , as did " Dobie " star Dwayne Hickman . I didn't hate the movie , it was just too dumb for me .
Good takes on evil as swords flash and sorcery abounds	Much better than I thought it would be , but lacked the detail of the books . I was especially impressed with the camera as it allowed the size of some things to shrink while others expanded making a spectacular scene wherever it took the viewer . The first hour or so was a tad slow but at the end I wasn't ready for it to come to a close .
Train robber tries to go straight	Not to interesting tale of a 2 bit thief who decides to live the straight and narrow . After coming to a small town and working a series of dead end jobs plus making a mess of his social life , The Kid figures the straight life has it's drawbacks . Dull dialogue and a snail slow pace made this kid blue .
kids help dad get a date	The 2 cutest kids in the world decide to help their dad rope in a mate by advertising his stats for all the world to see . . . . much to dad's chagrin . Naturally , this leads to adventures for the girls and romance for dad . The usual stuff from the Olsons ' : in other words , no great shakes , but a fun time just the same .
Predictable adventure yarn	Why can't Hollywood come up with something besides the same old stuff that plays out exactly as you know it will ? Every cliche in the " boy lost in the wilderness " tale was brought out , dusted off , and run a little deeper into the turf . This kid was supposed to have had training in the survival arts , but he didn't have a clue as to the first rule when lost . . . stay put . He just kept walking farther and farther away from his rescuers while mom and pop were at home wringing their hands in agony . Of course , there was another of those idiotic wolf attacks . Enough with the wolf attacks !
As bad as the book	Run of the mill " ghostbusters visit old house " bore . The usual spooky hijinks - banging noises , moving objects , eerie manifestations , screaming women , gasps , groans , slamming doors , blah , blah , blah . Can't take this crap seriously and unable to laugh at it either . Where is Anton Phibes when he is needed ?
Almost didn't finish watching	This was another of those troubled teen films that I dislike so much . The rebellious , bitchy , bratty teen with the weight of the world solidly placed on her brave little shoulders . What rot ! A very hokey production with an unbelievable story about a flock of geese trained to follow a flying go-cart . I've seen worse , but just barely .
War vet runs ' shine , races cars	A little different sort of comedy for Pryor ; not as raucous and vulgar . In fact , the last half was more of a drama than a comedy . Pretty much run of the mill biography of some racer I've never heard of ; lots of fun car racing scenes - many of them the real thing . When the film ended I had to wonder if every southern racecar driver is a redneck racist idiot or if the picture overdid it just a tad .
Adventure plot # 1 -	Not a bad production [ but certainly , not good ] , and the scenery was splendid , but this was a re-make of a tired old storyline . A group of teens [ a couple of which looked 25 or so ] head for the mountains for a several days long trek . Naturally things go awry as a terrible tragedy befalls the group . As the gallant crew struggles to overcome their sticky situation , they are hindered by rugged terrain , wild critters , and raging rivers . The only bright spot for them was a mysterious white wolf who appeared when things got really desperate . The mutt didn't really do anything , just hung around lending wolfly moral support , I suppose . Many of the action sequences were choppy , unrealistic formula stuff no different than any other in this genre . The younger set should be able to overlook this and thoroughly enjoy the picture . . . I couldn't .
Im'a gonna rub'a dis punk'a out'a	This film proves it : mobsters make lousy family men . A sluggish look at a tyrannical mafia leader and the deadly effect his " business " has on his dysfunctional family . Like all these ' life story ' pictures the story is way too sketchy and rushes along barely skimming the surface of these folks tragic lives . Good acting but still a tepid Godfather wannabe minus all the flaming tommyguns , and overloaded with hysterical , unhappy screaming . The book was much more detailed and interesting .
American child goes missing in Great Britain	Tedious tale of a police investigation into the disappearance of a little girl from a day care center . The cops are unable to decide who has taken the child or even if one exists . The ending made the entire film pointless . Typical dull British fare .
Had more holes than the Titanic	Totally unbelievable story about a pair of kids who penetrate a highly classified , super secret government bomb making lab . There were so many flaws in this thing that I never could get interested in it . The dialogue , which was supposed to be tense , was just corny beyond belief . No drama either , I don't know , maybe it was a comedy , eh ? Loser film .
Another " masterpiece " from the master of independent film making	Who cares if this is a classic ? It is still a badly done , silly assed zombie dungheap . We see the walking dead breaking into a house , eating crispie critters out of a truck , breaking into a house , chowing down on more flesh and on and on . . . . The director couldn't even make up his mind from shot to shot whether it was dark or light outside . But , remember , none of this matters because we are talking independent film here , not the big money boys and their junky mainstream crap . And we are also bowing down to George Romero { who ? } , the master of no budget , I mean independent film making . But , hey , if this floats your canoe . . . . go for it .
This one didn't raise my spirits much	Another in a long line of ghostly comedies which does little to frighten , and even less to amuse . Getting to eyeball Miss Hannah and the breathy Jen Tilley was a treat , but not enough of one to recommend this dismal film . I wonder if Jennifer will ever make a decent picture . . . but what a sweet , panting voice she has .
bland and unexciting	Besides being pretty dull , I don't see how any of this could have happened . No way could this lunkhead hole up in the attic without being found out on day one . Why didn't someone notice the wall with a door in it ? Three windows were showing from the outside and only 2 inside . Doesn't that give somebody a clue ? The wall was such an obvious add-on that a ten year old could have spotted it . What a dumb film .
I coulda been watching the IFC channel	Occasionally amusing but for the most part I just sat there and watched these folks go through their paces . This was merely one of those pictures created to fill up a film reel and make a nice payday for a big name actor . A pointless exercise in tedium .
A little too silly for me	Modesty , a contract spy / hitman , hires out to the British ; her job is finding several million dollars worth of diamonds . Her problem in succeeding is a psychotic billionaire and his lackeys . Miss Blaise and her partner , a stud with a penchant for cutlery , get in and out of a dozen tight spots , finally having a showdown with the bad guys on a lonely island . The picture was supposed to be a comedy , but the jokes fell flat for me . Must have been the Brit sense of humor , eh wot ? Not a terrible show , just mundane .
Summer of ' 42 revisited . . . . and not done any better	When a middle aged man receives word that an old friend has died , he begins remembering his youth in a series of flashbacks . When not involved with his remembrances he is trying to figure out how to dispose of the friend's ashes as per her wishes stated in her will . This must have been a ladies movie ; I found it totally droll , tepid , dull , and ridiculously unbelievable in many parts . This film is proof positive that one can't really be killed by boredom .
Chubby short order cook checks out teen waitress	Not exactly a boring film but close . All the characters were just the most pathetic losers imaginable . . . . especially the obese pizza slinger . Those jittery , wet eyes gave me the creeps ; not to mention his mother dominated , go nowhere , do nothing , I have a need but don't know what it is and couldn't fulfill it if I did , screwball existence . Yes , he was a sad character , but mainly he aggravated the living hell out of me with his mopey , dragass , poor pitiful me attitude . I don't mind a way too slow movie but this one went nowhere having no apparent beginning , middle or end . Strange picture .
German u-boat plays cat and mouse with allied gunboat in WW1	Rarely have I seen such stilted , hammy , and just plain bad acting . There didn't appear to be a professional performer in the whole picture . And the dialogue ! Gad ! The skipper of the allied vessel came off more like a cheerleader than a leader of men . I still enjoyed the film ; even with all the cornball humor from the brainless naval crew . If their collective brains could be rendered into gasoline , there wouldn't be enough to run a termite's chainsaw . Fairly good action yarn for such an old picture .
Greedy , big money oil interests rule	After a fellow employee is murdered , a police detective uncovers a plot by a large oil firm attempting a shady deal . Not a good film , it bogs down too often in it's own complexity . Lots of cloak and dagger double dealing for those who like mystery agents and government / big money conspiracy plans .
At least it was aptly named . . . it offered little else	Why is Hollywood still turning out these films ? Absolutely nothing new in this noisy kaleidoscope of speeding cars , exploding trucks and choppers , and swearing policemen . The gags would have proven funny 30 years ago , but are old hat today . I did like the frozen cadaver sequence , however . The ending of this picture was pat and predictable ; good entertainment for pre-teens or the partially brain dead .
BIG E bops , bounces , bags babes , and bores	Another in a long line of dull films from THE BIG E . This time he goes south of the border to sunny Acupulco to play a lounge lizard who also proves his manhood by high diving and taking crap from nobody , particularly a loud mouth who feels THE BIG E is a threat to his position as head stud of the area . Plenty of stupid song and dance routines , love scenes between The King and some lovely ladies , and the requisite scene in which THE BIG E pours a burrito shell full of refried whup-ass on a rival and makes the boy like it . Same old plot , same old ending , same old , same old , same old . . . . . .
Another harrowing yawn space rescue	Here we go again with the Lost in Space routine . Once again the viewer is saddled with the female commander { this one is being beaten to death } who refers to her subordinates as ' boys ' . This sexism would have created some bitchy dialogue had the roles been reversed . There was simply nothing new offered with this , instead we get the same old " are they gonna be saved ? " space junk . I did like AMEE . . . . could use that baby at home to protect my comp and big screen .
Matrix chix	This rubbish should be given a paper medal for going way , way above and beyond the call of stupidity . I never watched the original series on TV and after viewing this drivel I feel fortunate indeed . What was the point of filming this piffle which could have been titled " Charlie's Airheads " ? I figure it was made to sell to little teeny bopper girls who have bought into the " women really are strong and bad " myth . And these ladies were " bad " : but sometimes bad is bad . My fave scene was when one of the airheads , sorry , Angels , fell several stories from a building , rolled several hundred feet down a mountain - naked , no less - and made a phone call . All with no scratches . Avoid .
Goofy CIA caper	When 2 secret government agencies go at each other an innocent young man becomes involved simply over his footwear . This led to his being assaulted by 4 inept hit men , used by a female spy after he falls in love with her , and having his whole life turned inside out . Ok , but not one of Hank's better films .
Good love done gone bad	Love bloomed between Heathcliff and Cathy until Cathy grew up and came to realize money , class , and station in life meant more than a pure , undying love from the heart . I couldn't agree more , but the lady wound up finding out that there was more to Heathcliff than a downtrodden , unwashed stable hand . Dreadfully slow with large , unexplained gaps in the story , but it did have nice costumes and settings . I liked the ' 70 version better ; it had a grayer , moodier atmosphere .
Now I know where Elvis got the jumpsuit idea	Four scientists go forward in time to a future populated by a group of folks dressed in jumpsuits and house shoes , the last of the human race . The climate will no longer sustain them and they must vacate to another planet and , of course , can't take the scientists who must then figure out how to go back after losing their time portal . The beginning and end were fairly good , but the middle was bogged down with dull workshop scenes and goofy comedy . The 1964 props looked a tad silly .
bland look at demonic possession	A little girl becomes possessed by demons . Her mother becomes upset and calls in a group of Catholic ghostbusters . The little girl talks funny , levitates , and makes ugly faces . The priests bust the ghost and all live happily ever after . What a droll film . yawn
Dismal attempt at spook show	This was worse than a Harlequin romance novel : the only good part was the old castle and the surrounding landscape . Hammy , overdone rehash of every 2 bit ghostly / old manse film that's ever been done . It provided rain , lightning , dim corridors , haunting music , candles blowing out , spectral beings , and on and on and on all the way to the ' creepy ' finale . Valerie should have stayed home and let Eddie bring home the bacon .
The gospels according to Johnny	Simplistic look at the coming of the Messiah put to song and music by Cash , Carter , and Kristofferson . I liked the use of the original area in the Mideast for filming but couldn't they have found a more Jewish looking man to portray Christ ? Near the end of the picture the cross scene leapt from Calvary to a modern city which was a nice touch depicting Christ's message moving through time giving all a chance at salvation . Obviously not a large budget production : unknown actors , very few money changers to be run off in the temple and even fewer wares to be thrown around , and hardly anyone showed up for the crucifixion . Even so Cash did manage to put forth the promise of salvation through Christ in an easily comprehensible manner .
Bland murder mystery	Mason takes on another seemingly hopeless case when a man murders a talk show host on television in front of 40 million viewers . The blanks he thought he was firing [ the recoil from the . 357 magnum should have told him the round was live ] had been replaced by a nefarious felon intent on making him the patsy . As usual , Perry puts his brilliant deductive powers into play and solves another sticky crime . I like the films with William Moses playing Mason's detective more than the ones with Katt . Moses is a more believable performer .
rah rah rah blah blah blah	While this wasn't a throwaway it didn't garner any extra points with me either . Most of the characters aggravated me to no end ; the little girls who were ' in love ' , the jock who impregnates his girlfriend [ read : slut ] and then blathers ' it is what I really want ' [ this pea brain has no clue to what he ' wants ' ] , the stupid townies who go ape over their team getting the big win , and the typical ' coach ' [ read : sadistic dumbass ] whose sole objective is winning , winning , winning . Yeah , it all came together in the end but how hokey can you get ?
It put me horizontal . Yawn	Standard connect the dots action / adventure yarn with an abundance of thrills , spills , and chills . Unfortunately , it registered 10 on the Richter scale of hammy acting , dipsy dialogue , and toilet paper thin plot . Hell , I was actually happy to watch some of the mountaineers go sailing over the edge , they were so obnoxious . Even with all the excitement , this was just plain dull .
At least it wasn't as bad as some I've seen	This may not have been as bad as I expected , but it was close . Some may like it but for my money this slop plays strictly for the unsophisticated 40's mentality . Several of the actors were overweight , obviously out of shape grandfatherly types clearly way too old for combat , some of the scenes were obviously painted , and like all these old war films the viewer is subjected to the " comical " soldier in the unit . Just another flag waving , duty first , die for the good old USA thinly disguised propaganda piece designed to brainwash the stupes at home into believing their loved ones on the front lines are being maimed and killed in a " good " war for a " real " reason .
2 groups attempt robbing the same bank	A pair of inept vaudevillians team up with a liberal newswoman to rob a bank . Her reasons were for the furtherance of mankind . At the same time a notorious thief and his gang are plotting the same job . The reason he uses is simple revenge . This was pretty banal stuff , but was fairly entertaining and had a ridiculously funny ending .
Can't trust the cops or the media	Not bad but another re-run of bad cop / harried citizen . Things were simply too pat for me even though it was fairly well done . I did appreciate the surprise at the end , but not so much the ending itself . I still find Matlin's voice totally irritating .
What was the attraction with this breeding sow ?	Oh so British comedy showing unfulfilled Georgy romping through ruddy London waxing from giddy smiles to sniveling tears when her status as a non-mommy hits her . Why 2 men went all ga-ga over this baby crazy sweat hog goes beyond me , but thrilled they were . I loved the look on Mason's face in the final frame as the realization that he'd taken on more than bargained for came crashing into his horny little brain . Good picture .
I began to wonder where the river came in	When a married woman's old lover comes back into her life things began to go to hell for her and hubby . The old flame had a suitcase full of wrongfully gained capital that he wanted the pair to help him smuggle south of the border , therefore an uneasy alliance was formed and a dangerous trek through the badlands was undertaken . I felt that Milland's character's actions at the end were way out of character : and just how is it that Quinn's character managed to bite those slugs out of the cases ? Ever try that ? The teeth will go first every time . Fairly entertaining but way too much sluggish dialogue .
E . T . with different initials	Fairly interesting yarn with lots of nifty graphics , sights , and sounds . This is not the type of film I usually go for , but the story was solid , the performances strong , and the finale well done . I liked the way the producers turned a tale of ' machinery ' into a love story .
Good spook scenes , but the film was too slow	I enjoyed this production , the old house was impressive and creepy . The scenes with the hammering sounds and the moanings and whispering was very effective . I felt that overall the picture could have been more lively ; the dialogue was way too slow in parts . Worth seeing though .
One word is about all this deserves	A decent enough shoot-em-up but it has been done already . The acting was fine , the dialogue was okay , I even enjoyed the movie ; obviously it was not a low budget throwaway . However , I knew from the opening sequence pretty much what was going to happen and how it would turn out . Rainy day fare only .
Tramp teases Texan ; manipulates mutt for money ; learns lasting lessons on love	Passable film concerning a cynical woman who dreams of true love while fleecing hand picked lovers . Mistaken identity leads her on a path of discovery , learning there's more to life than money and things . Real fiction , not real life .
Hippies hoot and holler at R & R songfest	If hippies were all about peace and love why did Stills try to whip ass and take names ? Amateur camera work and some really bad acts couldn't take away from the coolness of this documentary . I never heard of several of the performers and never cared 2 cents for Baez or Mitchell , but CSN & Y were worth the price of admission . Nice look at the good old days ; glad I wasn't there - what a crowd scene . A better film in this genre was ' 67's Monterrey Pop Festival .
Bigshot buys a newspaper	What's all the furor over this film ? It was sometimes interesting , sometimes dull . . . in the end , it was just another movie . So an arrogant , overweight newspaper publisher talks out both sides of his mouth about his fellow man , while blowing money and wasting time with some shrill soprano slut . So what ? Old film buffs may like this one , but to me it's just flat dated .
And ended with my kissing it off	Run of the mill romantic comedy with Ford as a harried newlywed with big time financial and spouse woes . The wife expects him to be a celibate and at the same time causes him to be jealous as she gets cozy with a local bullfighter . A few laughs but merely mediocre for the most part .
Too stupid for words	This was what passed for entertainment when I was a teen . Speaking of which , I saw very few , if any , actual teens in this production . Did see the Maytag man though : this guy always leaves me in stitches for some reason . How well I remember his portrayal of Honest John in a segment of " Beverly Hillbillies " . As to exactly why I remember this so well is well beyond me , I just do . Another highlight of this film was Don Rickles , one of my all time fave comics . But the ultimate high point of this or any of the sand and surf epics is none other than Eric Von and his cycle Ratz . They are without peer and I'll fight to the death over this belief . Ok , not to the death , but I do love Von Zipper . I have seen several of the beach pictures and this may be the zaniest one yet . . . . you stupids !
a stagecoach travels into dangerous territory	Willie , Waylon , Johnny , and Kris play tough old west gunslingers who are on a coach in injun territory . This is a tale that has been told and re-told a thousand times . Nothing new here , but it may be a hoot for country fans to watch their heroes do a western . Not too bad acting out of the singers , except for Waylon . A cigar store indian is less wooden than he was . I guess the best thing about the film was that none of the gunslinging heros broke into song . Honestly though folks , Willie Nelson as Doc Holiday ?
He just wanted to be left alone with his horses	Not Bronson's best effort , but not a total washout either . An often used storyline where the big rancher wants to take over the entire range , forcing out the little man . Things are made even more tense when the little man falls for the big man's sister . Except for a " Chato's Land " type shootout and a couple of fist and knife fights , there wasn't a lot of action , and the tale was somewhat holey . Question : Why does the man always burn his house down when he decides to vacate his frontier home ? How is it that stone houses burn so good ? Where did Chino get hay bales in 1870 ?
No more war ! Yeah , right .	Well , here was another statement against war and man's inhumanity to man . What's the point anyway ? It may make a fairly decent picture like this one , but man , being what he is , will always have another war . This movie was a little plodding for me , but it did give a good depiction of human nature , both good and bad .
spoiled girl goes to a horse ranch	Slow moving , dull tale of a spoiled rotten teen-age girl who spent the entire film pouting and throwing tantrums . Everyone around her constantly bent over backwards trying to please the little snot which , of course , made her cut up even more . This little brat should have had her backside warmed up and made to wash horses tails all day . Could have been a good movie , but just fell flat to me .
Run of the mill murder / amnesia yarn	Nothing new or thrilling to this tale of a woman who receives a terrible shock which throws her out of a 2 year amnesia state . She then witnesses a murder by a woman that she keeps seeing in a bizarre series of bloody flashbacks . She feels alienated from the husband she married during the time of her lost memory , and has trouble convincing the police that her story is more than just mental problems . Not a rotten movie , just droll . 2 stars .
Tired old tale set in the future	Barely watchable film dealing with a super cop who uses a super computer to find felons before they actually become felonious . When the computer points to him , Cruise's character must jump through many hoops to avoid being caught in his own net . This leads to what could have been exciting but was merely a repeat of the age old traitor / set-up story .
Fred never had a clue	Fred's biggest error was going up against the Jews for any reason and especially so as a holocaust revisionist . This is way too sensitive a subject with Jews and Gentiles alike and the 6 million dead mantra is most unlikely to ever be discounted in any event . Rarely do the millions of other deaths at the hands of Hitler's fanatics rate even a casual remark : Leuchter would have been far safer directing his efforts there instead . No doubt ol ' Fred is a good mechanic and that is where he should have kept his attention . Interesting documentary but the camera work and editing was often sloppy .
What a joke !	Well , I haven't seen " Scream " , " I Know What You Did Last Summer " , " Halloween " , or " Friday the 13th " , so I can't do all the comparisons that everyone else has beaten into the turf anyway , but if this bilge is anything like the others I think I'll pass . For months I heard this was a good film , now I must ask , good for whom ? The producers ? The investors ? If I didn't know better I'd swear Roger Corman directed this one because every creepy scene was accompanied by a lightning storm . Really this show was moronic in that it was utterly implausible . The killer was simply too good at his / her work to be anywhere near believable . I enjoyed the buckets and buckets of blood even though many of the murders made no sense to me ; but who can fathom the mind of a psycho , eh ? And that finale ! Grisly . Gruesome . Horrifying . Trite .
Average who-dunnit	The police investigate the murder of a couple of models who work for the same agency . The killer is bumping off the girls according to the name of the month they go by , so the cops stake out the next girl in line . There are some good suspects , but no one they can pin the deaths on until they get just the break they need . Nothing special in this one ; sort of a low budget film .
No laughs to be had in this ' comedy '	I heard nothing but glowing comments on this film for years , but when I finally saw it there was no laughter from me . I sat straight faced all the way through waiting impatiently for the fun to start . All I saw was a poorly made movie with a silly plot and uninspired performances . Bypass this turkey .
Too much kissin ' , not enough dissin '	A Mexican American has his hands full trying to fit into both societies . Not a bad western , but not so wonderful either : the usual gun running / renegade indian / crooked Mexican bit . Mitchum was all wrong for the part ; he neither looks Tex / Mex nor did he have the accent down . Not worth the time spent .
Run of the mill comedy	Same old stuff here as 2 30 year old high school lads unearth a quick frozen apeman and turn him into hot property around school . He presents a bad boy image so the girls go for him . Being an amazingly quick study , especially for a Neanderthal , he learns how to be a 90's kinda guy real fast [ I suppose this is done to hurry the film along so all the teens won't get bored ] . Not horrid , but merely the same old , same old .
Spoiled brat ruins Christmas for Richie	After being sabotaged on his yearly Christmas run to the orphans home , Richie Rich begins feeling sorry for himself and wishes he was never born . What happens is a total surprise to the boy and leads to situation much worse than the one he was so upset over . Some of the acting was extremely bad as was much of the tale ; so silly it was pretty much for kids only . The one truly bright spot was the beastly little Reggie Rich , a little snot I would take pleasure in permanently maiming .
I know what I should have done . . . .	. . . . and that's not watched this drivel . This type of film has been done repeatedly , and the effort made here is no better or worse than many of it's predecessors . Lots of shocks , screaming and yelling , but little in the way of cutting edge cinema . The ending looked pretty stupid but I suppose the producers are setting us up for the sequel . Teens will probably like this bilge ; I sure didn't .
Explorers find oasis in frozen north	A British subject looking for his son lost at the North Pole enlists the aid of an American anthropologist and a French zeppelin pilot in his search . They fly off to the north pole where they have many adventures before finally finding the offspring living in a beautiful area similar to the Colorado rockies with a band of Conan clones . The chief of the vikings gets it in his head that the explorers are there to take over their village and sets out to have them exterminated . A big chase ensues in which the band of explorers must deal with many more hazardous things than just the blood thirsty norsemen . A good film for the small fries .
I would have named this " The gutter , slugs , and greed "	There were a few laughs but precious few . Welch is a flimsy actress at best and when her material stinks like a garbage can she can only come off like a Jewish waiter at a Nazi war rally . Cosby ? Wasn't a bit better . Loser film all the way .
wolf boy meets girl and plays basketball	I didn't just hate this movie , but it was pretty lame . A boy becomes a lovable werewolf at certain times of the year . This , of course , causes a problem or two . Especially with the girlfriend . It was really just an updated take-off on the old Disney film , " The Shaggy Dog " . Hollywood needs to get some new ideas .
Where have you gone Bill Mazeroski ; Joltin ' Joe has left and gone away	Run of the mill thriller which has a woman searching high and low for a missing hubby thought to have been killed in a plane crash . A few old baseball cards provided clues to a mysterious humanitarian aid group and finally leads her to a country in Africa where all questions were answered .
so-so film about 2 women who can't stand aging	Two women compete with each other , seeing who can stay the youngest looking . Both go to a beautiful witch who has a youth potion , but they get more than they bargained for . Not all that funny to me .
Earth assaulted by a burning ring of fire	This absurd fantasy had enough holes in it to send the Seaview to the bottom of the Marianas Trench [ where it belonged , I might add ] . Obviously this " sub " was a movie set : I've never seen a u-boat with such spacious accommodations ; red leather upholstery , nice wide hallways , huge rooms , beautifully painted walls , and gleaming stainless steel equipment . What I really appreciated was those dual Chevy steering wheels . One could call this dud a poor man's " Deep Impact " without the comet . And what would any undersea adventure be without the requisite giant squid attack ? I'm glad I saw this dog so close to Thanksgiving , now I won't have to buy a hen because this turkey provided an overabundance of the holiday delicacy .
Enough with the kicked around jews already	Another in a long line of " oh , the plight of the poor old jew " movies . I saw my first one in the early 70's called " The Hiding Place " and thoroughly enjoyed it : but enough already . How many more times must we be told this same old tale ? There were millions of gypsies , political and social misfits , and Christians slaughtered in WW2 and their tale is rarely mentioned . This picture stole the " baby found by evil Nazi commandant " bit shown in " Schindler's List " . I suppose the writers couldn't come up with anything new after a story has been beaten to death like this one has been . Like " Rocky " , this junk needs to be put out to pasture .
I wanna be boss ! No , I do !	Political infighting and backstabbing are the norm of the day when the top dog of a large company kicks the bucket . All the top execs either wanted to fill the slot or had motives for backing another . Lots of emotion and tense scenes as the time for the final vote slowly came around . Good acting by all in this well done program .
It was just dull	This was a po ' boys " Pure Country " . Looks like Mellencamp decided to make a movie around the time his buddy George Strait did . The result , unfortunately , was a boring look at small town America where the folks act a lot like their big city brethren . It was just a big yawn concerning husband and wife problems , with Mellencamp continually pushing his lank hair off his rather apish forehead . The boy needs to stick with what he is good at , whatever that is - it sure isn't singing .
Nuttin ' special	An overload of glitzy graphics can't overcome this lethargic cybermystery's weak links . While not completely dull this film was too much like some ' Super Duper Mario ' video game . Predictable good vs . bad picture offering nothing new , however if you like wild rides through cyberville then this may be for you .
Tiresome Brit comedy	This was supposed to be a comedy / mystery / thriller . However , there was no comedy , a little mystery , and few thrills . The story took place in a beautiful old manse , at night , during a violent storm , and a will was read . This was a pat formula film that offered absolutely nothing new . Not a total loss , but no real winner either .
More holes than a ditchdiggers nightmare	This was a fun movie but was it ever a stupid movie . Ever hear of some guy getting shot in the arm and calmly saying , " it's ok , it's only my arm " . Hey , no prob : a piece of my body has been blown away but what the hell , it's only the arm . Hello ? What P . I . gets to use the police phone to talk to his bookie ? Who fixed the pusher's door exactly as it was before ol ' bleary eyes broke it in ? How does a broke P . I . manage to keep an expensive cabin cruiser afloat ? Would you trust some brain damaged tie salesman to have enough on the ball to manage a funeral ? How come a former cop with loads of experience can't take out a guy who has him in a simple front choke hold ? What was with all the Malcolm crap ? This thing had more glaring faults than Peewee Herman's private life . . . . but watch it anyway , it was fun .
Houston ? You guessed it . We have another damn problem .	Houston must be getting sick and tired of all the problems from outer space . Here we have more trouble with this combo of Apollo 13 , Red Planet , and Marooned , with a smattering of Contact , 2001 : A Space Odyssey , 2001 : A Space Oddity , plus a touch of The Abyss . I enjoyed it but probably not as much as Art Bell and some of his " they are really out there " Bellheads . Me , I figure Mars is just a big empty rock , hot as hell and useless as props on a space shuttle . Not bad but perhaps Hollywood has ridden this rocket around the solar system enough .
Wildlife and man live together in canyon country	Grade B semi-documentary concerning life in the Arizona canyons . The first half shows a series of scenes depicting various predators and other critters , and deals with how the food chain works while weaving in stories of indian lore and legends . Some of the footage appeared to be actual events , while most gave the appearance of being contrived . Most notably the scream of the cougar was the same each time it happened . I would think the animal has more of a vocal range than that one " Yeow ! " The final half used several actors to portray the life of sheep herdsmen and their interaction with the predators while telling the story of the locals fears of certain old ghostly ruins . Little dialogue occurred among the players due to Rex Allen narrating the entire production . Where the film's title came from is hazy , as Allen kept referring to " life in Cougar Canyon " . If you have an interest in the southwest , this picture shows much of the area from Monument Valley to Canyon DeChelly ; and , though not at the high end of professionalism , is not a bad little show .
Why didn't they just o . d . ?	After reading the book I expected more from this film . I was merely antagonized watching the antics of these 2 pathetic losers and their grimey pals . When they let the episode with the little dog occur I began fervently hoping they would shoot up some drano by mistake and slowly turn green and decay after hours of total misery . A well done picture to be sure , but the characters were so obnoxious I could concentrate only on hating them .
Run of the mill tough guy slush	Penniless foreigner comes to America and becomes a prize fighter in the underground arena where the rules are no rules . He is pursued surreptitiously by the French foreign legion bent on returning him to his post following his desertion . Bad acting , piss poor script , lousy fight scenes : not worth the time spent . This was a poor man's " Rocky " , and he came cheap . The only bright spot in the entire film was the fast talkin ' , jivin ' Joshua . Does Lionheart prevail ? Whatta you think ?
Once again , the game's afoot	Holmes takes on the evil Professor Moriarty , his old nemesis . I didn't like Roger Moore as Holmes any more than I care for him doing James Bond ; he is alright , but I like the way other actors handle these characters better . I really didn't appreciate the phony looking sideburns on Holmes , seems the make-up department could have been more competent . Also , I thought the acting was forced at times , and at others a bit corny and hammy . I did like the great old oompaul pipe of Holmes , and enjoyed the production overall . It was another good mystery solved by the Master of Sleuths .
Troubled teens have trouble with other troubled teens	Another in a long line of low budget , predictable teen movies . A group of nice kids rent a building from a skid row bum who claims to be in possession of the domicile . Of course , he lied . They work hard to turn it into a rock club , but are ousted by a local repo company run by a smarmy thug and his imbecile boys . Things come to a head when the teens learn they can have the property back if they re-install the bum into his living quarters on the place before a certain date . This film should appeal to young teens , but me , I thought it was a total waste of time .
More mindless action junk	What a turkey ! This film was cut from the same bolt as many action movies from the past . Predictable all the way , offering absolutely nothing new for the viewer . I call it " 007 Goes To An Island " . All the usual things happened - falling bodies , karate chops , bellowing voices , mundane explosions , tense [ yawn ] dialogue , and , of course , millions of rounds of full auto ordnance . I like action films , but this has already been done and done and done . . . . . .
This actually happened ?	Can't believe this tale is based on fact . No way would this mouthy , ignorant , Gomer Pyle clone be accepted in West Point . Very unrealistic was his meteoric rise in rank for the first 3 or 4 years , then to gain a new stripe every 20 years . The writer seemed to have a problem keeping his dates in order to , the same men seemed to be going to school far longer than necessary . And many of these men looked far too old to be cadets in West Point . The one scene that would give the viewer a look at how war hurts on the homefront too was offset by a couple of " pro-military , glory and the flag " speeches by the crusty but lovable sarge . What rot . I suppose the true story of Marty was considerably different ; Hollywood simply turned it into this mess . It did have a few good moments , but for the most part it was just a corny piece of fluff that was just plain silly and poorly performed .
Bumpkin leaves haystack for military duty	I now know where the prototype for Gomer Pyle originated . Even some clodhopper who has never been off the feed lot could be this much of a jackass . He had the comprehension of a barnyard rooster ; nobody is THIS stupid . He should have been put before a firing squad except it is unlawful to punish dumb animals . If this boy's IQ was 5 points higher he would have the intelligence of a microbe . Would have been funny in ' 58 but for the most part the humor was way past dated : still in a dipsy sorta way it was fun .
The 3 : 10 to Yuma wouldn't stop for this dud	I thought this western was too low key , with too much smoke blowing and not enough gunsmoke . After the initial shoot-out , we see Ford and Heflin blather back and forth in a hotel room about morals , right vs . wrong , and the good old American ethic of hard work for a living wage . Good topics , but they didn't play for me in a western format . The ending was totally phony , as no psycho would do what Ben Wade did . 2 stars .
Barney finally gets more than one bullet	Knotts at his inept best as a bumbling dentist who is taken in at every turn by swindlers , gun runners , and a conniving lady outlaw . I liked the use of 2 regular players on " Wagon Train " as members of Knotts party . I didn't like Myron Healy being uncredited .
so-so sci-fi yarn	Aliens from the beyond come to another place to perform experiments on a different race of beings in order to rejuvenate their own dying species . They would erase the memories of the folks , creating a collection of confused minds . This procedure goes wrong with one of their subjects and he causes a world of hassle for the aliens . Weird film which I found dull , but sci-fi isn't my cup .
Looney lady leaves unlucky lover in lurch	The bud of love bloomed when boy met girl . A whirlwind romance and quickie nuptials are displayed in a series of flashbacks after a mysterious woman [ read : crazy ] leaves her hubby during the honeymoon . He goes bonkers and spends his days tracing his disappeared darling . This leads him into a web of S & M film makers , lunatic drug dealers , and a very large surprise concerning his wonderful wife . Run of the mill thriller which seems to bog down more than cause one to quiver with emotional excitement .
It did not live up to its potential	I gotta say I was disappointed with this one . Tom Cruise is one of my favorite actors and he did a good job in this movie , but the story wasn't there for me . As is the usual with me , and this may be the whole thing in a nutshell , I didn't understand what was going on . I never seem to " get " the storyline in these spy against spy films . All the masks and double-double crosses left me scratching my noggin . It was an exciting and well put together movie , though . To top off the whole cake , Mr . Phelps was the bad guy . That hurt !
Poorly done police drama	Boring crime tale not helped any by the cornball acting and really lame storyline . I objected mostly to Barry Fitzgerald's annoying attempts at bringing comedy to his role ; he just wasn't up to it . However , like the coppertop bunny he just kept going and going . And the killer - cool as a hog in a wallow , till the end when he suddenly lost his ability to reason things out . The only reason I didn't fall asleep during this movie was that I was riding my exercycle . 30 days in the hole would be preferable to seeing this turkey .
You vant us to die for der faderland ? Ya Wold ! You vant us to burn ? Nein vay , Jose !	Dull story about how the Hindenburg could have gone down due to a bomb . A shame somebody didn't bomb this film before it hit the screen . This could have been really good , but just never did fly for me . The entire film looked as though it was filmed inside a giant hangar . . . . and probably was . The acting was fine , but the script was plain phony for my money , however , the last 15 minutes were very exciting and horrifying .
FBI agents uncover a coverup	Ho Hum . Another story of government coverups and folks who want to expose it . FBI agents Scoobie and Modem find that the U . S . Government is hiding violent space men in various areas around the country . Seems the space men have some deadly virus in them which is bad for earthlings . Yawn . This one had all the action cliches firmly lodged within the plot . A blown up building which Scoobie and Modem barely escaped , a building full of killer bees which they narrowly exited with their hide , and even the overdone chopper chase through a corn field . This wasn't a bad film , just dull . Pass it up .
Ok , if you like this genre	I was never a fan of Twilight Zone when it was popular back in the Stone Age . A few of the episodes were interesting , in this film I only really liked the first installment , but mostly it just never floated my boat . Like many ideas in this genre , the concept is more interesting than the reality .
Does this wannabe " Switch " or " Ghost " ?	This clunker didn't know if it wanted to be a comedy or a drama . I sat through all of it but knew where it was leading all the way . The book was probably better , which makes me wonder why I spent 2 hours on this cornball " chiller " . I've seen worse , but wish I'd bypassed it .
Where the man crazy piranhas are is more like it	I'll start off by saying this had some of the most dorky acting I've ever witnessed ; George Hamilton couldn't have been more stiff if he had a fully developed case of rigor mortis . And what a story : 4 man / marriage happy broads go to the beach and can't even enjoy themselves for fretting over " catching a man " . Especially Yvette Mimieux's character : I wanted to jap slap that whining moron onto the next sand dune . Long time since I saw Paula Prentiss , the first woman I ever saw " full front nude " in a movie . Unfortunately , she couldn't make up her mind in this epic whether she wanted to use the deep voice or her natural tones . I suppose I can't say this is a bad film , but I wouldn't call it a good one either . I will say the aquarium scene had me on the floor . . . . can't say why I found it so hilarious . Probably just the slapstick of it , plus Gorshin's fish face .
Fred joyously dances his way across jolly old England	You think Churchhill's daughter got her start in the biz without popsy's influence ? This was not one of Astaire's better films , but nevertheless was fun to watch . I loved the dancing of Jane Powell , but found her voice on the shrill side . Nice outdoor areas used in the filming added much to the picture . As usual , Peter Lawford was a big waste . . . how'd this guy ever get into movies ?
All that glitters isn't a diamond	When a trio of jewel thieves find themselves being attacked by a gung-ho Sam Spade wannabe they try using him to further their scheme . Meanwhile they were very busy trying to run a game on each other while the detective in training had plans of his own going . Mildly interesting , but no great shakes .
Stupidly amusing	Phony Feds , fake CIA agents ; double crossing , double dealing where either nobody was who they said or lied about what their business was . The antics of Freddie Tiffany had me rolling at times , he was way beyond cool . Not a bad picture and it offered up some good comedy , but wasn't anything special .
A forerunner to " Quincy " ?	Coburn was interesting as the plain spoken wild card pathologist Peter Carey who enters a new hospital brimming with problems . Right off the bat a fellow practitioner is accused of a crime which he couldn't possibly have committed . Carey must unravel criminal activities within the institution to clear his friend which puts him in the sights of a psychotic killer . So-so thriller / drama .
I would say Jerry is 2 faced here , but . . . .	Jerry had to reach deep into his bag of stupid jokes , gags , and ham handed comedy to come up with this little jewel [ ? ] . It doesn't play well by today's standards , in fact the whole thing is double lame ; especially the 2 bits using son Gary and his band . Did the Playboys need this gig to further their hinky dinky careers ? I did get a few laughs , but the film was really just too goofy . . . . as usual for Lewis . What was with Jerry's hair ? Two or three inches long in the front , and a buzz cut in back : a reverse of today's style .
Old geezer and half pints romp in fantasy land	Good special effects and a lively story kept this movie kicking right along . I liked the mischievous , drunken , but kindly old fairy king the best . What a scalawag ! He and the boozy old caretaker were a riot with their give and take verbal pokes at one another . And the Death Coach . . . . creepy ! This would be a good one for the kids to see .
Lots of movement , not a lot of laughs	I didn't think this was a very funny film , but that just could be my own sense of humor working [ or not working ] . I did find it to be an entertaining time , however . The acting was good , the story was well done , and I even got a chuckle or two out of it . 2 stars .
I thought Judge Judy has an attitude	Thrill seeking lady judge masterminds a series of armed robberies before being found out by a foreign criminologist . When the magistrate decides to stop the robberies she is persuaded to continue by a psychotic man who appears to be an ally of the police . Part of her enjoys the thrill but another area is abhorrent of the passionate , violent partner she has taken on . Soon it becomes apparent she has gotten in over her head with a man who isn't what he seems . Fair suspense drama .
Mysterious " doctor " predicts unpleasant futures for 5 men	Fairly good yarn in which an old man uses tarot cards to show events to come for 5 men on board a train . The days ahead are not to rosy as it is shown that they will encounter homicidal hands , murderous plants , killer werewolves , vampires , voodoo dudes with a love for music . For lovers of horror flics mostly , pretty corny for the rest of us .
Fabulous . . . . maybe . . . . but they were lousy actors	If you are a fan of big band swinging music , this is your ticket . Was this a true account of these talented musicians who , the film would have us believe , acted as brotherly as 2 enemies ? Who knows , but I did enjoy the story and all the old tunes . One of the worst performed movies I've ever seen .
A few laughs , but not many	Parts of this reminded me of " Freaky Friday " ; the runaway washing machine and the various workers buzzing around confusing ' mom ' to no end . Not a bad show , but I felt as though I had been through it all before . Had I dropped into the middle of this film without seeing the opening credits there is no way I would have recognized Michael Keaton : I only knew him from his later work .
Even angels have a bad day	Santa Claus , upon seeing things on earth aren't going too smoothly , sends Baldazar , a fractious angel , as a remedy . Upon arrival , the angel displeases Santa and has his magic powers removed creating difficulties in helping an unemployed woman with a troublesome son and a daughter with an unbounded belief in Santa's angel . Not a bad show but a sickeningly sappy look at that wondrous thing , Christmas Spirit . Couldn't the make-up man find a wig that matched Spano's natural hair ?
Surf , sand , singing and cycle trash	Cornball comedy your bag ? Plenty of it here as Von Zipper and his gang of fools kidnap a girl singer that Eric falls for . Meanwhile , Bonehead is falling for a mermaid , while Frankie and Annette are staying jealous of each other , as usual . Lots of singing and shaking out of the 30 year old " teens " keeps the action going , while Paul Lynde makes faces and gags it up . A dumber film would be hard to find , but I still found myself laughing at this really , really stupid picture . Eric Von Zipper made it well worth seeing , as did Lynde , one of my all time favorite comics .
Nothing special	Fairly good romantic comedy but not overly funny . I don't know who I find more irritating : Marilyn Monroe with her asthmatic , wheezing , odious little breathy whisper or Jayne Mansfield's obnoxious , whistling , squealing exhalations . Can't imagine why either of these 2 painted , peroxided doxies ever made it in the pics either ; not a gram of talent between them . Randall and Jones made this one and were in good form , I merely consider the film somewhat dated .
Chess champ checks , mates , and becomes a pawn	Average serial killer romp , this time through the world of big time chess . Too many slow spots to be called really good : I especially detest those time slowed , useless sex scenes : all that slow motion nipple sucking lends nothing to the program . High tension ending , although not all that surprising .
Not even in your imagination , lady	Innocuous little filler film offering work to low rent actor , Tom Wopat . Were it not for the " Dukes Of Hazard " this performer would still be parking cars and pumping gas . Not much to say in favor of this , it was watchable but just barely .
Oh , brother !	Dated but cute look at God's take on people and their reaction to him . I didn't think the film was particularly amusing , but I did appreciate some of God's thoughts on how we earthlings could work to get along better . Seemed to me as though the producer concocted a humanistic , feel good creator as opposed to a more demanding one which is what we really have . No doubt the makers of Oh , God felt HE would be more palatable in this form .
Not too good , not too bad	I can't say I liked or disliked The Crow . The acting was good , but the story didn't appeal to me . I suppose the vendetta theme has been done so much that I have become tired of it . Also , sometimes it seemed the plot was hard to follow . It could have been a better movie , but it was just to simplistic .
corny , but lovable animal story	This was pretty corny and unbelievable . What I call a silly drama . The acting was good , but the plot was totally unrealistic . At least , I don't think a monkey can fly a plane . The government is experimenting with chimps to see how long they can fly a plane in a simulated situation after taking a lethal dose of radiation . Helen Hunt's pet monkey gets into this program , and she is driven to rescuing him before his turn comes up . With the help of an air force cadet , she breaks the chimp out of the installation , but is in for big trouble from the military big-shots . Some tense moments follow , but they are so hammy that I couldn't get to worked up over the whole deal . Cute family show with some profanity .
Can 2 cons really be this stupid ?	Here we have 2 criminals fresh from a breakout from a maximum security pen . When their getaway car develops a flat tire the clever duo rips off a government car which has 3 12 year old kids in the back seat . Off to the mountains go the thugs where they reluctantly turn their hostages loose . After finding no way over the mountain , the pair turn back only to have their car sabotaged by the kids . A foot race then ensues as the 2 mentally challenged felons chased the kids all over Wolf Mountain for 2 days instead of simply walking out , stealing a car , and heading south . Morons ? To be sure ! This is a good , exciting picture for the young ones in the family . Let them watch and find out if the crooks find and kill the kids , or if the mysterious spirit of Wolf Mountain foils their dastardly deeds .
Anybody want a brand new baby ?	Didn't care for this one , way too slow and the subject was uninteresting . Why do folks want to adopt , especially from a pack of mobile home misfits ? One look at these losers and I would have been hanging an exit . This trash couldn't afford a whiff of fresh air but they always had their beer and ciggies . Not a bad production , I just found all the people involved very irritating .
Americans and Japs exchange ordinance in Tokyo Bay	This was made in 1943 and it shows it . Clearly a propaganda piece designed to stir up patriotic emotions , it was a mix of mom and apple pie and tense battle drama . Grant played a tough minded yet basically tender hearted skipper whose objective was to drive his submarine right into Tokyo Harbor . His mission was to " obtain vital data on the enemy " in order for the allies to bomb the valuable Japanese city . This picture had to many glaring inconsistencies to measure up to current war films . All the underwater shots were obviously taken in shallow water using toy boats . Another thing I dislike about movies from this era was the stock cast of characters - the bragging ladies man , the green kid , the hothead with a chip on his shoulder , and , of course , the kookie mess chief . And if that isn't enough , this sub allowed a kewpie doll , an accordion , a flute , record players , and a quartet of christmas carolers . The entire film was a plain effort at glorifying a useless war to the homefront , complete with a stirring speech by Grant on the honor of giving one's life so kids can wear roller skates instead of guns . At least the producers kept to a minimum the usual lovey dovey , home and hearth scenes . For my money the Navy can torpedo this ham and corn sub and leave it laying at the bottom of Tokyo Bay .
Marriage doesn't work	Had the entire film been as funny as the last segment , I would have rated it higher . The first 2 were full of dull , sexy , or bitchy dialogue , but the last was a real ripper . The distraught mom and the overwrought dad had me in the floor with their idiotic antics . I don't care for Neil Simon comedies ; at least the ones I've seen .
Fine ! Take him !	Average romantic comedy , not really all that funny . A middle aged man leaves his wife for a much younger woman . Why he would want this floozy I couldn't figure out . She came on like a common streetwalker with an abundance of eye rolling , lip licking , and sleazy body language . The jilted wife is broken hearted at first , but decides to get revenge later with a series of ugly practical jokes . This was predictable fare , therefore I can't rate it too high but it was allright . I did like the line . . . . " any other future ideas he may have in the future . " Valerie Harper and Elliott Gould starred , and Julie Warner looked good all the way through .
Tepid P . I . mystery	Spenser and Hawk go off to Canada to nail the killers of an American tycoon's family . Along the way they uncover a plot to assassinate an African leader which ties in with their own investigation . I couldn't get interested in the show , it just floated along sluggishly . Parker's books are better .
Settled people vs . the travellers	Two gypsy boys take back their horse after it was taken away from them by the local authorities . They had many adventures while racing across country dodging the law . The 2 boys were from a clan of societal parasites who wanted to live a free life but were victims of a welfare mentality . These folks didn't seem to understand that as long as they took from the government , the government would own them . A passable film , but hokey .
Fair cop drama	Story of big city cops solving a homosexual murder and an apparent suicide . While all this is going on an aging sergeant watches his marriage to a cheap slut go down the tubes as he fights his own moral battles and city hall to boot . True to life movie .
Thugs dance and sing their way across Chitown	Pretty good musical with some good songs and a great little dance by Sammy . My favorite of all the hoods was Falk ; his corny tough guy act was really funny . The jokes and gags were pretty lame by today's standards I suppose , but I still got a few good laughs . Not a great film but worth seeing .
Murder or accident ?	When a man's niece dies mysteriously he suspects his sister-in-law of murdering the child for an insurance payoff . He waffles back and forth coming under a great deal of stress in his attempt to prove the woman committed homicide or is innocent but finally , in one desperate move , he settles the matter conclusively .
Nick and Nora solve another mystery	Murder and intrigue abound as Nick Charles is asked to come out of retirement to solve another crime . A woman is murdered and the prime suspect disappears . More killings take place leading the police to search even harder for the missing person . But Nick Charles doesn't believe the missing man is the culprit . I liked the Agatha Christie ending where Nick gathered together all the folks involved and explained why each of them could be a suspect . A good mystery with just the right touch of humor .
Ex-cons hunt for missing loot	Four released convicts go back to the ghost town of Tomahawk Gap searching for the Army payroll they stole several years earlier . Not only did they have trouble finding the money , but they had to deal with a horde of mean , bloodthirsty indians and a couple of conniving white men intent on getting the money or themselves . Typical western with plenty of gunplay , horses , and action .
Pilot film for the Dirty Harry series ?	Fairly good show about an Arizona Ranger extraditing a prisoner from NYC back to Arizona . The guy escapes and Clint spent the rest of the movie chasing after him . Nothing special .
Four brothers frame an innocent man	A band of bad men rustle a man's cattle and then frame him for the murder of their brother . He is sent to a New Mexico prison , but the walls couldn't hold him . Once he escapes , he heads for Laredo where the men who wronged him are . Extremely corny and badly acted story that was so phony I could barely watch it . Don't corral this sway backed nag .
Death comes to us all . . . hopefully not as painfully as this film	Not one of Price's better movies . Way too slow , and the acting was pretty bad . I did like the colorful costumes and the great looking castle , though . The book was 10 times better than this dull film . Bypass it .
One could say this film was for the birds	This picture left me longing for a nice , hot bowl of Special Kitty . Not a bad little movie , but probably more geared for the young set . The animals were sooooo cute , and just sooooo smart as they went about solving a murder that even the police were having a problem with . The one big thing that kept this from being an Academy Award winner , in my humble opinion , was sexy Tom Jones singing " What's New Pussycat " . I can just hear ol ' Tom's robust platinum throated vocal chords warbling and moaning out those treasured lyrics . . . . " what's new pussycat , woa woa woa woa . . . what's new pussycat , woa woa woa woa wooooooaaaaaaa . "
Cunning , caped Count & choice chicks chill out in cool , creepy castle	Loosely based on the Stoker book , this film manages to be just another vampire movie . Very typical Hammer fare - great sets and props , mediocre story and acting . Why do the folks in these pictures always go to the crypts just before or after sunset ? Hello ? An ok film if one likes this genre .
What kind of parents would name their daughter Bernice ?	Comeuppance comes to a small town prom queen when she grows up and finds that the world is not , after all , her own private oyster . When she returns home , depressed and despondent , after an unfaithful hubby dumps her , she meets up with a town full of gossip mongers intent on giving her no peace and quiet and also discovers there is a small job market for a former beauty princess . On top of all her other problems is a rebellious daughter and a lovesick man who remembers " the queen " from the good old days . Not Sandra's best flic , but a decent enough film nonetheless .
Honey , I think this film shrunk my brain	I guess I didn't just hate this show , but it didn't grab me real good either . It wasn't as good as the original , but much better than " Honey , I Blew Up the Kid " , which was pretty dull . The race car scene and the bubble episode were fun , but I suppose I feel this horse has been run into the ground .
A hitch in this Hitch	Has to be one of the corniest of the thrillmaster's films . Really dumb , droll , and boring . Just a pathetic , poorly filmed production . The scene showing the hitman blowing his job and taking a tumble was totally unrealistic looking . Even worse was Stewart handily disarming the thug on the staircase - absolute rot ! And what was Doris Day doing in this movie anyway ? I really , really hate that song !
Rival logging crews vie for timber acreage	A prodigal son returns to the northwest logging territory to reclaim his family business which had been shut down due to the death of his father . Things got rough in the community as the other firm's owner stopped at nothing to be number one . Lots of singing , dancing , and fisticuffs in this high action yarn .
H . & W . go to Africa	This was taken from a mini-series , wouldn't have watched had I known that . Holmes goes to the dark continent under orders from Her Majesty's Government to guard a very valuable stone which unfortunately comes up missing . Holmes and Watson must unravel this puzzling mystery while avoiding the actions on the local constabulary headed by an unbelievably pompous , inept jackass of an inspector . Lee played the part of the aging sleuth well in a bit of a different outing for the Brit crime buster . Too many gaps in the story and an ending which even Holmes couldn't figure out . Bypass unless you can see the whole production I would say .
murder , intrigue , and coverup in the White House	A cop begins an investigation into a murder in the White House . He is stymied at every turn in the name of national security or ' need to know ' . With the help of a security agent , the officer learns of a coverup at high levels of the government for a bizarre reason . Pretty good film , but nothing new .
Cavalry + Indians + Guns = Trouble in the old west	A partially decimated Army unit teams up with a group of cowboys , who also had been hit by renegade injuns . The cavalry squad was trying to get a gun runner and 3 dozen rifles back to their fort , but had to fight their way through fierce indian raiders intent on getting the weapons . Average soldier vs . redskin shoot-em-up .
insane man fixates on neighbor's wife	A man becomes obsessed with his neighbor , a woman who reminds him of his mother . At first he is friendly , then becomes a bothersome pest , and finally murderous . Good performances ; especially by Steiger , as the chilling neighbor .
Some comedy . I didn't laugh once .	Didn't really care for this one . A guy letting all these big shots have his apartment while he stands outside and smokes Chesterfields just grated on my nerves instead of amusing me . This was just another in a long line of droll romantic comedies which gave neither romance nor humor .
Not your usual vampire flic	A long way from the great Ann Rice and Stephen King tales of the undead . I liked seeing the vamps played as the victim , having to deal with a crazed hunter of their kind , and watching their growing friendship with a mortal who can mysteriously aid in their quest to return to their own far off world . Totally enjoyable and , unlike Trix , not just for kids .
Money and love make us do strange things	A hard nosed businessman and a lawyer fall for the same woman . When the businessman is murdered the police naturally eye the woman and her attorney as the top suspects . Using a series of flashbacks a plot of shrewd conniving unfolds and the dupes play their parts exactly as planned . I thought the criminal's doings were a little transparent and the ending more than a little predictable but still it was a passable film for a lazy afternoon .
sounds like a deceitful person , eh ?	Good film concerning a mysterious Chinese who brings a unique carnival to a troubled western town . He manages to change the outlook of most of the citizens by introducing them to themselves through his various carnival acts . Not a rip roaring comedy , but one which causes the viewer to consider what it would be like if he or she walked through Dr . Lao's magical tent .
typical cops and spies shoot-em-up	Good action show , but nothing that hasn't been done many times . Jones revises his role as the hard bitten Lt . Gerrard who chases another good guy who is thought to be evil . Sound familiar ? The chase was set up by rogue elements within the U . S . Government as a patsy to cover their shady dealing with a foreign government . A long chase ensued . . . and blah . . . blah . . . . blah . Not a bad film , just been there , done that .
Not bad for an oldie	A group of fur traders travel into injun country for the first time must overcome steep odds when tangling with the local tribe , a powerful river , and a large fur outfit peopled with evil cutthroats . Pretty good western , a tad hammy for my tastes , with lots of action and nice scenery and fine performances by all .
So-so chiller thriller	Painfully predictable spook film about a young woman who keeps having weird glimpses of stalking corpses . The acting was pretty bad , the plot was warmed over been there-done that , and the make-up looked exactly like what it was . It did have some creepy spots , but overall it was a loser picture .
Bean bandits and hillbillies tussel at old church	Another in a long line of Alamo films , this one was no better than the others and they were pretty mundane . I bellowed when Davy Crockett entered the picture and it was none other than old Arthur Hunnicutt . His toothy , good natured " howdy boys " left me on the floor rolling . A prolific western maker , Sterling Hayden does his usual average job in a so-so movie .
Munsters make merry with the fat man	About what you'd expect from the weirdest family in southern california . As Eddie displays negative emotions toward the holidays the family attempts to dredge him from the depths of the Christmas doldrums . Along the way Grampa tries to help Santa with his gift giving by concocting a magic potion for the jolly one but is hindered by a pair of pesky elves . As all this is going on Mrs . M and Eddie enter the house decorating contest with an unusual decor , much to the chagrin of an obnoxious , competitive neighbor . Pretty lame , but still some silly fun .
average murder mystery	After the chairman of a news corporation dies , his son takes over the reins . To find his # 2 man , the son pits three employees against each other . Whichever man can find out the identity of a notorious serial killer will get the job . Naturally , each tries to out-scoop the other while the killer strikes again . 2 stars .
Robin Hood wannabe takes on Sheriff of Nottingham clone	This was a blatant take off on the Robin Hood tale , complete with a Frier Tuck imitation , a Little John copy , another Maid Merrian , Alan-a-Dale , etc . The picture had nice props and some good acrobatics from Lancaster and his band of merry men , but the idea that a group of men armed only with sticks and rocks can take on city hall wears a bit thin . An all-right movie , but I consider it an action / adventure tale geared more towards children than adults . The action scenes were were not well choreographed , and the story was corny .
eccentric millionaire throws the ultimate spook party	Want to go to an old house , spend the night , and be paid 10k for the effort ? It's possible , but you must put up with organs playing by themselves , 2 screaming , hysterical females , ugly old ladies , hidden passages , a hanging corpse , decapitated heads , a walking skeleton , and , naturally , a thunder storm with lots of lightning . Of course , there is more to this ' party ' than meets the eye . Lots of laughs and even a few frights in this Price classic . Go ahead and spend an hour and 15 minutes seeing it , but be very , very cautious that ' they ' don't get you also .
Even Santa forgets sometimes	Fairly good Christmas yarn in which S . C . has an accident which robs the old boy of his memory . He is aided in his recovery by a cynical newsman , a starry eyed little boy , and a cadre of dedicated elves intent on not seeing Christmas go down the tubes . Kids would probably go for this more than I did .
Nutcase pianist solves crime	Fairly good yarn with Samuel L . playing a different role from his usual hard-ass bad boy . He suffers from some kind of psychosis which keeps him from doing concerts even though he is a fine musician , but his problems do not stop him from figuring out whom is the criminal and whom the scapegoat in an elaborate murder case .
Vengeance is mine	A man who joins the cavalry to find 2 men he blames for the death of his fiancee finds himself in the middle of a big indian uprising . He has no idea what the 2 murderers look like , but finally he finds out their identity . However , the redskins and a new love cause his plans to change somewhat . So-so .
Mister Everyday joins the flower crowd	Entertaining film with lots of 60's memories like psychedelic cars , hip , cool , groovy lingo , long hair wigs , and , naturally . . . . pot . Mr . Uptight just couldn't make up his mind whether he wanted to be a straight or be hip , which caused him to alienate himself from both circles . Fun and funny picture .
Dirty dealings on the Big Muddy	When convicted felon Billy McCain gets paroled from the big house , his troubles are far from over . A sinister man wants to get his hands on the stash that Billy supposedly hid away before doing his stint in the gray bar hotel . Is the money there or was it destroyed before Billy ever got caught ? Can Billy and his daughter escape the clutches of this evil person and live happily ever after ? Will Mighty Mouse never come ! ! ? ? To find out go see this excellent film which shows the power of love , the ugliness of greed , and the joy of repentance .
All fat , ugly people should watch this film	First off I'd like to say this was a bloated yet deep movie . Hal was on the right track with his attitude toward gorgeous women . Why go out with someone who can't control their urges and gorges like King Kong after 2 weeks on a grapefruit juice diet ? It isn't an ugly person's fault that they are unattractive , but who wants to wake up every morning to Apewoman . Robbins should have left well enough alone and let nature take it's course .
But I thought my company would take care of me !	Very good documentary on the uncaring greed of corporate Amerika . I was , as usual , vastly amused by the corporate " whores " who went scampering for the shadows when Moore turned his light on them . Many wouldn't even let him stay in the lobby . These little weasel butt kissers will someday , if there is any justice , feel the unemployment boot crunching down on their own pathetic , fearful little craniums . Amazing how some folks can downsize their brains into feeling " my company " is always right : they need to stop genuflecting at the alter of this false god and wake up to a world of charity for their fellow man . I've been watching Moore for a while , and I don't always agree with him , but I feel he is dead on in his indictment of American conglomerates and their villainous leaders . The reply of Nike's CEO to Moore's question about his employees in the far east was telling indeed : " I don't care . " Chilling .
Duet of dudes duel to a draw during the decades	Two French officers duel with swords and pistols off and on over a 15 year span . The tiff started when one of the officers , a raging psychopath , felt his honor had been compromised . He really just wanted a reason to kill again . The film made me think it was really in the early 1800's , very realistic and the scenery was beautiful . The finale , which was shot in and around an old ruin , complimented the show perfectly . 4 stars .
Math makes the world go ' round	A math whiz , with mental and physical problems , is driven to distraction by 2 groups intent on using his genius for their own ends . Very good , not to mention unique , picture shot in black and white using non-standard filming techniques .
Once a thief . . . .	Good movie with an old timey look to it . Not a big shoot-em-up western , but filmed more like a real life story would go . Well acted with a believable feel to it , but I objected , once again , to Hollywood putting their spin on a common criminal , building him up as some kind of nice person . This " gentleman " and his gang were armed robbers who shot it out with a guard who was doing his job : this gent also pulled a gun on another man and threatened his life . He also roughed up one of his henchmen for a comment on the " gentleman's " woman friend . A kindly old man doing a service to his community ? Hardly . Just a thief who belonged behind bars .
It's only money . . . or is it ?	Bizarrely funny comedy that keeps the viewers on their toes as a bevy of characters flit all over town chasing an illusive 900 dollar payoff , but not for exactly what each supposes . Good dialogue and hilarious situations make for a snappy , fast paced film which appears to be going much more slowly .
Tense drama	Well played out drama about victims of torture trying to put their lives together again with the help of a psychiatrist , herself a former victim of the Nazis . This was a shocking tale with some very upsetting scenes , with a surprising and dramatic ending .
Chilly weather , snow flurries , and spies on ice	Well done , exciting yarn about a device both the ruskies and the U . S . wants from a frozen weather station in the far north . Good film but the ending in the book was far more detailed , using a harrowing escape through the ice to a waiting sub which must find a way through the iceburgs to the trapped men . Well worth seeing .
River gambler falls for riverboat girl	Good show about a river boat plying it's way from town to town in the old south giving song and dance performances to the entertainment starved locals . Along the way a suave dude who makes his living as a card player meets the show boat owner's daughter and goes off the deep end . Things are great until his old life beckons and he becomes a wanderer again . Well worth seeing with a 2 hanky ending .
Artie Shaw ? Who hired this guy ?	Mister Shaw may have been a great clarinet player , but his acting is almost as lousy as Brad Pitt's . Here is a cool little production with lots of big band numbers and some spiffy hoofing by Fred . A bonus to seeing this film , at least for me , was getting to see The Penguin again . Loved watching him and Fred go at one another for the hand of the fair lady . Good show , but no great shakes .
prison life in a desert hell	The British Army has a special prison for it's members . Located in a burning desert and led by a stiff backed officer , it is intended to instill discipline in even the toughest recruit . The worst area of the prison is a large sandy hill which the men are forced to run up and down when they break the rules . They are carrying heavy packs so it turns into a torturous hell for the prisoners . This is a great story taken from an even better book . Thumbs up .
Don't you just love it when the bad guy wins ?	An absolutely true tell-all about how Hollywood really is . The seamy side is laid bare in all it's sluttish , vulgar glory : the big money deals , the prostitution for a big hit , the little guy being squeezed out , the butt kissing , it's all here . Good show ; tense and funny all at once . Just don't take it too seriously , ok ? Oh yeah , get ready for a whole gang of cameos .
Is Shaft bad or just plain lucky ?	True , this was just another shoot-em-up , but the hero was everyman's top super stud hard ass , Shaft . With this one you get case after case of high capacity lead slinging , jive talk , tough talk , serious ass whipping , squealing tires , and Shaft's own brand of street justice . Plus , these punks deserved every hole Shaft poked in their scummy hides . This was one more fun film and positively nobody could play this part like Samuel L . Extremely violent and vulgar : better than I expected .
Doublecrossing dame deals double dose of danger & death	Cool mystery set in the magical 4 corners area of the U . S . Why do these fools who come up with a big wad of cash always have to be stupid and draw attention to themselves by becoming a high roller ? Because , like this woman , they are born to lose : running with psychos and stealing from rough trade is not wise . Good film , not just another noisy shoot-em-up or unrealistic private eye flicker .
Strange western	The second half was an improvement over the first , but I never really could get into the movie . It bounced around too much , taking too long to give the viewer a grasp of what was going on . The Big Bend country was spectacular , but the film was an also ran .
Bizarre , off the wall western	Oddly filmed black and white tale of a man whose life goes haywire after a chance meeting with a saloon girl . Soon he encountered a strange indian , three fast guns , and an assortment of backcountry dirtbags most of whom were intent on making him a dead man . Henriksen was superb as the evil , cannibalistic killer . The head squashing scene was a hoot , adding a nice edge to this dark comedy .
Dysfunctional with a large	After growing up under a violent , drunken father and a do nothing abused mother , a man's adult life becomes a total mess . A mental wreck , he is unable to bond with anyone and slowly goes over the deep end after a hunting accident . Nolte gives one of his better performances as the doomed man incapable of loving or being loved .
Will this upset Kirk and Spock ?	Good comedy with zany antics and a nice takeoff on Star Trek and all the trekkies . I wonder if some folks really do believe that stupid TV show was for real . Why not ? Otherwise intelligent people believe rasslin ' in on the up and up . Lots of excitement , fun graphics , weird looking space creatures , and as always , Tim is just plain hilarious .
True story ? Dubious	Sit back and let me tell you about a man named Ned . A poor old boy barely kept his family fed . . . . because he couldn't keep his ass out of the pen . To make ends meet he goes about stealing horses and killing . Other than that he was just a good old boy . This wasn't a bad film , especially the last half , but it was somewhat disjointed , the fight scenes were obviously staged , much of the acting was second rate , and the blood looked more like used motor oil than the genuine article . The writer bought into the Jesse James syndrome which always depicts a real life murderous dirtbag as a loving , caring family man who only wants the best for his fellow man . Right ! For all it's flaws , I still enjoyed the picture , and hey , we get to see The Mick .
These girls had a strange club going	Better like lots of flashback because this film is full of it as it bounces back and forth over several decades . The viewer must stay the course to find the secret of the sisterhood and why one of the girls grew up skewed off center causing years of grief for her entire family . A resounding " yes " to this one .
Never trust an amnesiac	Hilariously entertaining tale of a man with double amnesia : a dull penny pincher on one hand , a thieving con artist on the other . After being conked on the noggin he revives to find he has spent the last nine years as someone he isn't and reverts to his former tricky self . His apple cart is upset when he discovers he is falling for the wife he picked up during the nine year blackout . A plan to bilk some of the locals over a phony oil deal doesn't appear so rosy once his thorny heart is pricked by love , which puts him in danger from a mean tempered associate intent on becoming rich . Fast paced and very funny film , well worth watching , especially Powell's zany character .
Ernest Hemingway meets a nurse during WW1	This film was based on the love affair between Ernest Hemingway and the nurse he met after being wounded in action during WW1 . I doubt that it was very factual , but still remained entertaining . Their relationship was doomed from the start because of Hemingway's rotten attitude . If the man was like this in his real life , I would imagine all his relationships with women failed . He was a boozing , spoiled little rich boy .
3 girls find love and romance in a small town	A pizza joint is the setting for much of this film . The 3 waitresses working there are in and out of love and lust all the time , causing themselves a lot of grief . So-so romantic comedy .
broken hearted lovers get back at ex-partners	A man who loses his girl to another guy launches a campaign to get her back . While doing so , he teams up with the rejected lover of the man who stole his girl . They begin playing very nasty tricks on the pair . Not a great film , but worth seeing .
Cage cruises crazytown	Very good drama with some excellent acting and photography showing life on the wild side . The film started off pretty slow but by the ending I was on the edge of my seat wondering if Cage would ever resolve his problem . Nerve wracking scenes that made me cringe thinking " what if that was me dealing with those psychos ? " , made for a very entertaining 2 hours . A definite must see .
Like father like son	It was strange seeing Earl Holliman playing an old man having a heart attack : I remember him as a two fisted hoss playing alongside The Duke and other action heroes from the past . Good to see Linda Purl again also ; can't forget her memorable performance as Superbitch putting the bad hurt on Jane Seymour in " The Absolute Truth " . This film , however , will not find a place on my list of favorites as it was merely a run of the mill multiple murder yarn . It was nevertheless entertaining and well done - just bland . The sins of the father were visited on the son who grows up to be a total nutcase who plans revenge on an innocent woman for his father's suicide . Max Caulfield was effective as the smiling tenant with a heart of evil .
Hey , that's my car !	Off the wall film about men who repossess cars . Or was it ? Finally , they get to repo the car that everybody wants , but they still don't get to make a buck out of the deal . I enjoyed watching this one , but it wasn't what I expected . Very weird .
Predictable yet enjoyable	Sandler does have other acts besides the no brain screw up , right ? Guess I've just missed them along the way . This was exactly what I expected , however , I still got some laughs as this moron stumbled his way to victory and a wonderful love life . Nothing new here but still good for a rainy afternoon .
Another in a long line of prison films	Although in a different setting , this is still just another movie about a good guy going to prison where he whips a and takes names . First he battles the baddest boys on cell block # 9 , then he takes on the warden and his crew , and then yada . . . yada . . . yada . Not a bad pic , but not a new thing in it .
Space Brothers vacation at Devil's Tower	I saw this right after it was released , and figured , wrongly , that it would be corny and dated by now . The huge space ship was still impressive and the finale , the meaning of which still goes over my head , was , once again , striking . Good acting and a strong story keeps this classic very much alive into the 21st century . I suppose that is because we still don't know if anybody is out there or not . This film , like Contact , may have made me wonder some , but I will have to see a little green man to become a believer .
This proves it . Only fools fall in love .	I really enjoyed this film , but it was way big lame and unrealistic . Would a man jilted at the alter take the rejection as well as Alex Burke did ? Plus , didn't these 3 daughters strike you as a tad mature to still be living at home waiting for hubbies ? I will say that Frank Snotra played the part of the down trodden , self pitying loser to perfection and he and Doris Day warbled wonderfully . This perfect little family with their pat lives and troubles , coupled with the smaltzy ending , made for a very predictable picture .
down on his luck wannabe fights city hall	Sweeping story of a loser who takes up with a alcoholic actress running from her past . He hopes she will get him a role in the movies , but all she cares about is herself . When they come into his hometown , he wants to see his old girlfriend , but is unwelcome by her family . This sets off a hothouse of emotions on both sides . Good drama dealing with the good and bad side of man .
Didn't think I'd like this one	Unbelievable , ridiculous film , but much better than I thought it would be . It lacked the punch of the Crichton novel , which I felt played a lot more realistically . The special effects animals and the big fight at the end were well done , but it was just a hokey movie over all . Fun and exciting , though .
Different kind of thriller	This one will keep you wondering just what is going on all the way to the end . I loved it exactly for that reason . Samuel Jackson gives a different performance from his usual hardass toughguy role with Willis offering up his standard fine acting . Bizarre film , but stay with it : thumbs up .
The Butter Cream Gang strikes again	The gang of helpful , friendly kids take on a new mission . This time they are after a casch of lost gold which they need to save the home and property of a neighbor , Mr . Gaff . Unfortunately , an evil Spaniard and his henchmen also have their eye on the treasure and will stop at little to get it . Each group has a third of an ancient map detailing the location of the loot , and much effort is expended in finding the missing segment . Of course , the missing piece is found and the kids must deal with the greedy , fortune obsessed Spaniard . This is a good childrens ' film : I thought it carried a good message and had a satisfying ending .
A good musical with lots of great songs	This was a terrific musical starring the great voice and acting talents of Barbra Streisand . The only time the story lagged was when Montand sang . I felt he should have been replaced , he simply didn't fit the part .
What was with the crop flattening ?	If the aliens were so intent on offing the ex-priest and his brood why not just smoke them and go back to Planet X ? Instead they hang around running across his roof , killing the dog , stomping his corn down , then trashing his home . How could these beings come here from 900 zillion lights years away and be unable to work a simple door latch ? Couldn't they point a laser beam and cut the hinges ? Just wondering . I actually enjoyed the film after putting off watching it for months , figuring it to be another " Alien " , a movie I detested . I especially appreciated the finale as the ex-priest comes face to face with his lack of spiritual principles . Seems as though these downfallen zealots are nearly always Catholic .
Brits bomb big boat ; nix nasty Nazis ; hit Hitler hard	I first saw this at the now defunct Gulfway Drive-In in Houston right after it came out . . . . and hated it . I thought there wasn't enough war action . This time around I enjoyed it much more ; it was well rounded with some fine dramatic dialogue and just the right amount of battle scenes . I don't know how factual the picture was but it seemed plausible all the way . That was one tough ship , torpedoes did very little damage even with direct hits . Had I been the commander of the attacking planes , I would have had them come in on all 4 points instead of in a single wave . That way when the ship turned it couldn't avoid at least one hit . Maybe I shoulda been a Admiral , eh ?
Oddball comedy / mystery	This was a freaky film . It took me a while to get going on it , but when I finally got into the thing it became very enjoyable and I began to get the comedy angle . As usual Bridges was first rate and Goodman was totally bizarre as the know-it-all , kooky vet who simply refused to be mistaken about anything . Way too small a part for one of my fave player's , Steve Buscemi . Strange picture , man . By the way , the language would freeze a 6 striper sailor .
Mobsters should never marry	Nicely done evil little comedy pitting the FBI against organized crime with a nice lady caught in the middle . The actress who played the jealous wife of the mob boss ' Tony the Tiger ' almost stole the show with her raging tantrums . 3 stars
Fairly entertaining comedy / suspense	A sleazy tabloid reporter teams up with a college professor to investigate the strange occurrences in a small town . They get no help from the suspicious , fearful , and in some cases , eerie inhabitants of the town . They finally solve the mystery of why these occult phenomena occur , and what a surprise it is .
Comically maudlin Brit tragedy	Woman loses her husband and begins seeing him after awhile as though in the flesh . This caused her to go from being depressed to a state of exuberance . For awhile . He hangs around for a while , then begins bringing his ghostly friends to her home . They begin to get on her nerves so he tells her " if you don't want them here just tell them to leave . " I didn't understand why he and the other ghosts came to her until the end of the movie when all was explained in the final scene .
That Chinese agent sure could hold her breath a long time	Here's 007 at his raciest best as he shoots , punches , drives , rides , and boinks his way to glory while never getting the knot in his tie the least bit askew . Lots and lots of explosions , automatic magazines expended , kicking , chopping , bone breaking , and dead bodies . You know , same ol ' Bond . . . . no better , no worse . Must say I am a tad burned out with the ' chick cleaning house on about a dozen bruisers ' bit . Really , this is getting old , old , old . I loved the scene in which Bond is driving his special car from the backseat : he was obviously having a great time making fools out of the evil ones .
Apollo 13 launchs from Canaveral Rest Home	I liked the first half because it was amusing , but the second half was a bit of a drag . Lots of excitement and way out computer whizbangs , but in the end what we have is just another space rescue chiller . Still , it was worth seeing if space movies are your cup .
She say yea , he say nay	These 2 had the lights on but nobody was home . The husband has a very successful business , grown kids , plenty of free time : the wife is a high level aide to the mayor , settled , content with life . Everything is coming up roses . . . . until the wife turns into a hysterical , raving looney intent on having a baby before the sands of her biological clock run dry . The hubby is adamant that there will be no more children in his life , therefore their romantic interlude runs aground . Fairly decent comedy which singles out some very real problems between married folks .
Hellhound harasses inhabitants of the heath	Holmes and Watson must unlock the mystery of a murder on the English moors by a vicious dog . At first the dog was thought to be a rabid Pomeranian , but was found later to be a larger species . Was the dog just a kill crazy mutt who enjoyed slaughtering humans because he liked the taste of blood , or was there something more sinister behind him ? Sherlock breaks out his magnifying glass and gives us the answer . Good story with lots of spooky scenes in the fog shrouded , swampy moors .
Dated and somewhat corny , but still entertaining	Good drama showing how a family can be far different than what it appears when certain members refuse to live in the present . Nolan was good as the bantam rooster of a father and Franciosa shone as the drunken yet solid older brother . As always Silva , with that cruel face , was well cast as a heartless pusher whose love for money can only lead to disaster . I wanted to slap his hyper little helper ; what a creep .
Federal agent vies for beauty queen	Super comedy with Sandra looking adorable , as usual . Babes abound and many laughs were had as Sandy attempts to go from tomboy to lady with the help of a hilariously sarcastic Michael Caine . Good interplay between characters and well played out all the way to the end . The only down side was the unneeded hurrah for lesbianism ; enough already , it is becoming boring .
Even soulmates can't get along	Not up to " My Best Friend's Wedding " or " Notting Hill " even though Reese was huggable and sweet [ except when drunk ] , sometime hubby was cutely dimpled , and the end was oh , so happy . With all that I still consider it to be a run of the mill romantic comedy . I loved Candy Bergen as Bitch Mother but I can't believe a man like Andrew Hennings would be so calm and collected were he stood up at the alter after chasing so heartily after his dream girl . All the folks from Alabama looked and acted like good old boys and girls , rednecks , and poor or near poor trailer dwellers . Once more the viewer is subjected to the ' lovable homosexual ' in the form of a good ol ' down home country boy . I can't see his being so readily accepted by denizens of this area of the country . I doubt he could have kept his feelings hidden so long or that people would glibly say " hey , ok by me ! " This could only have happened in a Hollywood world , never in the land of cotton .
What a life !	Bizarre black comedy about a life lived from birth in front of a camera . Very good show , highly unusual , and well worth the price of admission . Has to be one of the oddest films I've ever seen : Carey gives his usual great performance - as did all the other players .
I wouldn't spend 5 minutes with this creepy crew	Most excellent , offbeat comedy . DeNiro played Jack Byrnes , a controlling father making life miserable for his daughter's new boyfriend Greg Focker , played perfectly by Ben Stiller . He applied so much pressure to the young man that he wound up being unable to do anything to please Mr . Byrnes . In fact , Byrnes caused many of Focker's mistakes with his belligerent attitude . One of the best comedies I've seen .
Grizzled , gung-ho , gyrene grunt grabs grub , guts gook , gums guns , goes & gets girl	Good film with Mitchum playing a role once again that he is too old for . See a lot of that from ol ' Bob . I enjoyed the picture , but it was a little pat and unrealistic . For instance , why would the Japs shell a deserted island and then come ashore as if an enemy was in place ? I also thought the battle scenes were understaffed and downplayed ; they didn't convince me that a real war was being waged . That , however , was a small part of this production : the real movie was played out between Mitchum and Kerr .
average western shoot-em-up	A tough gunslinger , his brother , and their friends clean up a town full of bad guys . Good action , though I thought it could have been done a tad more realistically .
degenerates abound in this con job	A band of irish gypsies take advantage of decent people as well as running a scam on a trio of other con artists . This picture seemed to be applauding stealing , whoredom , and loose morals in front of children , plus it contained a jab at handguns which appeared to be thrown in as an afterthought . Subtle , but not to well hidden subliminals , pushed the agenda of the producer in a thinly disguised movie . An ok film .
They're just tryin ' to make a livin '	Splendid show with a lively array of songs and dance . I loved the rascally Fagin and his band of merry pickpockets . Oliver Reed was smashing as the villainous Bill Sykes . The realistic looking locales and props went a long way in creating an authentic look at the well off as well as the seedy side of London in the 19th century .
2 bit lounge lizards go for the big time	Excellent drama about the sleazy , cheap side of show biz . The Baker brothers were a pair of low rent pianists that need a career boost . When that chance comes along do they appreciate it and go on to a great life ? Watch and see . This was one hot film , funny and tense , exotic , and well done all the way .
Big blow buffets boat in bay	Fans of disaster movies ought to love this one , it has all the standard ingredients of any film in this genre : worried wives , hysterical women , bellowing , cursing men , zooming choppers , and lots of boat / wave sequences . I didn't rate it particularly high , not because it was a bad picture , but because it was just more of the same old predictable calamity junk .
Hicks , hotrods , hitmen , high speeds , and hooch	The government doesn't mind how much booze you make and sell , but you better pay your taxes on it . Good show with lots of exciting driving and car stunts . I considered the story a tad corny and not very reality based , but still enjoyable . Robert Mitchum was way too old for the lead ; his son would have been a better pick .
Discipline , honor , loyalty , manliness . . . . and hazing	Here is a good movie showing why one should not bother with either the military or it's pissant little institutions of higher learning . Yes the novel is 10 times better , but this is not a bad film either . Do these military schools really develop character and produce real men or do they brainwash and engender false codes of honor and loyalty thereby turning out highly tuned robots to fight for all the real reasons wars are waged - oil , money , and population control ? The smart money would bypass entering these halls of insanity .
Roy Horn's great grandfather begins a legacy in Egypt	The story starts out with a soldier being transported to a desert town then goes back in time to tell the tale of how he came to this place . He started out as an officer in Napoleon's army fighting in Egypt but became separated from his unit . After nearly starving and / or dying of thirst he came upon a leopard which somehow became his bosom buddy . It brought him food and before long the soldier became almost totally wild so acute was his bonding with the animal . All things do end however and the man decided it was necessary for him to leave the critter . A very strange film , well written and portrayed . Beautiful scenery from Jordan and Utah which didn't always blend perfectly , but who cares .
Mel mauls mafia , punishes pushers , and heats up hitmen	This reminded me more of a Bruce Willis shoot-em-up than something Mel would do as he pumps his enemies full of holes , smirks , and fires up a cigarette . The story was as full of holes as a slice of swiss cheese and about as tasty . Lots of blood , guts , weirdos , and mobsters in this extremely violent tale of backstabbing and revenge . Mel was interesting , and I liked the film for the most part , but it was hard to believe that anybody would go up against such formidable odds for a paltry 70K . Really , the movie was pretty corny , and much of the action was just plain off the wall . I did love that Val Resnick character , though ; colorful , to say the least .
35 year old kid goes after revenge	The Carson City Kid goes after a tin horn gambler who murdered his brother during a shady card game . After finding the gambler , the Kid finds that he has not changed his ways and is out to cheat and frame a pal of the Kid's . Carson must stop this nefarious scheme and keep his own hide intact at the same time while also wooing the girlfriend of the sneaky tinhorn . Good western .
Why would anybody want to hurt this wonderful person ?	This film slowly builds up to the big murder , which I easily saw coming . This person was just begging for it . . . . but not for the reasons I supposed . Once the crime took place , Hercule Poirot stepped in and began his overbearing investigation . Who asked him ? Where does he get the authority ? Telling the suspects not to leave the island like he is a police officer : he has no right at all to do this . I would have told the overweight , pompous ass to go suck an egg . All this aside , even though the show was slow moving , it played out to be a good whodunnit . As usual with ' ol Hercule , he gathered all the suspects together and explained the entire scheme before finally naming the dirty , rotten scoundrel and explaining the nefarious doings . Better than many of it's ilk , plus the Spainish scenery was breath taking .
Long lost brothers take on thugs	Lots of karate antics , action , and lovely ladies as 2 Jackie Chans ' try to outfox a band of hooligans intent of their demise . Slapstick humor all the way as Chan escapes one impossible to escape mess after another . This was a funny film , but it got a little trying at times keeping up with who was who .
Borderline nutcase / inventor / crackpot / atheist leaves his country searching for nirvana . . . . the fool .	Intense drama showcasing some excellent talent , gripping action scenes , and sparkling dialogue ; all coupled with lushly dense tropical scenery forming one of the best pictures I've seen in a good while . Ford stole the show with his maniacal portrayal of an obsessed man intent on crafting a perfect world .
I liked the subtle humor in this one	Dr . Phibes rises from his grave 3 years after entering and goes on a quest for immortality . This one was about as good as the original , I thought , with another batch of really neat ways to kill folks . Good to see Robert Quarry again ; I remember him well from that excellent old film " Count Yorga , Vampire " , a real scare treat . This was a fun , funny movie to view , I recommend it highly .
Rin Tin Tin , Bullet , Lassie and Boomer have nothing on The Fluke	Sometimes sad , more often funny look at a dog viewing us humans from a peculiar perspective . Nice little show with a good message about family , quality time , and not taking things for granted . Plus , the animal actors were some of the best I've seen . Cool show . P . S . If I ever get reincarnated , I hope it's as Sandra Bullock's # 1 man . Or Faith Hill . Or Jane Seymour . Or . . . .
Vigilantes , hookers , circus folks , and a killer	An inept man is coerced into joining a band of vigilantes who are stalking a murderous psycho . As he goes through the motions of vigilantism he falls in with a circus girl , meets a group of jaded prostitutes , becomes a murder suspect , and finally comes face to face with the killer himself . Like most of Allen's films , this one came in from left field . Go see it .
Totally off the wall comedy	I hated the 1st half , and loved the rest . This is one of those films which , to be appreciated , one has to develop an acquired taste . It was a goofy , herky jerky movie with a Laurel & Hardy plot , and every manner of looney character imaginable . Good once you become accustomed to it , yet very strange .
These girls didn't go to my high school	After hearing about this film for 20 years I finally decided to sit down and watch it . Although I enjoyed it , I consider it to be the least entertaining of all the " high school " movies I've seen . My favorite character was the super cool dude who scalped tickets and wooed the ladies , but was a mess inside . Funny show . . . . maybe these girls did go to my school and I just didn't notice .
Solid drama based on factual evidence	I don't usually go for comedies , but this was so wacky and zany that I was busting out laughing . Slapstick all the way with a few jabs made at history and the Dumas books . Probably not for everyone , but I was in stitches . Wilder stole the show , but Welles broke me up when he took the dive .
This guy got just what he wished for	Fun little teeny bop film loaded with cool cats , fine babes , tough punks and their slick cars , and lots of teen-age angst and woes . I did hear a couple of tunes that came out well past ' 56 , but who cares , it was a good soundtrack . Had the movie continued into the future we would have seen the immediate pregnancy , arguing over money , Gene's growing gut / receding hair , and , of course , the unavoidable divorce . I hate it when reality creeps in , so I merely let the film's finale fool me . Watch for Jonathan's oh so subtle across time joke in the diner . Too cool .
Gunslinger turns cowpoke	Good shoot-em-up with Murphy as Reb Kittredge , a gunhand in between jobs . He is offered a job to run a cattleman out of the country so the evil Matt Telford can control the entire valley . In an odd turn of events Kittredge comes into ownership of the disputed acreage and begins a hazardous journey to get the bovine to market before the mortgage to Telford comes due . Of course , Telford does everything in his power to ensure the drive is unsuccessful . A side plot along the way involves Kittredge as one corner of a love triangle , pitting him against a hot headed , back shooting polecat for the love of a beautiful woman : gotta have that thrown in , eh ? Pretty standard stuff , but I enjoyed the production .
Stagecoach crosses injun country	Good remake of the John Wayne film . While this is not the best western I've ever seen , it did have some of the most exciting scenes around . I really enjoyed the comic relief of Bing Crosby as the boozed out doctor , Red Buttons as the misunderstood drummer , and Bob Cummings playing the frantic embezzler . Good performances by the entire cast kept the show going right along , and the 2 big shoot-outs near the end were dandies . I really liked the part when Alex Cord came crashing through the window of the saloon and a large piece of plastic remained quivering in the frame .
Very stupid but lots of giggles	I loved this silliness which didn't try to pass itself off as anything but a totally goofy spoof . I particularly enjoyed Keach's stiff backed , rule happy [ exempting himself , of course ] cop intent on breaking a group of citizens ' while taking advantage of them . If you like super silly farces having no roots in reality this is the ticket .
So young , so cynical : so mature , so desperate	Excellent tale of 2 girls fresh out of high school , both intent on striking out into the world on their own . While on the edge of maturity they are still unable to control silly urges to play pranks which leads one of them into a relationship with a strange , lovable , obsessive loner . This man can't seem to relate to women but has a drive to possess one like he does old records ; totally unaware that his longing is merely a reflection of his inner emptiness which cannot be filled by a human presence . Much of the film deals with this pair , but the real emphasis is on one of the girls , Enid , and her desire to just up and leave her town and see where her destiny will land . Moody piece with a few laughs along the way : well worth seeing .
Intrigue , romance , and treachery in old France	What a great dungeon . I'd like to make my home there when I wasn't snugly ensconced in the royal palace with it's secret passages and hidden chambers . This film rivaled the one made in the 70's , but I don't think it was done any better . . . . if memory serves . Great props and costumes made me feel as though I was really right there in 17th century Paris . Superb acting and a well written script made the flavor of this adventure even tastier . I was all for this one .
Slashing story , slicing performances , cutting dialogue . . .	With the opening frame of Zorro I figured I had been taken to the edge of bad movie making and dropped over . It looked like another corny slash and chatter bomb , but I wound up pretty much liking it . I don't consider it to be a really superb film , but I managed to stay interested all the way through . There was plenty of action , some romance , and quite a few laughs . I think that is what won me over : this picture is a comedy for the most part . A serious comedy . What Zorro is not is what I expected it to be .
Tough guy injuns go up against The Duke and get a bloody nose	Talk about overdosing on dead indians . I saw this one right after viewing " The Unforgiven " with Burt Lancaster , and both films had multiple attacks by hostile , violent , nasty , murderous , overbearing redskins intent on taking many scalps , eating much wampum , drinking many skins of ice cold firewater , and probably deep down in their satanic little hearts . . . . having sex with the womenfolk of the hapless settlers . Oh , those rascally pests ! " Hondo " is pretty much standard Wayne fare with The Dukester pouring drum after drum of high grade whup-ass over Chief Vittorio and his savage horde . Ol ' Duke didn't really have a hard time of it because the indians , as usual , made it easy for the white men by riding in circles around the wagon train , thus allowing the blue legs to knock the dummies to the pavement in droves . Good western .
Ignorance knows no bounds	A young girl is locked away in a feed outhouse way out in the country because her redneck father thinks she is off her rocker . When 2 neighbor kids befriend her she begins to come out of her shell and slowly become functional after years as a recluse . Very good picture .
Cynical cowpoke strikes out for the high country	After losing his cattle herd to a dishonest lawman , a trail boss winds up in the Yukon gold fields with a bad reputation and small chances of being able to return to the states . While there his fortunes take a turn for the best until a bad luck specter from the past comes calling . Good western with many favorite old faces in the lineup .
good time travel tale	A man builds a time machine and shows it off to a group of his friends . He doesn't know that one of the men is the infamous Jack the Ripper . Jack gets the idea of going into the future to continue his ugly ways , which he does . He is then followed by the time machine owner . There followed a good show as the two men battle each other in the 1970's .
Bright boy beams at beautiful , buxom , bombshell Brigitte Bardot	Fairly good comedy featuring an ultra smart little boy who is used by swindlers for their own gain despite the over protectiveness of his father . Meanwhile , the boy is scheming to meet the famous French actress while his sister is anguishing over boys and proms . Typical 60's comedy .
Powder monkeys try to blow up a flying rock	Exciting , but still just another disaster movie . Not realistic to me , but the story and acting were good enough to keep me glued to the action . A far more plausible , not to mention entertaining , film than " Barfageddon " . Great graphics of a giant wave wiping out tall buildings , cars , and assorted folks .
Few people realize that tora means kill in Japanese	No doubt a lot of fiction went on here , but many of the events rang true . The Nips had a good plan , however if the U . S . big wigs not had their heads inserted so firmly into their own rectums much of the carnage could have been avoided . A big help to the invaders was indifferent , timid officers and those who merely refused to believe an attack would come . This was a very good look at one of the most talked about battles in history and an even better glimpse into the idiotic military mindset and why one should avoid conscription , or worse , foolishly volunteering during a moment of patriotic fervor .
I wasn't laughing . . . . or even smiling	I had trouble following what exactly was going on in this mixed up crime caper . Lots of cursing , screaming , and angst by the police as they go about tracking down a mad shooter in the streets of San Francisco was mostly what went on . I never figured out why the psycho went on his rampage , why the policeman laughed so much , or why I sat through the whole confusing picture .
Mobsters frame innocent union boss	The mob has infiltrated a union and are about to be ratted out to the state's attorney . They rub out the songbird and make a patsy out of the union's leader . Things look bad for the condemned man , but his girlfriend never gives up trying to exonerate him . Good film with lots of old familiar faces .
Good who-dunnit	Della Street is set up as the fallguy for a murder . Of course , everybody knows that this sweet , motherly woman wouldn't swat a fly , much less off somebody . Mason pulls out all stops in unraveling the mystery and uncovers a plot to keep a multi-million dollar scam intact . The one phony part in this film is the reaction of a lawyer at the movie's end . No attorney would do what this man did .
The King of car crash films	Nutty , non stop laughfest depicting 2 idealistic , love struck teens determined to make it to Vegas to be wed against the wishes of the bride's parents . This sets off a huge manhunt for the pair by any and every breed of looney , each intent on cashing in on the 25K reward . Never have I seen this many wrecks ; dozens and dozens , maybe more . Kooky comedy at it's best .
Such a thoughtful little killer	Typical Sundance film : weird and off beat . Vann Siegert is not your usual serial killer ; no , he slays in peculiar ways . Siegert , a likable drifter , is starting to come unraveled but manages to keep his dark side locked away and his secrets his own . Good drama : thumbs up .
Big butt broad breaks bop barrier	Let me start off by claiming Sonny Bono can't act . But who cares , this was so much fun I even forgot Cher wasn't around . Judging from most of the bilge I've seen her in it was most likely a Godsend . I thought the dance floor sets looked realistic as did the costumes , but especially appreciated those beehive hair-dos . Corny Collins slicked back ducktail was a good laugh and he reminded me of when I used to watch Larry Kane and Dick Clark on Houston television after school . You know , back when kids actually completed dance steps instead of standing in one spot and quivering . Pia was way cool as the ahead of her time hippie chick . When the fat girl gasped , " drugs ! " , I almost fell out . One touching scene in the production was the polite drunk singing the song of lost love as he tottered down the walkway . Delightful little piece of nothing with lots of zany , obnoxious characters .
They left out Tom Jones doing " Pussycat , Pussycat , I Love You "	I almost didn't watch this because it started out unlike other musicals I am used to seeing , but am glad I stayed . I never even remotely figured out what was going on , but found it was immaterial anyway . The makeup was a large part of the appeal for me and the stage setting was very interesting , not to mention unusual . Great singing , nice hoofing , lithe , limber limbs with lots of energy made for a very pleasant 2 hours .
Davey Crockett can whup Sonny Crockett's ass !	When I first watched this production back during the stone age , I thought it was a grand epic . I find out all these years later that it was indeed not so grand . The fight scenes were totally faked looking , the dialogue was way beyond corny , and , obviously , much of the scenery was painted . If this turkey ever gets re-released the price of ham and corn will skyrocket . I enjoyed seeing it again , but it was definitely a fourth rate film by today's standards . I'll wager the real Davey wasn't as handsome as Fess , and stunk like a piney woods rooter in a mud waller . And did he really have such a clever , amusing , home-grown wit ? Also , why was he killing all those hispanics ? It was their property .
Are people really this stupid ?	This was not a comedy , but I laughed hysterically at times . Goldie and her antics with the Gold Stamps coupled with the two ignorant rednecks in the car lot were way too much . I swear , nobody is this totally DENSE . Don't know who was dumber , the hapless couple or many of the police officers giving chase . A damn fine show was this , with great performances by the entire cast . I know for a fact that I've never seen this many cop cars in one place before .
Horrid , but still strangely appealing	Were these performers really this lousy at acting or were they going along with a script ? I suspect most truly were inadequate . A Disjointed story which rarely followed a straight line but zig zagged erratically , often seemingly with a mind of it's own , incorporating idiotic sexual encounters , homo eroticism , and constantly throwing in most of the hip 60's buzzwords : far out , groovy , etc . Was this a comedy ? It just had to be , right ? I noticed Roger Ebert wrote this but it seems more like Roger Corman . However , I did like the final almost poetic monologue overdub . I particularly appreciated Z-Man's lusty shout about " the black sperm of my vengeance " . The beginning and end of the film were the best parts but I still enjoyed the middle and got a few chuckles along the way .
Nice family film	Good show about a senior citizen who gets a chance to do something he never had a shot at as a youth - playing baseball . He was somehow spirited , not exactly back in time , but across this dimension , to a team of youngsters he had been watching play . He brought to the team , not a great talent , but a " wiseness " that taught winning isn't the only thing . Along the way , he found some of the childhood he had missed the first time around . 2 thumbs up .
Cool dick solves bizarre case	Way too cool private detective takes on a case for a gorgeous Brit and meets all kinds of strange and kooky characters . I loved this one ; funny , sharp dialogue , and the way the writers melded the old with the new . . . . too much ! Ward was her usual tantalizing self and Martin deftly handled the ins and outs with all the old films with ease and immense charm . This is one you don't want to miss .
Goofy take on Hitchcock	Mel does a good job of turning Hitch's films into a laughingstock . After taking over a nuthouse the new superintendent is unaware the asylum is run by a trio of loonies intent on turning a big profit at the inmates expense . Lots of laughs .
Exciting , suspenseful , dramatic	I seem to get a bigger kick out of Walter M . in his more serious roles , and this was no exception . A very good film with lots of action , thrills , and drama . Robert Shaw turns in his usual villainous performance as the ruthless Blue . Although this could be termed just another action film , as it is , it still brings home the bacon as a nerve jittering tale . Thumbs up .
It's tough being a parent and a kid	I loved this film from the start . The whole idea of something like this happening appeals to me . . . . sort of like time traveling . The ending was a riot of car chases , crashes , farout water skiing , and daredevil hang gliding . Corny I'll admit , but slapstick does it for me every time .
The boys must have needed a payday in the worst way	As bad as this silliness was it still outshone The Beatles " Help " by a wide margin . It was , however , not in the same class as " A Hard Days Night " by the Fab 4 which was a masterpiece - well , sorta . In Mrs . Brown we have the 5 cute Hermits running around England trying to become big time dog racers , making time with cute birds , grinning like blind apes , playing their abysmal songs , and proving their talents lie not in acting . I enjoyed the film very much because it showcased one of the original ' invasion ' groups , not because it was an award winner ; although it really wasn't all that bad either . Is it possible the Hermits popularity waned because at the time of this filming most rock groups has gone beyond the squeaky clean , suit and tie , short / mod hair Herman and the boys were sporting ? These blokes looked like advertising men when compared to Big Brother or the Dead .
Never hire a teen !	This film started off annoying the hell out of me but ended up as a total delight . Here we have several very mixed up kids full of angst and various problems making life miserable for a record store manager . . . . and , at times , each other . Good comedy ; the kids , with their crazy cutting up and , at times , profound thoughts , kept me completely entertained throughout . 4 stars .
Didn't play for me	This may have been a true story but it was so full of holes that I couldn't get going with it . This guy was simply too smooth for a 17 year old kid . Could he have gotten this cool and collected just by observing his birdbrain dad warring with the IRS and losing his ass in the process ? No problem with the performances or production , but the story was defective and routine .
exciting spy film	The first hour of this movie was very slow , but when it kicked into gear it went all out . A high level Russian mole in the U . S . Government is being pursued throughout the film . The chase keeps narrowing down more and more drawing the government officials closer and closer to the culprit . The tension became almost unbearable as the mole was about to be trapped . A real nail biter with a super twist at the end . Well worth seeing .
A different look at vampires	I admit I go more for the traditional vampire tale , but this one is a real winner . Lots of way out graphics and good story to go with them made for an interesting 2 hours . There was loads of gore with vicious blood suckers attacking mortals and even each other for control of the world . A good one for all us vampire lovers .
He likes his women young	Good yarn about a series of child molestations / murders taking place in a small Minnesota town . When the most recent victim goes missing the police call in a sketch artist who has had success in bringing criminals to justice with her detailed drawings . When a witness is found and the sketch is completed the artist is confounded because she thinks she knows the felon . A manhunt is started for the man leading the authorities down a road to a series of misleading conclusions . Exciting , although unrealistic , finale .
Psycho stalks and slays older women	Not nearly as good as Goldman's book , but still effective . Steiger played a psycho who had a love / hate relationship with his mother and after her death he began acting out his hatred of mother by killing older women . As nearly all serial killers are younger men than Steiger , I think his part should have gone to Segal instead . This film had a good story , performances , and was fast paced , making for a tense and suspense filled tale .
Great shock film from the 60's	This was a big favorite of mine back when it came out . I loved the corny gaglines like " leg of lamb " for the murdered woman named Lamb , whose body parts were served up in the Greasy Spoon Cafe . Crafted mostly for shock appeal , it came off , to me anyway , as a very funny comedy . Wish I could see it again .
Wild and hard	Crazy ride through the seedy underbelly of trashy America as two sleazy dirtbags go on the lam from an even seedier and more sleazy mama . Loved Defoe's character , he was walking evil . The dude really lost his head during the bank robbery . Fascinating film , well written and played .
Big building burns , boils , broils , and bangs	This film came out during the big disaster epic period of the 70's which is why I never saw it . Most of these things are standard boredom filler material . This one didn't bore me except for a few slow spots , however , it was still just another catastrophe movie . I enjoyed it for the most part and it was fun seeing McQueen and Newman in the same show , plus the special effects were pretty well done . A fair picture .
Not as good as I had hoped	A well done film with good acting and tense , dramatic dialogue . I was a little let down because I have seen similar movies to this before . Robert Duvall was effective as the tightwad attorney , he was a weird man , humorous on the one hand and a heartless little bd on the other . Good film .
do angels really exist , and if so do they fall in love ?	This was one of the strangest films I have ever seen . It started off slow , almost boring , but finally became more interesting . It centered around an angel and his desire to become mortal after he becomes involved with a lady surgeon . It was a good story , though eerie , with excellent photography and performances .
Mighty fine	I got some good belly laughs watching the antics of these two gents dealing with retirement and loneliness . Duvall was superb , as always , but Harris stole the show with his constant search for companionship and his relentless quest for sex - something I suspect he was no longer capable of . Well worth seeing .
It could happen just like this	Excellent story showing an over reaction by the military after an alien states he has come in peace . I figure the unstated finale to this picture is the earth being blown away because we earthlings are unable to cease our warlike nature . Good stuff .
Hopeless optimist uplifts New York City	A 2 bit actor turns his part time job of hyping a movie into becoming a public defender , of sorts . His daring exploits unite the community and provide the mayor with a political boost . Plus , the hero finds love along the way . Nice , easy little production .
Stealing was in these guys blood	Very enjoyable , oddball little shortie . When Carl got out of the pen after five years for theft , he and his idiotic best friend went directly into another heist . From the very start nothing went anywhere except the wrong way for these bungling losers . These stupids even hired a junkie as the getaway driver . Gad ! When this caper went totally awry I thought Carl and his buddy should have had a lot more trouble getting away from the crime scene . They merely ran down pretty much deserted streets with no one chasing them even though three shooters were only seconds behind at one point . Although fun to watch the entire thing was just too unbelievable ; no way these jackasses could have escaped the area without giving themselves away . Anita Barone was fine as the broken hearted hooker who badly needed to put her trust in someone .
Arrogant pool shark gets what he deserves	Good tale of a smart mouthed , drunken , arrogant pool hustler who wants to be top dog . He gets his chance at the very start of the movie . Later he falls in with a drunken slut and carries on a fruitless love affair with her until it ends the way these events often do . In desperation he gets involved with a heartless loan shark who sets up another match with the king of pool players , Minnesota Fats . Fine story with a good ending , but I thought some of the middle parts were a little sluggish .
The Big E just won't go away	The King is still with us as his spirit flits around trying to find home and helping others in the process . Strange , bittersweet allegory of loss and regeneration . Whoever wrote this must be a solid Elvis fan . Keitel was all " wrong " as The King of Rock n ' Roll , but at the same time he couldn't have been better .
Treehugger is one twig short of a limb	Earth has no more greenery so a idealistic outer space landscaper becomes convinced he can keep the various species alive under a space bubble . His insanity proves more than he can handle and in a deranged state he commits a terrible crime which his conscience refuses to allow him to live with . One of Dern's better films .
Uncaring thugs attack those who are different	A small town is thrown into turmoil when four youths go on trial for a heinous crime against a neighboring Amish family . Many of the townspeople felt harassing the Amish for being different was merely harmless sport , but an idealistic young prosecutor brought charges for a hateful , intolerant act . The only witness against the criminals was a 7 year old girl whose father refused her entry into the trial on religious grounds which undermined almost all of the prosecutor's efforts at an indictment . Good film showing the stupidity of those with a superior attitude .
Fate . It's all fate .	Not being a big fan of Affleck , I figured I would not care a lot for this film . Wrong . It wasn't the greatest movie I've ever seen , but can't say it was boring like many of my fellow IMDB commentators . The performances were well done and the story moved right along . I had a good time with it . . . . maybe I should watch some more of Ben's pictures , eh ?
Strange detective solves strange crime	One must watch this film closely or run the risk of missing something very relevant . I watched very closely and still missed the whodunnit part . Like Agatha Christie's Hercule Poirot [ another weirdo dick ] , big Nero likes to gather all the suspects ' together and tell each one how the caper went down and then name the guilty party . Somehow , the big finale went straight over my little pointy head : I still don't have the vaguest inkling who the baddie is . Still , I consider this a very good film : loved the locales and old cars . What a great study Nero had . I'd give a month's pay for that red chair .
Harry done got old	Average serial killer show picturing an aging cop able to run block after block before having an acute myocardial infarction . Interesting story but a little too pat for me ; I actually guessed the killer well before he showed his true colors - a rare event for me . All the usual characters ; tough cops , a female boss with the proper ethnicity , shrewd bad guy , and a near genius super cop who knows not the meaning of quit .
Want to see Gene Wilder do the old soft shoe ?	Good sequel to Murder in a Small Town . In this one Cash and his police Lt . buddy unravel a sticky plot involving a Nazi criminal , a philanthropic witch , and a family of screw-ups and their wierdo helpers . As in the original , the viewer is treated to a nice little mystery with distinctive sights and sounds of pre-war America . Go see it .
good action drama	A swashbuckling hero with a whip takes on a cult of zealots in a well filmed movie with wall to wall action . Great film for the kids . Harrison Ford played the part of Jones to the hilt .
Sometimes you deserve to have your stars unhooked	What a collection of screwed up folks . Here we have a woman who has lost control of her life , not to mention her mouth ; a permanently aggravated daughter ; a goofy wife beater who sings Cocker atrociously ; and a hot to trot trucker and his blinky , well meaning girlfriend . Together they form one of the best dramas I've seen in a good while as they try , try , try to get their lives on track so they can just be whole and happy . First rate .
Cute kids show	After spotting an escaped felon , a boy and 3 compatriots stake out an apartment they suspect he will be visiting . There is something in the building that the convict wants very badly which puts the 4 boys , and a girl in the apartment , in extreme danger . I think pre-teens would find this film exciting and full of suspense .
man goes after the killers of his parents	When his parents are killed for the money they don't even have , a man wants to track down the killers one by one . Great acting , nice scenery , and lots of action . I related to the vengeance theme of the film ; I would have wanted to waste the thugs too . Good production .
Father and son just can't get along	Good portrayal of the generation gap as a father and son become alienated over patriotism and duty . When the son returns home after several years , the animosity is still there and they begin quarreling all over again . Plus , many of the town's residents are against the son because they feel he is a traitor . Violence breaks out as emotions flare and the father and son must learn to accept each other before they become irreparably separated .
Horrible hubby slaps spouse , kicks kids , dreams divorce , lambasts live-in , group grouses , chills considerably	Ritter , usually Hollywood's Mr . Niceguy , plays a holy terror in this tale of raging spousal abuse . Very effective film showing how a family can be torn apart for years by a lunatic who was created by the actions of his own father . Realistically played out , this picture could serve as the ' poster ' movie for a problem which is apparently more pervasive than I had supposed . A definite must see .
Cad / creep / jerk marries , then dominates , woman	Good musical with De Niro and Minelli giving excellent performances as a pair of aggravating people . Both of them constantly had me grinding my teeth over their silly inability to get along with either each other or , in De Niro's case , with most anybody else . This sax blowing moron couldn't get his mind off himself long enough to notice that there were other folks in the world along with his royal presence . What a st ! Francine Evans , Minelli , hacked me off about as much as the donuthead she married because he was so transparently phony and she still fell for his every line . Are women stupid ? Even though I despised Jimmy Doyle and was aghast at Francine's glossy eyed belief in every thing that came out of this con man's platinum tonsiled throat , I still enjoyed the film , especially the big band music . . . . and Liza can really belt out a song . . . besides being pretty .
Huggies , cons , gunplay , kids , salesmen , and jerks	Way , way out comedy featuring some of the zaniest characters I've ever seen . The two brothers who kept leaving the baby on top of the car were a scream . Cage and Hunter were hilarious as the totally stupid couple who just had to have a baby . Non stop laughs in this madcap adventure .
Painter runs afoul of the law	Good drama about a man chased by hot headed vigilantes and the police for a crime he claims to be innocent of . Along the way he is aided by a group of kids who believe in his innocence . Very exciting show with a satisfying ending .
Ye olde Jolly Roger flies again	In many ways this was a slicker version than the 1950 film ; the acting and many of the props and settings were superior . Given all this I still prefer the old picture : it had a grittier feel to it , more like a crusty old buckaneer . I especially appreciated the big ship in the earlier version : this one was simply too clean and tidy . The 2 movies followed closely to each other , even to using a bit of the same dialogue . Heston gave a nice performance as the rogue Silver but couldn't surpass that done by Robert Newton 40 years earlier .
Gee ! Raquel really is a Mexican	After a gang of desperados make a break from the iron bar hotel , they are chased by a gung-ho sheriff and his posse . The sheriff is all riled up , not over the escape , but because they have a woman he has the hots for . Why didn't they just jettison the broad ? Because one of the thugs also wanted to do the Texas 2 Step in her boodwar , that's why . Later on the entire bunch is set upon by a band of Mexican bandits and I'll be damned if their leader didn't try to play hide the weinie with the old gal . Good western with lots of nice Utah scenery and a mighty fine shoot-out at the end . No , Dino didn't exercise his pipes . THANK GO
One more weird flic	What a bunch of dysfunctional dead heads : all total believers in situational ethics with lives heading in a downward , out of control spiral . No wonder either with the parents some of them had . A great look at what a bizarre zoo our society has become . Glover was superb as the the manic , fiercely loyal pack leader .
Hoppy cleans up Mesa Grande	Who ever heard of a town called Big Table ? Anyway , it was over run with the criminal element who would knock off stupid gold miners who didn't have brains enough not to come to town and shoot off their mouths about the big strike they just made at their secret gold mine . When Hoppy comes to town as the new marshall things change , you can bet . Good action western with lots of gunplay ; and Hoppy even found himself a girlfriend .
Uncle Sam drafts guitarist	Good musical comedy with lots and lots of cool song and dance routines . Ann Margret , and Paul Lynde stole the show : Ann with her saucy , sexy good looks and Paul with his usual dour facial expressions and put upon asides . Nobody could make a face like Paul Lynde . All the way through the film I wanted to punch out that smartass Birdie , and when finally Hugo tapped him out I wanted to cheer . Great choreographing and loads of talent kept this one of the fastest paced musicals I've seen yet .
Barney gets sexy	Typical Knotts wide eyed , who me ? , what's going on here ? , comedy . Fairly amusing throughout with no serious stone left unturned in this ridiculous farce which creates a sex symbol out of a straight arrow , dull , bird watcher . This wouldn't have been as funny using a actor less goofy looking than Knotts .
Dr . Wigand should have kept his own counsel	Big , sweeping story of a man who lets events control him ; wreck his marriage ; totally derail his life . And for what ? Stupid asses who smoke don't already know ' coffin nails ' are hazardous to the health ? I'd have kept my job and let the dummies smoke till it came out their ears . Very good film . " smoke smoke smoke that cigarette - smoke smoke smoke until you smoke yourself to death - tell St . Peter at the Golden Gate that you hate to make him wait - but you just gotta have another cigarette "
Who gets set-up here ? The professor or the viewer ?	Slick whodunnit keeping the viewer wondering which of several suspects committed a series of brutal slayings . At more than one point I had the killer all figured out only to have my brilliant deductions dashed to bits . In the end I really had my brilliance dashed , what a surprise ! This reminded me of another film I saw several years ago with a similar surprise ending .
Stupidity knows no bounds	If the real National Guard is as inept as these dumbasses then no enemy need worry about mounting an attack at any time . I spent almost the entire couple of hours rooting for the cajuns to put these morons out of their ignorant misery . Not a bad film , but not a real winner either : there were simply to many holes for comfort . For instance , Coach went psycho way to quick , the cajuns couldn't possibly predict the route the soldiers would take in order to set traps and deposit the bodies of their buddies , and the cajuns wouldn't suddenly become lousy shots once they had the final two guardsmen trapped . Finally , could a squad of men really be this dumb ? It wasn't all downhill however : the private losing his nerve and the squad leader doing the ' Rambo ' like some meatheaded jerk were all to realistic . Worth seeing , but just barely .
a look at the life of nasty Howard	This film documents the life and times of radio talk host Howard Stern . While his younger years are displayed in a hit and miss fashion , the years concerning his radio heyday are nicely done . He started out as a local d . j . , merely spinning records and doing weather . Becoming bored with this format , he chooses to do a more spontaneous show which causes trouble with his employers . When he reaches the top of the pile at NBC , his antics become even more outrageous which catapults him to enormous fame . Vulgar , but very funny . Go on and watch it .
Damn ! Women are mean spirited	Here we have a good old boy who makes a simple little bet with the boys that he can sweet talk 3 broads into marrying him within 3 months . He treats them very nicely , wines and dines , asks no special favors . . . . it's just a wager among men . Unfortunately , he is found out and all hell breaks loose . We then see what vindictive , ugly creatures women can be when things don't go exactly as they demand . Cool comedy with Harmon doing a super job playing the sophisticated , yet downtrodden , weatherman with a heart of gold . Loved the way he kept addressing the camera with his views on the way things were progressing .
Sexhound runs for the Big Office	This sure played out like a propaganda piece straight from the pen of a solid Clinton backer . Did Stanton really care about people as he let on , or was he cynically snickering up his sleeve while running his tacky game ? Did the little woman stay with him out of sincere feelings or to ride his tails into the White House ? Don't know , but I really enjoyed this film : it looked like the way an actual race for office would go down .
Outshines Batman	When an ancient warlord comes to modern day New York City to cause trouble , Cranston steps in to try and foil his scheme . The warlord , a relative of Ghengis Kahn , plans to destroy NYC with the unwitting help of 2 local scientists . He and Cranston go at it with lots of flashing swords , crazy mongols , a drowning pool , and this little knife which has a life of it's own . Lots of action with some fine computer wizardry made for an entertaining program . Plus , I really liked the matching pair of pearl handled . 45's that Lamont packed in a double shoulder holster . Knew how to use them too . Thumbs up .
What a dirty , low down snake !	Dingus , a man with no morals or conscience , steals anything of value that he can get his hands on . When he robs an acquaintance , a reward is put on his head and his troubles begin . Cornball humor all the way , but a funny picture nonetheless . George Kennedy was hilarious as the " not overly intelligent " sheriff whose brain was muddled by all the conks to the noggin he received .
Gimme all the dough !	One of my all time fave actors played the gun toting thug to the hilt . Also , Ben Johnson was excellent as the obsessive detective dedicated to bringing the hellraising criminal to justice . He did cheat a tad but got the job done with no tears being shed for the hoodlum . Very good action film : I'll never forget the huge cringe I gave when the getaway car ran over a woman and dragged her beneath it for a ways . This was Oates doing some of his best work .
Rich dude woos woman from across lake	Sad film about the sad lives of the ultra rich and the even sadder lives of the ultra poor . Ladd made a good go of it as the strange Gatsby with his hidden desires and odd ways . Barry Sullivan played the part of the vain and ' old money ' snob to perfection . Shelly Winters was possibly the best yet at portraying the worthless , yet pitiful , Myrtle . Thumbs up to a very good drama .
He dies , he lives , he dies , he lives again	Very nicely done picture about a man who lives only for prize fighting . After dying his ghost is suddenly thrown into a quandary and must choose between going on as a pug in a stranger's body or staying with a woman he falls for completely . Many funny surprises come about as the deceased man is confusedly led around by spirit guides who attempt to locate a new body for his soul to reside in .
Funny / Sad comedy	This may not be an amusing look at the dark side of eating to someone with a disorder but I roared with glee at Don's antics as the frustrated food addict . It was done from a comedy angle of course , but Don's big Chinese binge was a sobering glimpse at how ugly this passion for food can be . Well worth seeing .
To kill or not to kill	You gotta love the limey because he has a mindset that allows no gray area to infiltrate his thinking . Either he gets his wishes or you get a throttling or a gut full of lead . All the bloodletting was possibly unnecessary because what Wilson really wanted was to be informed of the nature of his daughter's death . As he told the DEA supervisor , " after a while , you can just let things go : prison teaches you that . " On the other hand , Wilson was a testosterone filled missile with a guidance system made in hell ; unpredictable to say the least . He wavered back and forth between a seriously questioning senior citizen and a swaggering Cockney street punk totally capable of capping several tough guys without a change of expression . Fonda was good as the high living record exec caught in a web of danger because of his inability to manage his life . The bit with the dialogue overriding other sequences of the film was a bit offputting but this was still a nicely done little package .
. . . and they ran cheering and fearful to their deaths	A battle hardened top kick tries to instill toughness in his men , preparing them for war . His softhearted c . o . tells him to go easier on the troops . Which was right ? Had they not been brainwashed into fighting this unnecessary war , neither decision would have had to have been made . This film was a slow starter , but a big bombs and guns finale gave a fine portrayal of war at it's worst .
2 sailors sing and dance their liberty away	Lots of singing and dancing in this one , especially by Gene Kelly . Two sailors go on liberty to see if they can find love and romance . They meet up with a woman who is trying to break into show business . Musical lovers only .
Sexy , swaggering , saucy , silly sluts slink & sashay for psyche stunted , stupid , slobbering studs	I liked this strange , erotic look into the backstage lives of dancing doxies and their crazed , wasted lives . Although some of these girls are way past their prime they still look good in a g-string . These pathetic losers are all tied up in their own personal bondage ranging from drugs , unwanted pregnancies , aspirations of future glory or loving husbands to one solid , down home , deeply embedded case of total , unrestrained dumbass . The boys running the dance hall were most assuredly not members of the local church choir : in fact , the boss was one sweet Hitler . He kept his dancers under his thumb with a balance of cool and meanness designed to keep them filling he house and not making one of their own .
Geraldo Rivera wannabe gets in over his head	Spellbinding drama which kept me on the edge all the way through even though it was unbelievable and holey . As is always the case with this type of film I was somewhat in the dark as to who was who , who the bad guys really worked for , their agenda , etc . Still an enjoyable couple of hours with the always good Warren Beatty .
Women are such little connivers . . . . and men so gullible	Here we have a police officer with a nice little life who just can't leave well enough alone . He is sucked into a crime which involves more than is apparent at first glance . Greed and lust were the motivating factors for all in this sordid look at the uglier side of human nature . Thumbs up .
a group of stowaways get in big trouble	Several stowaways get on a Russian ship bound for France . They were going to get off there and make new lives for themselves . After being discovered by the First Mate and his henchmen , they were held captive . Then things got very bad for them . Good show based on a true story .
Being a radical is a lousy way to live	Excellent drama dealing with a pair of liberal / radical world savers many years after their serious brush with the FBI . All the lofty ideals which drove them to their act of insanity isn't helping them a bit as family life deteriorates with the passing of time . I sympathized with their 2 children , but could marshall zero positive feelings the loving , caring , tender hearted parents ; these 2 nuts belonged in a cell , period .
Gunhawk slings lead , tough men fall dead	I liked this one ok even though it was filled with overzealous actors who either paid no attention to their director or this manager offered no direction at all . The facial expressions and body movements were so overdone as to be hilarious . The one player who had any experience with gun handling was relegated to playing a loser who couldn't even draw his piece without breaking it open and spilling out the rounds . The biggest drawback to this film came when the seriously wounded gunfighter left his sickbed and hobbled off to exchange lead with 3 blood hungry thugs . No way , Jose . I thought we were going to be hit with a ' Shane ' moment there at the end but , thankfully , it never came to pass . At least there were no hay bales laying around as there are in many westerns . Fun but dumb .
Don't wait until dark to see this one	Terrifying look at how innocent lives can be changed with one simple chance meeting . Why Susie didn't just give the doll back as soon as she found it is beyond me . The hoods would have fought it out for the loot and maybe killed each other . Then again , perhaps one of them would have returned anyway . Very effective movie , much scarier than many of the splatter movies so popular lately , especially the last few minutes . Good acting from the entire cast ; I particularly enjoyed all the devious facial expressions by Crenna and Weston .
Sadistic yard bull takes on the King of the Road	Ernest Borgnine was superb as the murderous railroad agent intent on keeping a legendary hobo off his train . Lee Marvin gave one of his best performances as A # 1 , the hobo's hobo , who is equally set on riding the rails on Borgnine's unrideable # 19 . Keith Carradine almost stole the show as a useless , me first punk out to prove his manhood in the harsh hobo camps . Very realistic looking sets and the entire film captured the flavor of the depression era perfectly . 4 stars .
Pretty good Bond film	The opening scenes showing " Bond " getting strangled set the stage for one of the screen's best bad guys - Red Grant . What an animal ! His crazy trainer with her brass knucks and switchblade boots ran a close second as a really ugly heavy . This was Bond at his best ; none of that silly Roger Moore junk . Tame by todays standards , but still a good action flic .
Lonely woman needs love and affection	Totally hilarious comedy with the adorable Goldie superbly playing a con artist who b . s . ' s her way into the lives of a group of complete strangers , upsetting the existence of many and enriching others . One of Goldie's and Martin's best .
Interesting but not funny	I found nothing remotely amusing about this film , yet it was easy to continue watching just to see where it was leading . Having never been a fan of Sellers [ he simply doesn't make me laugh ] , I went into this picture figuring it would be another dud . I suppose it should have been comical that so many otherwise intelligent folks - a president , corporate big wig , medical doctor - could be fooled so completely by a retarded middle aged gardener . I was more taken with the drama of the setting as Chance unwittingly became more and more respected and needed by these ' important ' people . Using the Biltmore mansion was a perfect touch : I wonder if any of the interiors were reality or merely sets .
life is hard in a small frontier town	A struggling small town in the late 1800's is invaded by a psychopathic gunman . Nobody is willing to stand up to him , therefore he has his way and rides off . New residents come and re-build , only to find the man returns . The townspeople must either have the courage to face him or perish . Excellent western dealing with injustice and the unwillingness to resolve it .
Stuffed shirt British sea cap'n fights and loves his way across the 7 seas	The good cap'n does battle with the evil Napoleon Bonaparte , while wooing the lovely Lady Wellesley . Lots of canvas fell on folks heads as the cannon roared , but Cap'n H . and his lusty lads prevailed . This was a good show with colorful costumes and some nice action sequences , but some of the dialogue was a tad hokey . For my money they could have left Lady W . on shore and had a couple more fights - too much confounded smoochin ' . 3 stars .
Good spooky mystery	I am not usually scared by spook films and this one was no exception . However , I considered it to be a good mystery with a chilling twist . A college professor of psychology is called to a home to prove or disprove the presence of ghosts which appear to be haunting the mistress of the house . Lots of creepy things happen while the professor is there , and they all seem to center around three siblings who live in the house with their aunt . The professor , who does not believe in ghosts , comes to question those beliefs as his stay in the house progresses . Worth seeing .
Kids today got no respect	Exciting drama about a talented and gifted sociopath and his 2 excitement loving buddies who , after noticing a man , begin a crusade to not just annoy the man but to really mess up his life . These plans go from crank calls to low grade terror tactics and finally to life altering problems for him and his family . Good picture from start to pulse pounding finale .
Idealistic piffle . . . . but still a good show	This was one of those little heartstring pullers which appear plausible until one enters the human equation and then the whole house of cards falls . The writer would have the viewer believe that one can enter a compound of junkies , thieves , murderers , and assorted trash and leave intact . Welcome to the unreal world . They also would have one buy into the idea that people change over night after taking a sip of the milk of human kindness . A very good film but don't take it too seriously . Loved the ending , it was more in tune with the way things really work .
Brother against brother	I liked this one but I'll be damned if I know why . The story was almost impossible to understand , the acting was second rate ; maybe it was the location shots , props , and costumes . That always helps . Confusing , but entertaining .
Life is tough	Very good drama although it appeared to have a few blank areas leaving the viewers to fill in the action for themselves . I can imagine life being this way for someone who can neither read nor write . This film simply smacked of the real world : the wife who is suddenly the sole supporter , the live-in relatives and their quarrels , the troubled child who gets knocked up and then , typically , drops out of school , a jackass husband who takes the nest egg and buys beer with it . 2 thumbs up .
Fed-Ex delivers package way too late	Very good drama with Hanks doing a superb job of convincing the viewer he is all alone with only a ball for company . I liked the way the film ended exactly where it began with Hanks looking down a long stretch of highway . I was left wondering if he would go on ahead or turn back . Great picture : terrific finale .
Old Skinflint gets spooks in his pants	Miserly businessman gives up the love of his life , the respect of his friends , and the ability to enjoy life for the lust of filthy lucre , the pride of ambition , and the euphoria of being the wealthiest man in town . Misery was his constant bedfellow until a vision of a lonely , unloved future is presented to him in all it's ugly wretchedness . Excellent re-make , almost as good as the George C . Scott version . What was the 70's hairstyle doing on a man living in the 20's ?
Time travel or a dream ?	Loved this film . Turner stole the show as she got off some catchy one liners , playing the part of a teen with an experienced mind to perfection . Very smooth and well done film with good performances by the entire cast . Captured the feel of the high school set all the way , except some of the " teens " looked closer to thirty . I liked Cage , but his whiney voice grated on my nerves - made me want to slap the ps out of him .
I liked Udo : he was a happy , cheerful , friendly psychotic murderer	Pretty good one from days long gone by . This was made in the day when a guy gets shot and no holes appear in his jacket nor does he bleed . The story was a tad pat and mostly unbelievable but still provided some solid entertainment due to Mature's brooding Nick and Widmark's happy-go-lucky strong arm boy .
Is this all there is to marriage ?	Interesting day in the life of a long time married couple who cope with each other's ways . They obviously don't always get along , their kids are alienated and maladjusted ; their life is mundane and purposeless . I got a few laughs but also felt somewhat disgruntled while viewing the nothing lives of these folks and those they came into contact with .
Murder isn't always done for free	Not being a Gene Wilder fan , the memory of Haunted Honeymoon being too fresh , I almost didn't watch this one . Glad , glad , double glad I did . The whole thing smacked of the 30's with all the hairstyles , props and settings , and all the well preserved cars . An excellent whodunnit that had me guessing all the way . The killer was suspicious , but I never . . . .
crazy look inside a war room	I hope the people running things are not as stupid as the morons in this film . An insane U . S . general starts in motion the sequence to send nuclear destruction on the Russians . They , of course , begin their's . Then the 2 sides begin a conference of negotiations , culminating in the cessation of all hostilities . Or does it ? A wild and wacky ride by a cast of unforgettable characters .
This kid needed the web	When a sex crazed little boy is sent to another town for the summer he abandons his quest to see a couple ' doing it ' . Thinking the entire summer will be a shambles the last thing he expected was to meet several other like minded youngsters . Thus began a summer of voyeurism and peeping tomism to be always remembered . Entertaining little flicker .
Nothing better than love . . . . unless it would be $10 million in gold coins . . . . face value , of course	Good little romantic comedy showing 2 social outcasts falling for each other out of sheer desperation . Things are lovely until the girl discovers her boyfriend is overly attached to his mommy and appears to be unable to break the maternal ties . O'Hara was a howl as the doating mom . Funny stuff : this and " Planes , Trains , & Automobiles " are my fave Candy films .
Overweight , goofy looking killer imagines he's a deep thinking warrior	Interesting serious comedy dealing with a loner with ambitions to knock off a gang of hoods while spouting thought provoking Zen quotes from a book he's reading . This leads to lots of gunplay along with some of the goofiest dialog and one liners I've heard in a long time . The interplay between the assassin and a French speaking Haitian was subtly humorous .
The Queen of Rock n ' Roll rocks on a rock	Interesting , but somewhat disjointed rockumentary showing Stevie and band doing several of her hit songs . This film does what a lot of these concert footage shows do and that is throw in the overdubbed " screensaver " crap instead of leaving the camera where it belongs . . . . on the performer . The high point of the whole thing was when , as Stevie is taking her bows and doing the feely / touchie thing with the stage side crowd , Waddy Wachtel is soaring off in the ozone with some sensational peals of pure R & R guitar riffing . I always liked his style and , for me at least , he stole the show . It was fun seeing Mick again , what little he was on camera [ which was very little ] .
Not a bad vampire spoof	Dennis Miller was funny . The film was pretty good , but I would have preferred a more serious undertaking . Lots of good looking women , gruesome makeup , and campy devices made for a good time . Miller's character appealed to me ; I like a tough , wise cracking detective with a heart of gold . I found the ending totally satisfying .
O Brother , don't bother	First off , what was the big trip with the soundtrack ? Next , what was the big deal with this pointless film ? It was merely a succession of unbelievable acts thrown together so a man could get back his useless wife who only wanted a man who had his " bonafides " in place . It had a few interesting moments but far more droll .
Hardened criminal falls for senorita	Good western featuring Karl Malden in his usual nasty , backstabbing role . Brando was good as the brooding gunslinger who was bent on revenge until he fell for a Mexican girl . Not a lot of action , but the little that did occur was realistic and well done , especially for a film made in 1961 . A little slow in spots as the love angle was built , but over all this was a fine picture .
Ever felt like an outsider ? Sure , lots of times .	Interesting and well done look at the American pop scene in the sexy sixties . Featuring a oversexed , insecure loser named Karchy who teams up with another oversexed loser disc jockey intent on preying and playing just one more gig in the nowhere business of top 40 music . The charismatic DJ , a burned out cynic , has a history of using unpopular teens to make illegal profits or to cheat them in business deals ; which , of course , continues as he rolls into a new town amid a flurry of excitement and adulation . As the rollicking DJ and the impressionable teen play out their drama , another is occurring as Karchy tries to woo an older woman who , for some reason , shows an interest in the love struck teen . Different from most of the gunk coming out today : well worth seeing .
Dee-troit don't make ' em like this anymore	If they did I wouldn't be required to get behind the wheel anymore and what a joy that would be . With this auto the owner's body repair bills would be zilch . I loved the flaming car scene ; had be rolling in the floor . Actually , I'd love to own this car : I would be guaranteed never to be bothered by anyone . . . . ever . Much better than the book and far superior to many of King's adaptations . Worth a look .
Funny , well written comedy	Ford was hilarious as a blackmailing victim who decides to end his troubles with a simple murder . From the first nothing goes right , with everything under the sun conspiring against him , as he goes nuts trying to hide the body and keep it hidden . The murder scene was a total riot .
If you have lots of money , why get married ?	Good presentation using lots of flashback to good effect . When a bedridden woman overhears a phone conversation which leads her to believe a crime is being planned , a night of terror begins for her . After making a series of calls to various people she begins to piece together a tale of greed and illegal gains involving a cartel of gangsters , the D . A . ' s office , her father's business , and her husband . Tense drama with a heart pounding finale .
2 men chase Apaches into the high country	Good western with Ford playing a gunman trying to put his guns down and come home to the wife and kids . Upon arrival at the homestead he finds his family has been taken by injun raiders . This leads to his searching for them in a harsh land where he must battle not only the redskins on their own turf but Army deserters , a gang of cutthroat Mexican outlaws , and a man he must ride with who is close to losing his mind . Lots of action and gunsmoke .
Rumble in the jungle	Average film about a doctor in Brazil searching for a cancer cure while being watched over by his boss and worrying about the local natives and the survival of their habitat . This is another of those " statement " films which indeed has a message . . . . for all the good it does . Man is going to continue raping the land for money as surely as he will continue to wage war for the same . I found the scene with Lorraine Bracco getting high on the local caffeine elixir , and then down with the favorite homebrew to be very funny .
Figure ol ' Rock didn't care for all those kissing scenes with Doris ?	Funny romance / comedy with some well written lines for everybody . I especially enjoyed the give and take between Tony Randall and the Rock . Doris Day is soooooo cute ; I had a major crush on her during my junior high years . I liked Lynde's character , but I prefer his more sarcastic roles . 3 stars .
Corporate exec needs a wife to finalize a deal	When a businessman decides to move the shop to Mexico for an improvement in profits he must impress the buyer with , not only the price , but with his image as a solid family man . The problem is he's a swinging bachelor . A plot is hatched to hire a woman and her child to pose as the spouse and offspring of the executive in order to push through he deal . After the " wife " moves in everything moves along smoothly for awhile but eventually begins to unravel . A christmas angel in disguise is present to soften the businessman's uncaring heart . Good holiday film .
May I not be left back	While this appeared to be a fairly low budget effort , I still enjoyed the production . Not nearly as engrossing as the book , this picture nonetheless gives the viewer a special message dealing with the final times on earth before the second coming of Christ . Of course , a much better take on this subject would be the Bible itself .
Nasty villains say " show me the money "	Good tale of a pair of evil creeps who conspire to rob an heiress of her fortune through an arranged marriage . A rotten , more vile criminal duo couldn't be imagined ; their arrogance was irritating and the leader's brilliance was not to be denied . So clever was he that when his plot was exposed by an acquaintance the victim family sided with the liar and asked the friend to leave . Sorry they were for their lack of belief led to much sorrow . Very enjoyable old English tale .
Drugs and politics make poor bedfellows	Excellent drama about 2 alienated , spoiled punks who go afoul of the federal government , each for his own reasons . One , a druggie , just wants to score some bucks for his next fix , but the other has a far more sinister agenda fueled in part by a resentment of his father . Good performances and a hot script makes this a winner .
If cops were really this stupid , I would turn to a life of crime	I'm not real high on Seller's doing the French detective , but did get a few laughs with this one . The funniest guy was Inspector Dreyfus , Clouseau's boss ; his nervous condition had me guffawing . Been a long time since I've seen Elke , forgot how enchanting she was . Pretty good comedy .
Foolish fellow falls for foxy filly	Peck does a nice job playing a middle age crazy sheriff who meets and goes over the edge for a rawboned hillbilly girl . He has a decent , loving wife at home but his discontent with his life leads to his making one stupid mistake after another in not only his private life but his professional as well . Well played out film with top notch performances by the entire cast and a sound track by Johnny Cash which intertwines nicely with the picture .
Thugs go for the gold in a ghost town	Average western with an improbable plot . I enjoyed seeing some of the best of the old western players , but the show was pretty holey , especially the love angle . Lots of gunplay and some knuckle swapping among the thieves who just couldn't seem to get along . What happened to honor among thieves ?
People are rotten even at Christmas	I liked Mimi playing a woman somewhat down on her luck . She wants very much to better herself , but things don't go her way . . . . until she writes her Christmas list . Even then she still has problems : an overbearing boss , a fruitcake mother , a totally anal boyfriend , and a bitchy co-worker . Then she falls in love . One of the better holiday films .
El Galivan finds trouble wherever he goes	A gunslinger , chased by lawmen for a killing , makes his way to an outlaw hideout called Sanctuary . Along the way he teams up with a young punk who has a yearning for " a good fight and a bad woman " . The law tries to take the gunman out of the compound but things took another turn . Average western .
Nice little mockumentary . . . and the viewer was the one mocked	If you are looking for a film with big names you won't find it here : many of these actors are working for the first and last time ; which may be a Godsend . I thought it was an effective and fun movie as this group of devil busters head off into the wilds of Jersey looking for this area's version of Bigfoot . If played out well right down to the realistic looking footage they were shooting , including the " interviews " with various associates and professionals . In the end the producers give the entire thing away with a rather hokey finale . The players were just unprofessional enough to come off as the real McCoy and in a way they really were since this was a first and only shot for many of them . I liked the concept of the entire picture , unique and interesting .
Christmas comes only once a day	A 13 year old boy , a lad I wanted to slap across a large space , detests Christmas and all the family gathering that goes with it . After his sister talks him into wishing Christmas would come every day , suddenly it became Christmas each morning of his life . There was much whining from the boy for the first couple of mornings , but eventually he came to realize that the holidays weren't as bad as they appeared . Funny , entertaining picture even though it was schmaltzy and unrealistic .
Kill him twice . It's legal .	Boy , was this guy a dirty , rotten scoundrel or what ? Not to mention a sociopath with a deep , abiding love of money . . . . so deep that he would do anything for it . This was a good drama with Jones doing his patented hard-ass act and Judd turning in a good performance as the betrayed spouse .
More exciting than funny	There were some laughs and this was a good show , but I found the level of tension higher than the laugh level : and Aidan Quinn plain stole the show with his psycho act . However , the entire production has been done before . I've seen the improbable love affair , the guns , the car wrecks . . . .
Haven't seen this much ham since I toured the Jimmy Dean packing company	I enjoyed this film , but the acting was so overblown , especially by Paulette Goddard , that I had to laugh during many of the more tense situations . Hollywood really did a number on pre-revolutionary America when they cast Karloff as the Chief of the cutthroat redskins out to relieve Coop and crew of their freshly styled coiffures . However , I did like De Silva's hammy portrayal of the villainous gunrunner intent on getting the girl and a large portion of land . Entertaining show , but very little history or realism , but then , that is not what I was after or expecting .
Average crazed killer flic	Pretty decent offering featuring a couple of G . I . MP's who try to solve a string of brutal prostitute murders . After a while it was plain who the killer was . One part that just didn't play was the car bombing : I don't think yelling " get down " would save anybody in this case .
Private dick falls in with a rough crowd	Fairly good yarn about a private investigator who falls for a dame who double crossed her crooked boyfriend . Mitchum plays his usual laid back , chain smoking character who smoothly handles 2 women , a cold hearted killer , and a crime boss intent on having things go his way .
I wouldn't associate with any of these folks	Excellent film dealing with a group of unhappy people who drown their sorrows in booze , powder , and sex . The chief sorrowmeister , Tommy , was a pathetic loser who spent inordinate amounts of time swilling beer and shots in a shabby bar which boasted a temperamental barkeep , a postage stamp sized men's room , and one table . When not turning his liver into plywood Tommy halfheartedly attempts to find work as a mechanic but winds up driving his uncle's ice cream wagon and getting in over his head with a troubled teen on the verge of bolting from daddy's violent household . A sad picture for sure , but I couldn't help laughing out loud at some of these characters ' antics . A very fine movie depicting a realistic looking slice of the ugly side of our human existence .
James Bond meets the love boat	I didn't see that this film was as bad as I had heard . I admit it was just another action movie , but I've seen much worse . Willem Defoe was fine as the lunatic with a grudge , Jason Patric was decent enough in his role of the macho cop , and Sandy was , as usual , fabulous . I felt the corny one liners and James Bondian asides were not needed ; people under high stress simply don't verbalize this silliness . The collision between the 2 boats , and the dock ramming by the cruise ship were the high point of the whole shebang . It was worth seeing if you like action pictures .
Makes the mundane interesting	Quirky trio of tales loosely interlaced around a poor section of Memphis . This was a very offbeat film which really didn't go anywhere but was still interesting and amusing . I appreciated all the super cool action with the zippo , particularly by the oriental dude . Very different , check it out .
Kind hearted liberal thinks he can reform criminals	Well , Murray Hamilton once again proves he is the champ at playing the obnoxious , arrogant ass who has to prove he is the lord and master over his domain . Really enjoyed this one ; it had the look and feel of an actual prison ; not a place for any human being to be forced to reside in . I doubt than any real warden would come into a prison exactly this way but it did make the picture more exciting . Brubaker had some good ideas and , left along , could have most likely turned this hellhole around . Unfortunately , greed , arrogance , personal agendas , and indifference are the rule of the day in jails as well as the corporate prisons most of us are serving time in every day . 4 stars .
Goofy girl chases after useless playboy	This was well done and Holden got plenty of exercise hopping in and out of his little roadster but I preferred the glossier ' 95 version . At first I didn't think Bogey could pull off the part of Linus but he carried it off nicely .
Orphaned cub goes it alone in the forest	After losing it's mother to an accident , a young bear must strike out on it's own to survive . Along the way the cub gets into some hilarious , sometimes dangerous , situations . Aided many times by an older grizzly boar , the little feller learns the lessons of life .
Computer whiz runs amok	Farfetched tale of a computer geek who uses an elaborate online system to take over another man's entire history . He then frames the man for a pair of crimes that he had no knowledge of which leads to a big manhunt and , of course , the big showdown in the end . Nothing new , but still an enjoyable film .
Dumb doc digs dangerous dame	Foolish physician with a good practice and a loving mate fall for a mysterious woman who pops up in the emergency room late one night . After a whirlwind romance the doctor discovers a stunning revelation concerning his newfound flame . Immediately thereafter circumstances put the 2 on the road with the police in hot pursuit . Things went from bad to worse rapidly as the doctor's life became a living hell and he discovered the lady wasn't at all what she appeared to be . Dated but good .
Good thriller	Lots of good scenes with realistic looking activity in and around several amusement parks as the cops go about trying to stop a nutty bomber . Good performances by Segal as the harried inspector and Widmark as he gives his usual hard nose , " I'm in command and don't you forget it ! " act . Yeah , it was predictable but still an enjoyable thrill ride .
good tale from the Sherwood Forest	I enjoyed this film immensely . Robin was well done by Costner , and the evil Sheriff was perfectly cast . For my money he made the show . The scenes were well set up and gave one a sense of being in another time and place . Lots of action with beautiful sets . A little hokey in spots , but hey , it's Robin Hood .
What ? ! No Sheriff of Nottingham ?	This gave the viewer the same basic story of the famous forest marauder , but added a few new wrinkles which made for a fresh look at an old tale . Many here in IMDB seem to not care for the Costner version , a film I still remember with great admiration , and compare it unfavorably with this translation . Me , I think they were both interesting and entertaining : I especially appreciated the differences in the two - never caring for a re-make which follows it's predecessor line for line . All Robin Hood fans should see this one .
Her ego knew NO bounds	On the unbelievable side but still an interesting look at a woman totally dedicated to winning beauty pageants as a way to build self esteem . A pushy , driven person who never quite grew up and leaned heavily on a childhood friend for the guidance and support she never received growing up in a loveless home . Good show with a 2 hankie finale .
Street folks gotta eat too	Fine courtroom drama which appears to be about a small change murder involving a pair of street people . But is it ? An attorney takes on the case and begins digging deep into the case when evidence turns up that suggests the culprit may have connections other than with simple street bums . Interesting and exciting , though improbable .
Hoodlums traumatize a small child	In the process of ripping off a home , a gang of thugs come upon the homeowner's terrified child . After a big shoot-out the boy is left deeply traumatized . Unable to communicate his feelings , things rapidly go from bad to worse as his father is unable to see his son as anything but a hero ; an attitude which is slowly driving his son crazy with guilt and shame . During a final showdown with the same gang of thieves , the child must resolve his intense emotions or die trying . Good film .
Could this all be true ?	Am I really living in this altered universe ? Am I merely a cloned out slave to some wild , way out computer gone berserk ? Does life really even exist , and , if so , does it even matter ? Or is Matrix just another high-tech film shot with lots of expensive cameras ? Watch and see . . . . but , beware , for you will never be the same .
Cop goes undercover to catch a killer	When a small town is threatened by a child killer , a lady police officer goes after him by pretending to be his friend . As she becomes more and more emotionally involved with the murderer her psyche begins to take a beating causing her to lose focus on the job of catching the criminal . Not a film of high voltage excitement , but solid police work and a good depiction of the faulty mind of a psychotic loser .
Never trust a shyster	Good tale of a low life serial killer who tears a town apart when he kills several local teens . The citizens are further incensed when they find his attorneys are suppressing evidence . Nicely done ; I particularly enjoyed Coleman's part as the jaded , drunken criminal lawyer .
a woman takes on an evil organization	A scientist who heads up a mining company in Greenland discovers a way to make money and garner power . However , in doing so he endangers others . After a child supposedly commits suicide , a woman who has doubts about the death begins an investigation in behalf of the dead boy . Her life is then threatened , but she never gives up . Eventually , she comes face to face with her enemies on a lonely ice floe far to the north . At times the story was hard to follow , and I felt it had a few holes in it . Sometimes it just didn't make sense . Still , it was worth the seeing .
A killer is just a hero out of uniform	Very violent film shot in rugged mountain country . The book this was taken from remains after many years as one of my top 3 favourites of all time . The movie wasn't as good for my money , but still managed to capture the flavour of this tale of greed and cynicism .
Mexican gentleman takes on mob of old west gangsters	A former Apache hunter , who has lost his taste for violence , becomes embroiled in a running duel across a scorched , rugged terrain with a gang of gunrunners . . . all over a lousy 100 bucks . . . and honor . . . and a woman . This film reminded me somewhat of Charles Bronson's first big box office hit , " Chato's Land " . The band of thugs , unlike the group chasing Chato , were up to the job of killing Valdez , but found their quarry to be more elusive than they had bargained for . Very good western , right up there with Lancaster's film of the same year , " Lawman " . I still can't feature Burt as a Mexican , though .
Mayhem & madness + Mozart = murder	Plain Jane whodunnit dealing with a lady D . J . who causes a stir on air that leads a nutcase to begin obsessing over her , making him go on a killing spree for some goofy reason or other . Lots of suspicious suspects pop up along the way as is usual with this type of film . Interesting , but don't go in expecting a real groundbreaker : the ending was lame and trite . I'll be glad when the producers start breathing a little life into these hardass female boss cops ; they are all so buttoned up they have to screw their power suits off to go the the bathroom .
cute boy meets girl show	A college student falls in love at first sight with a lovely , blonde co-ed . She is dating the BMOC , and pays no attention to her fellow student . While this was not an award winner , it was a pleasant way to spend 90 minutes .
Crooks go for 24M dollar jackpot	A man and woman who work for the Canadian lottery decide to scam it for the 24 million dollar pot . They figure they can pull it off with the aid of 3 other folks , but along the way more and more people got wind of the plot . First a loan shark , then an Indian cult find out something is afoot and scheme to get their hands on the loot . Plus , love and all it's emotions come into play to further complicate a rapidly deteriorating situation . Fun movie .
I'll never look at chat rooms the same way again	What a cute film ! Unrealistic as all getout , but cute . This is the kind of fluff that you get all gooey and romantic over and go " Ahhhhh , Love ! " ; then reality sets in and you remember that this sort of affair only happens in books and movies . I had a great time watching Meg and Tom together again - how well I recall them in one of my all time faves " Sleepless in Seattle " . If you are a hopeless romantic then by all means see this one , it is a keeper !
Love is just a piece of time	Good prequel to " Christmas Box " : takes us back to WW2 and shows how Mrs . Parkin met her mate and came to own a special timepiece which is handed down to her ' heirs ' . I wanted to know more about the watch before it came into Lawrence's hands and , also , what became of Mr . Parkin . This is a real 2 hanky flic and could have been beefed up a tad more , but was still a winner .
Basically just another tepid love story	This was a big production with lots of big names and flashy scenes , but it still failed to score with me . No problem with the performances and most of the dialogue was interesting , but I could find no sympathy for the loser golfer with the winning smile and personality who was at heart just another self made casualty of life . He just plain aggravated me with his silly , self flagellating nonsense . What a wormy moron , and he gets the girl [ which , considering the standard female attitude toward dips like him , was no surprise either ] .
Be simpler to own a water buffalo	Good film about a love starved man who heartlessly uses dogs as his means of earning a living . When one of his dogs runs off and adopts a neighbor's son , trouble begins over who will take possession of the animal . Anyone who goes for cutesy canine films will like this picture .
Mob goes after bank robbers	Unusual picture for Walt . Like " The Laughing Policemen " it is done seriously . Joe Don Baker was positively spooky as the soft spoken yet sinister Molly . He chases Varrick all over as Varrick attempts to escape the country with a truckload of Mafia money . Or is he ? Maybe Charley has a few tricks up his sleeve that the big boys are unaware of . Tense thriller which has to be one of Walt's best . The car / plane chase at the end was a doozy .
Revenge in the old southwest	Murf plays a man intent on revenging the murder of his kin . To give the appearance of helping him he is deputized by a renegade sheriff and sent off on a mission sure to cause his death at the hands of psychotic killer Whitey Kincaid . When things don't go as the lawman planned he and his henchmen must try other measures to get the pesky little rascal off their scent or be found out as the very ones Murf is seeking . Average western with Duryea giving quite a performance as the always jolly , backshooting scumbag Kincaid .
Campbell's pork and beans should have this much ham	My favorite comic will always be Uncle Miltie and he was a scream in this one . Hammy and corny beyond belief , this slapstick had me rolling on the floor . The story involved a up and coming third rate comic trying to break into big time show biz . He must first work second rate clubs and resorts , but finally gets his big shot when taking over a routine for a fellow actor . Lots of good hoofing , sight gags , and joking around in the famous Berle style .
Long John Silver - a pirate with a heart of gold and a lust for it	Good adaptation of the old Stevenson classic . I admit the acting was a bit forced - you gotta love the eye rolling antics of Silver - but you couldn't ask for a for a scroungier , more evil , bunch of murderous villains than Silver's band of cutthroats . The big ship was a great prop , looked like the genuine article , however , the locales appeared to have been shot at Martha's Vinyard .
That was one cool car	Good musical highlighting the talents of Dick Van Dyke . I especially enjoyed the segment dealing with the family going off to the mysterious land populated with a bizarre assortment of strange folks with even more odd customs . A good one for all lovers of musicals .
Dishonesty pays off . . . . sometimes	Garcia plays a lovable bum who makes his living by knowing how to work the city streets . MacDowell is good as the girlfriend who can no longer put up with his unstable ways . This was a good romantic comedy ; an unusual story about the other half of the ticket industry .
good Korean war show	A squad of G . I . ' s , separated from their division , begin a trek of many miles trying to re-group with their comrades on a distant hill . They are harassed by snipers , sappers , and artillery barrages , but manage to reach their objective . After reaching the hill , a vicious firefight breaks out with the enemy . Excellent portrayal of the fear and horror of war .
Money . It's always for money .	Very enjoyable whodunnit seeing Scott do an admirable job of figuring out the last words of a dying man to tie up a series of murders : crimes committed by a man to cover up his plans at gaining a fortune . I liked the cameo appearances , most of whom I figured out - see if you can .
History will always repeat itself	After a woman fervently wishes for another chance after a terrible tragedy , she is mysteriously granted one year of her life to be lived over . Vowing that things will be different this time around , she sets out on a new job in a new locale . Instead of being able to control things the second time around , she is repeatedly frustrated at finding herself helpless to stop events from unfolding in eerily similar ways . Decent enough film , but no great shakes .
Love is a many splintered thing	One more strange film as a man and wife plot ways to murder one another , each using the hubby's mistress to their advantage . Sometimes it was hard to distinguish real time from their fantasy dreams . I can't help but wonder if the ending was a fantasy event or if the victim really died : then again maybe it was the only way the writer could figure to end the movie . Weird , but entertaining .
Only white folks can hate	Morris Dees gives the viewer a one sided view of how hate works in America . According to Dees there are no hate crimes committed by blacks , browns , Orientals , or anyone other than white people . This was an interesting documentary on the insanity of those who harm others because of their color or beliefs , but totally lopsided . I suspect Mr . Dees has his own agenda , and it isn't based on his " caring for the downtrodden " .
Cons play ball like pros	Good comedy with Reynolds playing a chain gang convict who is coerced into using his skill as a pro quarterback to help a crooked warden lead his team to greater heights . Loads of laughs as Burt and the boys lay the screws - get it ? - to the sadistic guards and their psychotic leader . One of Burt's best .
2 hardheads try to outgun each other	Good western filmed in the rocky Arizona wilds . Lots of tough guys throughout ; Cobern's character seemed to rock back and forth between a raging psycho and a laid back type . Several holes appeared in the picture , but not enough to offset it being exciting and worth seeing . One really dumb scene shows Heston emptying . 45 cases of their powder and collecting it in a sack for the purpose of starting a fire . A . To gather that much gunpowder he would have needed a pack mule to carry the ammo . B . The grass was obviously dry : why not just drop a match on it and let ' er rip ?
Sting sheds shield	Good documentary featuring Sting and his new band doing a lot of rehearsing in a grand old domicile . We are treated not only to the final touches of putting together a new set of songs , but a peek into the more relaxed moments together and a rousing concert finale . An eye opening look into the inner workings of a jazz band and the mind of a talented entertainer .
Dead spirits invade childrens ' closet	This could very well have been a lame film , but because it was so well done it was almost superb . There were plenty of funny scenes and plenty more hair raisers . Good special effects , excellent props , good performances , very spooky atmosphere : sort of a ' ghost zombie ' comes to suburbia picture . Be careful where you build your home .
Not to hot	The first hour of this one was way too draggy with the cheating wife bit being overlong . The last 30 minutes made up for it with a good shoot-out and hayfork rally as the thugs , Joe Average , and a group of Bible zealots went at it in a remote barnyard .
Smart ass kid goes looking for fun and adventure	A psychologically abused teen , unable to settle down , goes to another city and gets himself bumped off by the local law . His distraught parents then spend several years trying to prove the police had no business shooting the boy , who the police said had a gun at the time of his death . Good drama about a pair of parents who were unfit for their role as childraisers , but who cared enough to seek justice for their child's death . Really gives the law a black eye .
What women won't do in the name of love	Lightweight romantic comedy featuring the always delightful Babs as the put upon housewife who goes all out to put hubby into a higher tax bracket . Fairly funny in spots , dull in most : the slapstick was a tad overdone for my tastes . She did a better job in " What's Up Doc ? "
Sleazy , lowlife , 2 bit scumbag hustler runs a deadly scheme	One of Widmark's best performances as the loser Harry Fabian , a man obsessed with becoming a big man in the London sports world . Fabian attempts one deal after another in a desperate try at raising money for a big deal while barely managing to stay one step ahead of a ruthless wrestling promoter . Not only did Harry's actions bring about a legion of problems for himself , but he brought endless pain and sorrow to those who dealt with and cared for him . A pathetic character , but I had a hard time holding much sympathy for him .
You mean Cole was just a good ol ' boy ?	You must take this film with a wheelbarrow of salt . Two young men get in dutch with the Texas state police during the 1870's and are forced to go on the lam . One teams up with Cole Younger , and winds up being framed for a crime he didn't commit . A good western , but I never figured Cole Younger to look like a middle aged insurance agent or to be so mellow hearted . Hollywood really did a job on this old west badman . And that courtroom scene near the end ! No way !
jungle boy comes to live in the big city	A man brings his son from the jungle to live with him in the city . Of course , the child knows nothing of civilization , therefore everything he does is based on how he would do it in the wilds . In other words , he turns his dad's life upside down , causing him a world of stress and aggravation . Very funny film .
Thugs face off with other thugs over worthless town	Violent , exciting western which was " hollywoodized " into something that would never have taken place in the old west . All the gutless townies had to do was take out their rifles in the first place and they wouldn't have needed the two nasties to bail them out of their predicament . I had to snicker when Fonda was doing his ' quickdraw ' ; no gunhawk would have given his move away by bending his knees so long before the revolver ever cleared leather . I had to cringe when Widmark kept pointing his weapon at other men without paying any attention at all . No self respecting gunslinger would ever be that dangerously careless . A good shoot-em-up nonetheless .
Boy and slave travel down the Big Muddy	Well done version of Mark Twain's classic about a carefree boy and his misadventures during the 19th century . I enjoyed the updated style used in this rendition and the flawless performances . The crooked antics of the 2 con men stole the show as far as I'm concerned .
I renamed this one " The General Agenda "	Here we have another Hollywood attempt to brainwash the sheeple . . . . and I would imagine once again they will be successful . I'll start off by saying I enjoyed the film , even though it was pretty corny . Travolta is always fun in this style of picture . My objection was the less than subtle way the viewer was bombarded with politically correct poppycock in the form of entertainment . One example was Paul Brenner's bringing a gift to a female officer . The haughty " lady " brushed the man's generosity off as " sexist " . What happened to boy meets girl ? Another illustration is the tenderness Brenner exhibited when dealing with the 2 homosexuals . What rot : God considers these people to be an abomination . Then there was the instance of Sara Sunhill parading arrogantly into an all male dressing room with the announcement " woman aboard " or some such statement . It was a tad late for some of the boys to cover up . Can't imagine that playing in reverse without screams of horror from the ladies - and rightly so . Later in this same scene when a group of men are addressed by Ms . Sunhill , they are presented as grinning , horny idiots with the manners of goats . In my opinion this movie was rife with reverse sexism and p . c . twaddle . . . . as are many others , unfortunately . I read plenty of comments decrying the deplorable conditions of the downtrodden females in fatigues : many knuckles are ground into eye sockets as the tears flow : multitudinous hankies are dampened over the fateof these poor souls , as well as that of the 2 decent , loving , sexual perverts . The sorry part in all this is that the producers bothered little in disguising their intolerance .
4 escaped cons rape and pillage across the old west	A reluctant deputy takes an even more reluctant posse after 4 dangerous thugs who killed several townspeople and left with a hostage . The posse is so inept that several of them are gunned down while engaging the enemy on 3 or 4 occasions . Ol ' Murph tried to keep them in line but they were mostly pretty hopeless . Lots of gunplay made for a good western , even if it was a little lame .
The loves and trials of the high school set	When a girl can't get a date to the Centennial Dance she worries that being snubbed by the top jock will wreck her reputation . In desperation she is driven into the arms of a rebellious troublemaker who must change his image before the big event which drives a wedge between him and his friends . All her troubles are not over as she must contend with a traitorous friend , snotty classmates , and the capricious actions of teens in love . This was your typical teens at school flic ; and yes , the actors are all way too old .
2 young detectives take on an Egyptian cult	A teen-age Sherlock Holmes gets on the trail of a murderous cult with the help of his dorm buddy , John Watson . After several locals get killed mysteriously , the pair are drawn into trying to solve the crime with the help of one of the victims grand daughter . A good mystery with some excellent sleuthing by the young detectives . Good props added a lot of flavor to the film , making the era look more realistic . 3 stars .
Standard submarine warfare thriller	Navy frogman goes on super secret mission to steal ultra secret Jap code books . Pretty phony actually - seems the Nips would have shouted " oy li chu dat lee ho phuk di hong fong fuuuuuuuuu ! " , or " those explosions looked like a ruse , let's check on the code books ! " . When Garner exited the water he made enough noise to wake the whole island , no real commando would have done that . Still not a bad film , fairly exciting : it had the usual Navy ships during combat footage plus a few " toys in the tub " scenes . I appreciated the submarine ; it was cramped , hot , and miserable looking , exactly like the genuine article . I abhor those movie subs that sport hallways and rooms more fitting to the Trump mansion than a Naval vessel .
naughty goings on in spooky castle	Authentic costumes and sets , a creepy castle with secret passageways and a nice torture dungeon made for a very entertaining film . There was a definite mystery unfolding throughout the picture instead of the mindless slash and splash of a lot of movies in this genre . Moody music and dramatic dialogue kept the show racing full tilt all the way to the satisfying conclusion . Of course , the climax contained the requisite lightning storm .
Classic example of why no one should EVER have kids	Here we have a well adjusted gentleman with a nice life who is informed by a former lover - read : tramp - that he is a poppa . So what does he do ? Goes off the non-shallow end and gets all sappy and parental over the little carpet crawler . Naturally , many problems arise and not all of them from the crumb grabber either , although he was bad enough . 2 a . m . wakeup calls from a high decibel voicebox ; splattered , smeared , at one time completely edible , not to mention costly , food slathered unevenly over , formerly , perfectly usable household furnishings ; dull , uninspired trips to the grocer for jar after jar of future $24 . 95 per yard carpet greasing material and other assorted ' after the house is wrecked ' clean-up articles . All this plus the money this guy blew for toys , clothes , and court costs : never mind all the bills he will assume as the brat ages . What was he thinking ? Why would any sane person take on such a monumental effort ? Think of all the playoff games missed due to mopping baby droppings off a $3000 home theater system . The poor slob reaches his all time low when he films home movies of the tiny cutie then sits around ohh-ing and ahh-ing when he could have been watching " Hot Stewardesses at 50 , 000 Feet " . This was a good film , but I was a nervous wreck before it was half over . If you are strange and actually love these noisy , expensive little pests then this is your picture : if not , you have been warned .
Shadowy spook shocker set on seacoast	Fun yet run of the mill spook film set in a haunted mansion on the beautiful California coast . It has the usual creaking doors , creepy attic , unexplained happenings , and a mean ghost . Fairly good , but I done been there and had a better time when I did .
Thugs get the Christmas spirit	Good comedy : I never knew Bogey , much less Ray , could to the funny act . I really liked the way Ustinov opened up locked things ; he made them seem as though they had a life of their own . Good to see Leo Carroll doing his inept act again , and even better to watch Rathbone play the obnoxious dandy to the hilt . Thumbs up .
Golly , has the Beav ever become a screw-up	Enjoyable little family flic with a much cuter Mrs Cleaver than the old TV show . Ward was quite a bit more uptight than the old Mr . C . Eddie . You gotta love this guy anytime ; what a conniving , nosy little suck-up . This film was updated to the point of losing most of the flavor of the original program . Gee , I just liked the old one best .
Cops don't even like each other	A not too likable , idealistic young detective is given an assignment which was unnecessary and therefore led to a tragedy and a shakeup in the police hierarchy . The detective , who was totally useless as a policeman , got all wrapped up emotionally with his assignment and acted completely irrationally when confronted with a dangerous situation . I liked the way the film jumped back and forth in time and depicted life in the department and in the inner city realistically . I didn't care for the way a pad happened to be placed conveniently on the rooftop so the jumpers would have a soft landing . Good drama well worth watching .
This should have been called " The Hiding Place 2 "	This film was not what I expected , which was something along the lines of the first half of Leon Uris ' novel " Exodus " ; a rousing bloodletter depicting the Jews as a down but not out band of rubble rousers kicking some major Kraut ass . Instead I got some weasely little musician skulking from hidey hole to hidey hole with the help of kindhearted , caring Poles . I never understood why this guy was the recipient of all this largesse nor why he was spared by a German officer who just happened along when it could just as easily have been Herr Jackboot and his lucky Luger . Also fortunate for me as I was convinced every human in a German uniform was a re-tread of Attilla the Hun . Not a bad picture but it was too long and full of holes , however that could be due to the rapid jumps through time . How this movie won so many oscars I don't know : seems that if a picture deals with the Holocaust it stands a better chance of being awarded . What about the other 7 million folks the Nazis ' butchered , think we need a film about them ?
Psycho savages city	When a simple sorta hooker becomes the lover of an insane loser her life spirals more and more into a pit . Her eyes refuse to open while her boyfriend soothes each bump in the road with another easy lie . Partly comedy , but mostly dramatic look at a man doomed because of absolutely no morals or compassion ; he lives only to take and take and take . No award winner but worth seeing .
One should always mind one's own business	When 3 drunken rednecks run out of gas a tragedy occurs which threatens to ruin their lives and that of their families . Had their attitudes been live and let live everybody would have been better off . A good look at ignorant men and their silly prejudices .
Too much yammery , not enough musketry	Mildly interesting film with some big production / realistic looking battle scenes . Like " Braveheart " I just couldn't get too excited over the tale . Seems like much of the emotion and angst was overblown and most of the characters unbelievable . I could also live without the corny little comedy bits . . . . not counting the stained teeth , that was hilarious .
Gritty , bizarre , not for the faint at heart	Excellent drama concerning 3 psychotic hooligans , a drunk , a hustler , and a fence and his gang all vying for a house full of booty . The terrified home owner is trapped and must try to survive the onslaught as well as keep her sanity . Highly emotional presentation with great acting by the 3 young thugs , particularly Caan's bit as the insane pack leader . A must see .
Is money everything ?	Life just doesn't go well for a 2 bit thief and his family when he teams up with an ex-con to steal a fancy necklace . Lots of death and violence follow as the jewel gets away from the 2 crooks who discover in the end that there is more to life than money . Good one .
Jew goes west	Good comedy with Wilder and Ford doing a good job portraying the mismatched odd couple . The whole picture was played for cornball laughs , and there are a few , but I've seen much better comedies . A fun film overall , worth seeing ; and the great Arizona backdrop was a real plus .
Thugs get more than they bargain for	Good drama depicting how the government must cover up a killer disease which threatens a city . The carriers are a trio of hoods , each fearful or mistrustful of the other and unknowing of their plight . In a race against time and unbelieving city fathers , a medical official must try to control the dreaded plague . A great chase scene at the end creates a spine tingling finale .
Musclebound stud stomps thugs	Riotous action / comedy featuring a deadly Delta dude who pours a bazooka full of whup-ass on several hundred special forces wannabes who THOUGHT they were bad asses . From the time Matrix drove a GMC down a mountain to the final thrust with former associate Bennett the action never lets down for one second . Ever wondered why these unstoppable action heroes always have a name like Rambo , Hondo or Matrix ? For once I'd like to find one of these studs with a handle such as Percival Alloysus Snotgrass . At least then I would then know why he grew up so mean . Even though this was merely another in a long line of mindless action pictures I still enjoyed watching the Govenator punish the arrogant wrongdoers . However , the actor who played Bennett was wrong for this part in my opinion : too soft looking even though he was a big fella . And that chain mail shirt ; such pretentious self advertisement . Reminds me of the warrior I saw in a magazine once who died while wearing a t-shirt reading " Commando " .
Religion kills	One of the best musicals around . Good portrayal of the clan mindset of people and how they are unwilling to accept anyone different . Here we have the Jewish fraternity who will never go against their stupid tradition and the other peasants who refuse to bend and accept the Jews , therefore they are completely at odds all the time . Lots of good songs and fiddle playing , dancing , and a great story .
Christmas isn't for everyone	Hard hearted businessman has neither the time nor the inclination to celebrate Christmas and this attitude hurts his son's feeling and antagonizes the wife . After thinking up a foolproof way to take over the entire toy market worldwide this corporate raider heads for the North Pole to grab the ultimate toy factory . While there he discovers that Santa , an old " acquaintance " , is having takeover problems of his own . This causes the man to make a choice between holding on to his hates and hurts or to become reacquainted with his family and learn to appreciate the holiday season . Good one .
Goofy but interesting	Pretty good picture about a man being in the wrong place at the wrong time . If the murderer wanted to whack the dame , why not just off her and let the cops try to figure out whodunnit ? Involving all these characters in the plot is dangerous , not to mention all the mouths you'd have to worry about staying shut . Why did the depressed lady go out to the bar when she could barely sit up in a chair or say a word ? Are there really cops out there who are wise cracking , gum popping , grinning apes who approach a suspect in such a glib manner ? This probably played well back before the wheel was invented , but it is so corny and unbelievable today . Catch the manic drum break by Elisha Cook ; his frenetic hammering never once matched the recording . His mad facial expressions made up for the off kilter stick sync .
Nazi war criminal and his henchmen attack innocent man	This was taken from one of Bill Goldman's finest books . It isn't nearly as good as the novel , but still manages to come off well . The brother of a secret agent , who was supposedly murdered by a group of ex-Nazi's , is terrorized for reasons he has no understanding of . The action is non-stop and the bad guys are very bad . A shame the sequel wasn't put on film also , as it carried the story on to new areas and contained one very big surprise relating to the original story .
Gutless limey officer becomes pawn of rotten German count	Lots of laughs in this zany Brit comedy in which Malcolm McDowell plays a worthless , womanizing jerk whom is cruelly used in a political scheme by evil Count Von Bismarck in order to overthrow a rival country . I don't usually care for British comedy but this one was way good : slapstick all the way .
No horses , no water , no shade , and a baby	3 desperados rob a bank in a small Arizona village and the chase is on . The crooks and posse play a game of cat and mouse from one water hole to the next before finally coming face to face in another dry water town . Along the way the thugs become unwilling godfathers to a newborn baby . This doesn't sit well with the criminals , but they take their new position seriously and do all they can to keep the child safe . Not a lot of action but lots of fun in this different tale of the old west .
Very cleverly crafted mystery	This was an excellent film , that was aptly titled . The blow up of a negative which showed a murder committed was the key to the whole mystery . I watched as the characters played and replayed the murder sequence , and never caught on to the killer's use of the weapon . This movie reminded me a lot of Hitchcock's work . An added attraction was the brief clip featuring the Yardbirds on a rave-up .
Hit man stalks woman under death contract	A woman from Idaho , diagnosed terminally ill , comes to San Francisco to live the remaining months of her life . While there she seeks a second opinion and learns that she is not dying after all . Things should be rosy , only while under the impression that she was near death , she put out a death contract on herself . After hearing the doctor's good news she then goes to the police for help to stop the unknown killer from fulfilling his end of the bargain . Average cop yarn .
Whinebag doctor goes to India	An American doctor , who needs instruction in how to cowboy up , runs sniveling to India to re-invent himself . While there he runs into a bleeding heart woman who is intent on saving a bunch of worthless bums and good for nothings . The good doctor refuses to help this poor soul save to downtrodden of the world because he is too wrapped up in his own self pitying little world . However , he makes a rousing , heart warming reversal when he surges to the rescue of the little woman and her hinky dinky little " hospice " . Too mushy , and besides it's been done before .
Music and the mob don't mix	Fairly good comedy which bogged down a bit midway , however it still works after all these years . As always , Lemmon is dead on and gives a hilarious portrayal of Daphne , but is he ever an ugly woman . An untalented Monroe plays her typical slut character . I loved the party scene on the train with all the half clad honeys crowding together in the one tiny berth . Worth seeing .
Rags to riches , love conquers all , never say quit , go for your dreams . . . .	Fun little tale of a dirt poor lad willing to go all out for his lady love , his honor , and to prove he is as good as any other warrior . Plenty of laughs from a zany character or two and a grand adventure with plenty of old world jousting , pageantry , and costumes . Loved the way the producers wove hard rock tunes and today's lingo into the show's fabric and made it seem , usually anyway , as thought it fit that time span . Cool flic .
Murder , like greed , is sometimes good	I had to cheer when this arrogant smart ass took a shiv to the guts . Too bad the girl didn't go on and whack the little bitch's butt licking pals while she was at it . This film seemed to be a slice of real high school life as popular kids skated around in their cliques looking down on the poor unfortunates . How typical of the average unthinking , gotta fit in at any cost people to blame a person for a crime just because they are different , a unforgivable sin to the average braindead teen . Good picture with well played out parts by all , especially Kellie Martin as the tormented nobody with aspirations of being popular . Little did she know that her life was better the way it was . Thumbs up .
Super small sub streaks soundlessly , saves scientist	Serious problems arise as a team of doctors and scientists go inside a valuable patient to save his life and therefore aid the free world . A tight time frame and a gutless physician adds to the tension in this dramatic life and death fantasy . The props were fun , I could even believe the inside of a body would look similar to this . The sub itself looked like a cross between a stealth bomber and a souped up jet ski . Pretty good sci-fi adventure .
Tearjerker	Beautiful scenery and a touching story made this drama well worth watching . Horse fanciers , especially , should go for this one , however they must be able to sit through the opening sequence involving the ugly accident . I admit that one made me cringe . Very good film which follows the book chapter and verse .
High school punks rule the hallways	A group of teen-age thugs run a ' protection ' agency at their school . After being roughed up , one boy gets his own bodyguard , a boy named Lenderman . Lenderman , an emotionally troubled child , is feared by the bullies because of rumors concerning his violent tendencies . Things look up for a while until the thugs turn the tables and once again spread fear in the school . While not a ' deep ' film , it was a pleasant way to spend an hour and a half .
I saw a film similar to this one years ago	Enjoyable film which could have been titled " The Saint Robs the Orient & Meets Sneakers " . Very expensive looking production with several high grade players doing a lot of fast and furious things while delivering loads of tense , dramatic dialogue . That bit on the high wire had me squirming , but the tale was really nothing new , nor to get excited over .
East meets west , and the barbarians rule	Lots of gorgeous scenery , beautiful Oriental women , great props and colorful clothes , sterling performances , and interesting dialogue and songs makes this one of the most lively musicals I've seen to date . Yul was perfect as the arrogant , deluded King ; I loved his crisp gestures and butchery of the English language . He was most amusing . I bet this one would be great on stage .
Offbeat and cool	Totally enjoyable , zany story of a lady's and a tramp's lives crossing with strange results . To sweeten the pot there is also a love angle , a silent hitman , loss of memory and identity crisis , plus the icing on the cake . . . . Madonna's super cool character , Susan . Loads of laughs and a great romp through the city . . . . I loved this film .
Injuns and cavalry duke it out in Utah	When the Army wants to transport a load of guns and ammo to another fort , a band of bloodthirsty savages , who are not good at reservation life , attack the soldiers . The pesky redskins lead the innocent Army men into a trap and begin wiping them out . However , the wiley officer in charge developes a plan to trick the sneaky , backstabbing redmen by doubling back after appearing to be going in another direction . Unfortunately , the bluecoats still kept on losing the fight . Exciting western with a predictable ending , filmed in the stark yet beautiful state of Utah .
Could this really happen ? Yes , it could .	Once again Hugh Grant convinces me he is one of the trade's finest assets . Spike , however , made for most of the laughs in this nicely done romance . I don't consider it to be the best of the romantic comedies , but it really hit the spot for me . Partly , I'm sure , because something similar happened to me back in the mid-90's when I had an intense 8 month fling with Sandra Bullock which , unfortunately , ended not as sweetly as Notting Hill . Thumbs up .
The King rocks the old south	Fairly decent western except for Elvis doing his Vegas act to a bunch of love struck southern belles . Plenty of gunplay and unscrupulous scalawags kept me from gagging to much watching Big E once again show the world that in the acting profession he is anything but the king .
Young Aussies can't wait to enter WW1	At Normandy Ike wanted untested troops for the invasion because seasoned vets knew what the price of war was . At Gallipoli the combat hungry kids learned the price very early on but it was too late to un-enlist . If only the young were smarter maybe no wars would be fought . Good show and not just about war either .
Most excellent war flic	Enough tension here to give any Navy Seal a permanent case of the bends . We are shown all the usual sub warfare movie tricks : depth charges , torpedoes [ one horrifyingly graphic ] , water leaks , the old surface debris dodge , sweating men staring tensely at the overhead , gruffly barked orders , the tough old salt , etc . Even though it was your typical war film , I still rate it as a 5 star actioner .
Arrogant politico dumps in his own nest	When a unfeeling mayor refuses to render aid to an injured city employee he opens a can of worms which he goes nuts trying to close . Reminded me a bit of Jack Finney's novel " The Night People " because the hero's stunts got more and more outlandish until his outings culminated in the mother of political harassments . Thumbs up .
Life begins at 40	Entertaining comedy about a man who turns 40 and begins looking at his life differently . Thinking certain events and " fun " things have crept past him , he starts looking to recapture his youth . Fast cars and younger women are suddenly more appealing than his routine life and dull wife . Even his son's girlfriend becomes an object of his lustful yearnings . Good film dealing with a very common occurrence .
. . . this just and holy war for everlasting peace . . . or so says the Pope	Man is going to have his war even if it kills him . This was a brilliant depiction of how we humans allow ourselves to be hoodwinked into buying into the loathsome futility of world combat , all in the name of patriotism , flag rallying , and keeping the home fires burning . Johnny couldn't wait to go off to the front lines ; felt it was his duty , you see . Preserving democracy and all that rubbish . He felt this way because he was fed the party line at an early age . Get them early and they will never leave the fold , right ? Poor Johnny didn't realize that there may be other forces at work behind the scenes ; organizations that don't mind it a bit if he becomes a quadriplegic living a nightmare existence . This is not a war movie , rather a harsh look at the results of man's most insane undertaking .
Memory loss can have it's upside	Good lesson in not being unobservant concerning your surroundings . Such an attitude led to this man losing his memory , identity , and family . He became a dirty , homeless street person who wound up in a trash box just for a scrap of food . When he received sympathy from a kind woman , not only his fortunes changed but her's also leading to a strange outcome .
Interesting but slow and somewhat confusing	Decent enough shoot-em-up which relies too heavily at times on ridiculous overkill to make the anti-heroine look way bad . How would one describe this killing machine anyway ? Sexy ? Yes . Evil ? Most assuredly . Sociopathic ? Don't think so . She appeared to wear her feelings on her sleeve all the way through the picture which no self respecting nutcase would ever do . Every time things began to go wrong for little Nikki she would break down in hysterics crying for mercy , her mommy , or a little peace please Mr . Policeman . This idiot could go from coldly murdering her victims to blinding rages in which she threatens to kill everybody present to sweating over a kill she is about to make . The whiney / slobbering lunatic weirdo bit was incompatible with a hired gun working for a clandestine government unit . Furthermore , large jumps in time were momentarily confusing and could have been better explained by the writers . Not a bad film , just full of holes . . . . but didn't that girl have a set of legs ?
Good story of one man's journey thru WW2	This was Audie Murphy's account of his actions during WW2 . He saw many of his friends ' die as he went through the travails of war . This was a graphic look at the horror and waste of man's ultimate folly .
Evil government killers go after enemies	Re-hash of the old governmental agency gone bad . After a former agent gets on their trail and threatens to blow their cover , an organization within the FBI rubs out several folks to keep the lid on their nasty little conspiracy . Lots of action and excitement kept the pace up and I enjoyed the film , but don't go in looking for anything new with this one .
Man deals with a new job and an unsatisfied wife	A man , feeling pressure from his wife for a better lifestyle , takes a new job with increased pay but added stress . To make matters worse , he becomes embroiled in legal actions concerning an inheritance from his grandmother . On top of all this , he learns that some of his actions in Italy during World War 2 have come to haunt him . This is a well told story with many sides to it , and I feel the use of flashback went a long way in making it even better . Well worth seeing .
Evil lurks in all of us !	There was enough corn in this flakey film to allow Kellogg's to supply it's customers well into the next decade . I was in a state of constant mirth all the way through this ' spooky ' picture . Gad ! All those overdone facial expressions . . . those goofy sounding screams . . . and that ' thing ' called the tingler . It looked like a cross between a slug and a lobster without claws . One of Vince's best , I highly recommend it .
Badmen hide behind badges	When an idealistic young man comes to Montana territory to start a new life , he becomes a deputy sheriff . He wants to clean up the area which is infested with killers and thieves , but is duped into aiding those very men . Good action yarn with lots of blazing sixguns , stagecoach chases , and thundering hooves .
hillbilly life in the Ozarks	Good story about a backwoods community in the Ozarks around the turn of the century . Moonshine is the leading industry , fighting and funning the major form of entertainment . One day a stranger enters the community and causes a shake-up among the locals . Beautiful scenery adds much to the story .
Money can't buy love . . . but , who cares if you're loaded ?	This one remains my fave rendition of this story . What a great tragedy . Either that , or what a supreme farce . Why was Gatsby so obsessed with this woman anyway ? It's not like she was going to be any more of a goddess than any other hard headed female . Once the rice was out of their hair , they would be bickering and closeting themselves just like any normal , everyday married couple . See Myrtle and George Wilson . Of the three versions of this film I've seen , Redford comes off best as the haunted rich boy . Thumbs up .
Kooky computer creates crisis , programmers pale , governments gasp , people perish	This big Cray should have crashed from all the programs it was running . Why didn't Forbin just reach behind it and pull the plug when it started doing the Hal ? That's what I do . This was a good picture with a story that can still play today , in my opinion . The computer itself may have been a bit of a monstrosity and impractical looking , but was still futuristic in appearance . First rate performances by the cast as they went from amusement to disbelief to horror over the comp getting more and more out of hand . And the ending . . . . perfect .
This hospital reminds me of the one in Idabel , Oklahoma	May I never have to go to this hospital [ or hospice , if I want to be politically correct ] [ which ass coined this asinine phrase , anyway ? ] , for anything other than directions on how to get out of town . George C . did a masterful job playing the burned out , over worked cynic who has come to the conclusion that his life has been a waste , but is helpless to change his environment or conditions even when given a golden opportunity [ which probably wasn't so golden anyway ] . I got several laughs out of this brutally black comedy , however at the same time was sobered and often chilled to the marrow because I fear this very atmosphere pervades most houses of healing even as I write .
Stupidity knows no bounds	If folks were really this stupid I could be the SRW - Supreme Ruler of the World . In this one Knotts plays a dimwitted bean counter for some little jerk water town run by a group of crooked simpletons only slightly brighter than he is . When things appear a bit shaky for the crooks they go for a frame-up of the patsy Figg . Plenty of laughs as Knotts does his usual bumbling , stumbling act . I especially appreciated the extension cord scene ; asininity at it's highest level .
They shoulda took the bus	A team of professional killers attempt to silence a witness who can i . d . their boss in a murder case . On a long train ride across Canada , a D . A . and the witness must evade the hitmen long enough to reach a large city and safety . High voltage tension all the way with enough stress to raise anybody's blood pressure 10 points or more .
An honest attorney ?	Pretty good drama featuring a reluctant lawyer roped into a murder trial . As usual Ford does a credible job as the harried attorney who strives to see his client gets a fair shake . To do this he must alienate many of the town's leading citizens who are , of course , looking out for # 1 . Worth seeing .
Pistolero tries to go straight	Peck was superb as the aging gunman who is tired of the life of a hired killer . When he attempts to re-acquaint himself with a past life , his ideas of leaving gunslinging are thwarted by 3 hotheads and a gunhawk wannabe . Skip Homeier was just right as the smartass 2 gun Pete punk . Good realistic looking western , high on drama rather than a lot of gunsmoke .
How to get a head in life	Another of my favorite Oates films , this is also one of my all time favorite westerns . It is so off beat , left field , off the wall that I just can't help but love it . Oates plays the sleazy , greedy dirtbag to the max and totally upstages everybody else in the picture ; and there were plenty of fine performances by the other players . This may not have been Peckinpah's hottest film overall , but remains , in my opinion , one of his best .
A spy can never be trusted , nor can he trust	Excellent little one hour drama from the Hour of Stars about a British embassy worker who steals top secret documents strictly for profit . Things go well in his operation until the Allies get wise to a leak and he must flee fearing Allied prosecution or Axis assassination . Very enjoyable production with a smoothly done finale . As always Montalban gives a commendable performance .
Sleazy promoter wheels and deals his way to big money	An out of work sports columnist takes a job building up the reputation of a boxer who has no talent . His boss , a ruthless promoter , pits the pugilist against better athletes , but has the contests rigged in favor of his own fighter . This is a tense , well acted picture which gives a graphic portrayal of the seedy side of sports .
Mediocre scare film	I never saw the original , but did take in the Donald Sutherland remake , which I liked pretty good . This one seemed to follow the remake fairly close , with the scenery changed to a military look . Not a bad alien movie I guess , but I don't care a lot for this genre , so I'm no real judge .
Another sillyassed look at the art of war	Entertaining look at combat from the viewpoint of a small band of Americans slugging it out with the Nips over a dinky , but important , section of real estate on some nothing little island . I chuckled mirthlessly at the " no shoot " landing the jarheads made against a handful of sneaky , albeit useless , soldiers of the Imperial Army . The Americans were fortunate to have had that old building to base in ; it took rocket after rocket and was little the worse for wear after a couple of days of constant shelling . I really appreciated the robotic , killing machine gyrene sarge who lost his eyes but valiantly stated : " just point me in the right direction and I'll keep fighting " . What a hoss ! As usual , we had to have the comic relief : this time in the form of a hard drinking , harder fighting GI who actually carried his private still around with him . I enjoyed seeing some of the old faces , but Widmark was the only bright spot in the entire production . Fun but corny .
Townies can's accept or be accepted	Good little picture featuring 4 wayward boys trying to find their way in life . They hang out at the local swimming hole [ and what a great place it was ] , cruise about town , bitch about the college kids , cause trouble , and whine about how rough their lot in life is . Although the bike race at the end was a tad predictable it was still exciting and realistic looking . Both funny and dramatic , this was well worth the watching . Look for Paul Dooley to steal the show as the put upon Dad ; he had me rolling in the aisle .
Bum barker Billy Bigalow beds beauty but botches bagging bucks	Other than a couple of flashy song and dance numbers , this was a fairly laid back musical . Still , a very enjoyable 2 hour tale of the no good bum Billy Bigalow ; a conniver of the first order who married the innocent young girl only to ignore and abuse her later . This was a bittersweet story of love and hope with a few laughs thrown in for good measure . Some nice scenes shot at the beach as well as a pleasant array of props and scenery went well with the theme of the film .
Scalaway meat packer tries to rip off Rex and the boys	Western musical in which Rex is forced into dealing with an unscrupulous cattleman . When Rex seeks an alternative outlet for his beef , the rascally cowman infiltrates Rex's outfit in order to sabotage his organization . Finally Rex is forced to market his steers in another area which means he will have to cross 2 days of waterless wasteland . Plenty of action , singing , and comedy in this nicely done western .
Cowardly town of Hadleyville was too gutless to defend itself	Excellent drama about a town too chicken to live . All these gutless wonders needed to do was have 50 men with rifles go meet the 4 thugs at the train depot and explain a little simple arithmetic . Wormy little pants were just plain too scared . Typical . This was good though , as it lead to a great shoot-out ' twixt the sheriff and the 4 hoodlums . Did anybody notice the hay bales ? I thought they loaded hay onto wagons with pitchforks way back then . But , hey , didn't Grace Kelly look fine ?
pretty decent time travel film	I liked this one , but it was a tad confusing at times . All time travel shows are though , at least to me . Estavez keeps going back and forth through time trying to avoid being picked up by the time cops . Check out Jaggar's glorified motorcycle jacket in this one . Looks like he got it from Salvation Army , it just hangs on his frame . But I thought Mick gave a good performance as the chief freejack chaser . Not a bad movie , especially if you like the time travel aspect .
If you live by the gun . . . . . .	This one really smacked of the era it was portrayed to mimic ; the clothes , cars , sets , right down to those goofy looking haircuts [ which have made a comeback today proving their really is nothing new under the sun ] . Hanks's character was a immoral man who had no feelings for anybody he ever gunned down . However , when it was HIS family on the receiving end of violence he became terribly concerned . These scumbags always think it is DIFFERENT when they are on the wrong end of the gun . Gotta give the guy credit , though , for sticking to his guns and staying behind his son no matter what . The actor who played the heartless photographer almost stole the show : what a complete waste as a human . Nothing stopped this man from completing his assignment ; really loved his profession . Even though thugs have hearts they still reap what they sow . Good picture .
Angry , underprivileged youths act out against an indifferent society	It appeared almost the entire neighborhood was either evil and drugged out or well on their way to that end . Murder and robbery were a way of life with these depraved kids who were indifferent to everything except whatever could lead them into crime or revenge slayings . Glad I don't live it their neck of the woods .
What a drag it is getting old	I laughed all the way through this one . Fonda was hilarious as the cranky old duffer worried about his own mortality . Nice location scenes , good story , and fine performances made for a very lively , entertaining film . I did object to all the profanity , however .
Shoulda went to work for Dell , dude	Although this was a been there / done that film I still found it to be exciting and interesting . Robbins was good as the evil genius who stood to gain billions with his new software and would stop at nothing to put it on the market . Predictable all the way , but still contained a few minor surprises and , hey , all the geektalk was cool .
Can you get to the pros with just a fastball ?	Yaaaaawwwwwwnnnnnnn . Another in a long line of ' lowly underdog strives valiantly and comes back to win the big one ' bores . Phony tale of a middle aged man who suddenly discovers he has a major league arm after all . I can't believe this watered down heart wrencher was based on truth . Whose truth ? Some Hollywood producer ? If you want to see an ' underdog ' film with a lot more believability and nervous tension watch " Hossiers " . Thumbs down .
Nutty Nazi nixs nations ' numbers	Evil Nazi surgeon enjoys experimenting with genetics for the good of der fatherland . Many years after WW2 he begins the final countdown to finalizing his nasty little scheme . When a Jewish newspaper man gets wind of his nefarious deeds , the good doctor's plans are endangered . This he will not tolerate . Good film , but the book was much better .
strange characters populate an unfeeling city	An old woman dies and leaves an unopened letter from years in the past . A morgue attendant takes the letter and finds that it contains information about a trust fund involving twins . She hunts down the twins , figuring on sharing the money and writing a tale based on the proceedings . As she is doing this the separate lives of the twins is unfolding in a jumbled montage . This film reminded me of " Pulp Fiction " in the disconnected way in which it was filmed . Oddball picture , but well worth the seeing .
Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's wife	Oh , how much simpler our lives would be if we would just be content with what we have . This woman almost got exactly what she deserved from her jealous hubby : too bad he didn't succeed in knocking off the 2 timing slut . Here was a well played out murder yarn which keeps the viewers on their toes with clue after clue and lots of sneaky little scampers by the shrewd husband . Another fine production by the master of suspense .
Cool , funny comedy	When a woman suddenly begins to believe her life hasn't been everything she thinks it should have been she wants to go back and rekindle an old flame . This starts a chain of events involving a mystery pregnancy , a jealous boyfriend and hubby , sexy fantasies , hurt feelings , oddball characters , and loads of laughs . Different , offbeat romantic comedy . . . . loved it .
Hyperactive teens tour Rome	Really fun picture based on the life story of Britney Spears meteoric rise to pop super stardom . Lizzy could do little right in her personal relationships with her fellow students , her little brother [ who was a scream as he made Lizzy's life a living hell ] , but especially in her dealings with a charismatic , charming Roman singer she meets soon after arriving in the City of Seven Hills . Wanting more than a bus ride to all the hot spots , Lizzy takes off on her own but must constantly stay on her toes to avoid having her hyjinks being discovered by a shrewd , worldly chaperon . While all this is going on Lizzy has far deeper problems from a source she trusts completely and is headed for a fall which will have a negative effect on another innocent person . Way cool movie - Lizzy rules !
Boy almost doesn't meet girl	Spiffy little romance / comedy which didn't follow in the footsteps of most in this genre . Perfectly paced with nice doses of nifty dialogue , a plethora of all sorts of characters , and a pair of leading players who came off as real people with the same needs as all of us . The leading lady was torn between her need for a mate and her distaste for all the hubbub that such a search entails . The leading man didn't appear to need a mate as much as he needed to shuck his routine job in favor of the more interesting marine biologist . This , at times , paled in comparison to his money problems and having to deal with a shady character and his muscle bound crony lurking menacingly just behind . Good film , and you'll love that aquarium .
Hoppy foils bank bandits	A gang of thieves attempt to pin an a robbery and shooting on a foolish young man . Disbelieving his guilt , Hoppy sets out to prove his friend's innocence . After a bank is held up and his friend is once again in hot water , Hoppy must put himself in danger in a shoot-out with the gang at a lonely cabin in the hills . Seems like this kid is forever getting his butt in a wringer .
Man sees stars , gets smart	Enjoyable film with Travolta playing the part of a man with some very odd goings on in his life . This picture said a lot about human nature's down side as the townspeople and the always paranoid government begin mistrusting and harassing a man who has done absolutely nothing wrong . Fortunately , there was definite plus side to the movie ; well worth seeing .
Exciting : funny : cool characters	I'm a hardened non-fan of Brad Pitt but I loved him in this one . He goes on a wild ride to Mexico for a gang of cutthroats to retrieve a valuable antique handgun . The boy has nothing but bad luck from the start as he is hit by car thieves , a fag hitman , a ped off girlfriend , plus the gun's rightful owners . . . . and that ain't all . One more hot film .
Rednecks , rodeo , redskins , rotgut , & Richard	Widmark plays the drunken , former rodeo rider to perfection , & Frederick Forrest does admirably as the put upon young bull rider . I felt most of the other players were of the Grade B variety , as was this production in many ways . Not as good as " J . W . Coop " .
If you look for trouble you will find it	When a successful lady attorney goes slumming she always takes up with the wrong man in her search for excitement . Her lust for this secret lifestyle stemmed from a unhappy , fearful childhood which led to her becoming a high end tramp who gets more than she bargained for after her fake ' nightlife ' ID is blown by a clever scumbag who wanted more of her favors . However , he wasn't the one she had to worry about as it appeared for a more deadly game was afoot from a quarter she wasn't expecting . Good show , but nothing new .
Stud goes all thoughtful and sissyfied	Hopelessly chauvinistic stud gets in touch with his feminine side . Started off slow and rather dull but built to a interesting second half and a good finale . Seems to be a lot of these " men as total sts " movies ; I wonder if there is a good one out there pointing out what devious little users women can be . Thumbs up .
one man's insanity reigns after he loses his job	Interesting look at an emotionally crippled man as he goes out of control after losing his job . He holds several children and a few adults hostage in a museum after the curator refused to discuss his termination . One of the hostages is a newsman who winds up acting as the liaison between the police and the gunman . The situation leads to national prominence , drawing in an unscrupulous network newsman who only wanted to feather his own nest with the story . Good movie about a not unbelievable happening .
financial headhunters at work on Wall St .	Entertaining look at the in-fighting involved in the takeover of the Nabisco Co . The CEO of Nabisco wants to buy out the company , but is thwarted by the machinations of a big money rival . A rousing financial war begins leading to a satisfying grand finale . I liked the dialogue , especially the witty quips that James Garner was fond of throwing out . Jonathan Pryce was great as the chilling corporate raider . Thumbs up .
Man wants to see how the other half lives	A university president leaves the safe but dull confines of his college job to go out into the world for a new experience . After hiring out as a short order cook , and making a total mess of it , he is almost fired . The owner asks him if he really needs the job , and the professor admits he does not need it for financial reasons , but nevertheless , he does need the employment . Things pick up for him as he stumbles his way through a life that he it not equipped for when he meets and falls in love with a waitress . Different and well done .
Rookie moonshiners run afoul of the government and other criminals	Interesting little comedy featuring 3 down on their luck folks who , during the depression , formed a coalition to run booze past the coast guard . Turns out the CG is the least of their woes as a psychotic rumrunner decides to take over the entire area and rub out any who stand in his path . Good shootout as a finale with a multitude of boats gunning it out in a Pacific cove . Good one .
Rocky and Nugget run afoul of a gang of killers	A gang of ruthless thugs try to run off all the homesteaders in their area . While attempting to thwart their plans , Rocky and Nugget come under fire from the ruffians while trapped in a stagecoach depot . The gang leader is also inside the building along with a coach full of passengers , and Lane must figure out his identity in order to call in the cavalry and foil his nefarious scheme .
Little girls can never wait to grow up	A young girl , looking for adventure with the opposite sex , develops a long distance crush on a handsome stranger . This leads to the man noticing her and her mom which , instead of being a nice meeting of friends , winds up putting both in danger . Good , nerve wracking chiller containing a very evil , totally sinister killer .
Football's answer to " Hoosiers "	Similar to " Hoosiers " but a totally different story just the same . Washington was perfect as the hard nosed coach dedicated to winning . His efforts to bring the players together as a unit and the boys attitudes toward him and each other made for a very good drama . I foretold the ending , plus the picture contained some corny scenes , but I still give it a high rating .
Mad bomber goes on rampage	Spacek plays the part of a girl who lets her emotions and liberal attitudes turn her into a maniac bomber . Her warped mind convinced her that killing and destroying was the answer to a better world . Much of the film was done with Spacek and Winkler sitting on a chair talking to the audience about their views of the world and how to make it a different place . Very good film dealing with the observations of a pair of diehard maniacs .
Nagging wife mysteriously goes missing	A man and his wife are not getting along because of the wife's jealousy and drinking problems . When the wife disappears , her sister begins a vigorous search involving the local police , state government , and a television crime show . What she finds out stuns the entire community . Good drama with lots of fine performances ; based on a true story .
Stud cavorts with the ladies	Sex fiend tries to bed every woman he meets in jolly old England . This leads to many problems for the old chap , but he continues his ways leading to even more troubles . A classic example of the little head doing the thinking for the big head . Entertaining and interesting picture ; I particularly liked the way Alfie would address the camera as though talking to me personally .
Just where was The Kingfish ?	And Lightnin ' ? Well , Leonard may have rated this one a bomb , but I rather enjoyed the absurdity . And was it really that unreasonable ? I can see today's dishonest law enforcement trying to pull some ridiculous stunt like this to cover their own butts . View the shenanigans that went on in the White House in recent years . Cage and Jackson were great together and the picture was funny . Plus , I've seen protesters act exactly this stupid .
Gold , greed and revenge	An ex-con and a fellow inmate seek revenge and a high dollar payday in developing a plot to strip a supposedly mined out vein and selling the contents to a shady tycoon . Is revenge stronger than a lust for more financial gain by a double crossing man and his shady lawman friend ? Good western with lots of fisticuffs , gunplay , and a tense , explosive finale .
Once a thief . . . .	Three scumbags get their just deserts after wasting their lives in greed , drugs , ego , and bad attitudes . Interesting and well done ; this style of film always makes me wonder where reality leaves off and imagination takes over . Even though these folks were the scum of the earth I still found myself pitying them . They never really stood much of a chance .
Wickedly wise widow woos wealthy wacko	Big , gaudy musical with lots of ol ' Babs melodious , golden throated chirping , and even more spiffy dance numbers . Walter's facial expressions alone were worth the price of admission to this event : and , of course , there was Babs looking like a million bucks . . . what a babe ! Thoroughly enjoyable picture .
Don't go looking for old acquaintances in a war zone	Interesting look at how a country torn by revolt affects the plans of a doctor searching for several former students . He has many adventures as he goes deeper into the frenzied bowels of his country . Most of his experiences are negative as he discovers that his rose colored view of home isn't based on reality . A sobering ending put just the right touch to this vividly ugly picture .
reporter sets out to prove a convicted man is innocent	An eyewitness to a cop killing sends a man to the pen for 99 years . Eleven years later the convict's mother offers 5 thousand dollars to anyone proving her son is not guilty . A newspaperman looks into the case and becomes obsessed with gathering information which he is convinced will exonerate the convicted man . Tense , dramatic look at the seedy side of life .
Silly side of the mob	Very funny film which shows a more human side of the Mafia . Crystal and De Niro had me rolling with their give and take dialogue . Whoever would have thought a mobster would be plagued with a nervous panic disorder ? Thumbs up .
a mysterious group of men battle aliens	I thought this was going to be a sequel of sorts to that lousy movie " Independence Day " , but it wasn't . It was much better than I thought it would be , in fact , it was very funny and exciting . The men in black were a secret group dedicated to thwarting the invasion of aliens here on earth . Snappy dialogue and a cool story kept this film rocking right along . 3 stars .
Ya can't stop those damn rock n ' rollers !	Amusing look at Hollywood's version of the birth of rock n ' roll . Some good old tunes were played throughout , the acting was good , the radio station looked like the real thing , but some of the picture didn't ring true [ and I don't mean Chuck Berry's lousy acting ] . Those rabid anti-rockers were so far out with their " rock music will end civilization " rant as to be totally hilarious ; although there were some back then that held that opinion . I liked the film , the doo-wop harmony singers were great , McIntyre played his character to the hilt , and it just felt like going back in time to re-live the events all over . The old timer rockers should go for this one .
Revenge , regret , remorse	So Douglass capped 3 scumbags : so what ? The world's a better place , right ? This was a good western with Peck doing an admirable job of portraying a man bent on vengeance at any price . Boyd was believable as the psychotic womanizer and it was a real treat to see Salmi again . Lots of nice Mexico scenery added much to the long , dusty hunt for the escapees .
Old salt must save the world	Nicely done picture dealing with a group of desperate men who recruit a former sub commander hoping he can stop a deadly threat on a remote island . Again Widmark shows us he is one of the top tough guys of the silver screen as he barks and growls his way to getting the crew he wants , and later on , the results he demands . Not content to do the job as the leading physicist insists , the rogue sailor cuts through all protests and does it his way . Although there were only a couple of big firefights , the story stayed interesting except for the standard love interest which must have been put in for the lady viewers . I felt the ending was weak though amusing as the crew opened up with all the hardware available at a very unlikely target .
Business before pleasure . . . . but not love	Like Sandra Bullock in " Love Potion # 9 " , Julia Ormond went from being an ugly duckling to a swan and capturing the heart of a wealthy man who had barely noticed her before . But love turned out to be a logjam to big business so a game of high stakes emotional chicanery was launched only to turn out with unintended results . I loved this one : makes me want to see the original .
It doesn't pay to cheat . . . . unless it's against dishonest folks	An aging con artist teams up with an Army deserter to begin fleecing the locals of their hard earned cash . The flim flam man knows all the cons and he and his sidekick run several smooth operations ; doing well until they have a run-in with the local constable . Their problems are a direct result of something that the older con man no longer believes in , but is still alive and well in the human heart . Good comedy even though it is dated .
Is this how the west was won ?	Could have substituted Bond for West , put him in Monument Valley , and had " 007 Goes to Arizona " . This was a good comedy with plenty of corny gags , scads of witty repartee , and tons of super duper gadgets wielded by both sides . I despise this type of film when played straight , but this movie was never offered as anything but silly entertainment .
Different take on Stoker's tale	Amusing look at an old story which , thankfully , isn't just another re-make of the re-makes . Kinski was a really ugly Dracula , the castle was spooky , there was almost enough of a funny side to take the edge off a true horror tale , and the picture carried a great soundtrack . The opening theme and mummified remains were chilling : this was just plain better than many in the genre .
4 sons to be proud of . . . . if you like bums	When a gambler loses his land after being cheated at cards , he winds up taking a slug when he objects . What was he doing gambling to start with ? His stupidity causes hardships for his wife who gets no help from her wanderlust , no good sons . After she dies the boys come home for the funeral and all hell breaks loose when the man who now owns their land frames them for a crime which they didn't commit and turns the entire town against them . Typical Wayne leadfest with the usual assortment of tough guys and tough talk . 3 stars .
The ultimate insurance scam	Most of this tale was hard to swallow : first you have a attorney who cares , then you have a case which appears to be totally unprovable , and finally , a woman who keeps pulling murders for insurance payoffs and getting away with it . Hard to believe this really took place . Good drama .
Nun searches for God , finds wealthy man instead	Very unrealistic film about a nun who finds a ready made family during the opening days of World War 2 . I don't care if it was a shade hokey , I still liked the show . Good songs , fine performances , and great scenery . What a wondrous mansion the Von Trapp's lived in : I could go for that lifestyle . The ending was exciting , though corny and way big unreal . Well worth seeing if you are a fan of musicals .
The spin doctors spun and the gullible public ate it up	These spin artists seemed so unreal that I began to believe that they couldn't exist apart from fiction . Maybe that was the subliminal message of this picture . If they are really like these characters here in the real world , then the politicos can get away with anything .
Heartwarming heartbreaker	Anybody who had a close friend during childhood who happened to be a canine should go for this one . Like most of the pooch films it was corny in spots , but at least Skip wasn't endowed with human intelligence . Of course , the mean men were around to cause trouble for the dog and boy ; can't get by without them . Fun movie , but be sure to bring along a crying towel .
School bus load of brats taken hostage by misunderstood escaped cons	Exciting film dealing with a hostage rescue unit of the FBI . They must try to talk a deranged convict and his buddies out of killing a group of young kids held in an abandoned slaughter house . Things go about as expected until the last 20 minutes when a surprise is thrown in which spices up an otherwise routine suspense picture .
More entertaining than many in this genre	Gary Sinise was totally convincing as the villainous patriot , and Cage was perfect for the role of a useless , selfish cop bent on having a good time only . Very exciting and fun film to see ; better by a lot than the silly " Con-Air " , a goofy " Diehard Goes Airborne " throwaway .
Chuck rocks the Casbah	Is it just me or is Chuckie's ax always slightly out of tune ? I really enjoyed this film and learned a lot about Berry , his past , the career , and a sometimes tyrannical attitude . Not to much on his arrest or marital life ; Chuck nipped that in the bud before it got off the ground . A lot of good footage is offered of the band rehearsing and then giving a sensational concert featuring several other artists . Also the viewer is treated to several interviews by various recording artists . Clearly , Berry is an out of the ordinary man , likeable in many ways , but a bit hard to swallow at times . I felt his attempt to change keys in the middle of a song during the performance was an amateur stunt at best . He is anything but a great guitarist , but none the less a complete showman .
Big boat bumps bigger berg . . . . bids bye-bye	The old boy who designed this tub should have kept his plans and sold them to the makers of tinker toys . Inept seamanship and carelessness did the rest , resulting in the loss of many lives . Can anybody spell O . S . H . A . ? Then again , some of these snooty , pea brains deserved to be deep sixed . And why didn't the Titanic ask the Carpathia to wire the boat that they saw on the horizon ? Woulda been worth a try . Couldn't help wondering , if the chairperson of the National Organization of Women had been aboard , would she have screamed " sexist pig ! " when she heard the officers refrain " ' women ' and children only " ? Dubious . Cameron's film was a direct copy of this one in many areas , but was still a bigger and better production .
Thoughtful look at combat	Sometimes sluggish , often violent and obscene , Thin Red Line for the most part offers a poetic insight into the stupid horrors of war . For certain it is not a simple re-make of the original . Like all battle films it is peopled with the cowards , the cynics , and the lovers of combat . Nolte was superb as the Pattonesque , rabid rank climber willing to see any amount of death and bloodshed to look good for his superiors . 4 stars .
Angel comes to earth to help out	Warm hearted flic depicting arch-angel Michael as a brawling , overweight , cigarette smoking slob who loves to dance and cavort with the opposite sex . He does have a good side , however , as he strives to set things right in the lives of a couple of burnt out losers before being recalled to heaven . Funny , well played out film ; very enjoyable although somewhat irreverent .
Con men dupe rancher for a high dollar payoff	Con artist passes himself off as a rancher's long lost son . He and his partner stand to make a cool million if the plan works . Meanwhile , the real son is making his way home through harsh country with the threat of death nearby all the way . Exciting western filmed in beautiful mountain country .
Standard whodunnit	Fairly good story about a 2 bit scoundrel private eye who apparently becomes involved in a double homicide while running a sleazy con game . A large insurance settlement is at stake and the police must figure out if the victim's wife did the deed or if it was her rival , hubby's mistress . Or could it have been someone else . . . . . ?
a man has his day and then must pay the piper	Spanning 25 years , this film chronicles the life of 4 students at a Louisiana university . One , a football hero , must come to grips with his life after the glory years are over . His wife becomes unhappy with the way her marriage is going as her husband ignores her more and more . Tragedy follows one of the other students , while the last is the most successful of the four . Good performances were given by all , however , I felt the story could have been presented better in some places .
Good drama set in beautiful mountain country	When a man fresh out of the Marines breaks his jeep down while traveling through a small town he winds up staying at a widow's ranch . While waiting impatiently for his ride to be repaired he comes into contact with many of the locals and thinks less and less about eventually moving on . Very entertaining .
Violence in the drug underworld	Lots of gunplay and evil characters abound in this ghastly , sensational tale . A good time was had and fine performances were given by all , but at times this picture was almost a comedy it was so ludicrous . No way could 2 losers do what this pair did and live to see the sun set . If you like action , see " True Romance " .
Long hair hippie dope fiends go wild in a cow pasture	Good documentary about the most famous concert of the decade . Many of the better bands , and some of the worst , were at this shindig where any and everything goes . Personally , I wouldn't have gone within 3 states of the place , but obviously not everyone is as crowd phobic as I . My main objection to the film was the camera zooming in on one band or musician to the exclusion of others . For instance , there was to much Richie Havens and not enough Country Joe . Way too much Jimi , and very little Carlos . It was well worth seeing , though .
Flagwaving pickpocket helps in the war on communism	Widmark comes through again doing his hardass routine . After what he thought was a routine purse robbing on a train , a well known thief finds he has taken more than a wad of change . Caught between the law and a desperate traitor he must figure out where his loyalties lie - money or country . Good one .
I should have gone to this school	Klein was superb as the bookish teacher intent on molding boys ' characters ' as well as teaching them . When he went out of his way to aid a troubled student he wound up depriving another causing some concerns for his conscience . The boy he felt he should help was the son of a bigshot politico who had no clue as to the needs of his son . Too busy being a power broker this ass arrogantly claimed he would mold his son's character . How ? He's seldom around and when he is there is no communication between himself and his offspring . Like so many fathers , I wonder why they even want children knowing there is no inclination to interact with them . Brings to mind the Harry Chapin song " Cat's in the Cradle " which speaks to many , many dads . The Emma Willard School provided a nice backdrop for a very good film . 4 stars .
Oddest assortment of dysfunctional characters I've seen in a while	Off the wall romantic comedy with one of the strangest plots I've ever seen . A middle aged man who still lives at home with his entire family falls for a woman 20 years his junior . This causes tension within his family , especially with the domineering father , a real tyrant . This guy is well into his fifties and still lets his father tell him he can't bring a woman home with him as though he were still a teen . Very weird family . The woman is a real loser type who needs a man to feed off of emotionally . They haven't got a chance . Very entertaining film with lots of shrill singing sequences and some good , and at times bizarre , dialogue . Great ending as the camera shows us the perfect couple after the rice has fallen from their hair and then pans over to the other perfect couple cynically revealing history in the process of repeating itself .
bizarre tale of revenge	Very strange film . A former cop kills criminals with 2 shots to the head , then leaves a rabbits foot near the body . A team of FBI agents are assigned to track him down , and one of the agents becomes emotionally involved with the killer . Unusual use of cameras adds a lot to the appeal of the movie ; however , the film still came off as a high end ' B ' movie . Too many glaring holes took away from the story , leaving it unrealistic . Corny one liners and overdone dialogue also acted as a detraction . Still it was an interesting show ; different from a lot of films in this genre .
For a Roger Corman production this was excellent	I enjoyed this one all the way through even though it had the usual Corman defects . The opening time travel sequence was a tad silly , but the car that drove itself was way cool . Where , however , did the nice roads come from way back in 1817 ? Don't expect the monster to look like Herman Munster because even this guy's eyes were stitched . Dumb film , but somehow appealing .
Bad cops and good man exchange lead with each other and local ruffians	Strange , darkly moody tale of revenge , murder , drugs , insanity , freaks , losers . . . . and one all around good dude . I like films that come at me from left field which is why I liked this one ; not to mention one of my fave actors being in it [ Val ] . It's one the viewer has to just keep watching to finally figure out . Oh , and there was plenty of gunplay for all you full auto freaks .
Dog dodges dozens of deadly darts	Well , folks , there were no surprises in this one . A young girl adopts a lost puppy and takes it in for her own , turning it into a first class sheep dog . Then the inseparable pair are separated and the dog must face a cruel world without his master . The film has the usual [ and some unusual ] assortment of adventures from the collie being shot , run over , drafted , shot again , ran to exhaustion , put on trial , exonerated , and then a tearful re-union with the little girl [ the dog didn't shed a tear ] . Some little girl . Wow ! I liked it , but then , I am a hopeless dog lover : it was pretty corny , though . Nice Canadian scenery throughout , should be a winner with the kids .
Not a bad spy film	I can't give a resounding yes to Dr . No , but it wasn't all that horrible . Certainly better than most of Fleming's books , which were slow indeed except for the last or so . The later Bond movies were probably more action filled , but were so corny they were hard to take seriously . I did appreciate the opening scene with Andress rising up out of the sea in that revealing bikini ; and the good doctor was nice and menacing .
Boy becomes a man the hard way	Good tale of the old west in which a young boy becomes a man after his family is wiped out . Old story line , yes , but it still made for a fine film . B . J . Thomas was effective as the expert gun handler who was unable to fire at another human , even in his own defense . One of Robby Benson's best performances .
An ego is a terrible thing to waste	Fairly good drama detailing a stressed out women's descent into a cult headed by a phony guru / psychiatric M . D . The doctor , through hypnosis , convinces the woman that her family life is a mess and that he alone is the answer to all life's questions . Of course , her family goes all out in an effort to have her returned to the fold by enlisting the aid of a man experienced in recognizing cult activity . The poor lady could probably have bypassed all this grief by consulting a good chiropractor . Too much went on in too little time leading to a sketchy program , but still it was a nice little production for anyone interested in how this type of sham is pulled off . A good novel dealing with a related subject was Dean Koontz ' " False Memory " .
Who needs these kinds of friends ?	After her son dies during a hazing incident his mother becomes a radical in her crusade to have fraternity initiations outlawed . She encounters much stonewalling by college officials and indifference by state politicians . The woman's life was turned upside down and some members of her family alienated from her as she singlemindedly went about attempting to keep this tragedy from being repeated . What makes boys want to socialize with a hall full of drunken cretins intent on partying till they drop ? Or go through hellish rituals some of which bring to mind hell day in special forces boot camp ? No point at all , but go tell that to the young turks , eh ? Good film .
If this is old age , I don't want to go there	An old man , crippled and with bad sight , sensing that his life is winding down begins a journey to repair his fences with his brother . Along the way he re-lives a sad life and the many mistakes he made . The viewer is enticed to sympathize with the old geezer , but I couldn't generate much for the man . By his own admission both he and his brother drank and argued too much , and appeared to live the lives of bums . Good picture .
To sue or not to sue	Should the big corporations be sued for trying to cut costs and therefore provide a cheaper product [ or make more profits if you are a cynic ] for the consumer ? Or produce at a higher cost and keep the consumer safe ? Erin thinks she has the answer ; watch and see her in action . 5 stars .
Opposing railroads vie for same track space	Two railroad construction crews go head to head in getting a new line through to the west . One crew is filled with dirty rotten scalawags who stop at nothing to fulfill their duty . The other group are square shooters who just want to do an honest days work for an honest days pay . They meet for the final showdown in an explosive ending . Good western filmed in beautiful mountain country .
Ringo Starr stars	Ex-Beatle Starr joins a jock and some real actors in this zany stone age romp . I suppose the ringed one will never be a top actor but I always enjoy his films . This stuff was so goofy it kept me in stitches the whole time . Solid fun with loads of laughs .
Had she been smart , she'd have kept right on running	Pretty good little romantic comedy with good performances , locations , and a decent script . May fave is still " My Best Friend's Wedding " so this will just have to be an also ran . Still it was a cleverly written , nicely done picture and , hey , Julia is in it .
Rock n ' Roll ain't never gonna die . . . . is it ?	Interesting documentary on the beginnings of rock music containing many clips of pioneering bands in concert footage , musicals , and movies . I was impressed with the number of rock music films that were done back in the 50's and 60's , most of which I had never heard . Many of them seemed to follow a similar format showcasing several popular singers built around a hinky dinky plot of teens doing their own thing while the parents go all woebegone over the world coming to an end due to the evil music . Too many big stars to name them all , and many were passed over rapidly , but suffice it to say if you want a nice overview of the early years this is good film to watch .
Gentlemen , the game's afoot	Holmes and Watson are called in to investigate a crime involving a year old murder and a box of priceless jewels . Holmes must deal with an ex-con and his murderous companion , who are bent on revenge and the retrieval of a large missing diamond . Another good Holmes adventure .
Fun western	One of the better shoot-em-ups I've seen . Welch turned in her usual lackluster performance as the female version of Josey Wales , but Culp and the Clemens boys kept things moving right along . Borgnine , Elam , & Martin were superb as the hilarious , yet dangerous " 3 Stooges " villains . Their slapstick antics had me rolling in the floor more than once . Why did the silent gunfighter hang around the old prison all the time ? Where did he sleep , what did he do all day ? Who kept his clothes so nicely pressed ? Lots of holes in this one , but a thoroughly enjoyable western .
Businessman is innocently involved in a murder plot	Good mystery about an accountant who had the wrong guy for a client . A sinister killer needs to see him dead in order to tie up any unforseen loose ends that may louse up his scheme . Very well done with a realistic sense of how something like this would go down . Neville Brand made a perfect evil creep as Chester the psycho , a part he always plays to perfection .
Swab jockeys woo dames , get in dutch with the Shore Patrol	Three sailors can't stay out of trouble . Be it with the girls , mom , or conniving dandies . Plenty of action is provided through song and dance routines where everyone gives fine performances . While this was not a great musical , it was still a nice little story with some good funny spots supplied by J . Carroll Naish and Alan King .
Stupid , yet fun and entertaining	This must have been written by the same guy that did the Jackie Chan films . Anybody who likes all that far out Kung-fu crap will be right at home with this one . Lots of colorful costumes and cool sets , along with some goofy comedy kept me glued to the screen all the way . Russell was perfect as the verbose , confused trucker . Thumbs up .
Another bloodbath in outer space	The world's baddest chick takes on the beast that refuses to die one more time . The usual ' monster lunches on man who is trapped ' bit with Weaver , as always , trying to outfox the creature . Odd camera work and lots of activity made for an exciting finale . Not bad , but been there .
How to outsmart a covey of smartasses	Mighty good drama depicting corruption in the justice department intending , on the surface , to solve a crime , but , beneath the waters , to further political careers . Sally Field played the self centered , self deluded reporter perfectly against Newman's confused , angry victim . Worth seeing .
One sexy bitch !	Ally Sheedy can scrunch up her face into a very disagreeable mask . She was perfect as the greedy , ultra-phony bitch . This was predictable all the way but still fun to watch . I admit to being totally taken in by the con artist near the end .
brats run amok	I laughed my head off at these ill behaved little rapscallions . However , in the real world I would have cheerfully kicked their rascally little butts . Nothing realistic about the behavior of these kids at all , but I don't think that was intended . Lots of zany antics [ some re-done from the old shorts from years back ] and many belly laughs left me feeling good after the film was over . Thumbs up .
No wonder the rich can't fit through the eye of a needle	Did anybody else think the theme song was done too up tempo ? Good song , though . I think were I as stinking rich as Mr . Crown I would be so appreciative that I would be in a permanent state of euphoria . His warped personality couldn't be satisfied with anything : winning ; losing : it was all the same to the ultra bored Herr Crown . Even after he was in jeopardy of going to the slammer for a long time , he continued to foolishly joust against the odds ; arrogantly flaunting his smug superiority in front of the authorities . I think the small smile he gave as he was flying to Europe after the big heist spoke loudly about his unfeeling , thankless attitude toward every thing he came into contact with . Good film , but the re-make was quite a bit more exciting .
Vinnie Barbarino does the Texas 2 Step	I bellied up to the bar expecting this to be a hot beer on a sweltering Texas day but was pleasantly surprised . After suffering through " Saturday Night Foolishness " I had no desire to see a re-make in some south Texas barnyard . . . . and I didn't . John Revolta was good as the jealous redneck , Scott Glenn was well cast as a thuggie ex-con , and Debra Winger was , as always , a delight . Love that woman Plus , the soundtrack was dynamite [ and this comes from a guy that can't stand the sound of country music ] . A fun film all the way .
Tricky Indian killers get faked out	When a British officer gets wind of a gang of murderous highwaymen he joins their ranks with the intention of shutting down the organization . Spys and counterspys in both camps offset each other until a final battle settles who will remain in charge . Hard to believe that during all the time the officer was with the thugs they never noticed how foreign he appeared or that the stain he used never washed off . Entertaining with plenty of action and great scenery .
Boy cries wolf and nobody listens	Pretty good remake , but still the same old story . Effective use of make-up and some good graphics did spice up this old tale some , but the first hour was way to slow . The last 30 minutes made up for it though with lots of car crashes , bitten off body parts , and quite a few squashed , mangled , and mauled folks lying about . No big deal , but worth watching .
Makes you want to go back and take a few courses	Cool , funny show with the always zany Rodney D . throwing campus parties , ping off the professors , and doing no studying . A total spoof on the way academia should never , ever be . Sam Kinison was in fine form with his signature scream .
Why did Foster make this picture ?	Jodie must have been hard up for some ready cash when she signed the dotted line for this run of the mill production . I enjoyed the thing so I suppose I shouldn't gripe but I have come to expect more lofty attempts at quality from this actress [ or is that word out of vogue today ? ] . There were gobs of stressful nail biting , truckloads of violence , eyesful of sights and earsful of sounds portraying what a evil , anything for the almighty buck world we live in . Yes , it had all this but the film still lacked an ingredient that I always look for in any movie and that is newness . I didn't find it here even as I sat tensely relaxed watching Foster fight to save her ill daughter and herself from the smart , the bad , and the whiney .
The title describes this dud	When a hit man is hired to cap a fellow crime boss all stupidity breaks loose . I can't say it was a total dog because I actually enjoyed the thing , but it was a little too ridiculous for my taste . I always enjoy Rich Harris , and Chuck as " Claw " was a real treat ; they did a good job spoofing crime film : however " Johnny Dangerously " did it better .
Evidence collector is totally clueless	Good thriller shot in NYC with a thought provoking puzzle for the viewer to see unravel . Nothing really new with this one but still interesting and exciting . The big finale was mundane and predictable , however it provided a nice little surprise .
convicted felon returns home to more trouble	An ex-con is released from the pen and returns home determined to go straight . He moves in with his brother and sister-in-law and learns of his brother's troubles with a local crime organization . The brother's problems excalate to the breaking point when the thugs demand more money than he has . This was a good show , however it had several flaws ; namely the gunfire sounded like underpowered fireworks , and some of the kicks and punches were obviously not connecting . Extremely violent , with buckets of blood .
Rambo Bond takes on killer prisoners	Another in a long line of action films sees a former Army Ranger taking on a planeload of hardened murderers . Lots of fancy camera work and computer generated energy made for a very exciting , although corny and unbelievable picture . I liked the movie , but it has been done and done and done .
Do we all really get what we deserve ?	My mom read Jessica Savitch's bio and claimed it was nothing like this film . Like all life histories put on film , this one jumped around too fast , left out too much , then added a lot of entertaining fiction . If this woman acted in her life like she did in this picture , she certainly got just what she wanted . What a manipulative monster - arrogant , egotistical , cranky , power hungry , and for what ? Adulation ? From who ? This was an entertaining movie with good acting and an interesting story ; I just didn't take it too seriously .
The dead speak most eloquently	I thought I got a bum steer for the 1st 20 minutes or so , then the pace picked up bit by bit until the ending at which time my hair curled and I was left gasping . I'm so glad that I'm not a genius like some folks who are so gifted with super intellect that they figured the story out half way through . Being so smart must ruin a lot of movies for these hyper brainy beings . All you dummies , like me , must watch this highly unusual picture and be amazed . . . . but view it closely .
Gives a whole new meaning to time capsules	I thought this was a very funny comedy . The sets used were very realistic , looked just like some of the furniture we used to own back then . The acting was right on target , the dialogue was interesting and amusing , and the story was well done . Made me wonder if this could happen , only not on such a large or lengthy scale . 3 stars .
devout man wages war inside himself between the flesh and spirituality	Excellent picture dealing with a holiness preacher who strays from the flock fairly regularly . This causes him trouble with the church elders and his wife . He goes on a spiritual odyssey to find what God has in store for him , and winds up founding a new church in a backwoods community . Unfortunately , his troubles are not over with even there . Well written story about how a Christian must constantly try and overcome Satanic influences .
Street punk goes back in time	A street smart Detroit rapper suffers a trauma which sends him back to the year 1822 in the deep south . He falls into the hands of slavers and is sold as a fieldhand , receiving a first hand education in life as an indentured worker . A funny yet grim look at early America .
excellent , thought provoking tale of the agony of slavery	The horrors of slavery are depicted here in graphic detail . The scenes dealing with the ships carrying their human cargo were awful - very hard to sit and watch . When the slaves were brought to America , a huge trial ensued over whether or not they should be freed or not . This was a big production complete with all the costumes of the era - the early 19th century . Great story , dialogue , and acting made this a must see film .
Snot nosed punks get what they ask for in the old west	Very good western about a group of worth less kids who go west looking for adventure and the easy life . They find things aren't always so rosy in the real world and soon have a falling out among themselves . This was a grim , and often funny , tale of boys becoming bad men .
a sports agent loses his job and must make a comeback	Sports agent Jerry Mcguire loses his job because of his radical new ideas . He tries to get his old contacts to go with him as he leaves his company , but they prefer to stay with his old organization . He nearly goes insane trying to be fair and at the same time lure a promising athlete into his fold . This movie was funny and had a good message to it also . Look for Eagles guitarist Glen Fry in his role as the coach .
One exciting film	The story here is similar to " Passenger 57 " , but still manages to be original . All the actors gave very credible performances , especially Ford and Oldman , and the set was realistic looking . However , when the Prez started whipping expert Speznaz troopers in hand to hand combat I did cringe a bit . But , hey , it was fun ! The viewer knows the outcome from the start , of course , and all the bullets flying around should have done more damage to the craft , but it was still one of the most hair raising , tense films I've ever seen . Made me wonder is security could really be that easily breached ; seems the thumbprint bit wouldn't have worked that smoothly .
Well . . . . the indians ride around in circles once again . . . . sigh	Really good western featuring the lovely Audrey Hepburn and the charismatic Burt Lancaster . A very solid , well made film complete with sod roofed homes , authentic looking revolvers and rifles , beautiful , yet harsh , scenery , and lots of wild , rampaging redskins . Every performance in this picture is of the first order - and what a thrill to see Albert Salmi once again ; a rare treat indeed .
great movie	Not a popular film , but I loved it . Superb story , well acted , excellent dialogue . I thought it captured perfectly how many of us really feel and act . A must see .
2 greedy men make life uncomfortable for a beekeeper	Excellent tale about a man who gets involved with 2 men intent on getting their hands on a stash of stolen loot from an armored car robbery . Unique story with an actor I haven't seen since he hit middle age . Peter Fonda still has the same soulful eyes he had when I first saw him in " Wild Angels " back in the mid-60's . His acting has improved considerably over the years ; I thought his old underground films were somewhat amateurish back then . This was a fine movie which reminded me a little of his western " The Hired Hand " from some 20 years ago . Well worth watching .
tension aboard a nuclear submarine	The first half of this film was a tad slow , but the second half made up for it . When it appeared that a U . S . nuclear sub might have to make a retaliatory strike on Russia , an argument broke out aboard ship between the Captain and his executive officer . The Captain wanted to go ahead with the action , but the X . O . was adamant about getting more information before setting such a drastic move into play . Sides were formed among the officers and enlisted men , leading to a deadly stand-off . Very tense movie , well worth seeing .
cops chase an innocent man	Good action yarn based on the old tv series starring David Jansen . A doctor is wrongfully accused of murdering his wife , and is arrested . While being transported to another facility , he manages to escape and the chase is on . He lives in constant fear of being captured by an obsessive federal agent before he can prove his innocence . Very well done thriller .
excellent film dealing with the great Civil War battle	This film showed the horrors and waste of war to maximum effectiveness . Why men would volunteer to expend their lives in such a vain effort is beyond me . Because some unthinking politico says you must run up a hill directly at people who are intent on killing you does not mean you must . A graphic film , well acted , with very realistic scenes .
Roy takes on a group of oil thieves	An escaped convict and an evil newspaper owner attempt to take over another man's property to mine the oil they know lies beneath a lake . They stop short of nothing to do this including murder . Lots of action , gunplay , and good western songs .
Many die so scumbag can have a son	Tense action drama with plenty of lead slinging , torture , blood ; a plain out and out violent film . When 2 thugs go after a pregnant woman in order to ransom her out for big bucks things immediately go awry . The old boy they planned on cheating has some pretty tough boys on his side which leads to lots of gunsmoke and dead bodies . The final shootout was a doozy which should cause the saliva to flow from the lips of all action lovers . Woulda been easier to plug the bitch and start over . . . . but the baby was gonna be a boy .
A slice from the real side of life	Laura Dern's character , Connie , is a spoiled , rebellious , selfish teen who has nothing on her mind but boys and fun . Her attitude alienates her from homelife and family which leads her straight into trouble . This was a good portrayal of how young people fritter away their time chasing after their own useless future when they could be preparing for a better life . Connie is a victim of her own parents apathy , just as they were victimized by their parents inability to guide and prepare children . Very good film .
A barrel of fun and laughs	An executive leaves his hometown to complete a $140M deal . Along the way he loses his wallet which contains the main ingredient for closing the deal . While trying to get the wallet back he meets every manner of opposition and zany characters . I really liked Jim & Jim and the Siskle & Ebert clones . One of the funniest comedies I ever saw . 4 stars .
Hilariously dramatic	One of the best pictures I've seen to date . Griffith had the part of the womanizing , opinionated , lazy , loud mouthed bum down pat . In fact , the entire cast was superb in this dynamic , gripping , and in the first half , uproariously funny drama which clearly shows how ego can not only destroy the egotist but those close to him . This film is an equal to Griffith's fine performances as Horton Maddock in " Savages " and Howard Pike in " Hearts of the West " . 4 stars .
life in a Turkish prison	A young man goes to Turkey with a plan to bring home a few squares of hash . This plan fails as he is apprehended at the airport . Sentenced to life in prison , he must endure the hell of a filthy , dangerous existence . This was a terrifying , graphic look at confinement in a foreign jail .
Raw sex , greed , revenge , murder	Very fine film that never lets up from the start . A wealthy man learns his wife is cheating and he must have revenge . This leads to his making a death pact with a man who is not as he appears , which creates a world of trouble for both men . Thumbs up .
Easy come , easy go	One thing about a poker player , if he is good enough , there is no worry about running out of money . This was a great film showing just that . The players in this high stakes poker thriller could afford to be cool , they knew it was just another big money game in a long line of high dollar events . You lose the big one ? So what ? This film did for poker what " The Hustler " did for pool . Go see it .
cute show with a message	I liked " Maid to Order " so much that I watched it twice , something I rarely do . A spoiled rich girl , unappreciative of life , was uprooted from her easy lifestyle by a fairy godmother . Her own father denied ever having had a daughter , she simply never existed to him in her new life . After having to work as a domestic to her own father , she sees life from the other side . Very entertaining .
One of the better westerns made	This was a good shoot-em-up western about a boy who was traumatized around the age of 10 by witnessing his father being murdered . He took the name Jack Slade and became a criminal , but never murdered anyone - sort of a likeable bad guy . He became one of the fastest guns in the west . This film had one of my favorite bad guys in it , Lee Van Cleef . This man just looks evil . He gave one of my favorite one liners in all of filmdom , " that's fast enough " . You'll have to see the film to get that one in context , which is not a bad idea . Go see it .
Dreyfuss and Murray were perfect together	The unusual relationship between doctor and patient made one of the best comedies I've ever seen . Mental patient Murray followed his psychiatrist and family all over while they were on vacation , aggravating the doc to no end , but endearing himself with the rest of the family . Every time the doctor turned around , there was Bob . It drove the guy to distraction , and with each distraction I laughed even harder . One of those rare films - a comedy which is really funny .
a man of principle sets out to make things right	This is the best film that I've ever seen Cusack in . He plays a family man that is unfairly taken advantage of by a wealthy land owner . After failing to obtain satisfaction through the courts , he feels compelled to take matters into his own hands . L . Q . Jones was superb as the villainous land owner ; in fact , the picture was well done by all . Thumbs up .
Funny , funny , funny	A barrel of laughs gush forth as a stressed out professor tries to hoodwink his colleagues into believing he has discovered a lost tribe in New Guinea . His plot is put in danger when a suspicious rival goes to the island looking for the tribe , rightly figuring it to be a hoax . Good stuff .
Another Willis butt kicking session	Bruce lets go in this action film done in the proud diehard tradition , though not as stupid as the last one . The bodies piled up as the combatants blasted their way across town with high capacity handguns and automatic rifles . Predictable Bruce Willis plot and outcome , but still tense and exciting .
Guitars , bell bottoms , long hair , and hard rock	Very good rockumentary showing some interviews but mostly footage of various concerts , most in color but some in b & w . All the bands ' big hits were performed and I liked the way the camera made use of the close-up lens which allowed the viewer to catch all the action as though sitting in a front row seat . See this if you get a chance , it is hot .
One of the better westerns	A former drinker and womanizer , returned from the Civil War , comes home as a newly converted preacher . He takes up residence in the old parsonage with a high spirited young girl and begins rebuilding the church . He finds a lot of trouble along the way , mostly from the local store owner who resents the new preacher because he fought for the north . Lots of action and drama made for a very good picture and Joanne Woodward as the rambunctious Lissy stole the show . She had me laughing all the way through . 4 stars .
This explains why there is no trust in the world	Excellent documentary dealing with a almost likable used car pitchman , his sidekick Mud , a glum disk jockey , and a host of car salesmen . I refuse to buy a car from a lot just because of the phony " smiling faces " which were represented here in abundance . These salesmen all were adept at saying one thing while plotting how to run a game on the buyer . A game in which the dice were loaded heavily in favor of the dealership , of course . The Slasher claimed he never lies to a buyer , yet in reality the entire shell game he is running is based on a layer cake of sweet sounding half truths , deceptive number crunching , and a sham facade of glib friendliness hiding a hideous mask of evil greed . It was sad to see easily swayed folks wanting to believe they were getting a good car for $88 , but what may have been even more grievous was the toll on the Slasher himself ; not to mention his cronies . One simply cannot build a fruitful life leading into a pleasant future while deceiving not only his customers but himself with shady business practices . I feel that goes doubly for the " dollar is God " money men who hired this hyperactive , miserably unhappy ' whore ' to do the dirty work they were unable to do themselves .
boot camp hell	Jack Webb finally gives something besides his usual wooden indian performance . He played the epitome of the jarhead , brainwashed , storm the beaches , semper fi , bonehead military idiot . The Corps before all else , even humanity . This great film showed the idiosy of boot camp to it's fullest . 4 stars .
who-dun-it with several twists	Very good dramatic comedy about a playwright trying to figure out how to keep his head above water after running out of ideas . Can't say much about this film without giving away the story . I can say that little was as it seems as you are watching the picture . Everybody has his or her own agenda . Nice little surprise at the end - after all the other surprises . Well written with good performances by all .
Justice is not always served	Excellent film combining everyday life on death row with a touch of the supernatural . Sam Rockwell deserves an award of some sort for his chilling performance of the deranged Billy the Kid . His act was not the only fine one either ; all the players enacted their parts well . 5 stars .
Reminded me of a Robin Cook novel	Very exciting film with lots of surprises . Not really all that original , I have run across the story of the mad doctor wanting to play God before . Still it was well done , and the ending left me wondering . . . . . Hugh Grant and Gene Hackman were , as usual , flawless in their performances , as was the entire cast .
Pesky redskins attack white settlers	A band of renegade Utes , led by a sneaky , low down , forked tongue white man , burn , loot , and pillage across the southwest . A rugged settler and the Army go after the elusive skunk and his gang of dirty rats and meet in a blazing gun battle in the mountains . Above average western .
woman with amnesia takes up with a sleazy boat operator	This was a funny film about a snooty upper class lady who loses her memory . She falls in with a low-life charter boat operator , becoming very fond of him . Of course , her memory returns , and her parents are horrified that she would cavort with someone so far beneath her station . Many laughs in this one .
Great action movie with beautiful scenery	The best actress of them all was in this exciting film . Admittedly , the story was an old one with the usual predictable ending , but I love just about anything with Streep in it . She is so believable in her parts . Kevin Bacon acted the part of a psycho very well . The sequences shot at the waterfalls kept the adrenaline flowing in this fast paced thriller .
exciting western with lots of action	Willie played a peaceable man who is singled out for harassment by a group of thugs and killers . His life becomes a mess because of these people , making him cynical and hard . A good woman attempts to bring him back from his hard hearted ways . Very good western with a good message .
unbeatable high priced thief	Very good program starring one of my fave actors , Val Kilmer . In this one he played Simon Templer , super thief , master of the mask , and , of course , lady killer . He took a gang of Russian thugs who were bound to take over their country . They wanted to do this by gaining control of a device capable of powering the world at almost no cost . Simon gave them hell from the word go ; each time they got their hands on him he would slither from between their fingers . A totally cool guy , calm , fearless . A cross between James Bond and the Mission : Impossible team . It was ridiculous , of course , but a good time with lots of action and intrigue . Good acting by all , especially the nasty bad guys .
race troubles in a small Florida town	A small town in Florida in 1922 , with a black and white population , breaks out in violence and bloodshed . The reason for the trouble came about when a white woman claimed to be raped by a black man . This infuriated the white populace into going on a murderous rampage leading to the deaths of many innocent people and the near total destruction of the black section of town . A very exciting program based on a true story .
Man tries to cover up his crime	Very good film about a middle aged professor who becomes enmeshed in a crime of passion . He goes through an elaborate ordeal attempting to hide his deed . Meanwhile , his partner in crime is having problems with a clever thug who has figured out the basics of the offense . The professor becomes more and more distraught as his plans to escape the law go totally awry leading him to a final desperate act . The ending to this movie would be trite today , but played out well in this one .
Party freaks dance all night	Crazy picture about a group who go to all manner of effort to put on techno dance parties in abandoned buildings . The spaced out dancers [ for want of a better word ] were entertained for several hours by a succession of DJ's , each with his / her own collection of tunes . Since the law was being broken to hold the event things didn't go smoothly all night , however everyone seemed to take it in stride . Interesting look a portion of a degenerate generation whose sole intent is to have a good time .
Bad parents breed bad kids	A snot nosed punk , after raping and murdering a marshall's wife , is trailed home by the vengeful lawman . The entire town of Gun Hill refuses to aid the marshall in any way due to fear of , or loyalty to , the rapist's father who controls the whole town . A standoff ensues in the form of a ' waiting war ' ; waiting on the 9 o'clock train out of town : the marshall either dead or with his prisoner , himself the victim of his overindulgent yet brutal father . Excellent western with loads of blazing 6 guns and hot lead .
I've always wanted to be the assistant manager of a convenience store	Funny , fast paced story of an assortment of pathetic losers , their dreams , girlfriends , and go nowhere lives . I laughed all the way through at the give and take between the two lead characters and their stupid friends and lovers . Both intelligent , sometimes even sagely ; the two men lead lives of loneliness and boredom leading to a careless attitude about their jobs which , in time , will become their position on all things unless they choose to reverse the course they are following . I was groaning with glee as the store clerk had it out with his lady friend over how many men she had fellatio with . I liked the way the film was broken up into titled parts , each comprising a small story within the tale . Zany , well worth the price of entry .
T-totally cool look at the evils of R & R	From the opening beat I fell in love with SR & R . A delightful little spoof on the teen years in the 50's complete with a Murray the K style announcer , a downtrodden teen queen and her garage band , 4 hysterical busybodies intent on saving the world from the evils of music [ who were hysterically funny ] , a way too old motorcycle " Fonzie " , and lots of singing and dancing . A fun movie not to be taken one bit seriously nor making a statement of any kind .
Carrey does it again	Well , was Morgan Freeman any more unusual as God than George Burns ? This film sure was better than that bore , " Oh , God " . I was totally engrossed and LMAO all the way through . Carrey was perfect as the out of sorts anchorman wannabe , and Aniston carried off her part as the frustrated girlfriend in her usual well played performance . I , for one , don't consider her to be either ugly or untalented . I think my favorite scene was when Carrey opened up the file cabinet thinking it could never hold his life history . See if you can spot the file in the cabinet that holds the events of his bathroom humor : I was rolling over this one . Well written and even better played out , this comedy will go down as one of this funnyman's best .
Slick , fast paced crime thriller	Sinise stole the show as the crazy trucker Monster . One more thrill ride all the way with a nice twist two thirds of the way through and a razzle dazzle gasper of an ending where the " real " twist in inserted . Edge of the seat all the way .
I just love all that full auto stuff !	Now here was a real man's cops and robbers show . These bank bandits were in dead earnest and made believers out of a whole passel of police officers to prove it . I mean they were cranking out the rounds , mag after mag . One phony part , and it didn't really bother me : it takes only 2 heartbeats to empty an M16 magazine ; these boys went way too long between reloads . There was a lot more to this film than shoot-outs and blood , of which there were bushels and buckets . The viewer was also treated to the private side of the good guys and the bad . 5 stars .
ex-Beatle Paul rocks the casbah	Tissue paper thin story used completely as an excuse for Paul and friends to conjure up a series of music videos . And ruddy good tunes they were . Loved watching the band go through several fine songs , many of which I had never before heard . The story had Paul and cohorts searching for a set of missing tapes , leading the viewer through a series of flashbacks and dreamscapes which gave the film a magically mysterious sensation . The picture at times had that baked feel I was used to from early Beatle flickers . . . . only this was much , much better . I thoroughly enjoyed this movie : and I really went for the little doodle bug car .
What a girl ! . . . and what a musical !	One of my favorite shows with plenty of singin ' and dancin ' all the way from the simple countryside , to the big city , and over to the even bigger city life of Europe . Debbie plays a tomboy country girl who can't wait to leave the outback and live the high life in Denver . On the way to this better life she crosses paths with a prospector who changes her life and not always for her betterment as far as she is concerned . She finds that her dreams of wealth and a place in high society are not necessarily what will make her happy in the real world . This is a very delightful film with lots of beautiful scenery , props , and great performances by the entire cast .
older cowboy has trouble with a modern world	Tommy Lee Jones was perfect as a slow moving , slow talking cowboy who comes out of the hills after a 2 year stay . He goes to see his brother and his family finding them in financial trouble . He lends his hand in helping out the troubled family , and falls in love with a local lady . Well done film about a man who finds it impossible to change his roving ways . 4 stars .
Murdering scum cause trouble wherever they go	Three killers depart from California for Arkansas leaving several dead bodies in their wake . Upon arriving in Razorback country they must face the 2 L . A . cops who trailed them east , and a local sheriff who has never been battle tested . Violent and profane , but exciting all the way with a dynamite , though terse , ending . Hot stuff .
good time travel yarn	A cop goes back and forth in time , working lots of overtime . Get it ? Overtime ? Anyway , a group of bad guys causes him and his family a lot of trouble . He uses the time machine to help solve his problems . I liked this one , but I am a sucker for time travel pictures . To keep from getting confused you must watch closely all the time . Time . Get it ?
Cowboys corral cayuses , steer steers to Sedalia , and brawl , booze , and bang in beer bar	Best western featuring 2 unprincipled , ignorant saddle bums who decide to leave their employer and rob the local financial repository . Things go well for the pair until the willful son of their former boss gets on their trail and absolutely nothing will remove him from it . Tenacious little grubber played well by Tom Skerritt . He and his brother chase the bandits across a desert , over mountains , and through the snow until finally they meet in Monument Valley National Park . However , the thieves were a tad worse for wear seeing as they had a little trouble on the way during a friendly little game of poker . Except for a couple of sluggish moments this film moved along right nice like . Good performances , starkly beautiful scenery , and decent dialogue kept my interest all the way through . I especially liked the poker game scene : it was one of the better played out scenes in the picture . Morbid ending .
very black , dramatic comedy	Fine film about a man who lost his wife , and as a result begins to question the motives of God . He has all these emotional problems while his arrogant brother-in-law is doing fine while totally ignoring any religious commitments ; which the brother-in-law makes his relative very aware of . However , in the end things do not remain the same for arrogant in-law . Nor for the man who lost his wife . This film may bother some Christians at first , but in the end I think this film will be accepted as giving a positive message about theology . The ending was surprising and gratifying .
The serious side of Carrey	I often wondered how Carrey would handle a drama and now I know . Totally enjoyed this trip through nostalgiatown as Carrey rejuvenated a town with his infectious personality . Heavily dramatic at times but always with an undercurrent of jollity running through it . I especially appreciated Carrey's dead on comments in the military graveyard .
Human greed is a terrible thing	I watched this film with the intention of seeing who was the funniest comic in it and came up with the name Phil Silvers . I always did appreciate his brand of humor anyway , but he had me in the floor with his zany impatience and surprised stupidity . All the players were funny though ; I consider this to be one of the finest comedies ever . 5 stars .
Absolutely divine romance	I loved this film ; it's one of those movies that almost convinced me that great romances are a thing of the real world and not just good film . Nice chatty picture , fun all the way ; a tad off center due to the looks of the " ugly " girl , but well worth a view .
Those rascally Nazis just won't leave the Jews alone	After being taken with his family to a Nazi death camp , a man is forced to box his fellow inmates for the entertainment of the camp officials . In constant fear for his life , as well as that of his family , he must endure a living hell just to survive . This tale of the concentration camp has been done and re-done , but this was a fresh look at that time in history . Well worth seeing .
Very serious comedy	Lots of intense drama and loads of side splitting laughs . Equally as good as King's short novel . The 4 boys interplay was flawless ; their boyish actions realistic . The pie eating scene was one of the funniest things I've seen on film yet . Wonder what happened to good old Ace Merrill ?
excellent show about a small boy and his real life toys	A young boy gets a toy indian which he puts in a cupboard overnight . It comes to life , fearful of the child at first , but they soon become friends . A cowboy and a soldier are added to the cupboard , and they too become animated . A very entertaining movie which is suitable for all .
Very funny movie about two silly egotistical asses	Hilarious comedy . The antics of Dreyfuss and DiVeto were a scream . The sets were realistic , the dialogue was biting , and the acting was great . This was truly a comedy's comedy .
Ahhhh . . . young love !	Very good film which takes a nostalgic look at rural life in the 50's . The focal point of the movie was a 14 year old girl and her lovesick mooning over an older boy . Sounds corny , but was so well written that it kept my attention all the way . Lots of excellent acting , and great dialogue made for a very enjoyable 2 hours . Loved it .
Tenderfoot turns trailboss in cattle partnership	A jilted hotel clerk goes into the cattle business in hopes of rekindling the romance when he does business with his girlfriend's father . Life on the cattle trail is not what he thought it would be , and he must learn to get tough or perish in this harsh new world . Frank de Kova was miscast as a bellhop - he looked like an organ grinder's monkey . This western was well worth seeing .
Gunplay and complicated sexuality do mix after all	For a long time I avoided seeing this film because it involved the IRA and is a Brit production . Glad I went ahead and saw it because this in one more fine movie . The picture is broken up into two segments ; one dealing with a hostage taking and the last concerned one of the terrorist's affair with the victim's girlfriend . He felt compelled to meet her after the incident and was drawn into her world of perverted sexuality which revolved around a bizarre nightclub she worked in . As the film progresses the viewer is likewise enticed into their kinky world and is handed quite a surprise along the way leading to some smokey scenes between the two lead characters . I really went for the title song , it fit right inside these folks sad existence .
U . S . bombers take on the enemy	Intensely dramatic film which looks at a squadron of U . S . bombers flying missions over Germany . One plane , the Memphis Belle , is on the verge of completing the required amount of missions in order to be sent to a non-combat area . Nerves are taut as the crew learns their last mission will be an unusually dangerous one . This film had one of the most horrifying scenes I've ever seen as a stricken plane was plummeting to the earth with the screams of the crew coming over the radio of the other planes . Excellent movie .
Being smart has it's down side	A small boy who is shunned and disliked by his schoolmates is taken in by a woman who runs a school for gifted kids . All this is so the boy can realize his true potential when all he really wants is friends and to be liked . Well played out film with Foster and crew giving flawless performances .
Hotheads go off half-cocked and form a lynch mob	A local rancher is said to have been murdered and his cattle rustled . A couple of loudmouths rabble rouse a mob together and take off to dispense frontier justice . They catch up with a trio of men with a herd of cattle with the incriminating brand . The three men proclaim their innocence , with the posse members being divided in their feelings over guilt or innocence . Overwrought emotions flare creating a highly emotional and dramatic conclusion . A terrifying look at how emotions and tempers can get the better of a group .
Scrooge is at it again	This was pretty much the same tale as all the other renditions of this film . Fine performances , good scenery , and realistic locations made for an enjoyable program . However , I preferred the picture with George C . Scott in it ; I felt he was a more believable Scrooge and the whole show was simply more well made .
2 cops try to solve a murder by using a polygraph	An epileptic man takes a lie detector test to prove he had nothing to do with the death of a stripper . During the test , the private lives of the investigators comes to light due to an investigation by the investigated man . This causes the case to take a strange turn . The film flashed back and forth in time showing the cheap tawdry lives of all involved in the bizarre circumstances . Great story and fascinating dialogue kept me on the edge of my seat all the way through . 4 stars .
Snoopie woulda popped the chops of these krauts in a heartbeat	This was an excellent picture with lots of very graphic dogfights and hot flying in some really great looking vintage bi and tri-planes . Very expensive film in appearance with realistic ground action as well as air . 4 stars .
Rebel with a cause : but he gave it up	Very enjoyable film about a southerner who gleefully goes off to battle only to find it wasn't the grand adventure he had envisioned . Sick of the carnage he takes the long road home , experiencing many rough knocks as he does . The picture bounces back and forth from 1861 to 1863 showing us the man before and after his soldiering experience . Primarily we see his relationship with a woman as it gets a rocky start and gradually forms into something permanent . Many fine performances in the movie made it memorable ; I particularly liked the interplay between Ruby and Ada . I had to laugh a couple of times at Ruby's habit of counting off points she wanted to make . Hilarious . Well played out ending ; fit in well with the mood preceding it .
intense film about the dissolution of the American family	Spellbinding movie involving the lives of two families and their problems . The parents drank too much , cheated on the spouse , and had little control over the children . Tragedy brought one of the parents out of his lustful fog , but left the feelings of the others up in the air . Good film about the gap between the generations .
Strange , but good	Another in a long line of excellent , quirky Buscemi films . This one started out making me squirm in aggravation as a film crew couldn't seem to do anything right . As the picture rolled out , I began to get more and more involved until finally I was totally engrossed . Dramatic as well as funny . . . . go see it .
watch who you rent your apartments out to	Taut drama about a couple whose budget is stretched to the limit . They buy an old house and fix it up , intending to rent out rooms . One of the rooms is rented out to a scam artist who plans to use the couple and their home to his advantage . Frightening film .
funny story about a teacher's discovery that he is homosexual	Many laughs to be had with this one . A high school teacher is rumored to be a homosexual , but denies it vehemently . He is soon to be married , therefore , most people believed him . However , they still looked at him sideways because there was some doubt . He spent the next 3 days trying to convince folks that he was indeed straight . This was a propaganda piece designed to further an agenda , in my opinion . Very good film , as usual Kline was superb .
" Hell no , we won't go " !	Very good piece on the horrors of war and the stupidity which causes them . Lots of good interviews with former gung-ho jarheads who are now armless , without legs , or sitting forever in wheelchairs . Several clips from interviews with politicos of the era in which one man even went so far as to admit the entire war was a gargantuan error : " I couldn't have been more wrong in my assessment of the situation " was his comment . We really are led by fools . Other footage showed the ravages of the Viet people themselves - not just a bunch of dinks - who lost homes , families , and entire villages . The most telling scene for me was of the 2 parents mouthing their patriotic " he died fighting for freedom " gibberish in defense of a useless war which took their son away forever . Maybe this was merely their own defensive mechanisms at work but it made them appear so painfully ignorant of what was going on around them . This should be viewed by all , especially those who were around at the time and remember all the conflicting emotions .
One more slick con job	Get ready for some extremo salty language as a murderous gun runner goes all out to salvage his money . Hot performances by the entire crew , good location shots , and some cool camera work , not to mention a taut , well written story gives the viewer a thrilling ride through the seamy gutters of crime . Nobody says mother like Samuel Jackson : others can try but he can't be matched . Great film which reminds me of " Pulp Fiction " .
Extremely exciting	Action and intrigue abounds in this thriller about a group of government haters who set out to blow up a federal building . The unique way in which they went about carrying out their plot was well done , believable , and very intense . Great acting and dialogue carried the movie very well , and I especially appreciated the subtle twists and turns the plot offered . I saw a few holes in this production , but it didn't detract one bit from the overall impact . 2 thumbs up .
Guns , guts , but no God	A most enjoyable trip through the psycho wasteland of big drug operators and the cops who try to bust them . Walken was great as the totally crazed king-pin and I loved Fishburne's Jimmy Jump ; what a murderous sociopath . If you like plenty of spent ammo and gallons of blood splatter you'll go for this one in a big way .
stupid , careless people identify the wrong man	An innocent man , Chris Balestrero , is wrongly accused of several crimes and is arrested and put on trial . The indifferent police made no effort at giving Balestrero a chance to produce an alibi and they twisted the evidence around in an attempt to make the man look guilty . Oddly , Balestrero's attorney had no investigator and Belestrero had to provide much of his own defense . Another unlawyerly thing the counselor did was to make this statement , " Don't worry about my fee , let's just concentrate on proving your innocence . " This was another fine offering from Hitchcock , I give it 4 stars .
Would this work in the real world ?	I started off thinking I had made a mistake watching this film , but it wound up totally entertaining me . Ed was a real bore at first , but as he got deeper into his personal life the show became more and more interesting . What a collection of nuts his family turned out to be , especially the selfish brother . Good performances by all made this a real winner .
Bully throws his weight around town	The town bully , a dangerous thug , runs roughshod over the entire town including the ineffective town marshal . Fear of this oaf and his cruel family allowed him to intimidate and injure several folks . Ultimately , these animals are dealt with by the only means they will ever understand . . . brute force . When dealing with trash like this man and his family , the decision to quell his activities should not be long in making .
He's suave , he's cool , he's rich . Don't give him problems	Hit man Ripley gets back at a insulting neighbor by setting him up as a contract killer who must deal with a group of psychos bent on revenge . The plot thickens when Ripley is pulled into the melee by an associate who lets the game get out of hand . Excellent ' chase around town ' yarn , and Ripley is just soooooo cool .
unusual western	This was one of the oddest westerns I've ever seen . Warren Beatty played a seedy hustler who comes to a rough edged boom town filled with every sort of riff-raff imaginable . He manages to mind his own business while at the same time he befriends a madam and her girls . He is definitely not a crusader , but events in the town drag him into having to make certain decisions . Eventually , he is caught up in the task of taking on a trio of savage killers in a brutal climax . Great film .
Man seeks revenge on mobsters who murdered his father	When a young boy witnesses the murder of his father he vows to revenge his death . After reaching manhood he joins the organization that the killers preside over with the intention of fulfilling his death wish . Good action and dialogue kept this story moving right along , even though it was a little corny and the ending was predictable .
Never take a chain to a gunfight	Excellent police drama with plenty of realistic gunplay and barrels and barrels of profanity . Two cases are running at the same time with one cop dividing his time between both projects . Meanwhile , he becomes involved with a radical Jewish hate group which is deeply involved in terrorism . The film was a little slow in the middle , but was still a tense and gritty picture .
Yuri Zhivago he isn't	Perhaps Williams finest effort to date . I laughed till my sides ached , and maybe even shed a tear or 2 , but I won't admit to actually doing so . Liked that big shock the film produced a little over half way through - totally unexpected . If I had a problem at all with this picture , it would be that it is a tad pat , but I still thought it was excellent . Highly recommended .
Mission to Mars never gets off the ground	To keep the space program alive , the head honcho of NASA fakes a voyage to Mars . For months he keeps the public duped by a series of phony transmissions from " Mars " , using the hostage astronauts to help in this fraud . Things go awry when the pilots figure out that they will be eliminated to keep them silent , and they plot their escape to freedom . Very exciting film , with some great flying scenes and a fairly plausible story . There were too many holes in the plot to make it completely believable , however I still recommend it highly .
woman is pursued by killers who want her floppy	Sandra Bullock portrays a computer nerd who comes into possession of a valuable floppy . A mysterious group want the software , and are willing to kill her for it . They move on her as she is on vacation , wiping her identity out making it impossible to return home . An exciting chase ensues with a thrill a minute . One of Sandra's best .
And we thought he was just a coffee salesman	A fine program showing us the life , attitudes , and exploits of one of baseball's legends . The viewer sees some of Joe's early family life , his 2 marriages , and lots of baseball footage . I particularly enjoyed the old sports clips showing Ruth , Gehrig , Berra , Rizzuto , Stengel , Mantle , and others . This is a good program for anyone liking documentaries and / or details on sports figures . 5 stars .
I could have been Erskine Cooney	It would seem political correctness prevailed even back during the big bloodletting . The military should screen it's officers very thoroughly before giving them the command over others ' lives . Captain Cooney should never have been issued a uniform much less been promoted to such a high field rank . Most of these old 40's and 50's war films leave me colder than a dead kraut but this was way above the fold . Yes , some of the special effects were a bit tame and a couple of the sets looked like what they were , but this was one gritty , ugly tale of the horror and waste of combat . The entire cast was excellent in their portrayal of soldiers in a hopeless situation . Many familiar old faces in this one , most of whom are no longer with us .
musical about a woman who wants to study with the men	Excellent musical about a jewish woman who is blocked from studying by law . To bypass this problem , she poses as a man and goes off to college , becoming attracted to a man who befriends her . The man's fiancee becomes attracted to her , causing all sorts of difficulties . Very good story which plays out well . In case you are not a musical buff , this one didn't have an overabundance of music . One of Streisand's best .
high school love and hijinx	Really funny show about a fickle high school girl who dumps her beau for a more popular guy . The dumpee spends the rest of the film trying to get this airhead back , which shows how intelligent he really is . This leads to all manner of adventures and mishaps which keep the viewer in stitches . One of Cusak's better movies .
insane man terrorizes a family	Robert Mitchum was born for this role . He played the evil Max Cady as though Cady's spirit was actually inside him . Cady was a psychopathic murderer who became obsessed with a couple and their daughter . To counteract this persistent attention , the couple hired a security agent . When this went terribly wrong , the family made a run for their houseboat . Unfortunately , Cady was wise to them leading to a nail biting finale . 5 stars go to this great film .
A true slice of life	This was an excellent tale of what some people's lives are really like . The acting was flawless , the story rang true , and the dialogue was some of the best ever . Barkin was perfect as the man crazy , brainless mother , and De Niro captured the role of a bullying , phoney drunk completely . Men do indeed act like this every day , and women allow them to . Don't miss this one .
Hitmen chill , do , off , tap out , rub out , ice , bump off , freeze , bop , and choke	This was so far out in left field that the turf touched the sky ; so flaky that Post cereals could produce enough Wheaties to feed the Arizona Diamondbacks indefinitely . The film was ultra violent and bizarre with oddly interesting dialogue and an even stranger storyline . I loved the way the camera would slink from the old into the new scene without any definable break in the order of events . It took me a few minutes to realize I was not into a standard movie and a while longer to understand I was being entertained by a very offbeat experience . J & T was black comedy at it's most midnight shade : funny , spooky , creepy , but above all a real gas . 4 stars .
What a nice guy !	This is one of those films which salutes love and marriage in a way as to make the viewer believe it really works like this . Good performances by all made for a very funny show , one of the best comedies I've ever seen . I even liked Adam Sandler , a player that I usually can't stand .
tense court-marshal drama	Sergeant Ryker is accused of being a traitor during the Korean War , a hanging offense . A long drawn out court-marshal ensues during which time the Sgt . must remain in a military jail . After much investigation the defense attorney attempts to exonerate the doomed non-com with an eleventh hour ploy . Very good picture .
card shark outwits and is outwitted	Extremely well scripted with equally fine acting . Lots of double dealing by card sharks , con men , and charlatans . Funny spoof of the old west .
very good look at an aging gunfighter in the old west	A different western hero from Eastwood's usual hard bitten pistolero type . An old , burnt out gunman is persuaded to do one last job . Forced to call up old feelings and actions , he enters a town for a violent confrontation . Good western which had a true feel for times past .
This film made me want to attend a AA meeting . . . . and I never drink	Started off a little slow but turned into one of the hottest dramas I've ever seen . Remick and Lemmon were sensational as the two drunks who couldn't control their actions after a few drinks . I had to laugh at some of their antics , but the greenhouse scene and especially the pitiful , horrible DT's in the rubber room were sobering indeed . Great picture showing the ravages and uselessness of booze .
The agony of unrequited love	What an excellent film ! Superb performances , spellbinding dialogue , and beautiful sets and props led to an enchanting 2 hours of lost love and hope . I loved the stiffly formal , wonderfully polite , yet stifling mores these English were forced to endure . In many cases their lives were not their own to live ; in many , their lives were lived under the gun of the almighty buck . They carried right on , however , with their characteristically stiff English upper lip , come what may . Great film with a knockout ending .
good tale about Earp , Holliday , and the Clantons	Fine yarn about the shootout at the Ok Corral . I feel that it was mostly Hollywood's idea of what happened , but who cares . The gunfights were real looking , the bad guys were ' bad ' , and so were some of the good guys . Lots of action in this one ; the show was stolen by Val Kilmer as he played Doc to the hilt .
Idle hands are the devil's workshop	Did these kids have zero supervision or what ? Most of their parents walked around in a dream state as to what was going on in their childrens ' lives . Apparently the brats were well cared for financially because they always had their smokes , booze , dope , and nice cars . The bully certainly deserved to have some serious ass-whup put on his worthless , perverted hide and so did his killers . What a worthless collection of sexual deviants , crybabies , and tough guy wannabes . This picture proves what I've said for a long time : if you want to kill someone ; do it alone , bury the body deep , and never tell a soul - not even your own mother . These blabbermouths couldn't wait for even one day before they began spreading their evil deeds all over town . The stupids deserved their fate .
Where have the good times gone ?	Excellent film showing the pathetic lives of two nutty old ladies . They couldn't live together , nor apart . Babbling constantly , sometimes at the same time , they hashed and re-hashed the past ; going on and on about what coulda shoulda woulda . I found myself laughing at times , but mostly I was taken with how utterly sad and abandoned these two women were . See this one .
A great portrait of lovers in love	A childhood illness leaves a young man with a serious health problem and a somewhat odd outlook on life . Being rather retiring , he was considered strange by his fellow employees ; causing them to shy away from him . Despite all this , he gets to know one of the girls better after he helps her out of a sticky situation . They manage to have a brief yet fulfilling relationship . Very romantic , I loved it .
Man beats wife , then loses life	Very exciting film with a bang-up ending . This poor woman couldn't pick the right man with a set of ice tongs . As bad as hubby was , at least he wasn't a total psycho . Although this picture had some gaping holes in it [ for instance : why didn't the cop call for backup ? ] , it was still tense and dramatic . If I learned one thing from this movie , it was to always carry a backup modem connection .
Does our planet deserve this fate ?	One of the oddest stories I've seen in a while and what a treat it was . Something mysterious is about to shut down Planet Earth which causes permanent daylight and has earth's occupants doing very strange things . The film focuses on only a few of these folks ' and drifts in and out of their final hours until . . . . . .
The world's tightest man scores big with this one	This is one of the funniest films I've ever seen . A local station in Houston used to run this show on new year's eve and I would watch it every year . Few comics can top Benny and his deadpan delivery but Pa Kettle came close in this one as he played the slow motion yard man .
Sleazy politico changes horses in the middle of the creek	Excellent film showing the cheap side of politics in what appeared to be a factual tell-all . Big money rules over life and death , and when Bulworth decides to give the game away his political friends are no longer so nice . One of the blackest comedies I've ever seen . 4 stars .
What a great vampire film	This is the best vampire picture I have yet to see . It came off as close to what being a vampire really would be as could be done . At least to my way of thinking . Lili Taylor was perfect as the philosophy spouting , newly made vampiress , Kathleen . Her victims were plentiful , and their feeding time near the show's end was a neck biting good time . I put this one up there with " Count Yorga , Vampire " and " House of Dark Shadows " for a chilling look at the undead .
Will R & R ever die ?	Interesting look at the thoughts and behind the scenes lives of several well known and not so well known headbangers . Since I'm not up on many of the performers I remain curious as to whether or not many of them went on to reaching their goals or just faded away . Strange characters made me wonder about a society that allows them to become so popular . The title says a lot about that , I suppose .
terror on the high seas	This show made me very nervous . A psycho stalked a couple on the high seas in a nerve racking ordeal of cat and mouse tactics . They would almost get away from him , but somehow he would come back . Billy Zane played the villain well , and Neill and Kidman were perfect as the terror stricken pair . Fine film .
I laughed my head off	This one poked fun at the military schools and came off well . Good acting and funny script kept it going . I fell in the floor watching the Major eat , but do you really think a fine , foxy babe would be even remotely attracted to this animal ? It was totally unrealistic , but was made for a big laugh so who cares ?
What goes ' round , comes ' round	A pathetic middle aged loser , suffering mental delusions , decides to swim home via his neighbors ' pools . He was met at each estate with a spate of emotions ; great affection , indifference , snobbery , rejection , disgust , and jeering laughter . Many of these feelings either startled or shook him to the bone , but none so much as what he felt upon arriving home . Splendid drama with great performances and slicing dialogue . Definitely one of Lancaster's top pictures .
Drugs take over a young girl's mind	A great look at the drug culture of the 60's and 70's . Based on the true life diary entries of an unidentified teen-age girl , this film hit home hard . She was pretty much a typical girl who just wants to fit in with the crowd , but feels left out and bored . Her diary entries are rather dull reading until she begins to try drugs . More and more they control her life until finally she is badly hooked on heroin . Watch the film to see the ending , it should open peoples eyes to the danger of experimenting with drugs . . . but probably won't .
Old gives way to the new	Wonderfully done film concerning an old woman who is being asked to sell her mountaintop home to a land developer . Since she has lived there most of her life , of course she is reluctant . But time is against her ; life is becoming harder and harder to bear while living on this sloping piece of ground . Her son wants her to leave so she will be safer , while the woman is seeking advice from the imagined presence of her deceased husband . A lot of flashback takes place as son and mother re-live their not always rosy lives on the old homeplace . 4 stars .
Geez , I remember all this	Good film , although I betcha the book would be much better , not to mention more accurate . The flying sequences were exciting and realistic looking , but I suspect the pilots would never fly an experimental craft until it would go no farther and then bail out . Seemed a tad foolhardy . Good dialogue and interplay between characters made for a interesting , easy to watch picture . Lyndon's fit in the car was a howl .
Lawyer tries to solve grizzly murder	Police try to solve the murder of a businessman . Unknown to them , the man's attorney is implicated and , of course , she wants to keep her involvement secret . This leads to the wrong person being charged , causing the lawyer to go looking for the real culprit . Good mystery with lots of action and tense drama .
great musical	I loved this musical , it remains one of my all-time favorites . Liza Minelli and Joel Gray were perfect for their parts . The setting in pre-war Germany was an excellent background for all the goings-on in the Cabaret . Wonderful film .
Well done statement on human actions and justice	I understand this film is based on truth . If so , justice was served , although not in the fashion or time frame which I would have liked . The caring nun was well portrayed , I'm sure bleeding hearts like her abound in the religious structure . Her sympathy for the killer was misplaced , he deserved as violent a death as he dealt out to the 2 teens . If a person like that goes looking for trouble , then they should be able to take it when it comes to them . I wonder if the nun would have been so concerned with this creep's condition if it had been her family that was slain . The acting was superb , the dialogue intense and dramatic , and the story had a terrific punch as it dealt with a common happening in our society today . Excellent movie .
Twins . One nice , one a bitch .	Very good drama concerning twins involved in a murder plot . One of the women wanted out of her marriage to a wealthy man so she devises an elaborate plan to make her identical twin the fallguy in his death . As the falsely accused woman tries to prove her innocence she runs into one dead end after another because her sister covered her own tracks with perfection . A thriller right down to the last frame . 5 stars .
2 boys just can't wait to go to war	This one looked like it was filmed during the 40's right down to the overly waved up hair on some of the women . Fine acting by the 3 main characters go along with the props [ especially the bowling pin machines ] to give the viewer a sense of the war years . Not a real deep story , but well done and well worth seeing .
comedy about a lovable , aging con man	Walter Matthau was great as an aging man who lives to hang out in Central Park and tell outrageous lies . He strikes up a relationship with a man whom he drives nuts with his outlandish yarns . Matthau tries a con on several people trying to help them and himself out , but they all backfire . This film had a story that had me riveted to my chair . The entire production was filmed in Central Park , the scenery was beautiful , with many shots of the surrounding buildings . Wonderful movie - 5 stars .
exciting sports drama	Very good movie about the price one has to pay for a grand achievement . The basketball coach took a group of goof-offs and losers , and showed them that there is no free ride ; if you want something , you have to sweat and work for it . The ending of this film could have been corny and anti-climactic , however , it came off as a real nail biter . I honestly didn't know who was going to come out on top all the way to the final gun . A real heart stopper , and an entertaining story with a good lesson . 5 stars .
One of the most terrifying films I have ever seen	This movie scared the hell out of me . When it was over I was trembling all over . Rarely does a movie leave me in this condition . The evil hitchhiker was well played by Hauer , a man who is just plain evil looking anyway . The whole show played out a believable except for the part where Hauer drove a truck off the road and the truck never bounced once . Plus , while off road he shot down a chopper with a handgun . No way , folks . But is one can ignore that one crummy scene , the rest of it is done very well . Don't watch this one late at night if you are alone .
several unusual tales going on all at the same time	I loved this madcap yarn about 2 hitmen for the mob , a mobster's nutty girlfriend , a punch drunk boxer , and 2 ineffective bandits . The story was told in flashback form , a technique that I have always found interesting . The lives of all the players criss-cross with each other forming a collection a mini-stories guaranteed to captivate the viewer . Unusually done film , very entertaining .
frightening look at what can happen when you have a roommate	A young woman searches around for a replacement roommate and finally finds one that she thinks will work out . She soon realizes that her new mate has problems . Very bad problems . This was a very good , tense movie about a woman caught in a bad situation and feels helpless to do anything about it . 5 stars .
Buggees bug the buggers	Hyper exciting thriller about an attorney who gets the NSA after him when he unknowingly get a video tape that they want . Scads of action , great performances , and a terrifyingly believable story made for one hot film . Made me wonder if some of these activities aren't really going on around us , and if they are who is going to save us . And are we worth saving ?
Your typical American family goes on a nice , quiet trip	No , folks , these idiots are anything but typical . . . . or quiet . Chase was flawless as the bumbling Griswold , in fact all the performers did a good job . Usually , I don't find comedies entertaining or funny , but I ran out of breath laughing at this jerk and his goofy relations . I have seen pieces of a couple other of these ' trip ' pictures , and they didn't measure up to this one . 4 stars .
Detective gets dizzy over dame	Excellent drama about a cop who is hired to watch over a wealthy man's wife . This he does while slowly losing his heart to her . As usual , Hitchcock give the viewer a double dose of tension and bizarre excitement . I particularly enjoyed the psychedelic bits the film utilized in the opening credits and when Stewart was having his nightmares . Very good plot , with some real surprises along the way , especially the stunning finale . Great movie . Plus , Kim Novak is a definite babe !
This boy had a 55 gallon drum of dumb-ass poured over his pecker headed self at birth	The maker of this film is seriously in need of a padded room and a jacket with closed cuffs . What a dork . But no matter : this was a most excellent documentary which provided a wheel barrow full of laughs and grins . Mr . Kronfeld , a die hard UFO BELIEVER , journeys to Roswell , NM from his home in Minnesota for a 6 day tour of the famous alien crash site . Before leaving , at the insistence of his mom [ he suffers from acute momism ] , he takes a crash course in firearms and martial arts training from a pair of Aryan Nation dropouts . This gave the me some of the best laughs in the entire production . Then it's off to New Mexico for Kronfeld and a group of like minded airheads . While there I watched Kronfeld waste several hundred dollars on junky trinkets , silly , poorly done museums , a way overpriced " room " in some geezer's motor home , and a vast amount of junk food . Also , the viewer is treated to one of the goofiest parades this side of Mars , and an even trashier , totally unprofessional UFO musical . There were many other bizarre events in this totally mesmerizing mess ; go see it for yourself , I don't think you'll be disappointed .
Nostalgic look at the 40's	I laughed my head off at this one . Hanks was very funny , didn't know he could be so hilarious . Rosie and Madonna were knee slappingly riotous with their constant give and take . Geena Davis was superb . I give this film a very high rating , it was a sweet little ride through the past . 5 stars .
good one about high school students	I like this kind of show . It reminded me a little of the TV series , " Fame " . A high school is about to be closed down by the school board , and the students wanted to put on a final ' sing ' concert without the consent of the authorities . Problems arose as one of the boys in the show committed a crime with his older brother . This caused friction with another student in the production . Even with all the troubles , the show still managed to go on . Very good semi-musical .
Third time to see this one , and I still laugh	There's no finer Christmas tale than this one . It has me rolling in the floor with each viewing . The father stole the show to me , his facial expressions are priceless . Course , the film wouldn't have played without Ralphie . 5 stars .
sweet , oversexed girl has many adventures	This is told in flashback form . A middle aged man remembers a girl that came to live with his family when he was in his early teens . She was a very nice girl , but highly sexed . At one point she tried to seduce the father , which was the funniest scene in the film . The story of her life with the family , though brief , was interesting and well done . Rose was a free spirited girl that you couldn't help but love . Good show .
Possibly the best film the Duke ever did	I laughed all the way through this one . It was a hilarious look at a man's relationship with his family , especially his headstrong wife . The fistfight at the mudslide was one of the funniest scenes ever filmed . Looked like everybody was having a ball . Great show .
good shoot ' em up	Really enjoyed this one , primarily because of the vigilante angle . I like to see a guy get paid back for messing where he shouldn't . The bad guys messed with the family of the hero , so he came to town and paid them back in spades . Swayze carried a double rig shoulder holster , and knew how to use the hardware . Lots of gunplay .
funny , touching , well written	Rarely do I see a film that I am totally engrossed with ; this was one of them . It had good acting , dialogue , plot , and the scenery was beautiful . I laughed out loud many times , especially the scene dealing with the kitchen raid . The slapstick comedy performed by the lunkhead hired hand had me one the floor , but I admit that I am a sucker for slapstick . The story dealt with a group of people in their 30's coming back to a summer camp that they had attended 20 years previously . It was a farewell week of camping , as the place would be closed down permanently at the end of the season . As adults the camp looked different , and they felt differently about it and each other . I recommend this funny , moving movie to all .
cute show about 2 sweet kids falling in love	I love Sandra Bullock ; she is so cute in this kind of film . She plays an unlovely girl who is unable to make a connection with the opposite sex except as a bed partner . She works with a guy who is exactly like her - a loser . They discover a potion which makes them attractive to others . The show romps through a series of men and women coming on to them after they use the potion . Unfortunately , some rotten folks get their hands on the stuff and use it for their own nasty selves . But , the heroes work hard to stop these nefarious slugs from hatching their evil schemes . Funny and fun movie - 4 stars .
good cops take on bad cops	This is one of the best films I've ever seen because it was so good . It was based on an old story , but was done differently from all the others . The picture followed 3 policemen as they went about their duties ; one by the book , the other 2 somewhat sordidly . All became involved with a cadre of rogue cops who were using the police force as a cover for criminal behavior . An unforgettable and well choreographed shoot-out capped this excellent movie . 5 stars .
a look at war from the home front	Riveting film about a family torn apart by a death in Viet Nam . The son of a farmer goes to war in an infantry unit and is killed by his own men by accident . The grief suffered by his family was hard to take as I watched the movie . Carol Burnett was brilliant as the shocked and angry mother . This film showed the waste of war , and the military's attitude about a soldier's duty as opposed to a family's rejection of the government calling a farmer a soldier . Everyone should see this program .
Cat and man go on journey	After being evicted from his New York City apartment , a retired gent and his aging feline go on a cross country trip searching for a new life . They cross paths with many interesting folks and suffer their share of difficulties along the way . Harry was a philosophical old boy who managed to weather the upsets well ; a solid man and totally likeable character . Excellent film , well written and played out . 5 stars .
the love of money . . . . .	This may be Michael Douglas ' best movie ever . He played the greedy stock manipulator to the hilt . Charlie Sheen also did a fine job as the up and coming stock broker with a conscience . Lots of intense dialogue in this one , so if action movies are your thing I suggest you avoid this film .
best time travel movie around	Here is a very well done movie about time travel . It has it all . I especially liked the time machine itself - a Delorean car . The story was perfectly written with witty dialogue and never ending excitement . Each scene fit snugly into the one preceding and following it . Michael Fox carried this one all the way . 5 stars .
Very good film	I thought this was one of the best films I've seen in a while . A very unusual story which was well thought out and played to perfection . The performances , with the exception of a stiff Brad Pitt , were done to excellence . The settings were nice , especially that poolroom overlooking the city ; everything was just luscious . The ending worked out satisfactorily , also . 4 stars .
intense drama dealing with a murder trial	A jury has eleven votes to prosecute a young man for murder . They become angry at the one man who wants to talk a bit more before jumping to any conclusions . The dialogue in this movie simply sparkled with realism . I hung on every word as the men debated the fate of the young man . The ending holds a big surprise for the viewer .
hilarious spoof of American politicos	I laughed all the way through this one . One could call it " Grumpy Old Men Go To Washington " , it bore such a resemblance . Two ex-presidents get into hot water when the sitting president sends a rogue NSA agent to eliminate them , to hide one of his shenanigans . The entire film was centered around these 2 old geezers trying to outsmart and elude the agent and his thugs . Very good performances by Lemmon and Garner .
Strange , hypnotic , bizarre . . . was there a message in there ?	Most enjoyable concert with loads of big name stars wearing funny get-ups and singing the utterly unique Roger Waters productions . I loved watching the Wall being built right there stone by stone and was captivated by the thing being dismantled rapidly in a falling thunder . Must have taken lots of time and energy to build this set , and even more to rehearse all the complicated numbers . Very expensive looking props were used which includes much more than the costumes : lots of trucks , flying machines , gun toting players running to and fro , and , of course , Cyndi's glorious wig . I gotta wonder at the mentality of someone who can come up with this much eccentricity in one program ; is Waters a genius or just some pssed off 60's jamboy ?
Very good drama about bad marriages and booze	I saw this movie at the old North Shephard Drive-in in Houston many moons ago . It still remains one of my favorites . I laughed all the way through at the antics of those drunks , especially Burton and Taylor . One minute they would be all lovey dovey , and a split second later the war would resume . Most funny ! Some dramas are more of a comedy than not , and this one was the epitome of that type . I hope to see it again someday .
excellent film dealing with a strange , backwoods girl	This one got a lower rating than it deserved , in my opinion ; I gave it a 10 . This story was so unusual that I had to give it a high rating . I seldom see anything that is really different on film , and when I do it is a real treat . Not only was the storyline great , but the dialogue was spellbinding . I watched in fascination as a man discovered the odd girl , gained her trust , and eventually came to communicate with her . Above average effort .
May I never have to go to the pen	Terrifying film dealing with life in prison . Not just any prison , but one way off to itself with few fellow human beings around . I think this was McQueen's finest film ever , and perhaps Hoffman's also . I know it has had a lasting effect on me through the years ; I have never forgotten the awesome loneliness the prisoners went through . Great picture , thumbs up .
terrifying look at an all too plausible happening	One of Swayze's finest films , in my opinion . It seemed to me that the events in this show could happen . One scene in the movie that really pointed up the possibility of this actually taking place was when the invading army's officer told his men to collect all the yellow sheets on gun purchases and take up all the weapons . A very good movie which made my blood run cold .
a ladies man learns to really love	A man who knows only how to use and discard women dies prematurely . He is offered acceptance into heaven only if he goes back to earth in the form of a woman and really loves someone . This was a very funny program ; Ellen Barkin was wonderful as the man in a woman's body . The ending was a real tear jerker , so have a hanky ready . 5 stars .
Jealousy is so wasteful	What a delight : no car chases , explosions , bloody deaths , or computer generated bilge so prevalent today . The bottleneck guitar added a nice flavor to the production , also . Travis wandered alone in the desert in a self made hell because of his own sinful nature . Marrying a much younger woman only fueled his inner demons leading to a mess for his entire family . What a fool . Both he and his wife searched for years for a replacement for something they considered permanently lost only to lead unfulfilled existences on the border of living . I liked the way the story went on and on with no explanations about what caused Travis to trek into the wilds and then sprung it on the viewer in one gut wrenching scene in a Houston cubicle . The dialogue was never boring , but instead concise and well delivered , however , I did have a bit of trouble understanding the German lady's accent . 4 stars .
great film dealing with the spirit of freedom	Kirk Douglas was inspirational in this epic film depicting the struggle between the desire for freedom and the desire for slavery . Graphic violence pointed out the payment made by the slaves to attain their freedom . The ending scene with all the revolting slaves hanging on crosses was brutally , vividly descriptive . A well filmed , well acted picture . 5 stars .
Should have won Best Picture of the Year !	This gem should have gathered several oscars in 2k1 , it was that funny . Only Val Kilmer's " Top Secret ! " was more amusing : and maybe " What's Up Doc ? " . I was hysterical all the way through with the references to other teen film really tickling my funnybone . Just got through watching " Ridgemont High " and this one was much more humorous . Better looking chix , too .
Loonie lady raises two oddball daughters	Joanne Woodward brought tears of hilarity to my eyes as she cavorted through her dismal life . There was also plenty of pathos due to the alienation of her offspring ; a pair very different , however each suffering in her own way from mom's insanity . One of the best I've seen .
This should cool off the Rambo wannabes	The opening beach assault sequences were the most violent , realistic , and upsetting filming I've ever seen ; looked as though the thing was actual combat footage . The shushing noises of rounds cutting through the air was the most chilling part of all . Perfect portrayal of the insane stupidity of war and the anguish of all who enter this most foolish of enterprises . A must see .
Drugs , dolls , dudes , and dupes	Did she or didn't she ? Most excellent film showing why nobody should ever go to a foreign country and take up with a stranger . Spellbinding throughout with some wondrous performances by an enthusiastic cast : some of the best that I've seen in a while .
Con man clips small town dummies	Steve Martin's best comedy as he outdoes himself playing the hardened cynic Jonas Nightingale . I laughed out loud at the antics of Martin and howled with glee when he sent all those over emotional morons sprawling . The Rev's BS was so obvious a chimp could recognize it ; the suckers deserved a good fleecing . Great racket the guy had , reminded me a lot of the crooks who come on TV every day with their big money making scheme hidden behind emotionalism and theatrics .
The best prison movie ever filmed	Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman were splendid in this look at the horrors of prison life . Great camera work , acting , and a believable script led to a realistic feeling movie . This is only the second King book that made a good film ; " The Stand " being the other .
Compulsive weirdo dates a waitress	Take a great story , brilliant acting , and biting , often hilarious dialogue , and you get one of the finest films around . Possibly Nicholson's best effort ever , and Helen Hunt was nothing short of sensational . Plus , you just gotta love Virdell . 5 stars and 2 thumbs up .
break neck speed action film	One of the best action movies made . Great acting , hot story . The pace starts off fast and maintains all the way through . I admit a lot of the feats are totally off the wall , especially the sky diving parts , but who cares ; it was a real cliffhangar style of show . Kept me on the edge of my chair all the way through .
Great drama that seems like it could happen	This was a fine story with excellent dialogue and performances . Taken from an equally fine book , it came off very realistically . Both the fanatically devoted General and the President presented well thought out and mostly correct objections to each other's philosophies . I felt both were a little bit right and wrong , and would have probably sided with the General except for fear of a military despot . Tense all the way to the end . 5 stars .
The best film that Ford has done	Maybe this is something that would never happen , but it would be nice if it did . When an aggressive , worldly , and uncaring father is in the wrong place at the wrong time his entire life is changed . He comes to see things in a wholly different light . Superb acting , wonderful story . I loved this film .
One man's struggles with life	This is one of my favorite movies of all times . As usual , Richard Dreyfuss is excellent in his portrayal of a gifted but frustrated musician . He gives up on his dreams for the drudgery of marriage and fatherhood . I think he would have been better off going for his dreams , rather than being pressed down by other people's little lives . Instead he became a role model for his students in the high school in which he taught , giving a few excellent guidance , which helped them out later in life . Great movie .
Very good story	I loved the whole story even though it was a tad corny at times . I think great acting and the content of the story kept it going .
Riveting documentary . . . . or was it ?	This was one of the most interesting films I've come across in a long time . It is so well done that it will have the viewer wondering whether or not it is genuine . I particularly enjoyed Julio and his hypocritical tirades after being ' found out ' . Also , the waffling of Beverly on ' did she or didn't she ' had me rolling in the floor . All of the characters were fascinating and Shino's difficulties concerning his sexuality was one of the high points . 5 stars .
Top notch all the way	This was one of the finest dramas I've seen in a good while . Connery was dead on as the alcoholic recluse who discovers something long lost after meeting a gifted teen . A near perfect story with flawless performances and gripping dialogue . .
One of the best thrillers I ever saw	Mel Gibson outdid himself in this great action drama . The suspense never let up for a second as the bad guys kept up with their threats and demands . I can't think of a better actor for the chief of the evil crew than Gary Sinise ; his portrayal of a demented sociopath was sterling . In fact the acting was so good that I sometimes became a part of the play . The ending of the show played out perfectly with much realism . Seldom have I been this impressed with a film . As usual Gibson is flawless .
A good look at the good old days	What an excellent movie . Jessica Tandy was at her best in this one , as was Kathy Bates . I especially liked the use of flashback all throughout the show . This technique allowed the viewer to see the characters develop in an unusual way . A movie for the entire family , it will make you laugh and cry almost simultaneously .
A real no brainer	One of the funniest movies I've ever seen . I laughed all the way through , especially liking the toilet and karate scenes . Never seen 2 people have more chances to do good and be somebody and blow it all away than these 2 morons . I rarely watch a film twice , but could see this one again . 5 stars .
Most excellent drama	Very good film combining a murder trial , doomed love , and prejudice against 2 races . All this plus sterling dialogue , lots of flashback [ a technique I am very fond of ] and an unusual use of the camera which blends the present with the past . 4 stars .
Drunken peddler cons his way through life	A third rate salesman with the gift of gab joins the revival circuit during the prohibition / depression era . This was possibly Lancaster's finest effort , and the rest of the cast were also superb . One of the best movies I've ever seen .
President scores hot babe in Oval Office	Excellent film depicting a single president and his aides efforts to keep his popularity high while juggling a couple of high profile bills and an affair with a liberal lobbyist . The producers didn't bother to hide the blatant anti-gun rhetoric which was a constant theme running throughout the entire showing . Pure propaganda that should be popular with those who think guns kill people .
Star gazer meets the space brothers	What a great movie ! Spellbinding from the start , it has tense action , riveting dialogue , superb performances by all , with lots of twists and turns , keeping the viewer on seat's edge . And what a stunning finale . . . . are we alone or not ?
Good rockin ' tonight	Excellent concert featuring 2 of the rock scenes longest lasting and hardest rocking bands . Both group's put on a high voltage , exciting show with lots of the physical as well musical movements . Whereas I really like both bands and particularly go for the riffs of Dave Amato , I thought Styx was the more electric of the two .
watch out who you marry	This is one of Goldie's finest . She played a woman who marries a man and has a perfect marriage for many years . Then one day she discovers something unusual about him . Very tense ending , I was on the edge of my seat . Watch this one alone , in a dark room , late at night .
