No , My Dear !	' Don't Drink The Water ' hadn't exactly set the world on fire , yet what did Ronald Wolfe and Ronald Chesney do next ? Another spin-off , this time from their series ' Romany Jones ' which had starred the late James Beck ( ' Private Walker ' from ' Dad's Army ' ) and Jo Rowbottom . ' Yus My Dear ' chronicled the further exploits of Wally and Lil Briggs , the argumentative Cockney couple played by Arthur Mullard and Queenie Watts . The Briggs move into a council house after the gypsy caravan site they'd lived on for so long is redeveloped . Moving in with them is Wally's ( previously unmentioned ) layabout brother Benny , played by a constantly grinning Mike Reid ( in his first acting role ) . Each week , crafty Benny managed to separate Wally from his hard-earned bricklayer's wages . The opening credits showed Wally putting pound notes in Benny's outstretched palm . You had to wonder why a man of his obvious talent for con trickery didn't aim slightly higher than a close relative who was , after all , poor himself . But Wally , being incredibly thick , fell for the scams every time . In one episode , Wally and Lil put up Benny's stripper girlfriend Molly for the night , on the condition that she slept in his room while he crashed out on the sofa . The following morning , it was revealed Benny had used a ladder to get into the room , and thus have his wicked way with Molly . If the premise was intended to evoke comparisons with ' Hancock's Half-Hour ' ( Wally and Benny instead of Hancock and Sid ) , it failed miserably . The show ran out of plots after only two weeks ( 19 episodes were made ) . Arthur Mullard sang ( or rather , bellowed ) the title theme ! Critics ripped it to shreds . But they were absolutely right for once . Were we really supposed to be amused by the sight of a dimwit continually being conned by a silver-tongued rogue ? Strangely , it got to number one in the ratings , edging out ' Coronation Street ' , but , after two seasons , it thankfully ended . Don't be fooled into thinking ' Yus My Dear ' is a forgotten comedy classic - its a bad show which wasted a lot of very talented performers . The Briggs were seen to rather better comic effect in ' Holiday On The Buses ' ( 1973 ) .
" Its Make Your Mind Up Time ! "	There has been renewed interest in Hughie Green recently thanks to a B . B . C . - 4 play called ' Most Sincerely ' starring Trevor Eve . The ex-'Shoestring ' actor gave a decent performance , if not quite capturing the sheer awfulness of the real Green . To say that I did not like him would be an understatement - the man raised verbal diarrhoea to an art form , and had an annoying habit of rolling his eyes , rather like ' Private Frazer ' from ' Dad's Army ' during one of his ' we're doomed ! ' monologues . Each week Hughie came on to the sound of Bob Sharples ' big band and in that sickly way of his introduced singers , comedians , magicians , novelty acts such as Tony Holland ( the musical muscle man ) , that bald guy who whacked himself on the head with a tray while singing ' Mule Train ' ( which caused untold headaches among British children when they tried to copy him ) and blokes who made plates spin on wooden sticks to the ' Pick Of The Pops ' theme . Then there was the legendary Brooks Aehron , who skilfully recreated Jerry Lewis ' ' Typewriter Song ' . It is easy to mock these individuals now , but there was a certain fascination to be had from them , like watching a dog chasing its own tail . Let us not forget that ' OpKnocks ' was responsible for creating a great many stars , among them Freddie Starr , Les Dawson , Lena Zavaroni , Little & Large , Mary Hopkin , Freddie ' Parrot Face ' Davies ( remember him ? ) , Peters & Lee , and Pam Ayres . You may or may not like these people , but the fact is they managed to have more enduring careers than those of the twerps thrown up by ' The X Factor ' and ' Pop Idol ' . Each act would be prefaced by a ' sponsor ' - a member of the public or sometimes a celebrity ( ' Emmerdale Farm ' actor Fraser Hines being one ) . From time to time these sponsors gave Hughie gifts . Bob Monkhouse was ordered to resign from ' The Golden Shot ' after being suspected of taking bribes , yet Hughie was doing it openly on air . Sometimes the acts had a familiar look about them . One was Adam Daye , an impressionist whose repertoire ran to Kenneth Williams and . . . er , that was it . Daye went on ' OpKnocks ' months after being seen in L . W . T . ' s quick fire comedy show ' Who Do You Do ? ' . Comedian Pat Tansey got nowhere on ' OpKnocks ' and went on its rival , A . T . V . ' s ' New Faces ' - which he won . But when a tabloid newspaper pointed out he had been on Hughie's show , the ' New Faces ' production team had no choice but to disqualify him . One element of ' OpKnocks ' I disliked were the child performers . As soon as you saw some freckle-faced kid dancing and singing Shirley Temple-style you knew he / she was going to win . Grannies and granddads would go " Ah , isn't he / she cute ? " , before writing to Hughie in their millions . One such performer was Stephen Smith , who banged drums while his Dad - Jimmy - played the organ . They originally appeared under the name ' Jimmy Smith & Son ' , but a week later - after the first of many wins - relaunched themselves as ' Stephen Smith & Father ' . Little Stephen's facial expressions whilst drumming suggested latent psychopathic tendencies . His favourite subject was his teeth . I used to wonder how a child could lose so many choppers in one week . It had to be that bigger boys were jealous of his success and were knocking them out with their fists . I knew how they felt . Another group of precocious youngsters were collectively known as ' The Weltons ' , whose speciality was performing the same song every week . I felt sorry for the adult acts unlucky enough to appear on the same shows - they needed their big breaks there and then , but did not get them because of sentimental old folks voting for these brats . At the close of each edition , the acts would be paraded for the viewers one final time as the legendary ' clap-o-meter ' - a device designed to measure audience applause , not sexually transmitted diseases - came into play . " Remember , folks ! " , said Hughie , " The clap-o-meter is just for fun ! " . But time marches on and eventually the powers-that-be ( Jeremy Isaacs and Philip Jones ) decided that Hughie should go . Not only was the show hopelessly outdated even in 1978 , but what did for him was his using it as a platform for his far-right political views . In fairness he only did it twice , but that was enough . Hughie politely asked the British public not to go on strike in future , before a choir struck up with ' Stand Up & Be Counted ' . All around the nation you could the collective sound of raspberries blown . Hughie's patriotism led him to do other bizarre things , such as televising ' OpKnocks ' from the British submarine base at Holy Loch , Scotland one week as a warning to the U . S . S . R . in case they were thinking of attacking Britain . Though Hughie reassured fans that he had no plans to retire , he was barely on the box after ' OpKnocks ' ended . A decade later , it was revived - by the B . B . C . - but without Hughie . They brought in Bob Monkhouse and later former winner Les Dawson to front the show . Hughie was given the courtesy credit of ' Consultant ' . Unsurprisingly , the new-look version was better than the old , even if it did give us Rosser & Davies . And I mean that most sincerely , folks .
Has Chris Taken Liberties With The Truth ?	It had to happen . Noting the success of the Michael Moore anti-Bush polemic ' Fahrenheit ' , someone in the U . K . has tried to cash in by fashioning a similar movie attacking Tony Blair's Government . The trouble is there's not enough evidence to support the extraordinary claims it makes . Yes , the arrest of Maya Evans and Milan Rai for reading out the names of Iraq war victims opposite the Cenotaph in Whitehall was regrettable , as was the detaining of Walter Wolfgang under the terrorism laws for heckling Jack Straw's speech at a Labour conference ( you must remember that the security men were keen to avoid a repeat of the previous year's conference when Blair was heckled by Tory infiltrators ) , and Gloucestershire police preventing a bus load of anti-war demonstrators from protesting outside RAF Fairford , but do these and other incidents combined paint a picture of a totalitarian government hellbent on destroying cherished freedoms ? No is the short answer . It is easy to make a film of this kind . You scour the news archive , cherry pick the bits that best serve your agenda , interview malcontents , string them together , overlay ominous sounding narration and music , and hey presto - you've got yourself a conspiracy movie . The only M . P . ' s to appear are Boris Johnson , Ken Clarke and Clare Short . Is Chris having a laugh or what ? Ask yourself this - if ( as Chris claims ) we really do live in a police state , why hasn't the Government suppressed this film and thrown its creator in jail ? No mention of Britain under Thatcher , of course , when trade unions were banned from G . C . H . Q . , when police stopped and searched cars during the 1984 Miners ' Strike to block pickets from travelling around the country , when the G . L . C . was abolished simply because the P . M . did not like it , when Clive Ponting nearly went to jail for speaking the truth about the sinking of the Belgrano , when Trident protesters at Greenham Common were smeared as Communist sympathisers , when miners were beaten senseless for trying to protect their jobs , when London saw the worst riots in its history thanks to the hated poll tax and when Thames Television lost its franchise because it made a programme - ' Death On The Rock ' - the Tory Government did not like . More recently , we have had Section 28 . That , Mr . Atkins , was a true police state . When the evidence is not deemed strong enough to support his argument , he brazenly distorts the truth . For instance , he claims Blair has taken away an ancient right to protest near Parliament . That right never existed . Its true that , in the wake of the London bombings , security has had to be tightened up and one expects that . Which is the greater evil - having one's right to demonstrate curtailed or being murdered by fanatics ? In all the palaver over identity cards , it seems to have been forgotten that the Tories were once keen on the idea . So come off your hobbyhorse , Chris . There's an interesting documentary to be made about civil liberties , but this is not it . I note that ads have been appearing on pro-fox hunting websites . When it comes out on D . V . D . it should be double billed with Channel 4's ' The Great Global Warming Swindle ' , another steaming pile of lies and half-truths . If you're thinking of seeing this , don't bother . CODA : Its April 2009 , and the Right are accusing President Obama of destroying ' civil liberties ' in America . He's done a lot in four months , hasn't he ? The lie doesn't appear to be having any effect there . I only wish the same were true here in Britain .
Alice In Zombie Land !	It used to be the case that zombie movies were purely the preserve of filmmakers with low budgets and no stars , now it seems everyone is making them . In ' Resident Evil : Apocalypse ' , a virus escapes from a top secret facility known as The Hive , infecting the inhabitants of Raccoon City , and a small group of survivors have to battle their way through an army of flesh-eating zombies to freedom . One of the reasons why George A . Romero's early ' living dead ' pictures worked so well was due to their documentary approach . No matter how far fetched the premise , you felt as though you were watching real people caught up in a terrifying situation . The main characters in this film , however , are anything but ' real ' , consisting mainly of young , good-looking people well acquainted with the martial arts , armed with weapons Rambo would be jealous of , and who never tire . No sooner have they wiped out one gang of zombies with karate kicks and expertly aimed shots than they are ready to wipe out another without so much as pausing for breath . Hence the suspense factor is nil . Milla Jovovich reprises her role as ' Alice ' , and admittedly she looks great crashing through a church window on a motorcycle ( or rather her stunt double does ) , but the script gives her no opportunity whatever to establish , much less develop a character . She is as every bit as inhuman as her opponents . Like many modern horror movies , it over-relies on C . G . I . for effect . The action scenes are shot and edited in the style of an M . T . V . rock video ; bullets fly out of guns in slow motion , people do back flips and execute perfect leaps over fences , and Milla still manages to look sexy no matter what happens . The appearance of ' Nemesis ' is a hoot ; resembling nothing less than one of Clive Barker's ' Cenobites ' with a Schwarzenegger complex . If you can sit through the scene where it uses a rocket launcher to wipe out the S . T . A . R . S . without laughing , you are made of stronger stuff than I . Alexander Witt must have thought that the visual trickery was enough to carry the film , and decided not to bother with such trifles as a strong plot , believable characterisations and dialogue . Did anyone understand that ending ? I certainly didn't . For a superior example of a zombie picture , check out the original ' Dawn Of The Dead ' .
Once upon a time there were three bad actresses . . .	The ' 70's was a golden age for American television with groundbreaking shows such as ' Roots ' , ' M . A . S . H . ' and ' All In The Family ' . ' Charlie's Angels ' was a huge step backwards . Even as a testosterone-fuelled teenager , I found it mindless and demeaning to women . Nobody in the show could act , the violence was cartoonish , the marshmallow theme tune set my teeth on edge , and the Identikit plots rarely rose above the tenth-rate . Each week , the animated ' Barbie ' dolls that made up three-quarters of the regular cast went undercover to trap some one-dimensional villain , which of course was a pathetic excuse to get them into make-up and sexy clothes . Farrah Fawcett-Majors matured into a fine actress , but only after quitting . Her teeth and hair did most of the acting . Cheryl Ladd , her replacement , was no better . Her debut episode featured one of the most ridiculous scenes ever broadcast on television - Ms . Ladd having to strip naked in the middle of a street so as to gain entry to an exclusive nudist camp , much to an elderly security guard's glee . The girls came and went , but the show's entertainment value remained zero . Amazingly , its regarded now in some quarters as a proto feminist tract . ' Cagney & Lacey ' it was not !
The Original ' Sorry '	The A . T . V . sitcom ' Big Boy Now ! ' played like a middle-class version of ' Steptoe & Son ' , only with the gender of the parent reversed . The late Leslie Crowther had worked with writer Ronnie Taylor before on the popular ' My Good Woman ' , co-starring Sylvia Syms . ' Big ' cast him as ' Tony Marchant ' , a middle-aged man too embarrassed to tell his domineering elderly mother Heather ( Fabia Drake ) he has grown up . Each week , Tony would meet an attractive woman and begin courtship , only for Mummy to scupper his chances of marital bliss . Crowther was miscast , and wasn't helped by Taylor's joke-free scripts or the obvious ( and annoying ) canned laughter . You had to wonder why Tony didn't push Mummy down the stairs , and plead justifiable homicide . Critics tore it to shreds , but the ratings were good . A . T . V . finally saw the light , however , axing it after two seasons .
Wogan At His Most Woeful	The best thing to be said for ' Eldorado ' was that it displaced Terry Wogan's thrice-nightly ego trip . For the benefit of those fortunate enough to have never seen it , let me explain . Each edition began with hideously garish opening titles in which Tel's surname loomed like Godzilla over the London skyline , backed up by a tinny B . A . Robertson synth tune . Tel ( and wig ) then walked on to tumultuous applause ( this was before he had the plastic knee fitted ) , tossed off some lame quips , which he prefaced with : " Well , here we are again , me darlings , another great show for you . " . At which point he would sit next to his guests , and for the next half-hour did not let them get a word in edge ways . His favourite topics of conversation were money ( during the height of unemployment in the ' 80's , Tel described his salary as ' peanuts ' . Three million people would have been happy earning those ' peanuts ' ) , and the dire U . S . soap ' Dallas ' , with which he was hopelessly besotted . When he had Victoria Principal on the show once , he asked her : " what did you have for Christmas dinner ? " even though it was being recorded months in advance . The confusion on La Principal's face gave the game away . On another edition , he upset veteran comic George Burns by asking a question about his deceased wife Gracie Allen . On yet another , he put Italian / American singer Tony Bennett's nose out of joint by saying he looked like a member of The Mafia . Tact was not his strong point . Tel's right-wing sympathies came to the fore when he openly encouraged the audience to jeer Neil and Glenys Kinnock , yet when Tory chairman Norman Tebbit appeared , it was like watching a reunion of old army buddies . Labour M . P . Tam Dalyell was roundly insulted after reiterating his belief that Margaret Thatcher lied to the House Of Commons over the sinking of the Belgrano during the Falklands War . Tel sniggered as he introduced then-Deputy Leader of the Labour Party Roy Hattersley , but Michael Heseltine was greeted like a long-lost brother . George Best made headlines by going on the show drunk , which made one wonder ' why did no-one remove the free beer in the Green Room ? ' . Likewise the late Anne Bancroft's non-interview could easily have been avoided . Clive Anderson , Kenneth Williams , Ben Elton and Joanna Lumley stood in for Tel occasionally and they showed him up for the smarmy , ineffectual bore he is . His success was not approved by everyone though - the late T . V . journalist Bernard Falk once described him as an ' overpaid Irish gob artist ' and Tel responded on air by calling Falk an ' ee-jit ' . Such childish name calling was beneath Falk , but you could see his point .
A Comedy Classic ? Or the P . I . T . T . S . ?	Originally to have been called ' Big Tis ' , ' O . T . T . ' ( ' Over The Top ' ) was an unsuccessful attempt to transfer the anarchic humour of the Saturday morning children's show ' Tiswas ' to a late-night slot . All the cast ( with the exception of Sally James ) signed on . The level of humour was epitomised by its title sequence , featuring an animated nude woman . Critics blasted it as ' juvenile ' . The problem with the show was that once the novelty of seeing ex-kids presenters showing their bums and using bad language had worn off , there was nowhere for it to go . Alexei Sayle must have realised this - he jumped ship mid-season . ' Not The Nine O'Clock News ' parodied ' O . T . T . ' in ' The Radio Times ' as ' Only Too Terrible - The Adult Version Of ' Play Away ' ' . In reply to the user who claimed that I did not understand the humour , let me point out that I did - I just did not care for it . For me the only really funny moments came from Bob Godfrey's animations . The show had some surprising celebrity fans , though . Victoria Wood defended it to the hilt on the B . B . C . - 2 discussion show ' Did You See ? ' . As the series progressed , various new ideas were tried out , such as the infamous nude men dancing with balloons . But when it ended Central Television announced that it would not be coming back . Tarrant produced as well as starred , and afterwards expressed doubt as to whether he would ever work again ( nowadays the bad publicity would be enough to keep it on air for years ) . I agree with the user who claimed that ' O . T . T . ' was ahead of its time . Unfortunately , that does not make it a good thing . All television series have their supporters and detractors . If some people fondly remember this show , that's fine by me . I personally wish that Tarrant and co . had stayed with ' Tiswas ' for another year instead of making ' O . T . T . ' .
The Simon Dee Of The ' 80's ?	' The Noel Edmonds Late Late Breakfast Show ' had a difficult birthing period ; the early shows began with a title sequence reminiscent of the old Simon Dee show ' Dee Time ' , depicting Noel racing to the B . B . C . T . V . Centre in various forms of transport . The late D . J . John Peel figured prominently , as did the Scottish comedian Leni Harper ( whatever happened to her ? ) . Poor ratings necessitated a rethink . Noel decided his co-presenters were to blame and , ditching them , brought in fellow D . J . Mike Smith . There was also a lawsuit threatened by Peter Dulay , ex-producer of the British version of ' Candid Camera ' . Dulay claimed that a ' Gotcha ' stunt involving a conveyor belt was a steal of one of his ideas . The case was letter settled out of court , with Dulay receiving a credit as ' Consultant ' . Despite these troubles , ' Late Late ' caught on with viewers , and would have run years had not viewer Michael Lush died whilst rehearsing a stunt . Noel later commented : " It nearly ruined my career . " . Didn't do Michael much good either , Noel .
" Hi ! I'm Roy ! " " And I'm Linda ! "	Thanks to those killjoys at H . T . V . Wales and their insane policy of regional scheduling ( English programmes everyone watched displaced by Welsh language shows no-one watched ) , I had to visit my auntie's house to see this show . Because she lived high on a hill , her set could pick up stations mine could not , such as Westward ( as it was then called ) . I watched once whilst chomping on a Birds Eye meat and onion pie , and afterwards suffered terrible indigestion . To this day , I'm not sure what caused it - the pie or the programme . ' Get It Together ' was the creation of Muriel Young , a former actor who'd become a producer of children's television programmes at Granada , where , amongst other things , she had masterminded the long-running film review show ' Clapperboard ' ( hosted by Chris Kelly ) , ' Shang-a-Lang ' which helped propel ' The Bay City Rollers ' to stardom , and ' Arrows ' ( remember their one and only hit - ' A Touch Too Much ' ? ) which didn't . ' Together ' was an attempt at a generic pop show , with groups miming to whatever they had in the charts at that time . None of the big hitters , such as ' Abba ' and ' The Bee Gees ' , were visible in the studio . Viewers had to make do instead with ' Brotherhood Of Man ' and ' The Jags ' ( I'm sure you've got got their C . D . ' s in your collection ) . Oh , and Sir Cliff Richard turned up at least once . As did ' Slade ' ! In 1977 , punk ruled and anarchy was in the air . ' The Sex Pistols ' was what the kids wanted . You would never have known it from ' Together ' , which boasted Arthur Mullard and Hylda Baker murdering ' You're The One That I Want ' on a ferris wheel . Even now , I can remember how dated the show looked . The set was like the ' Dr . Who ' production team's idea of an alien city , with plastic walls , garish colours , and strobe lighting . I'm sure I even spotted dry ice lurking about the place . You half expected Tom Baker and K9 to appear . Nothing had moved on since ' Lift Off With Ayshea ' a few years earlier . Even the title - ' Get It Together ' - had a smell of patchouli oil about it . What was Young thinking ? The presenters were Linda Fletcher ( whatever happened to her ? ) and Roy North , newly divorced from ' Basil Brush ' . I have a soft spot for Roy ; after all , he was a pretty good straight man for The Foxy One and , if you think that does not sound like much of an achievement , just check out the presenters on Basil's current B . B . C . series . Roy and Linda opened each show by singing ( badly ) the ' Get It Together ' theme , which I have only managed to erase from my memory after years of psychiatric therapy and drugs . Roy , in flimsy disco shirt and flares , welcomed the audience by jumping up and down and exclaiming " Hi ! " in a pseudo-Presley manner . As well as the bands , there was a regular dance group known as ' Him & Us ' , consisting of a pair of stunning twins called Teri and Lisa Scoble ( who played clones in the classic children's sci-fi series ' Timeslip ' ) and a handsome bloke whose name I never found out . They gyrated nicely enough , often to backgrounds provided by a zoetrope . ' Him & Us ' originally appeared on ' Shang-a-Lang ' , then progressed to ' Arrows ' , before winding up here . By that time , they had acquired a new member , and changed their name to ' Him & Us Plus One ' . I often wondered why they didn't think to rename themselves ' Them & Us ' . Perhaps it sounded too much like an incitement to class warfare . The kids present were quizzed , with Roy shoving a stick microphone down their throats . Often they got the answers right but the researchers had messed up the questions . An exception was the lad who , after hearing Billy Ocean's ' Red Light Spells Danger ' was asked to identify the colour in the title of the song . He said : " Green " . The nadir of the show , though , came when Roy tried to sing a hit of the day . One week , it was David Soul's ' Don't Give Up On Us Baby ' and , believe me when I say Owen Wilson's version in the ' Starsky & Hutch ' movie was Pavarotti by comparison . As Roy enunciated each syllable his teeth made rumba movements . Whoever his dentist was , he should have gotten an award for his services to his craft . Throughout the song , kids in jumpers could be seen nervously edging their way off the set . A few years back , Granada Plus brought back ' Shang-a-Lang ' and ' Supersonic ' ( now there was a cool show ! ) , but strangely omitted ' Get It Together ' . No justice , is there ?
Slaughterhouse More Like	Freddie Starr was , and still is , known as the ' wild man of comedy ' . He shot to stardom in the ' 70's after appearing on ' Opportunity Knocks ' , went on to headline L . W . T . ' s ' Who Do You Do ? ' , had a chart hit ( the soppy ' Its You ' ) and starred ( pardon the pun ) in several one-off specials . By far and away the worst thing he ever did , however , was this dreadful series , which looked as though it were televised live from a seedy Northern workingmen's club . The endless stream of tenth-rate gags was poorly delivered , though it didn't stop the studio audience from sounding as though they were on laughing gas . When Freddie , in the first episode , shrieked : " Ow ! My Nipple ! " , a woman could be heard expiring from hilarity . The poor quality of the show was all the more surprising because of the talent involved ; as well as Freddie , there was Russ Abbot , Bella Emberg , Toni Palmer , Norman Collier and Mike Newman . After one series , Freddie quit , and the show was relaunched as the much funnier ' Russ Abbot's Saturday Madhouse ' .
Harry Does A Hancock	One minute , you're up , the next , you're down . Tony Hancock quit the B . B . C . at the height of his popularity to do an inferior show for I . T . V . , an experience from which he never recovered professionally . Harry Enfield , alas , didn't learn from this , quitting the B . B . C . to make this horrible Sky One production , which , apparently , even he didn't bother to watch . Enfield is an amazingly talented comedian , but alas was let down by the atrocious material , shoddy production values and mediocre supporting cast . Paul Whitehouse and Kathy Burke were sadly missed . Some of Harry's new characters - such as James Bond's idiot brother , and the sex-mad fisherman - look and sound like rejects from ' The Fast Show ' . One sketch consists almost entirely of profanity . Unlike Hancock , Harry is thankfully still with us , and one hopes he gets his career back on track one day . ' Brand Spanking New Show ' was a criminal waste of his talent , an insult to Harry's many fans , for which the people behind it deserve a good spanking .
People In Glass Houses Shouldn't Throw Stones	I never thought I'd find myself feeling sorry for Britney Spears , Lindsay Lohan , Tom Cruise , Kevin Federline , Heather Mills , Geri Halliwell , George Michael , Jamie Oliver et al . This programme listed 100 celebrities ( movie and pop stars , presenters , comedians , footballers , and politicians ) who have in some way or other teed off the nation in the last year . Except for me , because I do not read tacky tabloids , gossip magazines nor watch soap operas , sport or reality shows . What I found really annoying , however , were the presenters / showbiz journalists / comedians / gossip columnists presiding over this trial by television , amongst them Carole Malone , Kevin O'Sullivan , Gina Yashere , Ian Hyland and Polly Graham , all of whom were clucking like mother hens . You have never seen a more aggressive , rude and pompous bunch in your life . So what if Britney chooses not to wear panties when she goes nightclubbing ? Its a free world , isn't it ? ( Being a man , I must defend this habit ! ) Does it really matter whether or not Jade Goody has made a career out of being a simpleton ? Aren't there more urgent problems facing the world right now ? As someone who used to be a journalist ( albeit only for a local paper with a circulation confined to doctor's surgeries ) , I can safely say that your average news hound - male or female - drunk out of his / her mind is a more repellent sight than a rock star misbehaving at an awards show . One of my colleagues used to take delight in dropping her underwear whenever intoxicated . Another had a serious gambling addiction . They should be the last people on Earth to condemn others . Interestingly , the narrator was ex-'Blue Peter ' presenter Richard Bacon , himself no stranger to controversy . Besides , without Britney et al , how would they sell their rags ? Showbiz scandals are the lifeblood of tabloid journalism . They would be the first to complain if George Michael ' kept it in his pants ' and thus deprived them of good copy . The programme was little more than an excuse for a lot of untalented nobodies to vent their frustration on air at not being invited to more parties .
A Crime Thriller That Went Lame And Had To Be Shot	Basing a television series on a popular author's works is no guarantee of success . Yorkshire Television learnt this the hard way when in 1979 they bought the rights to the books credited to Dick Francis , three of which were broadcast under the collective title ' The Racing Game ' . Mike Gwilym was Sid Halley , a former jockey turned private eye following an accident in which he lost his right hand , only to have it replaced by an artificial one . Gwilym suffered from an acute lack of charisma ( and looked like one of the bad guys ) while Mick Ford ( who played the irritating Chico Barnes ) made me think of a horse's arse whenever he was on screen . For six weeks , this less-than dynamic duo charged about the countryside , foiling nefarious plots to fix races , usually by the same methods - blackmail , kidnapping riders or doping horses . Yorkshire Television threw money at the show , but to no avail . Violent , sexist , far-fetched and repetitious , it was quickly carted off to the knackers yard .
The End Of The Road For Eric And Ernie	In 1977 , Morecambe and Wise were at the top of their game . Their Christmas Show of that year was watched by a staggering 28 million people . They had become a national institution . So what made them quit the B . B . C . ? Money ? No , there was more to it than that . Thames Television had a feature film division - Euston Films - and Eric and Ernie , unhappy with their earlier big screen offerings , wanted a second bite of the celluloid cherry . The result was ' Night Train To Murder ' which , astonishingly , was made on videotape . Set in 1946 , it stars our heroes as two down on their luck entertainers . Catherine , Eric's niece , turns up at the theatre where they are performing . Hiding in the wings is a masked assassin . . . Sensing a chance to make some money , the lads appoint themselves her ' guardians ' . Sinister lawyer Mackay goes with them to Scotland and here we get one of the film's few funny scenes as Eric and Ernie's Poker hands change each time their train enters a tunnel . At Austin Hall , they encounter a cast of likely victims / suspects , amongst them battle axe Lady Flora , Velda the vamp , a Lurch-style butler and Kenneth Haigh in a variety of roles . Before you can say ' Cluedo ' , bodies fall out of closets , windows fly open , lightning flashes across the sky , and rats scurry in the basement . On paper this all must have looked good . Alas , instead of being another ' The Cat And The Canary ' , it has more in common with Gene Wilder's 1986 turkey ' Haunted Honeymoon ' . Eric and Ernie ( who co-wrote the script with director Joe McGrath ) made a mistake in trying a parody a genre exhausted through over parody . Everyone from The Two Ronnies to Frankie Howerd and Michael Palin has had a go at this subject matter at one time or another . With mostly greater success . Besides , Eric and Ernie were getting a bit long in the tooth by 1983 ; Eric in particular looks tired , which isn't surprising as he had recently undergone a heart operation . But what really sinks the film is Joe McGrath's inept direction . His misjudges the mood of every scene ; the scary bits don't scare , the funny bits . . . well , work it out for yourself . Despite the odd amusing moment , this misfires on all levels . Eric thought so too ; it wasn't screened until well after his death . It was only sympathy for the loss of a great comedian that stopped this from being torn to pieces by the critics and public .
An Audience With The Woodentops Would've Been More Fun	When I heard about this , I thought it sounded interesting . How , I wondered , would they fit a street inside a small television studio to face an audience of D-listers ? Then I watched and realised my mistake . It was the cast of ' Coronation Street ' , not the street itself . Silly me ! With L . W . T . now part of Granada , I suppose a programme like this was inevitable . In terms of sheer inanity , it almost beat ' Russell Harty Meets Upstairs , Downstairs ' from way back in the ' 70's . Isn't it bad enough that we have to endure the ' Coronation Street ' gang doing whatever it is they get paid huge sums for ( it sure ain't called acting ) most week-nights , without this bilge being inflicted on us ? If I want bad singing , dancing , jokes etc . , I'll go to my local workingmen's club , not stay at home and watch the telly . At least there you get the privilege of heckling . The reverential tone displayed towards ' Coronation Street ' is disturbing to say the least . Its like watching a bizarre religious cult at work , preparing to hand over their cash and lay down their lives in a futile cause . ' Star Trek ' fans are often the butts of media sneers , yet soap opera addicts are regarded as nice , normal people indulging in a healthy obsession . Well , take it from me , there's nothing healthy about being obsessed whether or not Emily Bishop's remembered to put roses on Ernie's grave on the anniversary of his shooting .
Highly Questionable Time	Under the chairmanship of the late Sir Robin Day in the ' 80's , ' Question Time ' was a lively , stimulating political debate show . These days , however , it resembles ' The Muppet Show ' . We are told each week by David Dimbleby that the studio audience is composed of members of the public , yet I spotted the Chairman of the Young Conservatives ( as it was then called ) on one edition and he unsurprisingly agreed with the Tory Minister's line on Europe . It got me wondering just how many in that theatre are ordinary people , and how many are rabid Tory activists . Practically every question is anti-Labour . Apart from being grossly unfair it makes for dull , repetitive viewing . The quality of the quests is not what it was either , whereas we would once get John Smith , Roy Jenkins and Denis Healey , we now have to make do with Z-list celebrities Shilpa Shetty , Davina McCall , and that - boy - who - used - to - play - Nicky Tilsley-in-'Coronation Street ' . Basil Brush has not been on it yet , but one day he surely will . Probably the speaker who got up my nose the most was Ann Widdecombe , a rude , pushy woman disinterested in the views of others . The guests never miss a chance to play to the gallery . I found this out one week when the question was " Should a 16 year old be allowed to win the National Lottery ? " . A female S . N . P . councillor replied that the winner could use his / her winnings to pay for school tuition fees . As no-one laughed , she repeated the comment in a louder voice , until she got the desired effect . Occasionally someone makes a right twit of himself on the show . During a debate on whether the age of consent for gays should be reduced from 21 to 16 , a man in the audience commented : " I don't hold with it as it is defying God ! " to which Dimbleby responded : " So its alright to defy God at 21 ? " . The man was speechless . Then there was the subject of Colonel Qaddafi's chemical weapons factories - should they be bombed ? The questioner was adamant they should not be on the grounds that it was unsafe , but then proposed an alternative : " Send in commandos and get them to blow the place up ! " . Oh yeah , that would have been much safer , wouldn't it . A gimmick has recently been added - text messages flashing up on the screen . These witty comments range from ' Don't like his tie ' to ' what a funny looking woman ' . You come away no wiser about many of the issues being debated . Watch ' Newsnight ' instead .
Ma-Na-Ma-Na !	Shameful Confession Time : I used to find Little & Large hilarious . Already I can hear the sound of jaws dropping in amazement . That time , dear friends , was in 1970 when I was eight years old , and Syd and Eddie were to be found each week on the long-running kids ' variety show ' Crackerjack ! ' . Michael Aspel did the quiz show section , but Little & Large ( supported by Stuart Sherwin ) got to do the funny stuff , as successors to the golden team of Leslie Crowther and Peter Glaze ( I recall them in a ' Star Trek ' spoof with Eddie as ' Mr . Spock ' ) . For the uninitiated , Little & Large were a comedy double-act who came to public prominence on ' Opportunity Knocks ! ' and who basically consisted of Eddie Large and . . . Eddie Large . There was another guy in glasses and white hair , but I forget his name . Oh yes ! I remember now ! John Major ! Had John ( sorry , Syd ) and Eddie stuck to amusing us tots , all would have been well . But in 1976 , Thames unwisely gave them a peak-time extravaganza , wittily entitled ' The Little & Large Telly Show ' . Frankly , it stunk . As Clive James pointed out at the time , the boys had one act between them which they flogged to death , namely ' Supersonic ' Syd attempting to sing a song while Eddie interrupted him with ( admittedly good ) impersonations of Cliff Richard , Deputy Dawg , Benny from ' Crossroads ' , Hylda Baker , Oliver Hardy , and others . They were still using this basic routine in 1991 when they got fired from the B . B . C . Tony Hatch conducted the orchestra and occasionally was the butt of the lads ' jokes . He later commented : " When I watch , I think ' oh God , how can I go on ' New Faces ' again after this ? ' . He was right to be embarrassed . The show only had one basic set . In addition to Syd , Eddie , and Tony , there was also a gaggle of female backing singers , who trilled the names of the stars by way of a theme tune . If ' Telly Show ' deserves to be remembered at all , its for putting the horrendous novelty single ' Ma-Na-Ma-Na ' back in the pop charts . That should tell you how bad it was . Thankfully , only one season was made , but Syd and Eddie did not need to worry as they were snapped up by the B . B . C . where their show became a Saturday night fixture for years , along with ' All Creatures & Small ' and ' Jim'll Fix It ' . I am not averse to childish comedy ( I rather like Norman Wisdom , The Grumbleweeds , and Don Knotts ) but Syd and Eddie's seeming inability to develop their comedy made them for me about as amusing as having teeth drilled . I also hate double-acts where one man does all the work . Interviewed some years back on ' Who Killed Saturday Night T . V . ? ' , Eddie Large made the following interesting observation : " You put two men hitting each other with frying pans on B . B . C . - 1 on a Saturday night , and people think its stupid . Show the same thing on Channel 4 at 11 P . M . and people think its cutting-edge comedy . " . He never said a truer word in his life .
Why Reward Rubbish ?	With so many award shows around now you'd be forgiven for wondering why there isn't a ' British Award Show Awards ' . It would be more fun than ' The British Soap Awards ' , an annual nightmare in which the worst programmes on British television battle it out for trophies which , rather appropriately , are made of plastic . The problem is that the soaps look and sound alike , with wobbly sets , lousy scripts , bad music and acting that makes the cast of ' Thunderbirds ' look good . They have one storyline between them , which they flog to death , namely the adulterous affair . Have you noticed how nobody ever dies of old age in these shows ? What criteria do the judges use to pick the winners ? Does someone put on a blindfold and stick a pin in a list of the nominees ? How nice it would be if one of the winners used his / her acceptance speech to denounce the genre as ' utter crap ' ! Whatever next ? ' The British Dustbin Awards ' ?
Super Flop !	One of the most eagerly awaited movies of 1987 was ' Superman 4 : The Quest For Peace ' . Christopher Reeve claimed it would be a throwback to the epic style of the original , with Gene Hackman back as Lex Luthor and Margot Kidder returning as Lois Lane despite her earlier threat to quit , it certainly looked that way . But it was not to be . Alexander Salkind , producer of the first three movies , had sold the rights to The Cannon Group , a production company specialising in mostly forgettable , low budget fare such as ' King Solomon's Mines ' . They were bound to mess it up - and did . Derivative storyline , ham acting , atrocious S . F . X . , and poor direction , it had all these . The scene where Mariel Hemingway's character survives being in outer space without oxygen had me goggling in disbelief . Christopher Reeve later attacked the movie on the B . B . C . ' s ' Wogan ' show , without referring to the producers by name . We can only give thanks that Menahem Golan and Yoram Globus never got round to making ' Spider-Man ' !
A Right Load Of Manure	The accepted myth is that from 1972-89 , ' Emmerdale Farm ' consisted entirely of Annie Sugden brewing tea in the kitchen while Matt and Joe ate doorstep sandwiches and discussed the best way to fix a broken tractor . Even I . T . V . - 1 allowed the myth to fester in their ' Emmerdale Family Album ' programmes . But it was never like that . Had it been so , it would have gotten cancelled - and rightly so . User ' mathewowen ' describes ' Emmerdale Farm ' as ' having shed its image as a boring drama ' . It never had one . I think he has confused ' boring ' with ' believable ' . From 1972-89 , ' Emmerdale Farm ' was a natural , true-to-life series with interesting characters ( ' Amos Brierly ' and ' Mr . Wilkes ' spring to mind ) and it didn't insult the intelligence of its audience . Then something dreadful happened . ' Brookside ' maestro Phil Redmond was brought in to fix something that wasn't broken . Like a film of a butterfly emerging from its chrysalis played in reverse , ' Emmerdale Farm ' was reborn as . . . wait for it . . . ' EMMERDALE ' ! In one of the most tasteless soap story lines of all time , a plane crashed on the village of Beckendale , mirroring the real-life Lockerbie disaster of the previous year . More than just a few minor characters died . So did the show's spirit , its soul , its individuality . These days , ' Emmerdale ' rivals ' Eastenders ' for sheer stupidity , with shouting in lieu of acting , and formulaic plots about adultery , adultery , and , oh yes , adultery . Don't get me started on the Dingles ! There're like something out of ' Viz ' ! The ridiculous title sequence sets the tone for the show , featuring an over-orchestrated arrangement of Tony Hatch's theme , and pictures of people not in the actual programme , as ' Harry Hill's T . V . Burp ' cynically pointed out . I've recently submitted a script to the ' Emmerdale ' production office . It begins with a nuclear explosion in ' The Woolpack ' and the radiation it unleashes causes the beer in the pumps to mutate into a sentient life form . Think they'll use it ?
The British Tragedy Awards , More Like	I look forward to ' The British Comedy Awards ' each year because it provides me with an excellent excuse to go out for the evening . This annual jamboree has got it all ; talentless , big headed ' comedians ' winning awards despite their shows being absolute rubbish ; incoherent , rambling ' thank you ' speeches ; endless close-ups of grinning nobodies in tuxedos , obnoxious behaviour from Jonathan Ross ( his belittling of Rod Hull was inexcusable ) was and , of course , loads of swearing . Wa-hay , lads ! Why do these people still think swear words have any shock value left ? I wasn't offended by Julian Clary's ' fisting ' comment because it was mild compared to what you normally hear at this non-event . Worse , the occasion lends a veneer of respectability to the most appalling shows . Dare to venture a mildly derogatory comment about , say , ' Little Britain ' and you'll get the reply : " How come it won a ' Comedy Award ' then ? " . I would love to know the criteria used to pick the winners . It would seem that the awards are handed out on the basis of how much publicity the winner's private life has attracted . Which explains why Michael Barrymore was so successful for so long . And as for ' Mr . Blobby ' winning an award , well it speaks for itself , doesn't it ?
Why Mel & Griff Are The Real Two Ninnies	In the final ' Not The Nine O'Clock News ' , Mel Smith and Griff Rhys Jones famously put the boot into ' The Two Ronnies ' with ' The Two Ninnies ' . It wasn't an affectionate parody , more a savage attack . They cruelly berated Barker and Corbett for doing the same sort of jokes twenty years later ( inaccurate as ' The Two Ronnies ' had only been on for ten years at that point ) . How hypocritical for Smith and Jones then to front this show , which features them doing exactly the same thing ! ' Alas Smith & Jones ' was one of the best sketch shows of the ' 80's , but this ' tribute ' series did it no favours . ' The Two Ronnies ' compilations featured uncut material , here we got only excerpts interspersed with weak links . Are today's viewers so dim they need to have a joke explained before they see it ? Even Mel and Griff looked embarrassed , as well they might . Fortunately , the ' head-to-head ' sketches stand up well even now . After ' Morons From Outer Space ' and now this , a little humility from Mel and Griff would not go amiss .
Happy Birthday - Now Get Lost !	If ever there was a prime example of a television show running well beyond its natural lifespan , its surely ' Coronation Street ' . This , the granddaddy of British soaps , appears to have been on our screens since The Pleistocene Era , and shows no signs whatever of ending . I envy its writers for being able to churn out any old rubbish on a weekly basis and still get that B . A . F . T . A . every year for ' Best Soap ' . In 1990 , the show celebrated its thirtieth anniversary , providing yet another excuse for back-slapping and masturbatory retrospectives . What made this one worse than most was that it took the form of an entertainment show , a sort of ' This Is Your Life ' with cobblestones , hosted by the doyen of bad entertainment shows Cilla Black . It opened with about a dozen or so camp-looking young men in tight trousers and flimsy shirts prancing about a replica Street to the sound of Alyn Ainsworth-style big band music . I thought for one moment I'd accidentally tuned into a previously unseen Stanley Baxter sketch , but no such luck . It set the tone for what followed . Cilla then appeared and welcomed the studio audience , which strangely was made up entirely of the show's cast , past and present . Could they not find any members of the public willing to watch this slop ? A few , such as Peter Baldwin and Sherrie Hewson , were sacked soon afterwards by incoming producer Brian Park , so despite the jollity there was a funereal air to the extravaganza , like watching an anthill before a farmer puts his foot on it . Celebrities of the calibre of Joanna Lumley and Gorden Kaye were wheeled out to tell us how they got on in life by doing cough-and-spit roles in the show , and grainy clips shown to gasps of amazement from the audience . Stars from other soaps including Todd Carty and Letitia Dean gushed about what a wonderful show ' The Street ' was , and dear old Ronnie Corbett cracked jokes with a soap theme . Whenever he reached a punchline , the cameraman focused on a laughing Johnny Briggs . The reverential attitude Cilla displayed towards ' Coronation Street ' put one in mind of Burt Lancaster in ' Elmer Gantry ' , the programme had the air of a gathering of fervent religious types . You expected the audience to get to its feet en masse and begin swaying and clapping while chanting : " Happy Birthday ! Happy Birthday ! Happy Birthday To The Street ! . Had The Pope been brought in to say what a great fan he was , I would not have been remotely surprised . The ultimate horror , though , was when kids were shown imitating ' Street ' cast members . One girl did such a good impression of gravel-voiced pensioner Phyllis Pearce ( Jill Summers ) that her clip was shown three times before the end titles rolled . I lost the will to live at this point and slipped on ' The Best Of Little & Large ' video . Though I . T . V . have never done anything quite as bad as this since , they have come remarkably close . A recent ' Emmerdale ' tribute was equally sick making , with old-timers such as Frazer Hines telling us how rubbish the show was when he was in it and how brilliant it is now . As for ' Coronation Street ' , I would welcome a storyline in which aliens from the planet Zorb blasted the place to smithereens with lasers - if only to save us from fatuous twaddle such as this . ( In case you think I have been too hard here , let me point out that ' Daily Mirror ' critic and soap lover Hilary Kingsley also hated this ' tribute ' with a vengeance . She titled her review ' Black Night For The Street ' ) .
The Reekest Stink	This has all the entertainment value of having teeth pulled without anaesthetic . When I first saw it , I thought I'd tuned into an old war film by mistake , with Anne Robinson playing a Nazi interrogator . The lady was once a ' Daily Mirror ' columnist and when Robert Maxwell fell off the ' Lady Ghislaine ' in 1991 she penned a grovelling eulogy that ended with ; " He enriched many lives . Mine was one of them . " . Oh dear ! Why do the contestants on the receiving end of her sharp tongue not remind her of this ? Not to mention her obvious face lifts . If she has one more she'll float away . I fail to see why people waste their time watching this tripe . When you've seen one episode you've seen them all . The American people are with me on this . Where do they get the contestants from ? A home for the terminally charmless ? Many look and sound as though they've been doped . The main prize isn't worth the effort . With this , we're one step closer to the kind of ' torture game show ' as depicted in the Schwartzenegger movie ' The Running Man ' . As you may have gathered from the above , I'm Welsh and proud of it and have a big chip on my shoulder when it comes to Anne !
Old McDonald Had A Show . . .	" Alistair Campbell wrote in his diaries that he once contemplated suicide . After reading fifteen pages , I know just how he feels . " . That was the best ' gag ' in a recent edition of ' News Knight with Sir Trevor McDonald ' . After fifteen seconds of the first show , I too felt like doing away with myself . Proof if any were needed that satire is dead in the 21st century , ' News Knight ' tries hard to be another ' Have I Got News For You ' - a host presides over a panel of three guests , and invites them to make sharp , witty comments on the week's news . Unfortunately , none of them do . The rivalry that made ' H . I . G . N . F . Y . ' so much fun is conspicuously missing . Among the panel is Marcus Brigstocke , described ( but not by me ) as one of ' Britain's youngest , brightest comedians ' . He's appeared on so many similar shows one imagines he has ' Satire Show Guest ' written on his passport . He might be hilarious after a few drinks down at the pub , but on television he comes across as a smug so-and-so without a funny bone in his body . Invited to make fun of the Alistair Campbell book , he couldn't do so and instead resorted to cheap insult . Frankie Boyle was better , but the worst thing about this programme is Sir Trevor himself , who these days bears an uncomfortable resemblance to his ' Spitting Image ' puppet . Sir Trev's delivery is so bad one wonders if he thinks he's auditioning for the job of a speak your weight machine . Hot on the heels of Ben Elton's dud ' Get A Grip ' , ' News Knight ' is marginally less amusing than its namesake - ' Newsnight ' - on B . B . C . - 2 . At least Jeremy Paxman knows how to be both funny and intelligent .
Wild Cheese 2	' The Wild Geese ' ( 1978 ) , by no means a classic , was Oscar winning stuff compared to this stinker . Edward Fox plays the brother of the Richard Burton character ; the dialogue at the start tries to imply that Eddie was out there alongside Richard in the African veldt . Oh no he wasn't ! Based on Daniel Carney's ' The Square Circle ' , this is rubbish as adventure , lacking in action , being a compendium of the worst spy movie clichs of all time . At one point , someone even says : " We ask the questions ! " . Roger Moore had the good sense to turn it down , instead we get Scott Glenn looking as though he's stepped off the set of ' Westworld ' , and Barbara Carrera as the token crumpet . The plot concerns a publicity seeking U . S . news network hiring mercenaries to free Rudolf Hess from Spandau prison . Whilst it was possible to root for the original Wild Geese as they rescued a democratically-elected Prime Minister , its impossible to care if Glenn , Fox and Carrera spring Hess . Luckily for us , Euan Lloyd retired not long afterwards .
A Human Pigsty	Television producers are notorious for their lack of irony . Peter Weir's ' The Truman Show ' warned of the dangers of taking reality television too far . Those geniuses at Endemol U . K . couldn't have paid heed because each summer ' Big Brother ' stinks up Channel 4's schedules like an overflowing dustbin in a heatwave . Its odd now to look back at that first series and see how normal the contestants were compared with those of recent years . Now the show's rules are being deliberately ignored so that ' voted-out ' contestants can be brought back , resulting in understandable viewer fury . Why have rules if they can't be bothered to obey them ? ' B . B . ' deserves to be pilloried for giving undeserved media exposure to obnoxious , arrogant , foul-mouthed types who clearly belong in a mental home . With any luck it will one day be consigned to the same fate as ' The Black & White Minstrel Show ' - unloved and forgotten , a relic of a shameful era when the lowest common denominator reigned supreme on British television .
Leave It !	The history of television is strewn with bad programmes with ' Charlie ' in the title - ' Charlie's Angels ' , ' Father Charlie ' , ' Charlie's Garden Army ' , and this . ' Leave It To Charlie ' was originally a short-lived 1975 Granada sitcom entitled ' The Life Of Riley ' , starring Bill Maynard as Frank Riley , a happy-go-lucky agent for The Lancastrian Assurance Company . Someone at Granada must have liked it because back it came in 1978 , starring ' The Cuckoo Waltz's ' David Roper as Charlie Fisher , a happy-go-lucky agent for The Lancastrian Insurance Company . Roper was every bit as annoying here as he was in ' Waltz ' . Peter Sallis was wasted as dithering Arthur Simister , Gwen Cherrell played his forgetful wife , Sally Kinghorn the scatterbrained secretary , and Jean Heywood as Charlie's easily amused landlady . Oh yes , there was also a bloke played by David Ross whose teeth fell out whenever he spoke . H . V . Kershaw , who created and wrote this , was a staff writer on ' Coronation Street ' - an immeasurably funnier show in my view .
Supermarket From Hell	We shall never know what made Leonard Rossiter agree to star in this feeble Thames sitcom . It certainly couldn't have been the quality of the scripts . Though penned by Brian Cooke , one half of the writing team behind ' Man About The House ' and ' George & Mildred ' , they proved about as funny as anthrax . The show cast Rossiter as ' Norman Tripper ' , the permanently harassed manager of a supermarket whose staff are either lazy or incompetent . Typical of the show's level of humour is the fact that two characters are named ' Laurel ' and ' Hardy ' so that Tripper can make a reference to ' Laurel & Hardy ' the comedy duo . As Tripper , its easily Rossiter's least distinguished comedy performance , though this is not his fault . Tripper comes across as a weak ' Basil Fawlty ' clone , constantly shouting his not very funny lines to no avail . Midway through the transmission of this series , Rossiter passed away , making ' Tripper's Day ' his last ever work for television . Shame . He deserved a better epitaph than this .
A Mystery How It Lasted So Long	Though it began in 1988 , ' M . S . T . 3 . K . ' didn't arrive in the U . K . until the late ' 90's , when Season 9 was shown by The Sci-Fi Channel . I was given to understand it had a cult following among American teenagers , presumably the sort who chew gum a lot and wear ear-plugs to bed to stop their brains spilling out on to the pillows . The first edition I saw featured Jack Arnold's ' Revenge Of The Creature ' , a mediocre film to be sure , but no turkey . I enjoyed the film as much as I could , but the segments involving Mike Nelson , Mary Jo Pehl , the robots and apes were so painfully unfunny I wanted to brain the writers and cast with that cheap-looking Airfix model that's supposed to represent a spaceship . And Bridget Jones should stick to sliding down fireman's poles . We were not allowed to view the films properly as they were continually talked over and interrupted by the dumb stuff . Some , such as ' Riding With Death ' and ' Cosmic Princess ' , were not movies at all ( a fact the cast conveniently neglected to mention ) , but compilations of old T . V . shows ( ' The Gemini Man ' and ' Space : 1999 ' to be exact ) and therefore should not have been included . One of the earlier editions had ' Revenge Of The Mysterons ' , made up of four episodes from ' Captain Scarlet & The Mysterons ' , a 1967 children's sci-fi show which is rightly regarded in the U . K . as a classic ( its recently been remade ) . To see the country that gave the world ' Galactica 1980 ' and the second season of ' Buck Rogers ' ( the one with ' Hawk ' ) sneering at this wonderfully imaginative show made me want to puke . An outrageous insult to Gerry and Sylvia Anderson . Its possible that ' M . S . T . ' was a good show in the early days , but there was no sign of quality in the episodes I viewed . Nelson had all the charm of a lavatory brush , while the tacky sets and tin-bath robots appeared to be left-overs from a bad kiddies show circa 1970 . Some of the movies , such as ' Agent For H . A . R . M . ' . and ' The Horror Of Party Beach ' deserved ridicule , but this was not the place to do it . The net effect was akin to a bald man laughing at one with a receding hairline . I have noticed that a number of I . M . D . B . reviewers have based their strong views of the films not on the originals , but on the ' M . S . T . 3 . K . ' versions . This isn't right . In Britain , ' M . S . T . 3 . K ' proved a ratings loser ( another triumph for British good taste ! ) . Seasons 10 and 11 were never shown here . I do not think we missed anything special . Thankfully , it is no longer with us . I hope that one day the show itself comes under fire from the comedians of the future , who regard the spectacle of a bad television show mocking bad movies as an act of hypocrisy .
Little Things Please Little Minds	No other show epitomises the decline of television comedy more than ' Little Britain ' . Its telling that its main audience are kids , the sort easily amused by swearing , vomiting and farting . If it keeps the little dears happy , that's fine by me . What I find odd though is how the nation seems to have clasped it to its collective bosom , almost as though its the best thing to happen to British comedy since Mrs . Chaplin gave birth to Charlie . Even ' The South Bank Show ' devoted an edition to it . What the hell is going on ? ' Little Britain ' is the creation of David Walliams and Matt Lucas , a double act who made Dailey & Wayne ( never heard of them ? I'm not surprised ! ) look good . Its main targets are the obese , incontinent and elderly . The contempt Lucas and Walliams has for these unfortunates has to be seen to be believed . Hitler would have adored this show . Lucas once did an advert for Cadbury's creme eggs in which his head spun round . It remains the highpoint of his career to date . ' I'm the only gay in this village ' wasn't funny the first time he said it . It must rank as the most banal comic catchphrase of all time . Why are this appalling pair allowed to make fun of black people when old shows like ' Curry & Chips ' and ' Love Thy Neighbour ' dare not be repeated for fear of giving offence ? What Tom Baker is doing associated with this swill is a mystery . I look forward to 2200 A . D . when ' Little Britain ' is mercilessly ridiculed by a ' Time Trumpet ' style show . In the meantime , give this abomination a wide berth .
Addicted to Noel ? No way !	' Telly Addicts ' started at roughly the same time as the second season of L . W . T . ' s ' We Love T . V . ' , hosted by Gloria Hunniford . Glo's show was inexplicably axed after only two seasons , despite being the superior of the two , while The Bearded Wonder's feeble effort dragged on for what seemed an eternity . Neither was an original idea ; I . T . V . ' s ' Those Wonderful T . V . Times ' beat them to the airwaves by a decade . The ' Telly Addicts ' set resembled a doss house in Croydon , with two sets of contestants facing one another , perched on moth-eaten sofas . Had anyone fallen asleep on air as a result of meths fumes inhalation , it would not have been surprising . The contestants had to answer questions about old television shows . Some of the answers were truly mind boggling ; for instance , replying to ' What was the premise of ' The Time Tunnel ' ? ' , an idiot said : " N . A . S . A . Control . " . Another round had contestants making berks of themselves by singing theme tunes while another required the identification of shows through old props . Particularly good were the Pain ( sic ) family who won every edition of the first season . They seemed pleasant enough but a number of ' Points Of View ' correspondents claimed their questions were easier than anybody else's . Really ! How cynical can you get ! What made ' Telly Addicts ' a turn-off for me personally was Noel himself , tightly clutching his ' hoofer-doofer ' , and bestriding the set like ' Talos ' from ' Jason & The Argonauts ' . He never missed a chance to rubbish old programmes - particularly old sci-fi shows such as ' Twilight Zone ' and the Irwin Allen series . I got the impression that sci-fi is not Noel's favourite viewing . Yet these were vastly superior to the majority of his television output . In a moment of madness , some fool at the B . B . C . sold the rights to Noel , meaning that if say Outer Mongolian T . V . wanted to put on a telly quiz , they first had to pay him a king's ransom . A ' Telly Addicts ' board game was later issued . I never bought it , but I bet it was more fun than watching the show . At least you could use the cardboard lid ( bearing Noel's grinning chops ) as a dartboard .
" We'll Be Right Back After The Break ! "	' 3-2-1 ' is one of television's greatest enigmas . Though it ended two decades ago , even now I wonder from time-to-time : " Why ? " . Made by Yorkshire Television , it consisted basically of various formats bolted together ; game show , variety show , children's show ( Dusty Bin ) , all linked by a finger-twisting Ted Rogers . Poor Ted . Having made a name for himself on programmes such as ' Jokers Wild ' as a quick-witted comic , he then had the misfortune to find himself in this slop ( he later admitted that the early editions made him cringe ) . Ditto Fiona Curzon , who prior to becoming a ' 3-2-1 ' beauty had appeared in Granada's popular I . T . V . thriller show ' The X-Y-Y Man ' . And what of poor Caroline Munro , a one-time Hammer Horror starlet who had been in Bond and Sinbad movies , reduced to playing second fiddle to a dustbin ? Originating from Spain ( Margaret Forwood of The Sun said ' it was the most undesirable thing to come out of that country since bullfighting ' ) , it ran for nearly a decade . So someone must have liked it . What was its appeal ? Well , it had razzmatazzz by the bucketload ( Johnny Pearson's theme was the most bombastic ever written for the box ) , glamour ( a gang of Continental beauties called ' The Gentle Secs ' , one of whom - Mireille Allonville - had appeared in soft porn films ) , intrigue ( those cryptic clues would have baffled Sherlock Holmes ) , and the ever present threat of ' Dusty Bin ' . Initially , the bin was inert , but then they made him move . The sight of a grinning bin gliding across the floor of the studio sent a collective shiver up the spines of the nation . ' Dr . Who ' could not have done it better . One or two poor souls won it from time to time , and to compound their humiliation Ted then asked them to smile and wave at the camera . The worst thing about the show were the sketches , many of which seemed to have been originally written for ' Crackerjack ' . Some nights the cast looked genuinely embarrassed at having to perform them . The first episode had as a contestant a pre-Radio 1 Janice Long , who curiously neglected to mention that she was Keith Chegwin's sister ( this was years before ' Naked Jungle ' ) . The early shows featured Mike Newman , Chris Emmett , and Debbie Arnold making lame quips inbetween the questions . Emmett wheeled out his impression of then-Labour Prime Minister Jim Callaghan practically every week , but when Margaret Thatcher moved into 10 , Downing Street , political humour suddenly became noticeably absent . The show carried the credit : ' Production Associate Michael Sullivan ' . The late Mr . Sullivan was a top showbiz agent , meaning that a lot of the ' 3-2-1 ' guest-stars came straight off his books . A young Mark Heap appeared in one edition ( I'm sure he's proud to have it on his C . V . ) . Easy to be cynical now , but ' 3-2-1 ' was huge in its day . They could not get away with it today though . Could they ?
Down Among The B-Movie Men !	Imagine if , in the early ' 70's , the ' Monty Python ' gang had been hired to make a movie , but then the producer entrusted the writing duties to others , brought in an attractive female lead , dancers and unrelated novelty acts ? The resulting film would have been a disaster . Yet , in 1952 , producer E . J . Fancey did just that with what was then the hottest new comedy team in Britain - ' The Goons ' . I got into ' The Goon Show ' in the summer of 1982 , when classic episodes were being repeated on Radio 4 as part of the ' Smash Of The Day ' series . I knew a little about ' Goon ' humour , but nothing prepared me for for my first experience of it . The episode was ' Rommel's Treasure ' and , by the end of it , I was in pain from laughter . I went out and bought the cassettes , a book of scripts from a second-hand shop , and even had a go at writing my own . I was hooked . ' Down ' represents the first - and sadly , last - time all four of the original ' Goons ' were simultaneously captured on film , and the result is a bit of a mess . For one thing , the script was written neither by Spike Milligan or Larry Stephens , but by Jimmy Grafton and Francis Charles . The plot - such as it is - revolves around a couple of spies after a top secret formula invented by the eccentric scientist Professor Osrick Pureheart ( Bentine ) . Harry Secombe plays ' Harry Jones ' ( not ' Neddie Seagoon ' , you'll notice ) , a grocer's assistant who fancies himself as a private eye . Peter Sellers reprises his role as ' Bloodnok ' ( now a Colonel , not a Major ) and Spike Milligan is ' Private Eccles ' . With the exception of the latter , the characters are unrecognisable from their radio counterparts . How could they have left out ' Bluebottle ' ? Carole Carr wafts around as ' Carole Gayley ' , and The Television Toppers do their usual high-kicking dance stuff . Maclean Rogers ' other credits include one of the ' Old Mother Riley ' pictures , and that's where he should have stayed . The irrelevant musical numbers would have been acceptable had the comedy scenes been strong enough to balance them out , but they're not . Apart from a couple of moments , there's little genuine ' Goon ' humour on display here . One such moment is when Private Eccles turns up for parade wearing a chestful of medals . " Do you know how I got these medals ? " , he asks Jones . " Ten bob the lot ! " . The cast are required to do little more than mug . Even Peter Sellers displays little of the talent which , only a few years later , made him one of the biggest movie-stars in the world . Given a director of the calibre of Leo McCarey , as well as a better script , ' The Goons ' could conceivably have made a comedy to rival those Marx Brothers classics such as ' Duck Soup ' . Unfortunately , it didn't happen . If you want to know what made ' The Goon Show ' great , listen to the radio show instead .
When Meg Married Hugh	Hardly a week used to go by in the ' 70's without some comedian taking a pot shot at ' Crossroads ' . Ernie Wise said the soap opera had all the entertainment value of ' a cemetery with lights ' , and Benny Hill did a very funny lampoon with himself both as ' Benny ' and ' Meg Richardson ' . Noele Gordon publicly complained that the show was the target of ' destructive , rather than constructive criticism ' . She was right , but was this hostility deserved ? It was a terrible show , no doubt about it , but I think most of its fans probably knew that already . It seemed to exist in some strange parallel universe with its own laws . To give an example , in 1975 , Meg Richardson ( Noele Gordon ) married Hugh Mortimer ( John Bentley ) . A . T . V . milked maximum publicity from the occasion ; hundreds of people lined the streets of Birmingham to get a glimpse of the happy couple . It was like a Soap version of a Royal Wedding . Even Larry Grayson acted as chauffeur ! Watching this , I remember thinking : " Why would an entire city grind to a halt just because a motel owner marries a businessman ? " . The marriage was short-lived ; poor Hugh was later kidnapped and killed by international terrorists ( ! ) . Other outrageous plots included Benny ( Paul Henry ) being suspected of murder , and Arthur Brownlow ( Peter Hill ) suspected of being a sex pest , an allegation he endured without once managing to change his expression . Then there were grotesque characters including the legendary ' Amy Turtle ' ( Ann George ) and ' Wilf Harvey ' ( Morris Parsons ) . On the plus side , the show did have some decent performers , such as the late Roger Tonge ( who played Meg's crippled son Sandy ) . I also liked the guy who played ' Vince Parker ' the postman . My grandmother was a huge ' Crossroads ' fan , and was the first in line when in 1971 ' The T . V . Times ' brought out a souvenir tie-in magazine . She had a crush on the late Ronald Allen ( David Hunter ) , an actor so wooden you could smell Cuprinol every time he was on screen . When Noele got the sack in the early ' 80's , the writing was on the wall for the motel . Incoming producer Phil Bowman tried to make it more upmarket by bringing in sexy Gabrielle Drake to play ' Nicola Freeman ' , but it did not work out , and when in 1985 , Victoria Wood savagely lampooned it on her ' As Seen On T . V . ' show , that was it . It ended in 1988 , but was revived a few years back on I . T . V . The new-look show initially attracted good reviews and ratings , but then interest waned and - after a shake-up in which Jane Asher was brought in as the motel's new owner - the doors were closed once again . I very much doubt whether ' Crossroads ' will be revived a second time . With soap operas clogging up channels like cholesterol in the arteries , there just is no room for it to stand out . I will leave the last word to Jane Rossington , who as ' Jill ' closed the last edition of the original series by saying : " Crossroads ! What a great name for a motel ! " .
Time's Up For ' Not The Nine O'Clock News '	Following a gap year , ' Not The Nine O'Clock News ' returned in 1982 for a fourth and final series . Unfortunately , as happened with ' Monty Python ' , it lost its edge completely , and disappointed the fans . Knowing fully well there was unlikely to be a fifth season , the team decided to go for broke with their very last show . It managed to be more offensive than the earlier editions combined , containing just about every dirty joke imaginable . Following filmed shots ( presumably taken from a wildlife programme ) of animals copulating , we were treated to the sight of Mel Smith and Griff Rhys Jones as ' The Two Ninnies ' , obviously based on ' The Two Ronnies ' . This was no affectionate send-up ; genuine hatred for the Barker and Corbett show was on display here . The opening mock news item was guyed , as was the closing song . Dressed as beefeaters , the Ninnies sang a crass ditty that included references to female genitalia . It now seems ironic that Smith and Jones once sneered at other comics for sticking to tried and tested routines , as they did the same thing when they resurrected their famous head-to-head skits in 2006's ' The Smith & Jones Sketchbook ' . Ronnie Barker was allegedly upset by the item , and it is not surprising . Aside from being unfair , it was not particularly original ( Jasper Carrott did a much better spoof on ' Carrott's Lib ' , called ' The Two Normans ' ) or funny . Next up was a pub sketch in which Mel Smith orders a salad and is shocked to find a caterpillar amongst the lettuce . When he complains to landlord Griff Rhys Jones , he gets the reply : " Well , you did order the pub grub ! " . That kind of joke is funny only after a few beers . Worse was to come . The series bowed out with a song allegedly entitled ' Kinda Lingers ' , but you did not need to be a lip reader to see that what they were actually singing was ' cunnilingus ' . Shocking stuff at the time . Afterwards , a light was switched off , and the ' Not The Nine O'Clock News ' universe was plunged into eternal darkness . There was outrage when this first went out . Not just because of the smutty humour , but that desperation was all-too evident , as though the producers were openly admitting the rest of the fourth series had been a failure . Compare this to the finale of the first season of ' Spitting Image ' ( it concluded with the superb ' Every Job You Take ' ) , and you will see the difference . As a fan of this series , I felt that this was not the best way for it to end . It was as though they had gathered together all the rejected ideas from the earlier shows and stuffed them in one programme . Fortunately , the end of ' Not ' left the cast free to do other ( better ) things , namely ' Alas Smith & Jones ' and ' The Black Adder ' .
Viewing The Past Through Blue-Tinted Glasses	When she was Leader Of Her Majesty's Opposition , Margaret Thatcher ( remember her ? ) vowed to rollback ' The Permissive Society ' on becoming P . M . It was a promise that predictably resonated with the Tory faithful , but alas proved impossible to keep because it did not exist , and never had . Unfortunately , no-one seems to have told her acolytes , many of whom to this day huff and puff about the ' 60's , denouncing it as an era of ' moral decay ' . Well , I suppose if you were around during Profumo it must have seemed that way . Broadcast as part of the ' Summer Of The Sixties ' festival on B . B . C . - 4 , this ludicrously one-sided programme was intended presumably as a corrective to the usual accusations that go hand-in-hand with retrospectives , namely that the past is being ' viewed through rose-tinted glasses ' . It crassly inferred that everything about the decade stank , such as ' Please Release Me ' by Engelbert Humperdinck ( What ? Worse than ' Agadoo ' by Black Lace ? ) , and that we should have bypassed it and the ' 70's altogether and moved onto the caring , sharing ' 80's . Complaints were made about beautiful architecture being demolished to make way for ugly eyesores . Excuse me ? That did not only happen in the ' 60's . Mick Jagger being questioned about his political beliefs is hardly as embarrassing as the spectacle of Davina McCall on ' Question Time ' . It was even intimated that England's victory in the 1966 World Cup was undeserved . I half-expected Ann Leslie to pop up to tell us ' The Sound Of Music ' was a turkey . It is the easiest thing in the world to cherry pick the worst bits of the past , string them together to create a fundamentally distorted picture of how things were , and this programme did just that . In that respect it was no different from those tacky ' I Love The ' 70's ' type programmes that clog up the arteries of late-night Channel 4 schedules . It might have been possible to take it half-seriously had the contributors not consisted of ex-'Daily Mail ' hacks and noted Tory sympathisers . What a grumpy lot they were . I felt sorry for them . While the world was enjoying its new-found sexual liberation , they were stuck at home watching Malcolm Muggeridge .
Who Stole Our Monkey ?	While the St . Swithins students watch Paul down a yard of ale , a bunch of Highcross students steal their mascot - a stuffed gorilla in a flat cap who rejoices in the name of ' Muriel ' . ' The rape of the ape ' as Dick calls it . Upton and co . are not about to let the matter rest , and so dressed as nurses , they invade Highcross and steal theirs . The Dean receives a strongly worded letter of complaint , and decides to take disciplinary action . . . One of the worst episodes of ' House ' , with a script that seems more appropriate for ' The Bash Street Kids ' . We expect better from Graham Chapman and Barry Cryer . A condom makes an unexpected appearance in one scene . The cast go through the whole episode shouting their lines , Martin Shaw being the worst offender . ' Muriel ' gives the funniest performance .
Carry On Clunkers !	Having managed to destroy traditional British comedy by the early ' 90's , the alternative comedy brigade then made complete fools of themselves by signing up for ' Carry On Columbus ' . Why , exactly ? Alexei Sayle was a vociferous critic of ' old school ' comics such as Les Dawson , so what's he doing here ? Actually , neither he , Rik Mayall , Julian Clary , Keith Allen and co . can be blamed for the film turning out a stinker . Sid James , Kenneth Williams and the original gang would have had a tough time making this dreadful script funny . It plays like a bad ' Carry On ' spoof done by ' The Comic Strip Presents ' team . Clary manages a few guffaws as a Hawtrey-substitute , but the only person to emerge with any credit is Jim Dale . Old-timers Jack Douglas , Leslie Phillips , June Whitfield and Jon Pertwee feature in so few scenes as to be barely noticeable . I pity anyone who paid to see it on its original release ; on television you can always change channels , or better still put on a ' Carry On Screaming ' D . V . D .
Women Behaving As Badly As Men !	In 1970 , feminists invaded the ' Miss World ' beauty contest in London and brought the occasion to a halt by pelting the stage with flour and eggs . Why ? Because , rightly or wrongly , they felt the event to be demeaning and degrading to women . I offer no criticism of their actions . Its a free world we live in . What I want to know is : why don't their modern-day equivalents invade the studios where shows such as this are made and do likewise ? ' Sex & The City ' is all about four self-absorbed women from New York : Carrie is a slave to fashion who turns into a pussycat when a man so much as claps eyes on her , Charlotte yearns to find the perfect man ( they don't exist , love ) so she can use sex to ensnare the poor devil , lawyer Miranda scares men away by wittering nonsense like ' out of touch with my emotions ' , and lastly we have Samantha , the living embodiment of the old Martini ad ' anytime , anyplace , anywhere ' . Feminists hold up these characters - particularly Samantha - as a shining example of modern-day womanhood . Well , if shouting rude words in busy restaurants is progress , I think the feminists should take a long hard look at themselves and what they're supposed to represent . Had ' Sex & The City ' been the creation of a man , it would have been pulled from the airwaves for being sexist . Instead , like ' Charlie's Angels ' before it , it has conned supposedly intelligent women into thinking it has acted as a positive force for good . There's something very clinical and cold-blooded about the show . ' The Benny Hill Show ' was sexist too , but at least it was funny .
What's Off ? Wogan !	' What's On Wogan ' has been seemingly wiped from the national consciousness , possibly as a result of ' Manchurian Candidate ' style brainwashing , or just possibly because it wasn't very good . It was Tel's first attempt at a peak-time Saturday night talk show , a forerunner to the more successful ( and equally bland ) thrice-weekly one he'd front a few years later . The guests were a mixed bunch ; Vincent Price proved about as lively as some of the characters in his horror movies , the ones on the mortuary slab . The highlight of that groundbreaking premiere show was Vince showing viewers how to cook fish in a washing machine . Later shows included Kelly Monteith , Penelope Keith , Paul Daniels , Kenny Everett ( who caused a storm by saying a rude word that rhymes with ' scollops ' ) , and a rare and unexpectedly delightful ( and alas , final ) appearance from Arthur Askey and Richard ' Stinker ' Murdoch . The ' Band Waggon ' boys showed they still had a few gags left in them . A pair of lovely Scottish girls in tartan , Fran and Anna , wiggled their way through every other episode , much to Tel's obvious embarrassment . ' What's On Wogan ' was one of those shows where everything gets thrown into the pot in the hope that everyone finds something to like . In this case , no-one did .
Grumpy More Like	What do Richard Beckinsale , Leonard Rossiter and Harry H . Corbett have in common ? Aside from being brilliant comedy actors ( and all sadly dying within a few years of one another ) , they had the misfortune to end their television careers by starring in sub-standard sitcoms . Beckinsale in the thankfully forgotten ' Bloomers ' ( set in a flower shop ) , Rossiter in the even worse ' Tripper's Day ' ( in which he played a supermarket manager who shouted non-stop ) , and Corbett in the Thames-made ' Grundy ' , scripted by the brilliant Ken Hoare , co-writer ( with Mike Sharland ) of ' Mr . Digby Darling ' starring Peter Jones and Sheila Hancock , and author of the award-winning L . W . T . Stanley Baxter shows . His wit sadly deserted him here though . ' Grundy ' was a chore to sit through . Corbett had high hopes for the show . Interviewed by ' The News Of The World ' prior to its screening , he said : " I hope to bury Steptoe for good . " . This proved to be wildly optimistic . ' Grundy ' was a newsagent whom Mary Whitehouse would have gotten along with famously . He too despised the so-called ' permissive society ' and attacked it at every opportunity . The first episode opened with him leaving a court , having successfully divorced his wife on the grounds of adultery ( she ran off with a bookmaker ) . The experience has made him so unhappy he covers his face with his jacket to prevent anyone from recognising him . Boarding a train , he finds himself sharing a compartment with the attractive and earthy Beryl Loomis ( Lynda Baron of ' Open All Hours ' ) who , wouldn't you know it , is the wife of the very bookmaker Mrs . Grundy ran off with . He opens up to her . " I got my load of legal rubbish out of The Yellow Pages . " , says Grundy , sadly : " The firm of Pratt , Pratt , Pratt and Malone . I got Malone . He was the biggest pratt of them all ! " ( and that was the funniest line in the entire series , believe me ) . Beryl is strangely attracted to Grundy and begins pursuing him . It is hard to see why as he is a miserable , self-pitying old git . Harold Steptoe has suddenly become Albert . Each week , Beryl would hound him no matter where he went , including a library . Today this would be called ' stalking ' . Her infatuation with Grundy is mirrored by her son Murray's ( Get Some In's David Janson ) lust for Grundy's pretty daughter Sharon ( Julie Dawn Cole ) . I remember thinking the casting was slightly awry . Cole looked like Lynda Baron , while Janson could easily have passed for a young Harry H . Corbett . Oh well . I have no idea how the series was resolved as I gave up on it well before the end . Grundy was such a misery-guts you felt like giving him a good shaking . ' Victor Meldrew ' of ' One Foot In The Grave ' was like that too , but then David Renwick always gave him a good reason for being so . You felt for him . It was impossible to feel the same about Grundy . He had no redeeming qualities whatever . The show was not helped by the fact that Corbett suffered a heart attack prior to recording and thus his performance seemed unnaturally tired . The really sad thing was that it was just not worth the effort . Corbett died two years later , and the ' Divided We Stand ' episode of ' Steptoe & Son ' was shown on B . B . C . - 1 as a tribute . I . T . V . could have paid its respects by showing an edition of ' Grundy ' , but chose not to . Wise decision .
" You Need A New Sound ! "	I saw this on B . B . C . - 2 one Saturday afternoon back in 1977 . Its not been on since . So bizarre is it I would not be at all surprised to learn it has a cult following someplace . Frank Ifield plays Dave Kelly , an Australian singer seeking fame and fortune in Swinging London . No sooner has he gotten off the boat than he falls in love with a beautiful girl ( Suzy Kendall a . k . a . Mrs . Dudley Moore ) whose face he sees on a billboard , so he tries to track her down . Like you do . What follows next is a confusing mishmash of styles , as though Christopher Miles couldn't make up his mind what sort of film this was . With bewildering speed , it goes from being a love story to a cynical look at the British pop scene of the ' 60's to a ' fish-out-of-water ' comedy to a caper movie ( a gang of inept crooks want to tunnel through the floor of Dave's flat and into the vault below ) . Like ' Casino Royale ' ( which was in production at the same time ) , everything is thrown into the pot . Near the end , Dave is shot at by a bald heavy in dark glasses straight out of James Bond . My jaw dropped at this point . I half expected Graham Chapman's Monty Python ' Colonel ' to appear and say : " Stop this . Its too silly ! " . Frank Ifield is no actor , but that does not really matter . Pop musicals of the era generally required artists to be themselves , you only have to remember Cliff Richard in ' The Young Ones ' , Billy Fury in ' I've Gotta Horse ' , and Joe Brown in ' Three Hats For Lisa ' . Anyway , Frank has a nice personality , and that's enough . Lewis Greifer went on to write for ' The Prisoner ' . Interestingly , his episode - ' The General ' - also cocked a snook at contemporary art . Interviewed for I . T . V . ' s ' After They Were Famous ' a few years back , Frank said that when he read the script he could not make head not tail of it , and even after viewing the completed film was none the wiser . Richard Wattis , Annette Andre , Ronald Radd et al do their best , and the songs are rather pleasant , but the whole thing rings about as hollow as an empty billy can . A film that tried ( and failed ) to be all things to all people . Loved the ' Teenage Tester ' though !
The ' Alf Baked Saga , More Like !	The second film based on the hit B . B . C . show ' Till Death Us Do Part ' picks up where the first movie left off , with Alf Garnett and his family turfed out of their Wapping home and installed in a block of high-rise flats . Alf can't get used to living in the sky , having to ride elevators ( which frequently break down due to power cuts caused by the miners ' strike ) and walk long distances to the nearest pub . For many in the ' 60's and ' 70's , this situation was only too real . Old people who'd survived the war with their homes intact lost them a decade or so later in the name of urban redevelopment . Una Stubbs and Anthony Booth ( who played Alf's daughter ' Rita ' and son-in-law ' Mike ' in both the T . V . series and first movie ) were inexplicably absent . Presumably they'd read the script . I greatly respect Johnny Speight , but here his talent seems to have deserted him . As the film plods on , the humour grows increasingly desperate , culminating in a horribly embarrassing sequence in which Alf has an L . S . D . ' trip ' . Paul Angelis and Adrienne Posta do their best , but the characters of ' Rita ' and ' Mike ' have been changed ; ' Mike ' is depicted here as a womanising drug addict , while ' Rita ' sets out to shock her family by pretending to spend the night with Kenny Lynch . Guest appearances by Arthur Askey , Max Bygraves , Eric Sykes and George Best don't improve things . The best moment is at the end when Alf accidentally sets his bed alight . The first ' Till Death ' film turns up on television often , but this has been completely forgotten , and with very good reason .
Welcome To Espana , Senor Vine !	The Charles Vine trilogy spluttered to a halt with this feeble offering , made entirely in Spain , featuring a ( nearly ) all Spanish cast , most of whom appear never to have acted before in their lives . The first two films were Poverty Row productions , this is more like Death Row . Adams seems like a tourist on a cheap package holiday , rather than a secret agent on a perilous mission . Tim Barrett ( from ' Where The Bullets Fly ' ) returns as a different character , Major Milo Kovacs , and , most unforgivably , the excellent John Arnatt has been replaced as Rockwell . Jose Luis Madrid and Michael Pittock's script is rubbish , lacking both originality and humour , Madrid's flat direction fails to drum up an iota of suspense . The climax is a rip off of the helicopter scene in ' From Russia With Love ' . Vine deserved a far better send-off . Ten years later , Lindsay Shonteff resurrected Vine ( with a slight name change to ' Bind ' ) for ' No . 1 Of The Secret Service ' starring Nicky Henson .
Bridget Owes Benny !	' Bridget Jones ' struck a chord with millions of single women all over the world . She's kooky , blonde , has a weight problem , a man problem , and is British . If she were the creation of a man , she'd have been banned by now . I loved the moment in this film when Bridget slides down a fireman's pole and we see her big knickers close up . But then I laughed at the same gag when it was done on ' The Benny Hill Show ' on / 70 . This is supposed to be feminist comedy , yet when its only memorable gag comes from an old television show derided and pilloried for its so-called ' sexism ' , you know something is wrong somewhere . Benny Hill , rest in peace . Your legacy is intact . Renee Zellweger is your natural heir .
Tarrant's Comeback	You have to give Chris Tarrant credit for nerve . After flopping big time with the vile ' O . T . T . ' , what did he give us next ? More of the same ! ' Saturday Stayback ' could have been called ' Son Of O . T . T . ' . It gave a break to the then-unknown Phil Cool and Tony Slattery , and had the novelty of being recorded not in a studio , but in various British pubs . I got a perverse laugh out of seeing the bemused faces of hardened drinkers as their local hostelries were invaded by Tarrant and co . You half-expected someone to turn nasty and give Chris a good hiding . Canned laughter was employed liberally to spare the cast's blushes . Most of the sketches were amateurishly written and indifferently performed , usually ending with Chris getting kneed in the groin by the lovely Helen Atkinson-Wood . It was a step up from ' O . T . T . ' but that's not saying much . After it was scrapped , Chris did various jobs on radio and breakfast television before finally hitting the big time as host of ' Who Wants To Be A Millionaire ' .
" I Could Be The Real Me ! "	Its difficult to see how this show could have failed . It was based on the B . B . C . ' s ' The Fall & Rise Of Reginald Perrin ' , and starred the brilliant Richard Mulligan ( ' Burt Campbell ' of ' Soap ' ) as rebellious commuter Reggie Potter . The scripts closely followed the David Nobbs originals , so what went wrong ? Perhaps it was the fact that there was never a given starting point for Reggie's madness . The first episode of the B . B . C . version opened with a normal day in Reggie's life . Then he asks Elisabeth , his wife : " Are we going to see the hippotamus on Sunday ? " . Here Potter starts out crazy , we never see just what he is rebelling against , hence the viewers had no sympathy for him . Some of the supporting cast were badly chosen , particularly ' C . J . ' , here played by a young , good-looking guy . Another mistake was making Reggie's layabout son Mark into a regular . He appeared only briefly in the B . B . C . series . The horrible song used to open the show didn't help matters either . ' Reggie ' was an unqualified disaster . Fortunately , we have the original to remind us what a great comedy show is supposed to look like .
For Pete's Sake	Peter Craven seems to have fallen on his feet . Flash car , new suits , pretty girls for the asking . What is his new job ? He's a ' gofer ' ( ' go for this , go for that ' ) for the East End gangster Stanley Bowler . When Craven invites Duffy to join him at the Henley Regetta , Duffy refuses as he is currently saving for his wedding to Sharon . But , after Craven makes fun of him , he agrees to go . At the Regetta , Craven tries to impress a couple of girls by blowing a hundred pounds on the roulette table . He loses . And it wasn't his money . Bowler gives him twenty-four hours to replace the 100 . Or else Craven will receive a little visit from his minders . . . One of the weakest episodes of the whole series , its main source of humour is the sight of Dennis shelling peas in Duffy's living room . I always found ' Peter Craven ' the least interesting of the gang , being much too cocky and unlikeable . Not the fault of the late Malcolm McFee , the writers should have made him a little less one-dimensional . So I didn't really care whether or not he found the money to pay off his boss . The way his dilemma is resolved is unbelievable too . ' Stanley Bowler ' , the crime boss who fancies himself as an English gentlemen , proved so popular that he eventually landed his own show . ' Rona ' is played by the stunning Patricia Quinn , later to develop a cult following for her role as ' Magenta ' in ' The Rocky Horror Picture Show ' ( 1976 ) .
Down The Pan More Like	This is the earliest surviving episode of ' Down The ' Gate ' , the sitcom that effectively killed Reg Varney's television career . A new manager is taking over at Billingsgate - Mr . Preston ( Percy Herbert ) . He has a bit of a reputation as a stickler for efficiency so Reg Furnell ( Reg Varney ) naturally wants to create a good impression . Things go wrong immediately . Distracted by the sight of a young woman dressing across the road , Reg becomes late ( and lands himself in hot water with wife Irene into the bargain ) . Reg is in such a hurry to get to the market he falls down some spiral stairs , landing on Preston's back . So now his reputation for good time-keeping is gone , and he has hurt the new manager . Later , in the canteen , he foolishly boasts that he can climb a local war memorial carrying three fish crates . His mates challenge him to do so . . . Right away you can see what this was trying to be : ' Down The Buses ' or ' On The ' Gate ' . It failed because the scripts were not good ( the obvious laugh-track did not help ) , and there was an insufficient mix of strong comedy characters . Percy Herbert's ' Mr . Preston ' cannot hold a fish slice to Stephen Lewis ' ' Blakey ' , and it was a shame he was ever made to try . Reg Lye's ' Old Wol ' likewise is no ' Jack Harper ' . There's a busty blonde serving in the canteen ( Helen Keating ) , and like ' Stan ' Reg gets intro trouble whenever he looks at a pretty girl , but these similarities did not help the show gain anything like the popularity ' Buses ' enjoyed . Funniest moment - Reg simultaneously attempting to shave using an electric razor and put on his tie . My copy of this episode has commercials in , and these were far more enjoyable than the actual programme .
Ignominious End For Mr . Hedges	Fed up at being unemployed , Hedges takes a job at an escort agency . His first client is the lovely Elinor , wife of German businessman Ernst . Tired of being ignored , Elinor wishes to make her husband jealous , hence she pretends to flirt with the ex-schoolteacher . At a posh restaurant , they get better acquainted . Ernst arrives in an angry mood . To complicate matters further still , Penny is there too . . . An unusual episode this ; not one ' Gang ' member appears , instead John Esmonde and Bob Larbey's script focuses entirely on Bernard and Penny Hedges . Nothing wrong with that , but the plot is an inversion of ' Leave It To Me , Darling ' . Instead of Bernard suspecting his wife of going on the game , Penny thinks that of her husband . The almost total absence of humour leads one to suspect the script of an entirely different series has somehow strayed into the wrong show . The lovely Wanda Ventham had recently been seen as ' Colonel Virginia Lake ' in Gerry and Sylvia Anderson's cult sci-fi show ' U . F . O ' . One wonders whether this episode , and the earlier ' Fenn Streets ' to feature Hedges were intended as a try-out for a proposed second spin-off , one in which he landed a new job each week , rather like Charlie Drake in ' The Worker ' . In the final event , this was to be the last time John Alderton played him , making this a dismal exit for the character . He deserved a better send-off .
Post Mortem For A Dead Television Genre	Rightly or wrongly , the perception exists among the general public that situation comedies are no longer funny . What has caused this ? The programmes themselves , or are people being misled into thinking there was ever a golden age of television comedy ? ' Who Killed The Sitcom ? ' was less of an investigation into why this perception exists , and more a lame excuse to trot out a lot of tired , unfunny clips , most of them of recent vintage , interspersed with talking head stuff from writers , comedians and television executives . The way they continue to insist there is nothing wrong with today's comedies , despite overwhelming evidence to the contrary , was itself amusing , reminiscent of the ' Black Knight ' scene from ' Monty Python & The Holy Grail ' . The only half-decent one I have seen lately has been Chris Morris and Charlie Brooker's ' Nathan Barley ' . ' The Office ' was held up as a shining example of the ' brilliant ' stuff around now , despite it being a spoof documentary , not a sitcom . I believe personally that sitcoms have declined - as well as being fewer in number , those we do get are mostly pitched at the same audience - teenagers . Put a couple of lads and girls in a flat and have them argue about sex for thirty minutes each week and you have a modern sitcom . It would be nice for a change to see something written by and aimed at adults . I would also love to see a show that gets laughs without relying too much on catchphrases . Surely the fact that this programme exists at all must tell the T . V . bosses something ? I don't remember there being a ' Who Killed The Sitcom ? ' - type programme thirty years ago . Programme makers were too busy making funny shows , not analysing what went wrong with the genre . Public taste has changed , of that there's no doubt . For the worse , alas . People have been conditioned to accept bad language and body function jokes as the norm when it comes to comedy . Put on something subtle and it goes over their heads . So that's the sitcom dealt with . I look forward to ' Who Killed Reality T . V . ? ' in the not-too distant future .
That Ain't No Way To Treat A Lady	Appalled by Tim and Graeme's boorish displays of sexism , Bill summons ' Women's Libber ' Barbara . To show them what women have to endure , she puts them to work for her father - a chauvinistic aristocrat who treats women like dirt . Graeme has an easy life as the butler , but poor Tim is put through hell as the maid . He emerges a better man for the experience . In the meantime , Bill gets engaged to Barbara , whilst Graeme begins dating . . . wait for it . . . his computer ! The longer run of season 2 resulted in several episodes which should not have been made , and this is one of them . Its ammunition for those smug critics who claim ' 70's comedy is hopelessly sexist . It begins as it means to go on with Tim being horrid to his date , Debbie . There's some good gags later on as Tim is treated appallingly by Barbara's father , and Graeme romping through the woods in slow motion with his computer , but the whole thing collapses at the end . Pretending to be a feminist protester , Tim shows up at the church where Bill and Graeme are to be married , and persuades his friends to abandon their wedding plans . Bill casually dumping Barbara got no laugh from the audience - nor from me . If the intention was to ridicule male chauvinistic attitudes , it failed because Garden and Oddie make fun of the alternative too . They were to repeat this blunder in their equally reprehensible ' Doctor In Charge ' episode ' The Black & White Medical Show ' . Chalk this down as an interesting failure . Funniest moment - the spoof advertisement for ' Honest Holidays ' which looks like the inspiration for ' Carry On Abroad ' !
" Doing What Their Daddies Do ! "	You can see how ' Doctors ' Daughters ' came to be made . It was the creation of Richard Gordon , whose book ' Doctor In The House ' gave birth to a string of hit movies and a long-running television series . When he approached A . T . V . with the concept , Lord Grade probably could not get out his cheque book fast enough . Gordon did not write the show alone though ; he teamed up with Ralph Thomas , director of the ' Doctor ' movies . It was basically a generation gap comedy ; set in the cathedral city of Mitrebury , three elderly G . P . ' s - Richard Murdoch , Bill Fraser , and Jack Watling - are so overworked they plan on retiring after 35 years . Remembering that two of their fellow medical students - ' Loony ' Liston and ' Rubberduck ' Drake - have fathered young doctors , they agree to hand over , believing their replacements to be male . But , when they turn up , the aged doctors are aghast to find that they are female - and right little ravers to boot . ' Dr . Lucy Drake ' ( Lesley Duff ) and ' Dr . Fay Liston ' ( Victoria Burgoyne ) are the female equivalents of ' Dr . Duncan Waring ' and ' Dr . Dick Stuart-Clark ' . Both dress provocatively , particularly the latter , who only wears a bra for exams and inquests , and are free with their sexual favours . Liston's attitude is : " why get married and keep one man happy , when I can stay single and keep dozens ? " . The first episode ended with her going topless ( we only saw her from the back ) when her friend tore off her top to make bandages for an injured patient . Along with Liz Arkdale ( Bridget Armstrong ) , gynaecologist and obstetrician ( also the world's worst driver ) , they set about modernising the practice , often in the face of strong opposition . Watching this at the time I was reminded of the early ' Doctor At Large ' episodes in which Mike Upton ( Barry Evans ) and Paul Collier ( George Layton ) shared a practice with Dr . Maxwell ( Arthur Lowe ) . But those were a thousand times funnier . Richard Gordon never wrote directly for the ' Doctor ' series . He wisely left the job to the likes of John Cleese , Graham Chapman , Graeme Garden , and Bill Oddie among others . Likewise Ralph Thomas did not write any of the scripts to the ' Doctor ' movies . It showed . Both men were clearly out of their depth here . The ' Doctors ' Daughters ' scripts were predictable , lacking in wit , and often downright amateurish . Despite a good cast made up of reliable British character actors as Norman Chappell and Patrick Newell , the show never gelled . Like all A . T . V . sitcoms , it was plagued by obvious ( and irritating ) canned laughter . You would hear some poor woman having hysterics when nothing funny was happening on screen ( which was 100 % of the time ) . Victoria Burgoyne , who played ' Fay ' , was popular tabloid fodder at the time , forever being photographed in revealing clothes and giving interviews in which she bragged that she was going to be a big star . It was not to be . ' Doctors ' Daughters ' was hopelessly outdated , particularly with regards to its treatment of women . Its main source of humour was the looks of exasperation on the faces of the the fusty G . P . ' s as these liberated women ran amok . It was more sexist than all the ' Doctor ' episodes combined , and nowhere near as funny . I . T . V . , perhaps thinking it had another ratings winner on its hands , screened it in the old ' Doctor ' slot of at 7 . 15 on Sunday evenings , but the uniformly hostile reviews and indifferent audience response caused it to ( in the London region ) be pulled from prime-time and moved to a graveyard slot , where it was quietly forgotten . The line quoted above came from the show's theme tune , performed by Burgoyne and Duff . It was the best thing about the show .
The Menace Of Magus !	Strange psychedelic patterns swirl across the Big Screen at Command Center . A tall , gentle-looking man with long hair and in robes materialises in front of Commander Koenig , and proclaims : " I am your creator ! " . Surely it can't be ? To back up his claim , he does a few conjuring tricks ( not quite up to the standard of David Nixon but more impressive than those of Paul Daniels ) . Magus - for it is he - has prepared a new world - New Earth - for the Alphans to inhabit . Or four of them at least . Koenig is paired off with Maya ( lucky him ) while Tony gets Helena ( an appropriate match seeing how she is every bit as wooden ) . Other strange creatures are around , the result of earlier failed experiments by Magus . To defeat him , Koenig must first find out the secret of his power . . . If any episode summed up what was wrong with Year 2 , it is this one . The plot is derivative of an old ' Star Trek ' episode called ' Who Mourns For Adonais ? ' ( with a chunk of ' Requiem For Methuselah ' - produced by Fred Freiburger incidentally - thrown in for good measure ) . As Leonard Nimoy pointed out in his book ' I am Spock ' , the trouble with a storyline like this is you immediately know the ' god ' is going to turn out to be an impostor ( pity Bill Shatner did not know this before embarking on ' Star Trek 5 : The Final Frontier ' ) . Magus is ' the last in a race of cosmic magicians ' who just happens to share The Good Lord's taste in clothes . The role is played by the late Guy Rolfe , who was ' Mr . Sardonicus ' for William Castle . Rolfe probably had a similar grin on his chops when he read Terence Feely's script . Feely also worked on ' The Avengers ' , ' The Prisoner ' and ' U . F . O . ' and it is sad to see him churning out drivel like this . Magus ' Achilles Heel - he hates the dark ! What ? A being who can transport himself through space without the aid of a ship , conjure up objects from nowhere , and project a giant version of himself ( with laser beams flashing from his eyes ) in the sky and yet cannot free himself from a hole in the ground ? No wonder his race died out ! Most interesting aspect is Koenig getting off with Maya while Tony makes fish-eyes at Helena . This was a development they should have expanded in future episodes .
Around The World In Thirty Minutes	The Goodies want to raise money for charity , and approach Mr . Sparklipegs , head of the ' Sparklipegs ' toothpaste company - whose employees boast pearly-white teeth - and offer to walk from London to Brighton if he sponsors them 10 per mile . Sensing a good publicity opportunity , he accepts , provided that they do the walk wearing toothpaste tube costumes , and on space-hoppers . To his amazement , they agree . Instead of stopping at Brighton , they bounce around the world . Sparklipegs worries he will soon be made bankrupt . . . Easily the second worst ' Goodies ' episode , the first being ' Women's Lib ' . There's hardly any interaction between Tim , Graeme and Bill , most of the laughs come from Freddie Jones as the Scrooge-like toothpaste tycoon , and Jonathan Cecil as his ' Yes Man ' - ' Arthur Minion ' . Gilly McIver steals the show as the constantly grinning Miss Simpkin . Episode adopts a nicely cynical attitude to the apparently benevolent motives of the organisers of sponsored charity events , but the sight of three grown men bouncing around the world in toothpaste tubes soon grows tiresome . Funniest moment - in South Africa , we see a man playing a piano where the white and black keys have been segregated . Crude political satire , but stunningly effective .
Alf Garnett Joins The Police	Following Alan Simpson's retirement , Ray Galton teamed up with ' Till Death Us Do Part ' creator Johnny Speight . Their first collaboration was ' Tealadies ' for the B . B . C . ; in which a pair of mischievous tea ladies - played by Dandy Nichols and Patricia Hayes - waited on M . P . ' s in the House Of Commons . It was to have been recorded close to transmission to enable topicality ( as was later the case with ' Drop The Dead Donkey ' ) , but never got past the pilot stage . Crossing channels , they next gave the world ' Spooner's Patch ' . A hybrid of ' Till Death Us Do Part ' and the 1931 Will Hay classic ' Ask A Policeman ' , it was set in a country police station where everyone was on the take , and starred Ronald Fraser as the constantly spluttering Inspector Spooner , with ' Please Sir ! ' ' s Peter Cleall as T . V . detective-imitating Detective Con . Bulsover , Norman Rossington as the fascistic P . C . Goatman , and John Lyons as P . C . Killick , the show's only normal character . In the first episode , Goatman arrests an Irish tramp ( Dermot Kelly ) and absent-mindedly locks him in the cell where Spooner keeps his wine collection . Before you know it , the corks are flying as the tramp embarks on what would today be termed ' binge drinking ' . To make matters worse , Spooner cannot stop him as Goatman has lost the key . They put their thinking caps on : GOATMAN : Why don't we hang him ? SPOONER : Don't be stupid . He'll be missed . GOATMAN : No-one will miss him , sir . He's an Irishman . Oddly , the comedy writing styles of Galton and Speight never seemed to mesh . The ' Alf Garnett ' style attitudes of some of the characters sat uneasily alongside the show's slapstick approach . It drew complaints from viewers for being screened in peak-viewing time soon after the Brixton and Toxteth riots . After one season , Fraser departed ( as did Rossington ) . Donald Churchill replaced him as ' Spooner ' and while he did not splutter quite so repulsively as his predecessor , his performance was not one of which he could have been proud . The first episode he did was a parody of the Western ' High Noon ' . The marvellous Patricia Hayes also came aboard as traffic warden Mrs . Cantaford . Speight himself made the occasional guest appearance . Despite the talent involved in its making , ' Spooner's Patch ' never amounted to anything more than a misfire . How it ran to three seasons is a mystery .
An Inspector Calls !	An Inspector visits Fenn Street School , so 5C set out to destroy what little reputation it has . Though now part of Fenn Street , the Weaver Street gang see it as their duty to make as much trouble as possible . Nude pin-up's of Raquel Welch are prominently displayed in Cromwell's office , empty gin bottles turn up in Miss Ewell's desk , an dummy hurled out of an upstairs window , and alcohol put in Potter's stomach medicine . As if this wasn't bad enough , Miss Ewell's senile old mother mistakes the Inspector for Mr . Sibley , and gives him a string of complaints about her daughter . A terrible Geoff Rowley and Andy Baker episode , notable mainly for the sight of Miss Ewell's mother chatting to her budgie Georgie , and a paralytic Potter staggering around Fenn Street . The film ' Carry On Teacher ' seems to have inspired 5C's campaign to discredit Cromwell . Peter Rogers and co . did it better . James Bree , who played the inspector , was well known to cult television fans because of his roles in ' The Prisoner ' and ' Dr . Who ' . ' Dodo ' , incidentally , is Mother Ewell's nickname for Doris . Spot the mistake : when the dummy falls past Cromwell's window , the photographic back-drop visibly wobbles !
Life Without Price !	Fed up with constant abuse from pupils , Mr . Price decides to jack in teaching and get a job with a pharmaceutical company . The interview is a disaster ; Price disparages the firm's products , and his dishevelled appearance and Welsh accent do him no favours . The kids are overjoyed at the thought of him leaving , while the other teachers cannot do enough to help him in his search for work . Convinced he has blown it , he decides to stay , but then , an unexpected phone call from the drug company gives him renewed hope . . . Oh dear . This has ' misfire ' written all over it . Tony Bilbow's script rehashes ' Life Without Doris ' from the previous series , only with Price threatening to leave rather than Miss Ewell . Unlike Joan Sanderson in that earlier episode , Richard Davies is denied the opportunity to play his character in a sympathetic key , when not drunk he's angry most of the time . Given a better script , he could have been brilliant . The main source of humour here seems to be the sight of Smithy convulsed with laughter at the thought of Price going after a job he has no chance of getting . The studio audience is silent for about 99 % of the episode , and I can understand why .
Upton Goes On A Blind Date	Upton is frustrated at being the only student at St . Swithins not to have a girlfriend , so Dick arranges a date with Nurse Pat Mortlake , otherwise known as ' Rigor Mortis ' . He assures his friend that the nurse is a push-over . But things do not go according to plan . . . According to ' The Monty Python Encyclopadia ' by Robert Ross , London Weekend Television wanted to cancel ' Doctor In The House ' after the first series , and after viewing episodes like this its not hard to see why . It never moves out of first gear . Upton takes ' Rigor ' back to the flat , plies her with drink , makes a move and - she leaves . We don't see her again . A new plot takes over as Duncan confesses to Upton that he proposed to a nurse the night before whilst drunk . Angharad Rees , who plays ' Frances ' , would reappear in ' Doctor In Charge ' , as ' Annabel ' . ' Rigor ' is portrayed by the charming Helen Fraser , who would also go on to ' Doctor In Charge ' , as ' Dr . Mary Parsons ' . Michael Mackenzie , who has a non-speaking role , became a hero of children's television the following year in ' Ace Of Wands ' . The most interesting scene is when Upton and Duncan both confess to being 20-year old virgins . This at the height of the so-called Permissive Society ! Shocking indeed !
Oh dear . . .	A delegation of twenty-eight Chinese men and women visit St . Swithins . Duncan and Dick are entrusted with looking after them , the former does the job so well Bingham suspects he may secretly may be a Communist . When some of the party goes missing , the doctors go frantic trying to locate them . Bingham thinks that the delegation are after the blueprint for the hospital's new cobalt laser , so they can build bombs with which to threaten world peace . . . Another episode ' they couldn't possibly make now ' , made at a time when the West was deeply suspicious of the East . The delegation members are dressed in identical denim suits with caps , their command of English is virtually non-existent , and they are surly , demanding to be shown something of medical importance else they will walk out . The use of stereotypes in comedy is not in itself a bad thing , its what's done with them that matters . When ' The Fall & Rise Of Reginald Perrin ' featured a ' thick ' Irishman ( Seamus Finnegan ) , he was actually shown to have had more sense than his so-called superiors . Here , however , Graham Chapman and Bernard McKenna use crude racial stereotypes without bothering to make them likable or even interesting . Still , there's some fun to be had out of watching Bingham constructing foolish conspiracy theories based on the flimsiest of evidence . At the climax , Duncan and the others realise they've misjudged the visitors completely . Fine . But as the credits roll a Chinese man appears in Loftus ' office and begins taking photographs , thereby undermining whatever noble intentions the episode may have had .
What Do We Do With The Drunken Nurse ?	Upton and Paul are back at St . Swithins , while Dick now works as a rep for a major pharmaceutical company . Acting on information supplied by Bingham , Paul lands a top job at the hospital , much to Upton's disgust . They fall out . Upton misses a date with a pretty nurse named Beryl , and she is so depressed she gets paralytic . Dick takes her to Upton's room to have his wicked way with her , but then an argument breaks out between Upton and Paul . When Beryl passes out , they take her to casualty , and download her onto Bingham . . . The best joke here is in the title , I'm afraid . The return of Bingham is welcome , but the lads ' treatment of Beryl is utterly despiccable , even by their standards , especially as she seems to be a nice girl . Phillppa Markham , who plays ' Beryl ' , had appeared in the ' Doctor In The House ' episode ' Hot Off The Presses ' as ' Mary ' . Funniest moment - Bingham tries to examine Beryl , and she pulls him roughly on top of her !
Ticket To Nowhere	When Olive accidentally destroys a number of expensive items - tea-set , guitar and dress - on approval from a home shopping company , Stan is in desperate need of 50 . Blakey refuses to pay him his efficiency bonus , so Stan and Jack use a stolen ticket machine to make themselves a bit of money . All goes well until Blakey pays the Butler household an unexpected visit . . . Written by Bob Grant and Stephen Lewis , this is a retread of ' Cover-Up ' from Season 4 , as once again Stan makes personal use of bus company property , and then goes frantic trying to hide the crime . The scene where Blakey forces Stan to grovel on his knees before the whole depot is dreadfully embarrassing and unfunny . Funniest moment - Stan attempting to stop Blakey from sitting down , knowing full well that the machine he is looking for is beneath the chair's cushion .
The No . 11 Bus Makes A Final Trip To The Cemetery Gates	Blakey and Jack compete to see which bus man has the best garden . Dirty tricks come into play , such as the tipping of rubbish , the chopping down of trees , and cats doing their business on the lawn . But the winner is not whom either expects . . . ' On The Buses ' juddered to a halt with this feeble Bob Grant and Stephen Lewis penned offering , which looks like a rejected ' Love Thy Neighbour ' script . Why is Blakey eligible to enter the contest , the house he lives in isn't his . Larry Martyn returns as ' Fred ' , but despite the actor's resemblance to Reg Varney , no attempt was made to give him a similar ( nor indeed any ) personality . Bob Grant's real-life cat ( credited as ' Tiberius Grant ' ) was called on to portray Jack's pet ' Tibbles ' . The animal gives the best performance in the episode . Pity Reg Varney did not stay to the very end . ' Goodbye Stan ' would have made for a stronger finale . And so , ' On The Buses ' was over . Well , not quite . ' Holiday On The Buses ' came out on 26th December , reuniting the entire cast . The following year , ' Don't Drink The Water ' had Blakey moving to Spain with his sister . But without Stan Butler to boss about , the character didn't seem so amusing . In 1975 , the first ' Buses ' film was shown on I . T . V . , with the others receiving premieres over the next few years . They contradict the series in that they depict Olive and Arthur with a child . As little Arthur never appeared on television , we must assume they are set sometime after the series , with Stan back home , and Olive having remarried Arthur . Olive reappeared in Wolfe and Chesney's revival of ' The Rag Trade ' . In the late ' 80's , rumours of a new series began to circulate . Doris Hare and Stephen Lewis went on the B . B . C . ' s ' Open Air ' to answer viewers ' queries . The new show would have brought back Stan , this time as the manager of the Luxton bus company , but it was never made . Thanks to satellite repeats and D . V . D . releases , ' On The Buses ' remains as popular as ever . In that cathode ray phantom zone where all cancelled shows dwell , Blakey is still urging Stan and Jack to ' get that bus out ' .
" Three Tings A Tinkle ! "	A new clippie joins the Luxton bus company - bespectacled feminist Jessie , who immediately protests against the lack of an allowance for clippies needing to use toilets . She gets her way , but then Blakey is spying on the clippies to make sure they don't try and abuse the new system . . . A pretty boring episode this , written by Myles Rudge . Yootha Joyce was a few months away from the first series of ' Man About The House ' in which she played Mildred Roper . Jack's new driver , Sid , is played by Michael Coles , also to be seen that year battling Christopher Lee in ' The Satanic Rites Of Dracula ' , made by Hammer Films . Coincidentally , Hammer produced the three ' On The Buses ' movies .
This Sure Ain't ' The Saint ' !	' The Saint ' came out a year before the ' Avengers ' movie , and likewise also proved a critical and commercial disaster . Of the two movies , I prefer ' The Avengers ' because , whether you like it or not , it at least resembles the television series on which it is based . ' The Saint ' tries to be ' Mission : Impossible ' meets ' Goldeneye ' , and fails dismally . As soon as Kilmer's casting was announced , I knew it was doomed . Simon Templar should never be played by an American . Kilmer was fine as ' Batman ' , but all wrong for ' The Saint ' . I wasn't convinced by the romance with the Elisabeth Shue character . Templar's disguises are so patently unconvincing you wonder why no-one sees through them . Jonathan Hensleigh's script is mediocre compared to the John Kruse T . V . episodes ' The Fiction Makers ' and ' The Death Game ' . It didn't help that the original ending was deleted , and a lame new one substituted . Best thing about the movie was Orbital's pulse-pounding arrangement of Edwin Astley's theme .
The Year That Everyone Talked Non-Stop	In 1977 , there was a unpopular Labour Government in power , the economy was in bad shape , the Tories had a charismatic new leader , and Bruce Forsyth was to be found on Saturday night television . Funny how things change , eh ? ' 1990 ' was a B . B . C . - 2 drama set in a Britain where freedom is a myth and bureaucracy rules . Identity Cards are carried by citizens , and The Public Control Department ( P . C . D . ) watches us at all times . It was the creation of Wilfrid Greatorex , a writer for whom I have a lot of respect , as he wrote episodes of ' Danger Man ' and ' Man In A Suitcase ' ( two of my all-time favourite shows ) . Edward Woodward starred as ' Jim Kyle ' , a crusading newspaper man out to undermine the authority of the P . C . D . He is alas smitten by ' Delly Lomas ' ( the stunning Barbara Kellerman ) , second-in-command at the P . C . D . Its chairman is Herbert Skardon ( Robert Lang ) , a sneering villain who , if not quite ' Big Brother ' , certainly qualifies as ' Big Stepson ' . This episode - the second broadcast - continues a storyline begun in the first - ' Creed Of Slaves ' . Dr . Vickers ( Donald Gee ) wants to leave Britain to take up a job in Arizona , but the Government rejects his application for an exit visa . Desperate , he turns to dissidents for help . You would think that this could easily have been resolved in a single fifty-minute instalment , but Wilfrid strings it out to two . By the middle of the second , I had lost caring whether Dr . Vickers would ever get to sip Coca-Cola in the Arizona sunshine . He tells the authorities he wants to go because of his asthmatic daughter , but at the end only he and his wife escape , leaving the girl behind . It could not possibly be that the new job is better paid ? Oh no , that would put him in a bad light . We never find out which party is in Government , but mention of a ' wealth tax ' leads me to suspect it must be Labour . Of course taxing the rich and ensuring they pay their dues is just not on is it ? In today's world , immigration is regarded as a problem , but here its emigration that the writer gets steamed up about . Words fail me as to how boring this is . It consists entirely of long , drawn-out scenes in offices where everyone talks constantly , without a trace of wit or anything resembling character development . You have not seen such a bunch of po-faced people in your life . Take it from me - ' Newsnight ' is more fun . When Kyle takes Delly ( what an odd name that is . Is it short for something , like ' Delphine ' of ' Delbert ' ? ) out to dinner , and they go back to his place , you think " Great ! We're going to get some naughty business ! " but it never happens . Modern drama series cannot get the main characters into bed fast enough , so it comes as a shock to see an old one which has them behaving as though they live on Caldey Island ( a monastery off the coast of Tenby , South Wales ) . The sight of Babs Kellerman in the buff would have gone some way towards making this interesting . Woodward gives a solid performance , a bit too solid methinks . At times he looks as though he wishes he were back inside ' The Wicker Man ' . Kellerman's Delly Bird is beautiful and haughty , but that's about it . Robert Lang's ' Skardon ' is a clone of ' Number Two ' from ' The Prisoner ' T . V . series . I have no objections to the political sermonising , it is just that I wish it had been done in a more subtle manner . George Orwell's ' Nineteen Eighty-Four ' covered similar ground , but he told his story in an entertaining manner , unlike this . ' Author's Message ' is plastered across every frame . After two seasons , the show ended . Margaret Thatcher won the General Election in 1979 and as we all know Britain became a land of peace , prosperity and freedom . Interestingly , in the real 1990 , 471 people were injured and 341 arrested in the poll tax riots , arguably the single greatest demonstration of public feeling the country has ever seen . Thatcher became so unpopular her own party booted her out later that year . Paul Chapman , an excellent actor from ' Colditz ' and ' A Bit Of A Do ' , is ' Randall ' , in charge of public surveillance , which basically consists of him staring at television screens . I hope he fired his agent soon after doing this . The excellent theme music was by John Cameron ( no relation to David ! ) .
Benny In Love	Eddie is one of nature's losers . One day , he meets and falls in love with the lovely Kathy , and sets about trying to woo her . He buys a car from a shady second-hand dealer , but it breaks down as he drives home . His attempts to impress her with his tennis playing technique go awry - he cannot keep up with his much-younger opponent . As attempt after attempt fails , the only place where Eddie can be confidant of any success is his imagination . . . As part of Benny Hill's deal with Thames T . V . following his defection from the B . B . C . , he got to write , star , compose the music and co-direct ( with John Robins ) this short comedy film . Its been unseen for years , until it resurfaced recently as an extra on one of ' The Benny Hill Annual ' D . V . D's . One would dearly love to describe it as a neglected comedy gem ; sadly , it is not . ' Eddie In August ' was clearly influenced by the work of Jacques Tati and Charlie Chaplin . The storyline provides the ideal framework for a comedy , but inexplicably Hill fails to deliver much by the way of gags . It doesn't even come to life during Eddie's ' Billy Liar ' type daydreams . The result is decidedly flat and tedious . It did not do well in the ratings when first broadcast , and Hill soon returned to his regular show .
Robin Tripp Vs . Captain Mainwaring	One year after its launch , ' Man About The House ' was filmed by Hammer . All the original cast were present and correct , and at least the characters stayed on home territory rather than flying off to Spain . But the ' opening out ' of the format to encompass new characters such as the nymphomaniac Miss Bird ( Andrea Lawrence ) and the gay couple played by Michael Ward and Melvyn Hayes diluted the premise . The plot about the unscrupulous property developer was old hat even in 1974 . The production designer seems not to have seen the show , as his sets don't resemble the television versions . The Ropers ' sitting room is located on the left of the front door , not the right . The finale in the Thames Television building is silly and looks like an lame attempt to publicise the company's other shows . Nice cameo from Spike Milligan , though . The only redeeming features are Arthur Lowe as the tycoon and Peter Cellier as his slimy sidekick . Get a D . V . D . of the T . V . show instead .
Percy Thrower Never Said It Would Be Like This	Koenig and Maya are exploring a world covered in lush , semi-tropical vegetation . Casually picking a flower , he is startled when a voice booms out of nowhere : " Cannibals ! Murderers ! You will be punished as cannibals and murderers deserve to be ! " . This is a world where evolution has taken a different turn and plants are the dominant life-form . Koenig has accidentally committed murder . He and Maya are both sentenced to death . The Rulers of Luton conjure up three grotesque aliens from nothingness - ' Alien Strong ' ( David Jackson ) who is powerful , ' Alien Transporter ' ( Godfrey James ) able to teleport at will and ' Alien Invisible ' ( Roy Marsden ) who can . . well , guess . Despite attempts by the Commander to make peace with them , they pay no heed . A battle for survival ensues . . . This was one of three Year 2 episodes penned by producer Fred Freiberger under the alias ' Charles Woodgrove ' . Actually , ' Charles Woodworm ' would have been more apt . Fred was about as good a writer as he was a producer ; that is to say , not good at all . His episodes are far and away the worst the show ever produced . ' The Rules Of Luton ' is a rip-off of an old ' Star Trek ' plot entitled ' Arena ' , itself a rip-off of an ' Outer Limits ' story called ' Fun & Games ' , loosely based on Fredric Brown's story ' Arena ' , in which an Earthman is forced to fight to the death an alien for the gratification of a higher intelligence . The problem with ' Luton ' is not that it is derivative , but simply that it is not remotely exciting . Just people and aliens larking about in a field . The unconvincing monsters don't help . While one can forgive the threadbare creatures that shuffled their way through Classic ' Dr . Who ' and ' Blake's Seven ' on the grounds that those were low budget B . B . C . series , in a well funded show like ' 1999 ' such shoddiness is inexcusable . The legend goes that Fred got the name ' Luton ' from a road sign he spotted while driving on the M1 motorway . We can only give thanks he was not driving through North Wales , otherwise the episode might have been titled ' The Rules Of Llanfairpwllgwyngyllgogery etc . ' . Did he give any consideration as to how his naming a planet ' Luton ' would be received in Britain ? I never saw this when it went out but I bet there were more than a few giggles going round the school playgrounds the morning after it was first broadcast . In fairness , I should point out the plants pronounce the name ' Loo-tarn ' , rather like Hyacinth Bucket's insistence on being called ' Mrs . Bouquet ' . How can plants talk in any case ? What are they using for vocal chords ? Just think if anyone wanted to take over the planet they would not need ray guns and space ships - a few hundred gallons of weed killer would do the job nicely . Roy Marsden - the future star of ' The Sandbaggers ' and ' Inspector Dalgleish ' - is virtually unrecognisable as ' Alien Invisible ' ( probably why he took the part ) . David Jackson ( Dave Prowse must have been busy that week ) - ' Alien Strong ' - went on to play ' Gan ' in ' Blake's Seven ' . There's a nice scene where Koenig and Maya talk about their home worlds , and he mentions his late wife . But we are long , long away from the heights of Year 1 with this . And things would get worse .
Who Cares Who Killed Nolan ?	Tom Nolan ( Sam Kydd ) , a small-time private detective , has been hired by Mrs . Arnoldson ( Ursula Howells ) to spy on her husband ( Griffith Jones ) , whom she suspects of having an affair . She is absolutely correct on that score . He is seeing the lovely Angela ( Nike Arrighi ) and plans on running off with her to the Bahamas . Nolan becomes suspicious of Mrs . Arnoldson ; something about her face strikes him as familiar . While taking photos of her at her country home , he is spotted by the Arnoldsons ' chauffeur ( Duncan Lamont ) , who gives chase and tries to shoot him . Fortunately for Nolan , a jogger happens to be passing , and he is able to make it back to his car . Terrified , Nolan calls on McGill for help . He refuses to disclose why he is running , he just wants Mac to help him flee the country . Mac returns from the bank ( where he had just cashed one of Nolan's cheques ) only to find the chauffeur in wait for him . Nolan is murdered , a crime for which McGill is framed . . . This is , to my mind , one of the worst episodes of the series . Donald Jonson ( who also wrote ' The Girl Who Never Was ' ) has come up with a plot that has more holes than a colander . Why does the chauffeur allow Nolan to escape so easily ? He could have shot the jogger in cold blood too . Nolan's terror is hard to fathom . You would think that he has just uncovered a ' Watergate ' style conspiracy , but no , its just a couple of old robbers hiding out . In the original series ' outline , Mac's first name was given as ' John ' - it was never used . In most episodes this was not a problem but here it is . The police issuing radio warnings about a ' murderer ' whose full name they do not know sounds comical . The Arnoldsons have pulled off an airport robbery and faked their own deaths . Mr . Arnoldson had sensibly undergone plastic surgery but his wife refused it ( which is how Nolan was able to recognise her ) . Presumably she liked the way she looked ? Her hiring of Nolan is daft behaviour coming from one supposed to be officially deceased . Sam Kydd and Ursula Howells are credited as guest stars , even though the former is only on screen for the first ten minutes , and the latter gets bumped off twenty minutes after that . Kydd was , of course , a familiar figure in British films and television series . When this was made , he was starring as ' Orlando ' in the I . T . V . children's ' series of the name . Howells went on to co-star with Patrick Cargill in the sitcom ' Father Dear Father ' . Also on view is a very young Trevor Peacock ( ' Jim ' from ' The Vicar Of Dibley ' ) as a ' lodger ' . Denise Buckley and Nike Arrighi both appeared in episodes of ' The Prisoner ' . If the taxi driver looks familiar , that's because he is played by Harold Goodwin , who was ' Foley ' in ' The Girl Who Never Was ' . It is impossible to imagine a middle-aged couple like the Arnoldsons committing a daring robbery . They look as if they would be more at home in the lounge of a Royal British Legion . So yes , this is absolute tosh , but watchable . Charles Crichton pulls off an impressive climax in the Arnoldsons ' house , with Mac creeping around in the dark , gun in hand . Very Hitchcockian scene , but spoilt slightly by Albert Elms ' intrusive incidental music .
A Moving Experience !	Duncan , Dick , Andy , Kate and Gascoigne are fed up with having to share the same office , so they complain . The Hospital Secretary proposes they exchange offices with Loftus . But the doctors are still unhappy as they now have to walk longer distances to the operating theatre , while Loftus no longer has access to his private lavatory . Duncan hatches a plan to get Loftus to agree to change back . . . The late dancer and actress Wei Wei Wong appeared in numerous variety and comedy shows in the early ' 70's , as well as a small role in the Bond film ' The Man With The Golden Gun ' . Here she makes the first of two appearances in ' Doctor On The Go ' as a nurse . Its the only notable thing about this episode , which must have been written as a ' filler ' . Practically nothing funny happens in the entire half-hour , apart from Kate's " Mahogany ! Your hogany ! Anybody's hogany ! " , and that's not saying much . Derek Deadman crops again as a porter . ' Never The Twain ' fans will recall that he played the role of ' Ringo ' .
Potter Loses it !	Potter has an assistant - a young black man named Sidney Noakes . Sidney can fix anything , whether it be a broken door-knob , leaking radiator or David's sports car . Initially distrusting the newcomer , Potter proudly introduces him to the whole school . Even 4C cheer when they first clap eyes on him . Then two malicious 4C boys put the poison in , telling Potter the younger man wants his job because he is part of a black militant conspiracy to take-over the country . Potter is not normally one for believing anything the kids tell him , but the boys get him sufficiently worried to try and test Sidney's mettle . . . I suppose it was inevitable that someone of Potter's character should turn out to be a racist . Thankfully , we are spared any long-winded ' they shouldn't let them in the country ' speeches , but even so , there's little amusement to be had from the sorry spectacle of Potter trying to frighten Sidney by invoking the name of Stokely Carmichael ( a real-life Trinidanian-American activist active in the 1960's U . S . civil rights movement ) , getting it wrong and confusing him with Ian . Derek Griffiths , who plays ' Sidney ' , was a familiar face to ' 70's viewers ; as well as sitcoms such as ' Till Death Us Do Part ' and Public Information films ( ' A Thief Would Like Your Bike ' ) he was also to be found on ' Play School ' . This talented actor brings a welcome breath of fresh air to what had become a stale sitcom ; unfortunately , this was his one and only appearance . Convinced that Potter is a raving lunatic , Sidney leaves . He should have become a regular cast member . Not necessarily as ' Sidney ' . It would have been interesting to see what Griffiths would have made of the job of John Alderton's replacement . At the end of the episode , Potter is still a racist , while the boys who lied about Sidney have not been punished . Today this would be branded ' politically incorrect ' . I call it not funny . Written ( surprisingly ) by Tony Bilbow .
" Rising Damp , Its Climbing Up The Wall ! "	The film version of ' Rising Damp ' came out two years after the television series ended . Like many fans I duly went along to the cinema when it opened . I came away bitterly disappointed . Eric Chappell could not have spent very much time writing the script ; most of it is rehashed ideas from old episodes . At the time of the film's release , the ' Rising Damp ' series was still being repeated regularly on I . T . V . so the public was being asked to pay to see something they'd seen already . At least the ' On The Buses ' movies boasted original screenplays . Secondly , Richard Beckinsale had died the year before , so they eliminated the character of ' Alan ' as a mark of respect , substituting art student ' John ' , played by Christopher Strauli of ' Only When I Laugh ' fame . It simply wasn't the same . As another poster has pointed out , Rigsby's boarding house looked nothing like the one used in the series , being bigger and altogether cleaner . Director Joe McGrath was one of the directors who worked on the original ' Casino Royale ' , a film steeped in surreal humour . ' Rising Damp ' also has its share of ' Walter Mitty ' style fantasy sequences , such as the ' Saturday Night Fever ' parody . Personally , I found them horribly out of place . A case of ' over-egging the pudding ' . On the plus side , Leonard Rossiter is as magnificent as ever as the seedy ' Rigsby ' , as are Frances De La Tour as ' Ruth ' and Don Warrington as ' Philip . Its just a shame the film isn't worthy of their talents . When Rossiter died in 1984 , it was shown by I . T . V . as a tribute , with its final scene - showing Rigsby laying prostrate at the foot of the stairs - removed in the interests of good taste .
When Paul Squire Made A Good Impression !	Its funny how some people can go from ' rising star ' to total obscurity without managing to become a success somewhere along the way . This , alas , was the fate of Paul Squire , a gifted , fresh-faced young impressionist who'd made a big splash on The Royal Variety Show ( B . B . C . - 1 , 23 November 1980 ) . Amongst his repertoire were Les Dawson , John Inman , Frank Spencer and Tom Baker's ' Dr . Who ' . His talent for mimicry was quite extraordinary . A . T . V . snapped him up , and put him in a show which was all about its own making . Each week , we'd see Paul at his ( mock-up ) flat , where he'd be constantly badgered by his producer , writer , and musical director , as well as a bimbo of a secretary . Just before the closing credits rolled we'd be treated to the show-within-a-show's title sequence - ' P . S . Its Paul Squire ' . The format didn't do him justice . It was too limiting . Despite some funny work by the star , and a talented support cast , the end result was a bit flat . After two seasons , Squire went to the B . B . C . to make ' Paul Squire Esq . ' which was absolutely ghastly , a pale imitation of the Mike Yarwood show . It flopped . He returned to I . T . V . in 1983 for one last series - screened at 5 . 15 P . M . on Mondays - and then it was goodbye forever from Paul Squire . He returned to the cabaret circuit . He would not be the first comic to fail to find the right television format ; Fogswell Flax and Jessica Martin also spring to mind . Despite his youth , Paul was perhaps a little too ' old school ' at a time when British television comedy was in the midst of the alternative revolution , as epitomised by ' The Young Ones ' and ' The Comic Strip Presents ' . Had Squire caught on , of course , its likely that he would have been extinguished in the same early ' 90's purge that rid the airwaves of Russ Abbot , Little & Large and Bobby Davro . We shall never know for sure . A shocking waste of talent , all the same .
" But that was twenty years ago ! "	Time has marched on since Doctors Paul Collier , Dick Stuart-Clark and Duncan Waring first met as students at St . Swithins . In 1991 , Paul is a consultant with his own Harley Street practice , Dick has taken over Loftus ' old job as Professor of Surgery ( a position he obtained after his rich wife Emma made a large donation to the hospital ) , and paediatrician Duncan married Loftus ' daughter Geraldine , and fathered five kids . Dick's daughter Rebecca has joined the students union , much to his disgust , and a very militant figure she cuts too , leading protests against rumoured ward closures . Emma and Dick decide to organise a gala dinner in honour of Geoffrey Loftus ' 75th birthday . Geraldine suspects the Stuart-Clarks of wishing to hijack the event to further Dick's chances of getting a knighthood . . . The idea to do a new chapter in the lives of ' the terrible trio ' came from actor George Layton , last seen in the ' Should Auld Acquaintance Be Forgot ? ' episode of ' Doctor In Charge ' in 1973 . L . W . T . turned the revival down , so he took it to the B . B . C . , who were undergoing something of a craze for exhuming old sitcoms , such as ' Agony ' ( another L . W . T . show ) , ' The Liver Birds ' , and ' The Legacy Of Reginald Perrin ' ( without Leonard Rossiter , of course ) . Trying to pretend it was still 1973 would have been a waste of time . Hence the main characters had to be shown as older men with social and family responsibilities ( save for Collier , who was still single ) . Interviewed by Terry Wogan prior to the screening of the first episode , Geoffrey Davies admitted to making the change an important condition of his return to the role . The gang have never been away , it seems . Which is a pity as in one fell swoop the audience is deprived of the chance of an emotional reunion akin to the ' Auf Wiedershen Pet ' clan's gathering at Oz's ' funeral ' in 2002 . No mention is made of Collier's departure nor Duncan and Dick's adventures at sea and down under . Mike Upton is referred to briefly , now a G . P . in Dundee . Waring is said to have been married for twenty years , a piece of unnecessary revisionism which unfortunately invalidates every episode made after ' Doctor In The House ' . Loftus ' daughter has undergone a name change from ' Valerie ' to ' Geraldine ' . Yes , the gang are all here but the passing of time has made them a lot less amusing , particularly Duncan . The fault for this show's failure must lie on the shoulders of Layton , whose script for the opening episode was so lame it caused long-time fans to switch off in droves . It was like tuning into a new ' On The Buses ' only to find Stan and Jack discussing bowel cancer instead of trying to chat up clippies . The main ' joke ' here is that the lads , while swapping memories , find that they all slept with the same nurse , one Dorothy Sheridan . As no-one of that name appeared in the previous series , we must take it as granted they they are really referring to Nurse Dottie Grace , who appeared in several episodes of ' Charge ' . Layton clearly hadn't done his homework . The best part features the welcome return of Ernest Clark , once more ' the ogre of St . Swithins ' - Professor Sir Geoffrey Loftus . Frail though he was at the same of filming ( he died three years later ) , he is still able to steal what little show there is .
Straight Down The Middle !	One of Johnny Speight's lesser creations , ' The Nineteenth Hole ' was set in a posh golf club where chauvinism and bigotry are rife among the well-heeled members . Speight was a golf lover and knew what went on in these places . Eric Sykes , kitted out in flat cap and long johns , played the club's harassed secretary , and was chiefly responsible for what few laughs there were . Like Speight's earlier ' Spooner's Patch ' , the main problem was that , with the exception of the Secretary , almost every character was a carbon-copy of Alf Garnett . There was no-one to provide a counterbalance to the non-stop parade of prejudiced and ill-informed tirades . The end result was tiresome rather than funny , akin to watching the B . B . C . ' s ' Question Time ' . The show squandered the talents of such fine actors as Garfield Morgan , John Quayle , Derek Newark , Norman Rossington ( essentially reprising his ' Spooner's Patch ' role ) , and Brian Glover . In one episode , a club member ( played by Ken Campbell ) named Mr . Johnson underwent a sex change operation and the committee debated whether or not to permit her to use the men's bar . When it was finally agreed she be allowed to use it , other members underwent the same operation and crowded the bar . One I . T . V . station ( T . S . W . ) was so embarrassed by the show they cancelled it in mid-run . Apart from some U . K . Gold repeats in the late ' 90's , it has not been seen anywhere since . The idea probably looked good on paper , but even the normally brilliant Speight could not get out of this particular hole .
When Norman Was Nobody	Norman Wisdom's film career seemed to be well and truly over by 1970 ( his last cinematic outing being 1969's ' What's Good For The Goose ' ) , so he accepted an offer from A . T . V . to do a sitcom . ' Norman ' was penned by Ray Cooney and John Chapman , and cast him as ' Norman Wilkins ' , an Inland Revenue man who hates taking money . With Sally Bazely and David Lodge ( both of whom had appeared with him in ' Goose ' ) , it was a modest success . His next show was not for another three years , and a strange beast it turned out to be . No laugh track , for one thing . And little of the slapstick for which Norman was renowned and loved . Norman played ' Nobody ' , a loser with no personality of his own . But when he put on a hat , he suddenly adopted the characteristics of its owner . Were he to don a policeman's helmet , for example , he'd suddenly start bending his knees and whistling the ' Dixon Of Dock Green ' theme . If he put on a schoolboy's cap , he would begin acting like Just William . Give him a deerstalker and he'd become Sherlock Holmes . The show was basically ' Mr . Benn ' without the fancy dress shop . ' Nobody ' lived with his domineering old trout of a mother ( Natalie Kent ) , whom his girlfriend Grace ( Priscilla Morgan ) tried to get him away from . Each week ' Nobody ' found himself in a different situation , playing a variation on his character . One episode had him doing a brilliant impersonation of Peter Falk's ' Columbo ' , but another had him roughed up by gangsters , and his Stan Laurel-like cries were pathetic rather than amusing . Though a reasonable ratings success , ' Nobody ' wasn't seen again , and Norman went on to do the more successful ' A Little Bit Of Wisdom ' .
Not Worth A Tanner	' The Incredible Mister Tanner ' was an episode of ' The Ronnie Barker Playhouse ' , written by Johnnie Mortimer and Brian Cooke , and broadcast on / 1968 . Barker played ' Cyril Tanner ' , a useless escapologist whose main audience are people in cinema and theatre queues and who has unrealistic aspirations to be the new Harry Houdini . Also in the cast were Richard O'Sullivan ( as Cyril's younger brother Arthur ) and Doris Hare . It eventually became a series , or rather two , but Ronnie was involved in neither . The first attempt was called ' Kindly Leave The Kerb ' , and went out in 1971 . Peter Butterworth took over the role of ' Cyril ' ( now renamed ' Ernest ' ) with the equally sublime Peter Jones as his sidekick ' Sidney Rochester ' . Welsh actor Meredith Edwards was seedy caf owner ' Archie ' . The show was about losers , people who wanted fame and fortune but lacked any real talent . This being the pre-reality television era , they had no hope of being even remotely successful . Their only home was a basement flat , and they barely made enough money from the act to stay alive . ' Kerb ' was perhaps a bit too depressing to be a hit . It did not have a laugh track - essential for a sitcom in those days - and was swiftly forgotten . However , it returned a decade later as ' The Incredible Mister Tanner ' ( which was the title of the original ' Ronnie Barker Playhouse ' presentation , and not - as I . M . D . B . user Theo Robertson seems to believe - a steal from the hit U . S . series ' The Incredible Hulk ' ) . The circumstances under which the new show came to be made was rather sad . Yootha Joyce , Brian Murphy's co-star in ' George & Mildred ' , had sadly passed away the year before , just prior to the recording of a sixth and final series of the hit show . Thames decided to team Murphy with his occasional ' Man About The House / George & Mildred ' co-star ( he played the incompetent workman ' Jerry ' ) Roy Kinnear . Rather than just call the new show ' George & Jerry ' ( as I am sure it must have been tempting to do ) , Mortimer and Cooke instead chose to revive the characters of ' Ernest Tanner ' and ' Sidney Rochester ' ( now renamed ' Pratt ' ) . The scripts were updated ( there was a reference to the notoriously steamy I . T . V . drama ' Bouquet Of Barbed Wire ' , and we saw Ernest watching the latest version of ' Dr . Who ' on television instead of ' Pinky & Perky ' ) . The late Tony Melody was cast as ' Archie ' and the gorgeous Rosie Collins played his innocent daughter ' Prudence ' . Unlike the previous show , this one was made to look upbeat , with a catchy theme tune and better-dressed sets . However , a major flaw remained - just how do you make an escapologist funny ? Well , if he is pretty hapless , then every time he puts on the old chains and handcuffs and gets in a sack etc . , then he will have difficulty in escaping , won't he ? And Ernest did . But you can only make that idea funny so many times . Another problem for the show was that it went out not long after a lengthy season of ' George & Mildred ' repeats , shown by way of a tribute to Yootha Joyce . Public affection for the Ropers was so strong that viewers were not ready to accept Murphy in another role , not at that time anyway . The unconvincing posh voice he affected did not help matters either . I do not recall ' Tanner ' being particularly bad , but have no fond memories of it either . Even an escapologist like Tanner could not have foreseen just how impossible it would be for Murphy to escape from the role of ' George Roper ' .
Up For The Cup !	Football mania infects Fenn Street School . Even Smithy is caught up in it . One of the 5C boys - the would-be protest singer Des Ridley - is found to have a natural aptitude for the game . During Miss Ewell's music class , he calls her an ' old boiler ' , so she puts him in detention . Without Des on their team , Fenn Street's chances of winning the cup look doomed . Miss Ewell suddenly finds herself socially ostracized . . . I have never been interested in football , and this Esmonde and Larbey episode did nothing to change my view . We don't even get to see any actual football , just the prelude and aftermath of the matches . Joan Sanderson carries most of the episode and , as you'd expect , she is great , even though the material is not really up to par . Funniest moment - the music class scene . Miss Ewell ropes in Potter to bang a drum , and Mr . Cromwell to play the triangle , and they can't even do those simple jobs properly .
Jerry Gets His Marching Orders	As Ben Elton once observed , nothing goes quicker out of style than comedy . Steve Martin's latest offering - ' The Pink Panther 2 ' - recently opened to bad reviews and dismal box-office grosses , while Mike Myers ' ' The Love Guru ' seems to have won few admirers . In 1970 , it was Jerry Lewis ' turn to feel the pain of rejection ( ironically , his character in this film experiences a funny turn whenever anyone uses that word in his presence ) when ' Which Way To The Front ? ' effectively drove him off the big screen for almost a decade . In this World War Two comedy , he plays ' Brendan Byers 111 ' , the richest man in the world , who wants to join the army to do his patriotic duty ( and also because he is bored with being successful ) but is rejected as he is medically unfit . He then decides to start his own privately funded army , recruiting other 4-F's . Decked out with ludicrous uniforms that look like those worn by ' International Rescue ' in ' Thunderbirds ' , they go into training . Some good visual gags here . When they fire rocket launchers , they look pleased with themselves , until they learn they have just destroyed a Texaco oil station ! Wishing to learn German , Brendan plays a long-playing record called ' Songs To Mein Kampf By ' . When this army sits down to eat , instead of being in a draughty mess hall , they are in an opulent room decked out with a chandelier . John Wood is very funny as ' Finkel ' , Byers ' ever-so English butler . His best scene is when he blackmails a Mafia-type gangster into teaching Byers ' brigade to kill . The script was not by Jerry himself , but by Gerald Gardiner and Dee Caruso , author of a number of episodes of ' The Monkees ' . ' Front ' often has the look and feel of a television sitcom , indeed at times you almost expect to hear a laugh-track . Where it goes badly wrong is in the last thirty minutes when Byers replaces a top Nazi commander and , after ordering the Germans to withdraw from the front , gets involved in the plot to kill Hitler ( and Tom Cruise is nowhere in sight ! ) . As the commander , Jerry delivers a performance of such mind-numbing ineptitude as to defy description . He gives Brian Blessed a run for his money in the ' loudest man alive ' stakes . It comes as a relief when the end credits appear . Perhaps the timing was just wrong - bringing out a war comedy when the Vietnam conflict was raging was not a good idea . Or the public simply had had enough of Jerry ( that beard probably did not help ! ) . What he needed here was a good producer , someone to take him in hand and say : " That gag stinks . Throw it out ! " . ' Don't Raise The Bridge , Lower The River ' is a masterpiece by comparison with this picture . As the ' 70's got underway , the new comedy icons would be Woody Allen , Mel Brooks , and Monty Python - fresher , more biting and in Allen's case , more human styles of comedy replaced Jerry's brand of slapstick . It would not be until 1982 that he would make anything like a successful comeback - as the conceited talk-show host ' Jerry Langford ' in Martin Scorcese's brilliant ' The King Of Comedy ' .
" You didn't tell us your surname was ' Nuts ' , Hazel ! "	The Goodies are nearly broke and freezing to death in their office . Then a sexy young woman named Hazel hires the lads to search for her explorer father , who went missing twenty years ago whilst searching for the lost tribe of the Orinoco . Using his diary , they recreate his journey step for step - and find themselves in Sevenoaks , Kent . . . Disappointing episode , boasting few film sequences . Bridget Armstrong would later play one of Patrick Cargill's ex-spouses in ' The Many Wives Of Patrick ' , whilst Roy Kinnear was famous thanks to ' That Was The Week That Was ' , ' Till Death Us Do Part ' , and many other shows . His character - Professor Nuts - has lived with the tribe for so long because they are the only people left in the world who laugh at his jokes ! The depiction of black people as grunting savages probably wouldn't go down well today , but attempting to impose today's standards on the past is totally pointless . You've just got to see it in the context of its time period . Funniest moment - Graeme's impersonation of Graham Kerr , the Galloping Gourmet , here renamed ' The Galloping Cannibal ' !
Bang ! Bang ! The Mighty Fall !	Scottish singer Brian ( B . A . ) Robertson was a familiar face on British television in the early ' 80's , having racked up Top Ten hits such as ' Bang ! Bang ! ' and ' Knocked It Off ' . A regular guest on ' Pop Quiz ' and ' Saturday Superstore ' , he came across as an engaging , likable character with a zany sense of humour . So it came as no surprise when , in 1982 , the B . B . C . gave him a late-night talk show devoted to music , wittily entitled ' B . A . In Music ' . It was fairly humdrum , save for one memorable moment . Interviewing Annabelle Lwin , lead singer of ' Bow Wow Wow ' , Robertson accidentally offended her . " You know what ? I think this is a ( expletive deleted ) show ! " , she snapped . Robertson responded : " Why don't you go then ! " . So she did , leaving the host fuming and the studio audience shrieking in delight . The show ended after one season , and Robertson has hardly been on television since . The Lwin incident was well remembered though ; it was chosen by Channel 4 viewers as one of ' The 100 Greatest T . V . Moments From Hell ' ( 2000 ) .
The Final Term Begins . . .	En route to Fenn Street , Hedges happens across a mother trying to discipline her unruly son . The boy does not want to go to school , so the teacher offers to take him . On arrival , however , he discovers the boy belongs at Weaver Street . No sooner has he taken the boy there than he runs off . Hedges finally begins lessons with new class 4C , but badly misses 5C , and reacts angrily when one of his new pupils makes a disparaging remark about Eric Duffy . The police look for Hedges , because the boy has not turned up for lessons , and show Potter an Identikit picture , based on details provided by the boy's mother , but the forgetful caretaker fails to recognise it . . . The day after the first episode of ' The Fenn Street Gang ' went out in Britain , its parent show was back . Alas , with most of the original cast gone , it was not the same . The fourth series of ' Please Sir ! ' is much like the seventh series of ' On The Buses ' in that respect . Even a brief appearance by Liz Gebhardt as ' Maureen Bullock ' at the start of ' Identitwit ' cannot conceal the fact that it feels more like an episode of ' Grange Hill ' . Interestingly , the new titles depict pupils blowing bubble gum , reading horror comics , playing leap frog etc . Shame they are not in the actual show . That running blonde in hot pants would have sent the ratings soaring ! Kate Williams appears as the boy's mother . She was soon to be seen in ' Love Thy Neighbour ' as ' Joan Booth ' , while Brinsley Forde , who plays ' Herman ' , was ' Wesley ' in the ' Please Sir ! ' movie . Funniest moment - Maureen making Hedges ' bed and finding his pyjama bottoms under Penny's pillow !
Noel - Honestly !	In 1980 , Noel Edmonds stunned the world by declaring that he was in love with a television programme . It was , of course , ' Pig In The Middle ' , scripted by the talented husband-and-wife writing team of Terence Brady and Charlotte Bingham , also responsible for the wonderful ' No-Honestly ' . The premise was this ; a bespectacled , middle-aged bore by the name of Barty Wade falls in love with the attractive and flighty Nellie ( Penelope ) Bligh . Thing is , he can't marry her because he's happily married to the equally attractive Susan . For three seasons Barty dithered and dallied from woman to woman , refusing to make up his mind one way or the other , until finally the viewers gave up caring . I couldn't believe in this set-up at all . Middle-aged bores such as Barty don't marry women like Susan , much less carry on with girls like Nellie . In true Carla Lane fashion , sex didn't enter the equation . With Liza Goddard involved ? Oh come on ! What about the Noel connection , I hear you ask ? Well , The Bearded Wonder was recruited by that bastion of journalistic integrity - ' The Sun ' newspaper - to fill in for its resident television critic , Margaret Forwood . Noel had the unenviable task of reviewing two Liza Goddard sitcoms that week ; this one and a long-forgotten Ronald Wolfe / Ronald Chesney B . B . C . series set in the world of advertising . " ' Watch This Space " is so chronic it taints the brilliance of " Pig In The Middle " . " , gushed Noel , " I am actually love with the programme . Its script is intoxicating . " . One can only give thanks pocket tellies weren't around then , as Noel driving his Jag whilst under the influence of this show could conceivably have resulted in a most nasty accident . ' Pig In The Middle ' saw a major cast change when , after one season , Dinsdale Landen left , and the role of Barty went to none other than Terence Brady himself ! It would be nice to report that the show picked up at this point , but alas no . The funniest moments were when Barty , in a posh voice , spluttered " Hell's tits ! " in moments of crisis . Sooner or later , someone is bound to make a game show with that title - and I bet you a fiver Noel will be the one to host it .
No Gold At The End Of This Rainbow	A train carrying one billion dollars in gold bullion is hijacked in Denmark . Its panic time on the world's money markets , so I . C . E . calls on its best agent ( guess who ? ) to recover it . The only lead they have is a beautiful dancer named Lola Medina , ex-girlfriend of Count Massimo Contini . Lola claims to have inside knowledge that Contini is the mastermind behind the heist . Equipped with a useful do-it-yourself helicopter , a camera that bellows incapacitating smoke , and explosive handkerchiefs , Matt flies out to Denmark , little knowing that MacDonald has opted to deliberately break his cover . . . After a run of two ( outrageous ) movies scripted by Herbert Baker and directed by Henry Levin , crime novelist William McGivern and director Phil Karlson ( who launched the series five years earlier with ' The Silencers ' ) brought Matt down to Earth . Our hero was removed from the colourful world of ' 60's style espionage ( no ' BIG O ' , ' Lovey Kravezit ' , helio-beams or flying saucers ) , and inserted into the more mundane realm of international crime . Donald Hamilton's book was virtually unfilmable - set in Sweden , it had Matt on a manhunt to find a killer named ' Caselius ' - so the movie was completely replotted . Unfortunately , the new story was not much better , lacking in originality , excitement and humour . It was also riddled with longueurs ( such as the Lola / Linka / Yu-Rang seduction scenes ) . The Bruce Lee-supervised karate fights look suspiciously like an attempt to rip off the James Coburn ' Flint ' movies . The excellent Nigel Green had played evil mastermind ' Carl Petersen ' in Ralph Thomas ' ' Deadlier Than The Male ' , which starred Richard Johnson as ' Bulldog Drummond ' . ' Contini ' is nowhere near as interesting a character , and does little apart from issue threats and stare at television screens ( one of his henchmen was a young Chuck Norris ) . As for Dino , by 1969 , he was looking a little heavy and tired , despite the trendy suits the wardrobe department has given him . He moves and speaks so slowly at times you might be forgiven for thinking he's impersonating Frankenstein's monster . For example , when Freya ( Sharon Tate ) accidentally bumps into Matt's car , we get : FREYA : Mr . Helm , we're stuck . MATT : What ? FREYA : We're stuck . MATT : We're stuck ? FREYA : Yes . MATT : Good ! FREYA : Is that all you've got to say ? And with that , she walks off in a huff . Hard to believe someone got paid for writing such drivel . Beautiful though they are , Elke Sommer , Nancy Kwan and even Tina Louise are wasted , only Sharon Tate makes an impression - she gives an amusing performance as an accident-prone British agent - while John Larch shines in his few scenes as MacDonald . Hugo Montenegro's sub-Bacharach score grates dreadfully , particularly the la-la-la-la-la cue heard whenever Tate goofs . The opening theme contains the ( politically incorrect ) refrain : ' Ah-so , ah-so , vedy vedy nice ! ' . Oh boy ! On the plus side , the film is beautifully photographed by Sam Leavitt ( who had earlier worked on ' Murderers ' Row ' ) , and has some impressive helicopter action . I liked the scene in ' The House Of Seven Joys ' club when Matt's table and chair suddenly spin around and he finds himself in Contini's lair . It preempts a similar scene in ' Live & Let Die ' four years later . Though Dean was booked for one more romp - ' The Ravagers ' - he hung up his camera and gun for good after this . ' Matt Helm ' would next be seen on television , in a short-lived series starring Tony Franciosa . Sharon Tate was brutally murdered by the Manson Family soon after completing the film . ' The Wrecking Crew ' was both a sad epitaph to her career and the Matt Helm series .
Did You Hear The One About . . .	. . . the Englishman , the Scotsman , the Irishman , and the Welshman ? Vince Powell obviously did , because that was the premise of this short-lived Thames sitcom . Having co-created popular shows such as ' George & The Dragon ' , ' Two In Clover ' ( what a little gem that was ! ) , ' For The Love Of Ada ' , ' Never Mind The Quality Feel The Width ' and ' Love Thy Neighbour ' with his late partner Harry Driver , Powell was on the look out for another hit . Early in 1975 , he gave us ' The Wackers ' with Ken Jones ( ' Horrible Ives ' from ' Porridge ' ) as a Scouser trying to readjust to society following a stretch in prison . It drew complaints on account of its colourful ( though mild by today's standards ) language and was swiftly axed . Vince bounced back that year with ' My Son Reuben ' , starring the late Bernard Spear as a mother-dominated Jewish launderette owner . It too failed to find an audience . Around the same time that last show went out , Vince unveiled ' Rule Britannia ! ' in which four old ex-Royal Navy sailors honoured a pact by meeting up again after 25 years . They were ' George Bradshaw ' ( Tony Melody ) , whose zest for life seems to have deserted him , ' Jock McGregor ' ( the late and much-missed Russell Hunter ) , ' Paddy O'Brien ' ( the late Joe Lynch , who had appeared in Powell and Driver's earlier ' Never Mind The Quality etc . ) , and ' Taffy Evans ' ( Richard Davies a . k . a . ' Mr . Price ' from ' Please Sir ! ' ) . Carol Mills played busty barmaid ( didn't all ' 70's sitcoms have these ? ) ' Maggie ' . Back in the company of his old chums again , George regains his sense of humour . But wife Lil ( Jo Warne , from Powell's ' Spring & Autumn ' ) is not amused seeing her husband in such disreputable company . With this top notch cast , it should have been a huge hit . Yes , the four main characters were stereotypes , but lots of classic sitcoms have featured these so I do not really have a problem with that . What I objected to was that Powell never really did much with them . Most of the time they sat around drinking beer , arguing about which part of the U . K . was best , and reminiscing about the ' good old days ' . The opening titles showed four pints of beer mysteriously disappearing to the stains of ( what else ? ) ' Rule Britannia ' . Viewers quickly tired of the whole thing . In one episode , George , Jock and Taffy put on a talent show to raise money for Paddy to go back to Ireland and see his mother . They did this , only for the show organiser to rob them as soon as their backs were turned . However , an alternative solution was found , and the episode ended happily as a tearful O'Brien was reunited with his mother . ' Rule Britannia ! ' was no classic , yet was worth watching for the cast , especially the dour tam o'shanter wearing Hunter . There was a very funny scene in another episode when the fellers discussed soap operas . " The wife's mother thinks ' The Archers ' ( a long-running B . B . C . radio soap about country folk ) are all real people ! " , said a grinning George . " She once tried to book a fortnight's holiday in Ambridge ! " .
We'll Meet Again	Eyebrows were raised when in the year of America's Bicentennial celebrations , Granada produced a sitcom with the unfortunate title ' Yanks Go Home ! ' . It was set in a northern town during World War Two , overrun by G . I . ' s who , according to the surly locals , are ' over paid , over sexed , and over here ' . With the B . B . C . ' s ' Dad's Army ' about to end , I . T . V . hoped to pinch some of its audience . They gave the show a big build-up , including a ' T . V . Times ' cover , but alas it proved only moderately successful . The main problem was that the subject matter had already been covered by ' Dad's Army ' itself , in an episode entitled ' Hi British Buddy ! ' . Each episode had a different writer , so the characterisations were somewhat inconsistent . The obvious canned laughter didn't help either . Best amongst the cast was Freddie Earlle , whose ' Corporal Pasquale ' was straight out of ' Sgt . Bilko ' . ' Yanks Go Home ' saw the return to television of Stuart Damon , not seen since ' The Champions ' . He later wrote one of the episodes .
Browned Off !	1980 was a vintage year for Margaret Thatcher impersonators . Not only was there one in Downing Street , but two - both with the surname Brown - landed their own shows . Busty Faith Brown shot to fame on L . W . T . ' s ' Who Do You Do ? ' , a quick fire sketch show starring top impressionists of the day such as Freddie Starr . It led to ' The Faith Brown Awards ' in 1979 , and then to this , a prototype ' Knowing Me , Knowing You With Alan Partridge ' with Faith interviewing celebrities such as Bette Midler , Mary Whitehouse , Kate Bush and Zsa Zsa Gabor ( all played by Faith ) . L . W , T . pinned hopes on this becoming a successor to the wonderful Stanley Baxter series ( even going so far as to recruit scriptwriter Ken Hoare ) , but , despite a peak-time Saturday night slot , it flopped . Janet Brown's show , however , lasted noticeably longer .
And you thought ' Escape To Victory ' was daft . . .	A football match is to take place between the Luxton bus company and ' The Basildon Bashers ' . The winning team gets a fiver each , so Stan ( in need of ready cash as ever ) signs up , along with Jack . Blakey assumes responsibility for knocking his squad into shape , but nearly puts himself in hospital . With one man short , Stan asks Blakey if Olive can substitute , but the inspector is adamant that women and football don't mix . He gets an almighty shock when the ' Bashers ' finally show up - its an all-woman team . . . Bob Grant and Stephen Lewis raid the ' On The Buses ' archive yet again for this episode , its ' Self Defence ' from Season 2 given a footballing angle . The ' Basildon Bashers ' are a collection of dolly-birds and middle-aged frumps who resort to cheating by distracting the male players as only women know how . When Stan complains , they tear off his shorts . Funniest moment - Blakey wandering into the women's changing room in his long johns !
The Lost ' Alf Garnett Saga '	Six years after ' Till Death Us Do Part ' ended , Alf Garnett crossed channels to A . T . V . - home of ' Crossroads ' . He and Else have retired to Eastbourne with their friend and former next-door neighbour Min , now a widow . As you would expect , they stand out like a sore thumb amongst the well-heeled locals . In one episode , Alf buys a clapped-out motorbike , finds he cannot drive it properly ( it only turns right on the road ) and crashes into the back of the garage . Una Stubbs made a welcome guest appearance as ' Rita ' ( she and Mike have moved to Liverpool ) , bringing with her Alf's punk grandson - Mike Junior . The absence of Tony Booth unbalanced the show because Alf had no-one to rail against his bigoted views . Another detrimental factor was the lack of a studio audience . I cannot think of another sitcom where the laugh-track has been so important . Take it away , and there's a danger that Alf will be taken seriously . ' Till Death ' was not well received , and has never been repeated or issued on V . H . S . or D . V . D . It wasn't the end for Alf though , he and Else returned in triumph to the B . B . C . four years later with ' In Sickness & In Health ' .
Travesty Blaise	Fox pinned hopes on ' Modesty ' becoming a franchise to rival Bond , but these were cruelly dashed as Joseph Losey's film played to mostly empty theatres in the U . K . and U . S . A . ( it did rather better on the Continent ) . Taken on its own terms , its not too bad . Jack Shampan's production design is superb , as is John Dankworth's music , there are a couple of decent performances ( Clive Revill , Harry Andrews , and a wonderfully camp turn from Dirk Bogarde ) and some good moments such as Modesty finding herself trapped in an op art cell . But as an adaptation of Peter O'Donnell and Jim Holdaway's comic-strip , its a non-starter . Monica Vitti fails to project warmth and charm as Modesty , while Terence Stamp sounds like Michael Caine on an off-day . The scene where they sing a romantic duet whilst under fire is just painful . Losey was clearly not the right director for this project . Fox made a rather more successful ' girl power ' Bond thriller a year later - ' Fathom ' , starring Raquel Welch .
Barely A Step Up From ' Dr . Goldfoot '	BIG O kidnaps the inventor of a death-ray so I . C . E . fakes Matt Helm's death to convince them he is no longer a threat . Posing as a mobster , our hero flies to the French Riviera where danger awaits . Rush released to exploit the success of ' The Silencers , ' Murderers ' Row ' is inferior in every respect . Any pretence the series might have had at being a spy thriller ended here . The script goes for cheap laughs ( mostly at the expense of Martin's image as a boozer ) at every turn , a pity as Donald Hamilton's novel was one of his best . Dino's refusal to do location filming resulted in a plethora of stand-ins and bad process shots . Bad S . F . X . too - a man falling off a cliff is obviously a dummy , even the explosions look fake . Ironhead , Wall's henchman , intended to be another Oddjob , is wrongly used for slapstick purposes . Karl Malden acts like he's in a different film , Camilla Sparv is woefully under-used , while Ann-Margret is far too young to be Matt's love interest . Some funny bits here and there , but disappointing overall .
Duncan And Dick In Oz !	' Doctor In The House ' began in 1969 , ran for nine years ( under various titles ) , and ended when it was still popular . Two years later , Robin Nedwell and Geoffrey Davies reunited for this short-lived spin off / sequel for Australia's Network 7 . Waring and Stuart-Clark have once again burned their bridges at St . Swithins and fled Blighty for pastures new . The set-up at St . Barnabas was indeed similar , even down to some of the supporting characters . ' Professor Norman Beaumont ' and ' Dr . Maurice Griffin ' were obviously based on ' Professor Sir Geoffrey Loftus ' and ' Dr . Lawrence Bingham ' . Frank Wilson was good as the crabby ' Beaumont ' , but John Derum played ' Griffin ' in an irritating one-note style . As ' Linda Franklin ' , Duncan's sexy secretary , Jennifer Mellet bore a striking physical resemblance to Jacquie-Ann Carr of ' Doctor On The Go ' . Predictably , there was an abundance of pretty young ' Sheilas ' for the lads to work their charm on . A wall map of Australia had coloured pins stuck into it every time they ' scored ' . William G . Stewart , producer of ' Bless This House ' , took charge . As for the writers , only Bernard McKenna worked on the original . Jon Watkins wrote or co-wrote most of the episodes , his other credits include the L . W . T . series ' The Fosters ' . Most of the plots concerned Dick's latest money-making scam or Duncan's attempts to have his way with a pretty doctor . Two instalments lacked writing credits , implying production difficulties . This was borne out by Nedwell , who later said : " I cringe whenever I see it . We had problems with scripts , and I'm sure the experience will haunt me for years to come . " . Alan Tew's theme was given a new , softer arrangement , more or less indistinguishable from the one employed on ' Doctor In The House ' . ' Under ' is generally disliked by ' Doctor ' fans . The weak scripts , the absence of guest-stars of the calibre of Arthur Lowe , Freddie Jones and Henry McGee , and the fact that little of Australia was seen outside of St . Barnabas and Duncan's flat combined to sink the show . I . T . V . screened ' Under ' in 1980-81 , mostly in afternoon or early evening slots . Many stations chose not to play the full run of thirteen episodes . By rights it should have been the end for Duncan and Dick , but in 1991 , they returned in the even less-successful ' Doctor At The Top ' .
Thirty Years Too Late	As any comedian will tell you , timing is all important . Spoofs of television programmes only work when the targets are contemporary . ' Look Around You ' would have been hilarious had it actually gone out in the ' 70's . Unfortunately , its far too late to be really effective . For one thing , who remembers the style of programme its supposed to be mocking ? I expect the intended audience for this show are young people whose only knowledge of the decade comes from . . . well , programmes such as this . One can easily visualise them at home , with a can of beer in hand , chomping on pizza , and laughing . " Look ! He's wearing flared trousers ! Huh huh huh huh huh ! Strewth ! She's got an Afro-Caribbean hairstyle ! Huh huh huh huh huh huh ! Look at him ! Kipper tie ! Huh huh huh huh huh ! " . In other words , complete and utter morons . Is it asking too much for comedy writers and performers to look for new targets for satire ? With so many abysmal shows around now , such as ' Big Brother ' and ' Top Gear ' , they should have a field day taking the urine out of these . Either the past must be an easier target , or else today's comics lack the talent to do a professional demolition job . Shows such as this seems to suggest that television has run out of things to say . Well made though it is its ultimately pointless . Kipper ties and flares look ridiculous now , but did so at the time . The point has been well and truly laboured . Robert Popper wrote ' The Timewaster Letters ' . A very funny book . He should stop wasting our licence money too .
" Are You . . . Game For A Laugh ? "	The reason ' Game For A Laugh ' wasn't called ' Candid Camera ' was that someone else owned the title . Otherwise it was the same show , consisting of pranks played on unsuspecting members of the general public . The main difference were the ' look at me , aren't I funny ' presenters - Jeremy Beadle , Henry Kelly , Sarah Kennedy and Matthew Kelly . Celebrities were occasionally roped in , such as Duncan Goodhew , Kenny Everett , and Windsor Davies . Personally , I could have done without the annoying presenters and over-the-top laughter track . Some of the pranks were very funny , though , such as the man in the nightclub unexpectedly watching his wife doing a sexy cabaret number . The close-ups of his astonished face had me in hysterics . ' Game For A Laugh ' was so popular it wiped the floor with its B . B . C . - 1 rival - ' Larry Grayson's Generation Game ' . It was the creation of Alan Boyd , an ex-B . B . C . producer who'd defected to L . W . T . where he'd , somewhat ironically , produced ' The Generation Game ' . ' Not The Nine O'Clock News ' did a funny take-off of ' Laugh ' featuring an audience shrieking as though in pain and a prank in which a man comes home from work to find his wife decapitated . Matthew Kelly , Henry Kelly and Sarah Kennedy left at about the same time and were replaced by Debbie Rix ( later Rusty Lee ) , Martin P . Daniels and Lee Peck , and the revamped show was moved from Saturday nights to Sundays . But viewers were not happy , and it was eventually cancelled . However , it was reincarnated as ' Beadle's About ' .
How To Assassinate A Computer	Something is wrong with XR40 or ' George ' as he is more commonly known . George is the country's most brilliant computer . An unknown intruder breaks into the top secret establishment where he ( it ? ) is housed and shoots him . George manages to convey his feelings on a printout : " I Have A Message For You Of The Utmost Importance . . . Help ! " . The computer had discovered the existence of a traitor in the Ministry and was about to disclose the information when it was shot . Computer scientist Ardmore ( Anthony Nicholls ) tries to restore George , while Steed and Tara hunt for the gun man . The trail takes them to the home of Pelley ( Clifford Evans ) , George's creator . . . If this were made today , it would probably be titled ' Whoever Shot Poor George Forward Slash XR40 ? ' . A rare misfire from the pen of the normally reliable Tony Williamson . The notion that anyone would try to murder a machine is pretty silly even for ' The Avengers ' . An exemplary cast , including Frank Windsor , Clifford Evans , Dennis Price , Anthony Nicholls , and Judy Parfitt , are wasted . As ' Loris ' , Parfitt looks stunning . I was looking forward to seeing her fight Tara , but it never happens . George himself is not particularly well designed , being little more than a big box of lights . The scene where Ardmore tries to repair him closely resembles a heart transplant operation . Anthony Nicholls was ' Tremayne ' in ' The Champions ' . Dennis Price , cast as the creepy butler ' Jason ' was ' Jeeves ' in ' The World Of Wooster ' which starred Ian Carmichael . Frank Windsor is , of course , well remembered for his role as ' Watt ' in ' Z-Cars ' and ' Softly Softly ' . Cyril Frankel , this episode's director , is better known for his I . T . C . work such as ' The Champions ' and ' Department S ' . He is a good director , but I do not think he suited ' The Avengers ' . Mind you , with this script no-one would have . The main point of interest ( for me ) was the sight of Tara dressed as a cat ! ( she had been on her way to a fancy dress party when summoned to Steed's side ) . She later impersonates Pelley's American niece Prunella , and Thorson makes good use of her natural Canadian accent .
Best Of The Post-Sellers ' Pink Panthers '	When Peter Sellers died , you'd have thought they'd have let the ' Pink Panther ' series die with him . But money talks and in 1981 we got the dire ' Trail Of The Pink Panther ' . ' Curse ' , its successor , was an improvement , thanks to a funny performance from the likable Ted Wass , best known as ' Danny Dallas ' from the long-running T . V . show ' Soap ' . His character , Clifton Sleigh , had more than a touch of Harold Lloyd about him but alas Sellers proved irreplaceable ( Dudley Moore and Rowan Atkinson knew this too . They both turned it down ) , and we never saw Sleigh again . Some good visual gags include Dreyfus falling from his office window and Sleigh's problems with an inflatable doll . The film might have stood a chance had it not been continually looking over its shoulder at what went before . Especially confusing was Joanna Lumley's appearance as Countess Chandra - a totally different character to the one she'd played in ' Trail ' . The decision to turn Clouseau bad rankled with audiences as well . David Niven's final film , sadly .
" What we have here is an ongoing clash of loyalties situation ! "	Shelley is reunited with his oldest friend , Ned , whom he asks to be best man at his forthcoming wedding . Ned , unfortunately , is a ' Jack The Lad ' type who loves to drink , smoke , and make love . Fran dislikes him intensely , and openly says so . After getting involved in a pub fight , Ned is hospitalised . However , the porter keeps him supplied with cigarettes and beer ( which he keeps under the bed ) . Ned is keen to be best man , as he has read somewhere that traditionally the best man gets off with the bridesmaid . Shelley replies that it is not obligatory , purely optional . Ned makes an unusual request of Shelley . Scared of a urine test , he asks his friend to provide the required sample . . . Despite being the fifth episode , this was actually transmitted after the sixth - ' Elders & Betters ' . Presumably the production team felt it to be a weak episode . If so , they were dead right . There's no ' Mrs . H ' for one thing , instead we get David Pugh giving a shockingly bad performance as ' Ned ' . Clad in denim , permanently smoking , drinking and ogling women , Pugh looks and sounds ridiculous , the epitome of the sad forty-old who still dresses and talks as though he were seventeen ( also known as ' the Jeremy Clarkson syndrome ' ) . Why anyone in their right mind would want such an unreliable character as Ned as a best man is a mystery ( although Shelley confesses to Fran that he hopes Ned - a staunch socialist - will annoy his prospective Tory voting father-in-law ) . Whenever Pugh speaks ( and he gives several mini-speeches ) , I found my attention wondering to more important matters such as what to have for supper . There aren't many laughs to be had here , but I did get a chuckle out of Shelley asking Ned where to go to fill the sample bottle .
Here Lies Reginald Iolanthe Perrin - Forever Revolting !	The ' 90's saw the B . B . C . revive a number of famous comedy shows , including two made by I . T . V . - ' Agony Again ' and ' Doctor At The Top ' - along with ' The Liver Birds ' and , of course , this . Whereas these featured the original casts , ' Legacy ' was at a disadvantage because Leonard Rossiter passed away in 1984 . David Nobbs tried to work around this by making Reggie's death the catalyst for the show's events . Reggie's family and friends must do something really absurd in order to qualify for a share in his will . After a number of failed individual attempts , they combine to try to take over the country , at the head of an army of pensioners . The show was not the disaster critics tried to make out ; ' Jimmy ' , ' C . J . ' , ' Elisabeth ' , ' David Harris-Jones ' , ' Tom ' and ' Linda ' were strong enough to carry the show . The problem was that Reggie wasn't around to belittle them anymore . It was like watching ' Fawlty Towers ' without Basil . Best of the new characters was Geraldine Hackstraw , played by the lovely Patricia Hodge .
How Dare Todd Mess With Our Memories !	Let's get one thing out of the way ; ' Starsky & Hutch ' is an entertaining movie , boasting two very funny performances by the leads , and if you're unfamiliar with the original television show it should provide some fun . But what about the show's fans ? Those forty-somethings who as kids bought the merchandise - the toy car , the posters , the paperbacks , the fanzines , David Soul's records ? Well , the film well and truly kicks them in the teeth . I know many people who were offended , and stayed away in protest . Todd Phillips originally considered updating the premise , but decided to do it as a period piece because it gave him an excuse to make fun of ' 70's pop culture . But it has been spoofed often enough . Besides , the late Benny Hill's send-up was more on-target . I wonder how ' Buffy ' fans would react if , say , thirty years from now , some hot shot Hollywood producer announces a ' spoof ' version of their favourite show , replete with jokes at the expense of ' 90's pop culture ?
The Goodies Shoot Themselves In The Foot	Bill and Tim are watching their favourite programme ' The Mysterious World Of Arthur C . Clarke ' . As the end credits roll , the continuity announcer states it won't be back next week because its just been discovered that Clarke does not in fact exist ! Of course its Graeme , heavily disguised as the venerable British sci-fi author , out to fleece the gullible public by peddling a tie-in book . Tim decides to do a similar show , called ' The Quest For Arthur C . Clarke - Man Or Myth ' . The Goodies travel to the Canadian Rockies which is where Arthur was last sighted . But they find an even bigger mystery awaiting them , for Canada is the home of the legendary Bigfoot ! In 1981 , the Goodies followed Tony Hancock and Morecambe & Wise by switching to I . T . V . at the height of their fame . London Weekend Television was no slouch when it came to producing hit comedy shows - being responsible for ' On The Buses ' , the ' Doctor ' series , and the Stanley Baxter shows amongst others . But the move proved a disastrous one . L . W . T . scheduled ' The Goodies ' at 6 . 45 on Saturday evenings , a slot normally reserved for family entertainment shows . The Goodies had in the past refused to acknowledge their younger audience , preferring a latish starting time . For some strange reason , it evolved into the very ' kids ' programme ' they had always denied it was . The ' Bigfoot ' episode is a good example ; it begins well enough with a funny parody of ' Arthur C . Clarke's Mysterious World ' , in which the acclaimed author of ' 2001 : A Space Odyssey ' examined unexplained mysteries such as the Loch Ness Monster , but when the action moves to Canada it becomes annoying-silly rather than funny-silly , ending with the lads hopping about on gigantic feet , and cute Disney-style singing gophers . The satirical edge which defined their earlier work was suddenly gone , so were the big name guest stars such as Beryl Reid and Stanley Baxter . Bob Spiers had replaced Jim Franklin as the Goodies ' producer by this time , and his film sequences in no way begin to compare with Franklin's . The L . W . T . series is currently being repeated on ' Paramount 2 ' on Sky . I hope no-one tunes in thinking they are in any way representative of the show as a whole . For fans of ' The Goodies ' , it was a rather sad finale to one of the best British sitcoms ever made .
' Are You Being Served ' In Outer Space ?	I read an article in ' Dreamwatch ' magazine a good few years back which included the lines ; " Science fiction and comedy are difficult to mix . For every ' Red Dwarf ' , there are about ten ' Come Back Mrs . Noahs ' . At which point I fell on the floor laughing . " Come Back Mrs . Noah ' wasn't intended to be science fiction comedy ! I'm sure Jeremy Lloyd and David Croft would be the first to admit that . The premise is this ; Mollie Sugden plays ' Mrs . Gertrude Noah ' , a prize-winning housewife on a tour of a British space station ( ! ) . Unfortunately , there's an accident and said station is blasted out of orbit , beginning a course that will take it out of the Solar System . Rescue is , for the moment , impossible . Also on board are two scientists played by Michael Knowles and Donald Hewlett , and Ian Lavender as a news reporter . The humour is crude and coarse ; for instance , when in the first episode Mrs . Noah becomes weightless , the ship's computer advises her to propel herself forward by means of expelling natural body gas . Farting , in other words . Instead she takes a bottle of perfume from her handbag and uses that to do the same . If ' Grace Brothers ' had been a space station instead of a department store , this is what it would have been . But what do you expect from Lloyd and Croft ? There were also a number of scenes back on Earth with Tim Barrett as the harassed head of the British space exploration centre and Ann Michelle as his sexy assistant . Spoof news broadcasts read by Gorden Kaye prefaced each edition . Great comedy ? Absolutely not ! But its not as half as bad as F . Gwynplaine McIntyre makes out . I think we should be allowed to see it for ourselves so we can make up our own minds . Besides , after the fiasco of ' Hyperdrive ' , could anything possibly be worse ?
" I wish to resign ! "	Hedges wishes to take a year off from teaching to read Sociology at London University . The trouble is , he cannot bring himself to hand in his notice . Even the threat of Penny withdrawing her conjugal rights is not enough to give him courage . When he calls on the Chairman of the Board of Governors , he finds him entertaining a pretty young woman named Rita , and riles him so much he only succeeds in getting the sack . Miss Ewell , Smithy and Price call on Hedges to make one final bid to get him to stay . . . John Alderton bowed out of ' Please Sir ! ' with this episode , although it wouldn't be the last viewers saw of the character . A week later , he resurfaced in ' The Fenn Street Gang ' . Interestingly , no pupils appear . Wendy Richard acts a bit of sparkle to an otherwise flat episode as the Chairman's ' niece ' Rita . Funniest moment - Hedges absentmindedly hands Miss Ewell a copy of ' The Naked Ape ' by Desmond Morris ( then a major bestseller ) , the cover of which shows a naked man , woman and child . The schoolteacher glances at it , then flings it away in disgust !
Everybody Out - Again !	Following the end of ' On The Buses ' in 1973 , Ronald Wolfe and Ronald Chesney searched for another hit . ' Don't Drink The Water ' , a spin-off from ' Buses ' , failed to duplicate the success of its parent show , while ' Yus My Dear ' , though it got to No . 1 in the ratings for most of its episodes , was fairly dire . A comedy pilot for the B . B . C . entitled ' The Boys & Mrs . B ' was equally awful , despite starring the wonderful Thora Hird and a young Tony Robinson . Wolfe and Chesney then decided that enough time had elapsed since the end of their first major success - ' The Rag Trade ' - to engineer a revival . The B . B . C . passed on the idea ( do they never learn ? ) , so they took it to London Weekend Television . Peter Jones and Miriam Karlin reprised their roles as ' Harold Fenner ' and ' Paddy ' , but the rest of the cast was new . Christopher Beeny , fresh in the public's memory from ' Upstairs , Downstairs ' replaced Reg Varney ( his character undergoing a name change to ' Tony ' ) , the buxom and giggly Diane Langton slotted effortlessly into the space vacated by Barbara Windsor , Anna Karen played ' Olive ' ( when ' On The Buses ' ended Olive was single again , but here she was happily married . We never found out just who the new man in her life was ) . Deddie Davies ' fluttery ' Mabel ' was obviously intended as another ' Lily ' ( the Esma Cannon character from the original ) . Future ' Eastenders ' star Gillian Taylforth made her television debut as ' Lyn ' . In a nod to multiculturalism , one of the new intake at ' Fenner's Fashions ' was black - ' Jo-Jo ' - played by Lucita Lijertwood . One major new character - the haughty ' Mrs . Fenner ' - was played first by Rowena Cooper and then ' Doctor In Charge's ' Joy Stewart . The first episode was a remake of ' The Sample ' from 1961 . This being 1977 , the humour was predictably coarsened , the language slightly stronger ( with words like ' scrubber ' and ' knickers ' bandied about ) . Despite its resolutely anti-trade union stance , the show occasionally took pot shots at the alternative . MABEL : You can always trust a politician who smokes a pipe . LYN : What about Margaret Thatcher ? She doesn't smoke a pipe . PADDY : She would do if she thought it would get her a few more votes , love . Lindsay De Paul provided the catchy theme tune . Despite being a ratings success , ' The Rag Trade ' somehow never replicated the affection of its predecessor . One angry letter to ' The Sun ' suggested it should be renamed ' The Drag Trade ' and that everyone in it ' should be out ' . It was unfortunate that Wolfe and Chesney chose to resurrect the show at a time when trade unions were massively unpopular . After only two seasons , Fenner's Fashions shut up shop again , this time for good . Parodied by L . W . T . ' s ' End Of Part One ' as ' The Gag Trade ' with Fenner's girls as scriptwriters instead of dressmakers .
" Come on England ! "	Duncan , Dick and Andy are looking forward to a Saturday afternoon in front of the telly , watching a football game between England and Wales . So keen is he to see the English hammered the Scottish Andy is kitted out in Welsh national costume . But Duncan is unexpectedly recalled to duty . To spoil his friends ' fun , he tells Gascoigne that an old Busby Berkeley musical is on B . B . C . - 2 . Gascoigne is almost assaulted when he tries to change the channel . Loftus shows up , and the film is put back on . Dick pulls the plug out of the wall , and makes it appear as though the set has broken down . Just as they are getting into the game , two T . V . repair men take the set away , claiming they are part of a faulty batch . . . I remember reading an article in ' The Sunday People ' ( as it was then called ) in 1977 , which credited ex-doctors turned comedy writers Rob Buckman and Chris Beetles with having ' saved ' the ' Doctor ' series . This made no sense ( it was not renewed after this season ) , as their episodes are nowhere near as funny ( in my view ) as those of Steve Thorn and Paul Wolfson . This one is like the ' No Peace For The Wicked ' episode of ' Porridge ' in that the main character ( s ) is looking forward to a planned Saturday afternoon , only to be continually interrupted at every opportunity . But the two are worlds apart in terms of execution . To get revenge on Gascoigne for his continual interruptions , the lads trick him into thinking that an Italian patient ( played by Ricardo Montez of ' Mind Your Language ' fame ) has a mysterious unknown disease . Oh ha-ha . Funniest moment - the bit at the end where Gascoigne gets revenge on his tormentors by magnanimously sending them a television set to watch the match . However , it has no screen , valves or tubes , just a football dangling on a piece of string inside the box !
Potter Under Suspicion	Sharon is molested while walking home across the common one evening . Using her as bait , Hedges and the male 5C pupils lay in wait . The man they apprehend is Potter . The caretaker refuses to disclose his reasons for being there , and threatens to press charges on the police for false arrest . Potter suddenly finds everyone in the school ranged against him ; the headmaster won't let him wash his car , and even Smithy steers girls away from him in the corridor . Finally , Hedges gets at the truth . Potter had been to a regimental dinner two nights before and , when his war stories were laughed at , walked out in disgust , taking with him an ornamental German dagger he named ' Siegfried ' . He had lost the dagger on his way home on the common , which was why he went back to look for it the following night . A young girl has a run in with a pervert , and an innocent man is blamed . Sound like a barrow load of laughs , do you think ? Today this would probably be the plot of an episode of ' The Bill ' . It seems unlikely that Potter would be allowed to go on working at the school if he really were under suspicion . At the end , a mob of giggling girls crowd round Hedges , expecting to be escorted to their front doors . Hedges complains when one of them touches a private part of his body . Give this episode marks for being brave enough to tackle a difficult subject , but subtract them again for the cop-out ending .
The End Of The Road For T . R . Sloane	Investigating the theft of top secret scientific material , Sloane arranges a meeting with an employee of Dr . Karla Meredith . But his attention is momentarily distracted by an intruder . He returns to find her dead , having literally aged years in only a few seconds . Meredith is head of a scientific institute working on a formula to slow down the ageing process . Her backer , KARTEL villain and ex-Nazi Hans Kruger , is using the place as cover for a project to clone a South American leader . . . The final episode of ' A Man Called Sloane ' was the only one to be directed by its star . Which made it all the more strange why Conrad later dismissed the show . If he really thought it that bad , why did he get involved in its production ? Patrick Matthews ' script has some interesting ideas , but they don't really come together as well as they should . Sloane's only gadget is a charm bracelet with a built-in knife , a sure sign of creative fatigue . Dennis Cole's ' Mr . Freeze'-like villain is underused ( he has to live in a warm environment else he will revert to his true age ) , and the beauty contest finale looks rushed . A sad epitaph to what promised initially to be a lively , entertaining show . ' Sloane ' has , to my knowledge , never been rerun either in the U . K . or U . S . A . and seems destined to spend eternity in that cathode ray phantom zone where all cancelled shows dwell .
" Why am I doing this at my age ? "	Billy has really done it this time . Not only has he made multiple dates with girls on the same night , but an urn containing the ashes of a valued client has mysteriously disappeared from Shadrach & Duxbury's funeral parlour . The undertaker subjects Billy to relentless questioning . Back home , the Fishers are struggling to redecorate their living room without the paint Billy promised to bring home from work . . . The last ' Billy Liar ' episode of all , and a disappointing finale to the series . Billy is kept away from his family for almost the whole episode , and when he finally goes home we are not privileged to see or hear the argument raging in the living room . Our last sight is of him emerging covered in yellow paint . It beggars belief that Billy would so daft as to set up dates with practically every eligible female in Stradhoughton on the same night , besides this plot device had been used in the previous series . The main joke here is Mr . Fisher roping in various visitors to assist in the redecoration of the lounge . The impression given is of Waterhouse and Hall running out of ideas . Which may explain why this was the last episode . Even the scenes where Billy sees his employer and family as Nazis had been done before . Eighteen months later , another comedy character with a strong fantasy life found his way onto British television . Although not as young as Billy , Reginald Iolanthe Perrin was every bit as imaginative . Funniest moment - Mr . Fisher searches for Grandma , and finds he has absentmindedly covered her in a sheet !
Getting To Know You !	Earlier this year , I . T . V . revived that old chestnut ' Mr & Mrs ' . As it went out directly opposite ' Dr . Who ' on B . B . C . - 1 , I did not get to see it , but I doubt if it was as saccharin as the original . It was a quiz show for married couples . A husband and wife , let's call them Christine and Bill , would be led into the studio by a dolly bird hostess . Christine would be put in a soundproof booth while Bill would be bombarded with daft questions by the host , such as ' If you bought your wife a grand piano for her birthday , would she a ) sell it b ) learn to play it or c ) hit you over the head with it ? Bill then had to guess his other half's response . Christine would come back and the question was put to her . If she gave the same answer as her spouse , they won fifty pounds ( a lot in those days ) . And the losers got a smashing candelabra ! ' Mr & Mrs ' began here in Wales , as a Welsh language show called ' Sion y Sian ' but the English language version was hosted by one of my country's unsung heroes of broadcasting - the late Alan Taylor . He was the antithesis of a modern-day game show host , being balding , plump , and myopic ( he wore a monocle when reading questions ) . Taylor got around ; he also did a Saturday morning children's show called ' Tinker & Taylor ' ( in which he played second fiddle to a glove puppet ) and later , ' Orbit ' , which purported to be set aboard a space station ( his co-host was a squawking alien called ' Chester ' ) . Every episode ended with him crying a la Stan Laurel . He also appeared on ' Paint Along With Nancy ' , a daytime show in which American artist Nancy Kaminsky painted fruit every week . It is a common myth that the ' Mr & Mrs ' contestants were mostly elderly . Some were , but there were newly-weds too . The elderly ones were the more fun though . One night , a man was asked ' if you told your wife that you had booked a fortnight's holiday's in a nudist camp , would she say a ) no b ) maybe or c ) throw off all her clothes and say when do we go ? ' . He gave ' a ' as his answer . But when she came back from the soundproof booth , she said : " When do we go ? " which brought the house down . Who says old people have no sense of adventure ? This lightweight , gossipy show proved so popular it reached the I . T . V . network in 1972 , and inspired Border Television to make its own , equally maudlin version , hosted by Derek Batey . I did not like that one as much , mainly due to its horrible Tony Hatch & Jackie Trent theme , which made your teeth rot as you listened to it . Our ' Mr & Mrs ' had as a theme what sounded like a Welsh male voice chair warbling ' Getting To Know You ' from ' The King & I ' . The L . W . T . sketch show ' End Of Part One ' did a blinding take-off called ' Mr & Mr & Mrs ' , and Stanley Baxter put the boot in too . Taylor's version vanished from the airwaves sometime in the early ' 80's ( he retired to run an antiques shop in Bath , then went to live in Spain where he stayed until his death ) , but Batey's lasted until 1986 . Julian Clary's smut-fest under the same name was so bad I . T . V . took it off after only two weeks , and the ' reimagined ' version earlier this year does not seem to have set the world alight . If Alan Taylor was still alive , I would happily go on his ' Mr & Mrs ' , just for the sheer thrill of being manhandled by hostess Lynda Thomas ( what a lady ! ) and taking home a useless piece of junk ( the candelabra I mean , not my wife ) .
Impressionists Galore !	L . W . T . ' s ' Who Do You Do ? ' was a quick fire sketch show starring top impressionists of the day , such as Freddie Starr , Janet Brown , Faith Brown , and Russ Abbot . The one who made the biggest impact on me though was Peter Goodwright ; I once saw him do a ' Dad's Army ' routine in which he did the voices of the entire cast . Paul Melba ( whatever happened to him ? ) was good too ; nobody did James Mason better ! Kenneth Williams impersonator Adam Daye went on to appear in ' Opportunity Knocks ! ' , rather than the other way round ! ' 60's songstress Sandie Shaw appeared in one episode . The gags were fairly corny ; one sketch had Tarzan ( Freddie Starr ) playing cards with Cheetah the chimp . Tarzan threw the cards into the air , and exclaimed angrily : " Me Tarzan . Him Cheetah ( cheater ) ! " . Starr played James Cagney in another sketch . " You dirty rat ! " , he said . Then the camera pulled back to reveal Starr giving a toy rat a good brushing ! ' Who Do You Do ? ' proved sufficiently popular with viewers to run for many years . In the mid-80's , L . W . T . revived it under a different title - ' Copy Cats ' .
Wedding Bells For Blakey ?	An outbreak of astrology at the Butler household convinces Olive and Mum that they each are going to be the next Mrs . Cyril Blake . For the inspector , it is the start of a living nightmare as the two women fight it out for the right to cook , clean and generally smother him with kindness . . . Jack has a new driver in this Bob Grant & Stephen Lewis penned episode , Fred , played by Larry Martyn . When Fred first appears , it looks as though Stan Butler has returned , as Martyn is a dead ringer for Reg Varney . Martyn played ' Mr . Mash ' in the original series of ' Are You Being Served ? ' . Funniest moment - Blakey getting a face full of beer !
A House Divided	Stan's mother wins an all-expenses paid holiday for two to the Costa Brava . But who will she take with her ? Stan , Olive and Arthur each lay claim to the coveted prize - and try to curry the old lady's favour by bringing her breakfast in bed , peeling potatoes and performing various domestic chores . In so doing , they almost wreck the house . But Mrs . Butler has received a letter , the contents of which she refuses to divulge . . . The last episode to feature Arthur is a pretty tiresome affair with Stan and Arthur behaving like contestants on the old Mike Read children's show ' Runaround ' . Julia Breck is best remembered as ' that bird with the big boobs ' on the Spike Milligan ' Q ' shows . Funniest moment - Blakey revealing that the competition organiser has been arrested for fraud , hence it has been declared null and void , surprising everyone except crafty old Mrs . Butler , who'd been notified by post , and didn't let on as she liked being the centre of attention .
Who Needs ' Travis Bickle ' When You Have ' Joe North ' ?	I have heard it said that this film took more money at the U . K . box office than ' Taxi Driver ' starring Robert De Niro ! Easy to see why . Scorsese's film lacked the magic ingredient - Barry Evans ' old boy . Poor Barry . Having starred in the T . V . series ' Doctor In The House ' and ' Doctor At Large ' , he was fired for ' erratic behaviour ' and subsequently forced to appear in tat like this . As you may have guessed , the ' Adventures ' series is a shameless rip-off of the ' Confessions ' movies starring Robin Askwith . The main gag in all these films is the hero , in bed with a love-starved nymph , being caught by her husband / boyfriend , and having to make a break for it by shinning down a ladder / drainpipe , his bare bottom exposed to the world . Evans ' character is ' Joe North ' , a chirpy Cockney cabby who lives at home with his mum ( a criminally wasted Diana Dors ) and his younger brother and sister , the latter fond of throwing food around the kitchen . He is betrothed to Carol Hotchkiss ( Adrienne Posta ) , whom he hates the sight of . He eventually moves in with his mate , garage owner Tom ( a pre ' Citizen Smith ' Robert Lindsay ) , and that's when the fun really begins ( sort of ) with knickers and bras flying about confetti . At the end , North gets involved with jewel thieves and you think ' Great ! We're going to have a ' Carry On Cabby ' type finale ! " , but no , instead everyone stands around talking for what seems an eternity . Another reviewer has stated how uncomfortable Evans looks in the role , and I would agree . Unsurprisingly , he was in neither of the two sequels . His career recovered though when he starred in the hit L . W . T . sitcom ' Mind Your Language ' . In a sad irony , he became a taxi driver for real when his acting career foundered . As was the case with ' Confessions ' , there is a stellar line-up of British comedy talent on display here , including Ian Lavender , Stephen Lewis , Brian Wilde , Liz Fraser , and Henry McGee , none of whom get the material they deserve . Three of Evans ' co-stars - Angela Scoular , Adrienne Posta , and Judy Geeson - had acted with him a decade earlier in the superior sex comedy ' Here We Go Round The Mulberry Bush ' . Scoular charmed George Lazenby out of his kilt in ' On Her Majesty's Secret Service ' , but looks a lot less sexy here ( probably due to that awful new hairstyle ) . Posta is rather good as the annoying ' Carol ' , even if her vocalisation of the title theme put me in mind of the mice from ' Bagpuss ' . Unable to secure the talents of Linda Hayden , producer Stanley Long settled for her sister Jane , playing a would-be suicidalist . There are some nice shots of late ' 70's London , especially at night , but much of the comedy is forced , at times resembling the ' Fast Show ' parody ' Confessions Of A Cucumber Salesman ' . However , there are at least three genuine laugh-out loud moments , one involving two nuns , another a bathtub , and in the best scene , Liz Fraser's prostitute performs fellatio on a rich client in the back of North's taxi . He breaks suddenly to avoid knocking someone down , the cab lurches forward , and Fraser's client unleashes a terrible scream . Ironically , the movie showing nearby is ' Jaws ' ! Moments such as these go some way towards making the film at least partially endurable .
" No , we are not on drugs , we are on Social Security . "	' Love Thy Neighbour ' was a long-running 70's sitcom which made fun of a bigot . Ironically , it is today regarded as racist , with the same old clips trotted out in tiresome fashion on banal retro programmes to illustrate just how politically incorrect those times were . But , for a moment , imagine if the B . B . C . series ' The Melting Pot ' had gone out in 1975 . Every major character was a racialist . The Thames show might have appeared tame by comparison . Johnny Speight had nothing to do with ' The Melting Pot ' . It was the creation of Spike Milligan and Neil Shand , authors of the ' Q ' series . Milligan and John Bird played a Pakistani father and son ( called ' Mr . Van Gogh ' and ' Mr . Rembrandt ' ) , who arrive in England illegally via Amsterdam , thinking it to be the ' milk and honey land of free speech , and no racism ' . They move into Paddy O'Brien's seedy boarding house at 7 , Piles Road , London . Paddy is a coal man , and on their first meeting Van Gogh mistakes him for a fellow countryman . Observing O'Brien washing coal-dust off his face and hands , Van Gogh is horrified . " You must never use the soap here ! " , he tells his son , " I saw a black man washing with it and I watched his nationality coming off and go down the plughole . " . The other boarders include a black Yorkshireman named Luigi O'Reilly , Chinese cockney wide boy Eric Lee Fung , booze-loving , ex-Indian army officer Colonel Grope , Australian bookies ' runner Bluey Notts , and Orthodox Scottish Arab Sheik Yamani . Watching television in the front room that evening , Paddy remarks ; " I am trying to watch this b - - - - y show . Kojak is just going to kill the n - - - - r . " . Luigi says . " Less of that n - - - - r talk . " . Paddy amends his words : " Kojak is going to kill the lovely coloured gentleman who has just split his wife's head open with a b - - - - y meat-axe ! " . It was a culture clash comedy , not a million miles removed from ' Curry & Chips ' , which Milligan had starred in six years earlier . Unlike that earlier show , however , ' The Melting Pot ' was never broadcast in its entirety . The B . B . C . got cold feet and shelved it after only one episode . Had it been shown it probably would now be regarded as even more offensive than ' Neighbour ' . For one thing , it starred two white men in black make-up . Before anyone says " what about ' It Ain't Half Hot Mum ' ? ' , the two shows were very different . Michael Bates ' ' Rangi Ram ' was a brilliant piece of acting , he was totally convincing in that role . With Milligan and Bird , however , they were anything but . Frank Carson was good as the loud-mouthed Irish coal man . Pity he did not get more sitcom roles . Well intentioned the show may have been , but the lack of a liberal character along the lines of Tony Booth's ' Mike ' from ' Till Death Us Do Part ' was noticeable . The only major female character was a busty blonde called ' Nefertiti ' , Paddy's daughter ( Alexandra Dane ) . Clearly not a show for the easily offended . Even so , Milligan felt his show had been harshly treated . He later published the scripts , as well as drawing on them for his novel ' The Looney ' . Only the pilot still exists . A radio version was made in 1999 , however . It beggars belief that the B . B . C . could commission this , film it , and finally decide it was untransmittable ! And in the era of ' The Black & White Minstrel Show ' to boot . ( The above rating is for the pilot , the only edition I have seen ) .
The Quiz Of The Week !	Benny Hill did a wonderful take-off of this show , called ' Sale Of The Half-Century ' , with himself as smarmy host ' Nicholas Parcels ' . It was unusually unkind for a Hill sketch , especially seeing how Nick had been his ' feed ' for years in the Fred Scuttle sketches . But what of the original ? It was made by Anglia Television , one of I . T . V . ' s smallest stations , and along with ' Roald Dahl's ' Tales Of The Unexpected ' , remains its best remembered achievement . Each episode opened with the booming voice of John Benson : " And now from Norwich . . . " as though we should all be impressed by where it was coming from . Benson went on : " Its the Quiz of the Week ! " . I used to wonder who had bestowed that grand sounding title upon it . Was there an ' Its A Knockout ' type programme somewhere in which quiz shows would compete for the right to be called ' Quiz Of The Week ' ? If so , why had I not seen it ? Pretty girls and luxury items such as spin-dryers and colour televisions would then float about to the accompaniment of an instantly hummable theme tune . Back came the voice of terror : " And here's your host . . . Nicholas Parsons ! " . And the great man would duly appear . Parsons took a lot of stick over his so-called ' patronising ' manner , in truth he was no different from other hosts of similar shows of that period . In those days , game show presenters were required to put contestants at ease , not insult them if they got an answer wrong as Anne Robinson does now on ' The Weakest Link ' . There were no searchlights on view , and no dramatic music . Peter Fen's organ ( of the musical variety ) provided the ' stings ' ( obviously the producers could not have seen the ' Monty Python ' sketch ' Blackmail ' ) . Three contestants ( mostly elderly ) had to answer general knowledge questions , amassing amounts of money and the one with the highest total at the end got to take home a nice prize . That was all there was to it . The questions were tougher to answer than those to be found on modern shows , which confuse soap opera mythology with general knowledge . And contestants could not excuse their ignorance by stating that they had never seen the film / T . V . show they were being questioned on . I used to love the hostesses . The poor girls looked as though they had stepped off the set of ' The Stepford Wives ' and had the unenviable task of looking sexy against a backdrop of fridges and dishwashers . Parsons ' amiability made him a target for various comedians , such as The Goodies , Mike Yarwood and the aforementioned Benny Hill , but he took it all in his stride . The show ran for the best part of fifteen years . The alternative comedy brigade had Parsons send up his oh-so nice image in ' The Comic Strip Presents ' episode ' Mr . Jolly Lives Next Door ' . ' S . O . T . C . ' was briefly revived in the late ' 80's as part of Sky One's original line-up , only without Parsons . Then Challenge T . V . gave it a new lease of life ( if you can call it that ) with that roving Swap Man Keith Chegwin . But these revivals did not have the staying power of the original . ' Sale Of The Century ' without Nick Parsons was like ' Bullseye ' without Jim Bowen . Utterly pointless .
Tunnel To Nowhere	A man is knifed to death in a London sewer . Then during a power blackout , Georgina witnesses a smash-and-grab raid on a jeweller's , a crime for which she is arrested . Beneath London's streets , criminals gather to listen as The Face outlines his plan for ' The Crime Of The Century ' - he intends staging a massive power blackout , so that his men can emerge from hiding and steal everything they can get their hands on , including the Crown Jewels ! Gasp ! A number of top British comedy writers contributed to this show , amongst them Vince Powell , Harry Driver , Dick Sharples , and Richard Waring . Presumably it was thought that these gentlemen's ability to concoct amusing , original situations would make them ideally suited to a show of this kind , which after all was pretty outrageous . Waring was known at that time as the creator of the hit show ' Marriage Lines ' which starred Richard Briers and Prunella Scales , and would later write ' Not In Front Of The Children ' for Wendy Craig , and ' Rings On Their Fingers ' for Martin Jarvis and Diane Keen . ' Tunnel ' is nothing if not audacious ; the ' blackout ' idea was clearly inspired by the famous one in America two years before . Why oh why does The Face deliberately endanger his own plan by involving Adamant ? Its almost as though he wants to be thwarted . The ending is a bit of an anti-climax - Georgina rescues Adam and Simms from a perilous situation , Adam pulls a lever and . . . that's it . End of story . Kenneth Ives , who plays ' Bruno ' , would later direct episodes of the classic B . B . C . show ' Secret Army ' .
Archery On Television	A few years back , Sky's ' Challenge T . V . ' repeated editions of ' The Golden Shot ' as part of a season of archive game shows ( how about another season , Challenge ? Hint . hint . ) . I watched in fascination ( as you do ) when confronted by a show one had not seen in literally years . ' Shot ' was a fixture on Sunday afternoon television for years , but began life as a peak-time Saturday night show . Hosted by Jackie Rae , a genial Canadian , it was okay but nothing special . Blindfolded contestants aimed a William Tell-style crossbow at a target while directed by another member of the public via telephone . The bows were loaded by ' Bernie The Bolt ' ( who was always called that , no matter his real name ) . The ritual went something like : " up a bit , left a bit , down a bit . . . fire ! " . Whosoever hit the target ( or got closest to it ) won a cash prize . The targets changed from game to game ( one week , they had a special show to tie-in with the children's sci-fi show ' Captain Scarlet & The Mysterons ' with the hostesses dressed as Spectrum Angels ) . At the end of each show , the target was a golden apple , and if hit a cascade of glitter poured forth , drawing gasps from the studio audience . ' Shot ' was moved to Sundays by Lord Lew Grade , and Rae replaced by the marvellous Bob Monkhouse . Both decisions proved correct . Rae had been humourless and stiff , but Bob had this amazing ability to improvise ( and needed it for the show went out live ) . He often told on chat-shows years later how a man insisted on taking part even though his T . V . set had been repossessed by Rumbelow's , and the only way he could view the show was through the window of a T . V . shop in the High Street . Charming though this story is , one must take it with a pinch of salt - T . V . shops would not have been open in those days on Sundays . The other well-remembered participant was Anne Aston , cute , blonde and daffy ( a sort of Carol Vorderman without the mathematics ) . Monkhouse made the show a hit , but left somewhat suddenly in 1973 . In his autobiography , he later revealed that A . T . V . suspected him of taking bribes from contestants . It was untrue , of course . Bob was replaced by ex-'Sunday Night At The London Palladium ' host Norman Vaughan . I have to say I never found the man the least bit funny , and his stint on ' Shot ' was dire . He never stopped talking , once telling a lengthy joke only for the the punchline to be met with complete silence . Norman's replacement , Charlie Williams , was even worse . The first black comic to make it big in Britain , the Yorkshireman became a sensation on Granada's ' The Comedians ' , and was in great demand for television , theatre , advertising etc . He was even the subject of a strip in the children's comic ' Shiver & Shake ' . Williams later described his run on ' Shot ' as ' the biggest mistake of my career ' . He was right . Watching one of his editions again recently I felt genuinely sorry for him . He was just not cut out to be a game-show host , and came off looking like chief mourner at a funeral . When the show ended , his television career ended with it . In 1975 , the I . B . A . ( Independent Broadcasting Authority ) ruled that ' Shot ' had run its course , and took it off . Monkhouse came back for the final edition , along with Norman . ' Shot ' was briefly revived a while back by Ant & Dec , but as I never saw it ( nothing on Earth would want to make me watch those two ) , I cannot comment . The old Sunday teatime game show slot was later ( more than adequately ) filled by Jim Bowen's ' Bullseye ' , ironically co-created by Norman Vaughan , and it remains his best known achievement . Having made up with Monkhouse , A . T . V . eventually gave him a new game show - ' Family Fortunes ' . For those of us of a certain age , we cannot consume a Spam sandwich nor mandarin oranges with Carnation ( its nice - try it some time ! ) without remembering this show , and some poor twit going : " Down a bit , right a bit , up a bit . . . fire ! " .
' On The Buses ' Loses Its Way	A tearful Olive emerges from the divorce courts , her marriage to Arthur Rudge finally over . Mum tells Stan to look after her while she goes off to stay with Aunt Maud . But he has arranged to take the curvaceous Sandra to the pictures . Olive goes with them - and makes a nuisance of herself , munching sweets , complaining about not being able to see the screen , and slurping orange juice . Not wishing to be stuck with her for the evening , Stan tries to download her onto Blakey . . . After 61 television episodes , a board game , a ' Look-In ' comic strip , and two feature films ( a third appeared at the end of 1973 ) , ' On The Buses ' was a mass-media phenomenon . Had there been a ballet based on the show , doubtless the theatres would have been packed to the rafters . But the bubble had to burst sometime , and with the seventh season , it did just that . A new set of animated titles was used , composed of horrendous caricatures of the cast , including an unrecognisable Doris Hare ( with the wrong colour hair ! ) and Blakey scuttling along like a cockroach , his head colliding with a lamp post . Michael Robbins had moved on , and he had made the character of ' Arthur ' his own to such an extent it was impossible to replace him . ' On The Buses ' had seen a cast change before , of course - Cicily Courtneidge departed after the first season - but that was before the show really took off . Robbins ' wonderfully dead pan Arthur was an integral part of the cast . It was never going to be the same again . Funniest moment - Olive thanking Blakey for ' offering ' to take her home . " You don't think you'll be too tired , will you ? " , she asks innocently . Blakey knows nothing about the offer and thinks she's trying to get fresh with him .
Eric And Ern's Nemesis Entertains	As any Morecambe and Wise fan will tell you , Des O'Connor was for years the butt of their gags . Like a true pro , he accepted his ribbings with good grace ( even appearing with them on one of their legendary Christmas shows ) . But with top-rated variety shows such as this , he could afford to be gracious . ' Entertains ' featured Des singing ( ahem ! ) , dancing , and doing comedy , often with big names as guest stars . A regular item ' Dandy Sandy ' spoofed the ' Watch With Mother ' children's show ' Andy Pandy ' , with Des as ' Dandy ' , the late Sir Harry Secombe as ' Teddy ' , and , if you can believe it , Britt Ekland as ' Looby Loo ' ! Another was ' I Say , I Say , I Say ! ' , a music-hall spot in which Des tried to tell a joke , only to be interrupted by celebrity comics such as Norman Wisdom . Jack Douglas was a semi-regular , appearing as his twitching alter-ego ' Alf Ippititimus ' . Terry-Thomas and Connie Stevens were on standby to help sell the show to America ( Wonder what our transatlantic cousins made of the lugubrious Johnny Vyvian ? ) .
Hell's Bells !	Great idea - a ' celebration ' of the all-time worst British television . Thing is , it has been done before , and better - by B . B . C . - 2's ' T . V . Hell ' ( 1992 ) which at least showed whole programmes rather than piddling clips . Here we've got Z-list celebrities being insufferably pompous about archive telly . One could easily excuse say John Cleese being rude about ' Bottle Boys ' . Coming from Kate Thornton its a bit hard to take . No attempt was made to take into account the context of the era in which the shows were made . I wonder how many of the viewers who chose ' Curry & Chips ' have actually seen it ? It was never repeated or issued on video / D . V . D . so its inclusion was strange . Meera Syal was only eight years old in 1969 but that did not stop her from laying into it . She said that it was basically : ' let's have a laugh at the w-g ' ' . Actually , no it wasn't . It was ' let's have a laugh at the racists ' . The person who found the vandalism of the ' Blue Peter ' garden funny should be ashamed of himself for openly encouraging the sort of attitude that leads to vandalism . I wonder if he would laugh if his own garden were wrecked in similar fashion ? Nevertheless the clips were well chosen for the most part , particularly Annabelle Lwin storming out of an interview with B . A . Robertson and the sheer inanity of ' The Word ' . David Frost's encounter with Jerry Rubin's ' Yippies ' was no worse than you will find on many contemporary talk-shows such as Jeremy Kyle . One hopes that any future shows of this kind will focus on ' reality television ' and the barrel-scraping awfulness they have unfortunately come to symbolise .
The Butler Of Billingsgate !	Made by A . T . V . , ' A Rather Reassuring Programme ' was a satirical comedy show from 1977 , hosted and produced by the late Ned Sherrin . One sketch was set in I . T . V . ' s comedy department , and featured John Junkin as a writer and Henry McGee as a hard-to-please producer . Ideas for various series were bandied about , only to be rejected . Then Junkin proposed a sitcom about Billingsgate Market fish porters . " Of course " , he added , " It could turn out to be another ' Down The ' Gate ' " . McGee shuddered . " Do you think the world is ready for another ' Down The ' Gate ' ? " . That should give you some idea of how highly regarded the show was at that time . Reg Varney had left ' On The Buses ' mid-way through its seventh ( and as it turned out final ) season , to land a show of his own on A . T . V . Entitled simply ' Reg Varney ' , it had our man singing , playing the piano , and playing bizarre characters in sketches ( such as ' The Monologue Man ' - dressed in flamboyant clothes , he constantly spoke in rhyme ) - basically , all the things he was not allowed to do on ' On The Buses ' . The show was a modest success . In 1975 , Reg felt that it was time for him to return to sitcom . He came up with an idea for a show about Billingsgate Market fish porters . Writers Roy Tuvey and Maurice Sellar fleshed out the premise . Reg played ' Reg Furnell ' , a fish porter very much like . . . Stan Butler . Except in one important respect - Stan was single , whereas Reg was happily married to the social-climbing Irene ( Dilys Laye ) , who was always trying to impress important people such as the bank manager , and would lose her cool whenever her husband came home late and stinking of mackerel . Reg's best mate was ' Old Wol ' , played by Reg Lye ( someone really ought to make a documentary about that man . After all , how many Australian actors can you name who have emigrated to Britain and made a living playing Cockneys , Northerners , Scotsmen et al ? ) . Reg and Old Wol had a different relationship to that of Stan Butler and Jack Harper , they were more like father and son than pals . The late Geoff Love wrote the cheeky saxophone signature tune , he had earlier written the excellent theme for ' Bless This House ' . I . T . V . had enough confidence in it to give it their prestigious ( for comedy at any road ) Wednesday 8 P . M . slot , usually reserved for ' The Benny Hill Show ' and ' The Tommy Cooper Hour ' . But it never caught on in the way that ' On The Buses ' had done . It was not Reg's fault . The scripts were not terribly good , and there was an insufficient mix of strong characters . Tony Melody played ' Len Peacock ' in the first season , and then Percy Herbert was brought on board in the second to play ' Mr . Preston ' - a ' Blakey'-styled authority figure . Instead of ' get that bus out ! ' he said ' get those crates moved ! " . Irene inherited some of Mrs . Butler's characteristics , such a tendency to display over-affection . It was just not the same , and viewers noticed . Reg might as well have stayed on board his bus . ' Down The ' Gate ' vanished from the airwaves in 1976 . Reg never did another sitcom . Plans to revive ' On The Buses ' in the late 1980's came to nothing . A . T . V . wiped the show soon after its screening , but canny old Reg used a video recorder ( yes , they existed then , albeit in a basic form ) to preserve seven of the twelve episodes , meaning that someday it might turn up on D . V . D . If it does , I think its fair to say that no-one will rush to acclaim it as a lost comedy classic . Its a pity they did not do instead a show in which Varney played a butcher with a twin brother - they could have called it ' Meat & Two Reg ' !
" I look in my hole at least once a day ! "	St . Swithins is in a bad state - the corridors and wards have not been painted in years , the internal telephones do not work properly , dustbins overflow with rubbish , even the lettering on the sign outside is incomplete . Duncan , Dick and Paul angrily confront Adrian Quint , the hospital's new ' manager ' , in reality an hard-hearted accountant more interested in saving money than lives . He pours scorn on their concerns . The lads decide to stage a scam ; by making Quint think that a V . I . P . is due in for a minor operation , they get him to release the funds required to give St . Swithin's a full make-over . . . Angus Deayton brightens up this episode ; his ' Quint ' is reminiscent of the show's old-style ' nasties ' such as ' Sir John Pollock ' ( from the ' In Charge ' episode ' The Merger ' ) and ' Mr . Gascoigne ' ( from the ' On The Go ' instalment ' For Your Own Good ' ) . In the old days the lads would have debagged him , covered him in yellow paint or thrown him into the canal . The worst that happens to him here is that he is made to look extremely foolish . Nice to see Robin Nedwell regaining a little of his old fire , the scene where he rages at Quint is superb . Once again , George Layton the writer is at odds with George Layton the actor . There's no denying that Layton is as good here as he was in the original show , sadly he fails to give himself ( along with everybody else ) any decent lines . With N . H . S . cutbacks very much in the news in 1991 thanks to the horrendous Virginia Bottomley , the then Minister Of Health , this plot was certainly timely , even if it really belongs on ' Casualty ' . Twelve million viewers tuned in for the first episode of ' At The Top ' , but by this one went out that figure had decreased to five . Funniest moment - Quint entering a ward expecting to see the V . I . P . - Charles Windsor - but instead of the future King he sees only a little boy with the same name !
Birthday Boy !	As preparations for Loftus ' birthday dinner gather momentum , Dick is saddled with an unexpected problem - Rebecca wants a new computer for the hospital . He refuses , regarding them as an expensive luxury . Dr . Snell proposes that the staff should each contribute 100 to a fund to buy a present for Loftus , an idea which meets with short shrift from Duncan , knee deep in mortgage problems . At the dinner , Loftus is upset to find most of the attendees are strangers ( including a minor Royal ) and he is sidelined by the social climbing Stuart-Clarks . Then Dick receives a note from the Students Union - acting on an idea given to them by Collier , they have kidnapped Loftus and refuse to hand him back until St . Swithins gets its computer . . . The second episode of ' Top ' is marginally better than the first , mainly because one has gotten used to seeing ' the terrible trio ' as older men . Dick has changed the most . The old model's hobbies were sex , gambling and drinking . Dick circa 1991 looks as though his idea of a fun evening would be sharpening his scalpel ! Reviewing ' Sins Of The Father ' for ' The Daily Mirror ' , critic Hilary Kingsley not only panned the new show , but astonishingly described the original as ' one of those sub-'Carry On ' shows that blighted ' 70's T . V . ' . I'm sure John Cleese and Graham Chapman ( had he been alive then ) would have taken umbrage at any comparison between their work and the long-running Peter Rogers series of film farces . Collier's anecdote about how he and his fellow students once stole a pop star's appendix is yet another example of the show's sloppy revisionism - it never happened in the original - and makes no sense when he could have quoted the kidnapping of the Frank Middlemass character from the ' Doctor At Large ' episode ' Students At Heart ' instead . Funniest moment - Snell presenting Loftus with a silver tankard , before backing away in an obsequious manner . The old man looks at it sadly , and puts it in a box full of similar tankards !
" Dear Noel , I want to swap my Action Man for Maggie Philbin ! "	Contrary to popular myth , ' Multi-Coloured Swap Shop ' was NOT the first Saturday morning children's show . That honour went to ' Zokko ' in 1968 , a full eight years before Noel and co . got going . " We're slick , we're glossy , and proud of it . We're out to entertain the whole family ! " , gushed Noel Edmonds in a ' Sun ' interview in the late ' 70's . He'd been asked to make comparisons with I . T . V . ' s ' Tiswas ' . Noel thought that because ' Tiswas ' featured people getting soaked to the skin , and sprayed with green slime , it was a bad show . Then , twenty years later , he gave us ' Noel's House Party ' . Go figure . According to a ' Radio Times ' article , Noel ' likes a cup of coffee and a cartoon at eleven o'clock ' . He may still do for all we know . Being a live show , anything could happen . One of the classic moments was when Noel interviewed Debbie Harry of ' Blondie ' fame . He asked Ms . Harry to pick the winner of the previous week's competition , and she'd agreed . Eric's bubble descended onto the set . That week , it was made up to resemble Jimmy Savile O . B . E . Fearing Debbie might mistake the face for an unkind caricature of herself , Noel quickly pointed out it was in fact Jimmy Saville , of whom she'd never heard - his discomfiture was delicious . The Roving Swapman , Cheggers , provided another Solid Gold moment when a trophy he presented to a figure skater fell to pieces in his hands ! I often wondered what the parents of all those children wanting to swap their toys on air thought of this show . I bet that some were still being paid for on hire purchase . Hobbyists were also a regular item ; one horrible boy bragged about his fabulous collection of Marvel Comics . I felt like phoning in to do a ' Five Star ' on him ! The best thing about ' Swap ' was that it kept Noel off peak-time telly for years . Then , one day , it tragically ended , leaving Noel free to whirl his wheels and hand out gotchas !
Big Breadwinner Hogg	' Hogg's Back ' was an I . T . V . children's comedy series which starred the late Derek Royle ( best remembered these days for playing ' Mr . Leeman ' in ' The Kipper & The Corpse ' episode of Fawlty Towers ' ) as Dr . Hogg , an incompetent country quack brought out of retirement to administer the needs of a quiet country village . Stammering , twitching and fumbling like a terminal piles sufferer , Hogg caused chaos wherever he went . You definitely wouldn't want him at your bedside with a thermometer . Royle was an acrobat in his younger days , and the ability served him in good stead here . The scripts were by the late Michael Pertwee , who wrote classic comedy movies such as ' Laughter In Paradise ' . ' Hogg's Back ' was far from his best work , but I suspect if released on D . V . D . now would outshine many modern comedies for sheer belly laughs . Jacki Piper , who played Hogg's secretary Pearl , left mid-way through Season 1 , to be replaced by Wendy Richard . In Season 2 , Pat Coombs joined the cast as Hogg's housekeeper .
Let's Play Doctors And Nurses !	Ah , ' 70's daytime television ! Let me see now . ' Rainbow ' for the kids ( along with ' Hickory House ' , ' Pipkins ' , ' Mr . Trimble ' , and ' Sing To The Animals ' ) . ' News Report ' with Robert Kee . ' Crown Court ' for the adults , ' Lunch Time With Wogan ' ( every one of which has been wiped apparently ) , ' Quick On The Draw ' hosted by Bob Monkhouse , Rolf Harris and Michael Bentine ( though not at the same time ) , ' There Goes That Song Again ' , a musical quiz hosted by Steve Race , and ' Looks Familiar ' in which Denis Norden reminisced about the past with invited guests . If that lot has not triggered any memories , nothing will . There were also films ( the best ones always seemed to be on when I was at school ) , and repeats of classic adventure shows such ' The Saint ' and ' Danger Man ' , along with more recent ones like ' A Family At War ' and ' Sam ' . None of your ' Loose Women ' rubbish around then . There were also soaps - or ' afternoon serials ' as they were then called ( the word ' soaps ' was regarded as an insult in those days ) . ' Castle Haven ' was bragged up at the time as epitomising the ' 70's . How true this is we shall never know - like ' Lunch Time With Wogan ' not a single edition survives . ' Emmerdale Farm ' fared better ; it is still running . A . T . V . ' s ' General Hospital ' was kind of successor to the well-remembered ' Emergency Ward 10 ' . It too focused on the day-to-day routine in a city ( Midland General ) hospital . The doctors were handsome and the nurses ( among them Lynda Bellingham , Carmen Munroe and Barbara Kellermann ) pretty , and some of the patients were not bad looking either . The only ugly character as I recall was ' Capper ' the porter ( later replaced by ' Ernie Penrose ' , played by future ' Coronation Street ' killer Brian Capron ) . In terms of story lines , ' General Hospital ' frequently resembled ' Doctor In Charge ' starring Robin Nedwell . One week , Dr . Neville Bywaters ( Tony Adams , later to play ' Adam Chance ' in ' Crossroads ' ) fell in love with patient Janey Hart ( Jill Gascoigne ) . Alas poor Janey died , and Dr . Bywater's heart was truly broken . But wait ! A week later who should move into the hospital ( and ward ) but Janey's twin sister ! In fairness , Liz Gebhardt ( ' Maureen Bullock ' of ' Please Sir ! ' and ' The Fenn Street Gang ' ) gave a moving performance in another episode as an anorexic . In common with ' Emmerdale Farm ' . the show was upgraded to hour-long episodes and shown on ( Friday ) evenings , where it concentrated more on the internal politics of the hospital . The late Eric Lander was brought in to play ' Richard Kirby ' , a ' man you love to hate ' figure . Johnny ' Sleepy Shores ' Pearson provided a new , strident theme tune , replacing Derek Scott's mellower version .
A Grumpy Old Man ( Aged 43 ) Writes	I have mixed feelings about this . Part of me is glad to see the modern world getting a well-deserved kicking , even if it is from well-paid and over-exposed showbiz figures . Some of the views expressed ( particularly John O'Farrell's ) seem eminently sensible . But another part of me says : " This is patronising in the extreme . " . Despite the title , its clearly aimed at the young . One imagines them tuning in and exclaiming : " Ha Ha ! The sad old fools don't realise the world has moved on ! " . Actually , the concept is nothing new . In 1976 , the B . B . C . made a series called ' Write On ! ' in which members of the public were invited to speak their minds on air . Their ideas included the teaching of First Aid in schools ( now why was that never taken up ? ) , the promotion of fishing as a national sport , complaints about the lack of television programmes aimed at the young ( how times have changed ! ) and the use of incidental music in films . It only ran a single season , yet was vastly superior to ' Grumpy Old Men ' . Who cares what millionaires think ?
Ahead Of Its Time ?	Made by B . B . C . Scotland , ' Sin On Saturday ' was the creation of Shaun Hardie , one of the ' Not The Nine O'Clock News ' producers . It must have looked a surefire winner on paper - a late-night Saturday talk-show devoted to each of the seven deadly sins , hosted by the late and respected television journalist Bernard Falk . Up-and-coming comedians Robbie Coltrane and Elaine Loudon provided funny interludes . Ideal post-pub material . The first edition was , unsurprisingly , ' Lust ' . It was more like a debate on pornography , with guest Linda Lovelace ( in her second incarnation as tireless anti-pornography campaigner ) on one side and hellraising movie star Oliver Reed on the other . It got rowdier as it progressed and finally reached the point where nobody could make themselves heard . A letter-writer to ' Points Of View ' suggested that the show be retitled ' Din On Saturday ' ! Reed was initially reluctant to go on it , but when he started talking proved impossible to shut up . He got up the noses of the feminists present by endorsing porno films . Some of the men in the audience agreed , one was even heard to shout " where's the crumpet ? " . Another thanked Linda personally for having made ' Deep Throat ' . Streaker Erica Roe was there too , claiming that her decision to run topless onto a rugby pitch was ' an expression of freedom ' . I see , nothing to do with getting your face ( and other bits ) in the papers and on television then . Poor Falk looked relieved when the end credits rolled . I realise that this sounds like nothing unique , you can see stuff like this every morning now on I . T . V . But back in 1982 nothing like it had ever been broadcast in Britain before . Critics ripped it to pieces . ' Bummer of the season ' was one such damning verdict . Some viewers felt the show had been unfair because the pro-pornography section of the audience - mostly men - were able to easily drown out the protests of the anti-porn section . The following week , the sin under the spotlight was ' Covetousness ' and featured ex-Labour M . P . John Stonehouse , who did a real-life ' Reggie Perrin ' act by faking his death . It was a more sedate affair , as was the edition after that : ' Envy ' , which contained interesting contributions from pools winner Viv Nicholson and Allan Williams a . k . a . ' The Man Who Gave Away The Beatles ' . These last two programmes were everything the first had not been . Of course answers to the issues raised were never going to be found , but the level of debate was fascinating . Amazingly , critics panned these shows too , appearing not to notice the improvement in quality . The topic of the fourth edition was going to be ' Gluttony ' and would have boasted , among other people , Fanny Cradock , making her first television appearance since her disastrous appearance on ' The Big Time ' in 1977 . But it never went out . The B . B . C . , acting like a nervous vicar in a sex shop , pulled the series in mid-run . The last time anything like that happened was when Peter Cook's infamous chat-show disaster ' Where Do I Sit ? ' was yanked off B . B . C . - 2 a decade earlier . Falk rarely appeared on television again . He later gave an interview to ' The News Of The World ' expressing his disappointment at the B . B . C . ' s decision . In 1991 , ' Sin On Saturday ' featured on ' T . V . Hell ' , the B . B . C . ' s celebration of bad programmes . Certainly the first edition belonged there , but I do not think the other two were bad at all . Compared to ' The Jeremy Kyle Show ' and ' Jerry Springer ' , they were almost ' Newsnight ' standard . The British public were simply not ready for shouting matches posing as debate , movie stars belittling women , or streakers making fatuous claims about personal freedoms . But they soon would be . In that respect , the show was ahead of its time .
Caravan Capers	With ' On The Buses ' a proved success , Ronald Wolfe and Ronald Chesney were invited by L . W . T . to come up with ideas for other sitcoms . They eventually produced ' Romany Jones ' . A starring vehicle for ' Dad's Army''s James Beck , it cast him as ' Bert Jones ' , a good-for-nothing living in a ramshackle caravan with his much-put-upon wife Betty ( the squeaky-voiced but sexy Jo Rowbottom ) . Their neighbours ( and some would say the show's true stars ) were the Briggs - Wally and Lily - an uncouth Cockney couple played by Arthur Mullard and Queenie Watts . I have not seen this since its original broadcast , so cannot tell you with any degree of certainty whether it is an undeservedly forgotten comedy classic or a load of rot which should never be seen again . I remember enjoying it hugely at the time . Yes , it was vulgar and rude , but what do you expect from Wolfe and Chesney ? Yes , some of the humour came from the appalling lack of hygiene and manners from the Mullard character , but it was no worse than you'll find in ' Steptoe & Son ' . Beck's character wasn't far removed from ' Private Walker ' ; if there was a way to make money by doing as little work as possible , Bert Jones would be sure to find it . I recall an episode in which he tried his hand at being a door-to-door salesman . At one house , a vicious Alsatian chased him up the garden path . Shutting the gate , Bert thought he was safe , but then the animal sailed over it and followed him onto the road . In his ' Radio Times Guide To T . V . Comedy ' , Mark Lewisohn brands the show an insult to Britain's gypsy population . Come off it Mark . How many gypsies were offended by this in 1972 ? How many even had access to television ? The public liked it enough to put it in The Top 20 of most watched programmes . Tragically , just prior to the transmission of Season 2 , James Beck died suddenly . This talented comedy actor , once touted as a possible replacement for Sid James , was gone . Scripts for Season 3 were hurriedly rewritten ; Betty and Bert were dropped and an entirely new couple - the Chrichton-Jones - substituted . As played by Jonathan Cecil and Gay Rose , they were ever-so posh and subsequently very different from their predecessors . The show ran for two more seasons , spawning a spin-off - the dire ' Yus My Dear ' . Has ' Romany Jones ' stood the test of time ? Probably not . Even so , I would still like to see it again , if only to marvel at the wonderful talent of the late , much-missed James Beck . I think its fair to say that if you liked ' Dad's Army ' you'll be disappointed , but if you found ' On The Buses ' funny you should like this too .
" I hope she gets turps all over her knickers ! "	Keen to secure a 3 , 000 decorating contact , Eric begins getting friendly with the very pretty Shirley Matthews . Sharon assumes he is two-timing her . Maureen tries to bust up the pair by masquerading as one of Eric's ' girlfriends ' . Outraged , Shirley storms out of the pub . Once she realises the truth , Maureen attempts to put things right . . . A Rowley / Baker episode of little merit . This being a family sitcom , there was never any danger of Eric's motives being anything other than honourable , his interest in Shirley is ( so he claims ) for ' business ' only . When I tell you that Shirley is played by the stunning Jan Francis ( she of ' Secret Army ' and ' Just Good Friends ' ) , you'll find his claims a little hard to swallow . The low point is Maureen's impersonation of a squeaky-voiced floozy . Aimi MacDonald she ain't . The late Kenneth Waller , later to play ' Grandad ' in Carla Lane's ' Bread ' , is seen briefly as a randy pensioner in a burger bar . Future ' Citizen Smith ' star Cheryl Hall appears as Shirley's mate ' Brenda ' . Funniest moment - when the ' End Of Part One ' caption appears , Peter Cleall and Liz Gebhardt start eating peanuts ( which Craven had earlier dropped ) off the table . From their expressions I'd say they knew this script was a loser .
Back To Basics ?	Produced by H . T . V . West , ' Men Of Affairs ' was a spin-off from the 1973 movie ' Don't Just Lie There , Say Something ' , adapted in turn from a hit stage farce . Rix reprised his role , but as Leslie Phillips was making ' Casanova 73 ' for the B . B . C . , Warren Mitchell ( in monocle and toupee ) replaced him . Each week , the perpetually randy Sir William got up to naughty business , persuaded the hapless Ovis to cover for him , usually very badly . Misunderstandings piled on top of misunderstandings , and of course this being the ' 70's there'd be lots of dolly birds in various states of undress capering around bedrooms , and hiding in wardrobes . Joan Sims provided welcome support as Sir William's harridan of a wife . For lovers of British stage farce , this was essential viewing . I don't know if it still exists in the archives , but if so its a pity it wasn't repeated during John Major's time as Prime Minister . The labyrinthine plots of sex and deception would have seemed startlingly prescient .
Shifting Sands	In the wake of ' The Spy Who Loved Me ' , a number of television pilots unsuccessfully tried to revive the moribund spy genre , of which this was one . Written by Jimmy Sangster ( co-writer of the 1966 Bulldog Drummond caper ' Deadlier Than The Male ' and the ' Touchfeather ' novels ) , it starred Dale Robinette as Robert Sands , a C . I . A . agent assigned to investigate the mysterious death of a fellow agent , who had claimed to have seen ' flying saucers ' . The ' saucers ' are not interplanetary space vehicles , but dome-like structures designed to shield the arch-villain Horatio Black from ultra-violet rays . Black intends to destroy the ozone layer unless his extortionate demands are met . Whilst hardly in the same class as the Bond films , ' Threat ' boasts a few decent action sequences and gadgets , plus the marvellous Patrick Macnee in a role very different to Steed . Dale Robinette , however , is miscast as Sands , and lets the whole thing down . Despite being superior to ' Death Ray 2000 ' , there was no spin-off series .
We Can Deluge You With A Thousand Channels	In the mid-'90's , B . B . C . - 2 screened ' The Outer Limits ' in the slot vacated by the ratings-busting first season of ' The X-Files ' . They gave it a ' Radio Times ' cover and loads of publicity , but unfortunately shot themselves in the foot by opening with the execrable ' Blood Brothers ' instead of the excellent pilot episode ' Sandkings ' . Ratings plummeted , and the show eventually disappeared . It was a shame because ' Outer ' had some good stories , special effects and performances to offer . By far the best episode was ' A Stitch In Time ' in which Amanda Plummer played a time-travelling scientist who executes the men who will one day become serial killers . On the down side , the show featured gratuitous nudity and sex ( particularly ' Caught In The Act ' ) , something the original managed to do without . A number of episodes from the old show were remade ; ' I , Robot ' was passable , but the less said about ' The Inheritors ' the better . The quality varied , but overall it was worth watching .
Beware The Big Red Book !	Each Wednesday evening , at 7 . 00 P . M . , Mrs . Elsie Haddock , aged 72 , of Runcorn , Cheshire , would be wearing her best dress and jewellery . She wanted to look presentable in case a certain Irishman came calling , a gleam in his eye and a big red book under his arm . " You thought you were going to watch ' This Is Your Life ' tonight . But no , because Mrs . Elsie Haddock , tonight ' This Is Your Life ' ! " . I did not make that up . It was in ' The Sunday People ' newspaper sometime around 1972 . Mrs . Haddock was one of millions who thought they were in with a fleeting chance of stardom , thanks to the publicity department at Thames T . V . Anticipating the National Lottery's slogan , it went as follows : " Who knows , it might be you ! " . Of course there was never any danger of someone like Mrs . Haddock actually getting on ' Life ' , for that you needed an Equity card . Occasionally lifeboatmen , charity workers and war heroes such as Pat Reid and Douglas Bader featured , but by and large the victims were actors , singers , directors etc . Quite a lot of the subjects were coincidentally starring in series made by Thames , such as Jack Smethurst ( ' Love Thy Neighbour ' ) , Simon Rouse ( ' The Bill ' ) , and George Cole ( ' Minder ' ) . The shows followed the same pattern ; Eamonn Andrews ( sometimes known as ' Seamus Android ' ) would ambush his victim at a press conference or book signing , cackling maniacally at their confusion , before whisking him / her off to a studio where he would tell his / her life story , and guests came on and told amusing anecdotes . " That's right , Eamonn . I remember it as though it was yesterday . . . " . Many guests became regulars , provoking the following sarcastic quote from Jasper Carrott : " Is there anyone in the Western Hemisphere who does not know Lionel Blair ? " . One week the victim was ' Carry On ' star Jack Douglas , and his ex-comedy partner Joe Baker gave Eamonn a fright by telling a different anecdote to the one planned , causing him to sweat even harder than usual . One of snooker superstar Alex Higgins ' relatives began a recollection about his childhood in Ireland , got nervous about being on television and dried up , leaving ' Hurricane ' to complete the tale . One or two people stubbornly refused to co-operate , most notably footballer Danny Blanchflower . Jack Warner , star of ' Dixon Of Dock Green ' , said he never ever wanted to go on it , stating it had all the entertainment value of a traffic accident . ' Coronation Steet ' actor Roy Barraclough looked as though he hated every moment of his time on ' Life ' , and with good reason . He had had to cut short a holiday abroad to fly back to England , having been told that rushes of the soap had been spoilt , and needed re-taping . It was all a ruse . His smiles looked as unconvincing as the beer he pulled in the ' Rovers Return ' . When ' Avengers ' star Patrick Macnee was the subject , his friend Ian Hendry turned up smashed and gave an incoherent speech that had to be cut from the transmitted show . When it went well , it could be unbearably sentimental , thus making it a target for spoofs by comedians such as Mike Yarwood and Benny Hill . But viewers loved it . Eamonn himself was the target one night , with magician David Nixon standing in for him as host . Actor Richard Beckinsale got the red book in 1977 , provoking a complaint from a ' Sun ' reader that he was too young to go on the show , and that he had his whole life ahead of him . As we know now , that life tragically ended three years later . I did not see the 1992 edition that featured Gary Glitter , but I bet it makes uncomfortable viewing today ( it probably did then ) . After Eamonn's death in 1988 , Michael Aspel took over , and the show was later dropped by Thames , eventually resurfacing on B . B . C . - 1 , where it lasted until 2003 . As I write this , rumours persist about a possible return for ' Life ' . I'm not surprised because although it drove me up the wall for much of the time ( oh no ! Bonnie Langford again ! ) it remains a good , solid television format . People love showbiz glamour . If it ever returns , I shall put on my best suit and gold cuff-links on Wednesday nights just in case the man with the big red book comes knocking . You never know . . .
Not Many Saw ' The Invisible Man '	The success of ' The Six Million Dollar Man ' prompted this show , loosely based on the H . G . Wells novel . David McCallum played ' Dr . Daniel Westin ' , a scientist who turns permanently invisible when an experiment goes awry . He then becomes a secret agent known as ' The Klae Resource ' . For McCallum , this was his first American series since ' The Man From U . N . C . L . E . ' . As one would expect , he brought a lot of charm to the role . Craig Stevens played the ' Oscar Goldman ' equivalent . What strained credibility ( more so than the premise itself ) was the notion that Westin could only be seen through the wearing of a mask , designed to resemble his real face . It must have been a pretty good mask because his teeth and eyes were visible also . The plots were mediocre ( apart from ' Power Play ' which featured a stunning turn from Monte Markham as a psychotic villain ) , and overall the show failed to register with the U . S . public . It was popular over here , though , and was still being rerun as late as 1990 .
Tarby Takes All	It used to be the case that whenever a comedian's career started to flag , he did either of two things : a ) retired to France or b ) fronted a game show . Nowadays they are regarded as a step up for comics . Not every funnyman is cut out to be a game show host , of course ; for every Bob Monkhouse or Tom O'Connor , there's a Charlie Williams or Max Bygraves . In 1975 ( its not 1978 , sorry I . M . D . B . ) gap-toothed , mop-topped Jimmy Tarbuck , fresh from a string of A . T . V . specials , fronted this modest little show , made by good old Yorkshire Television , in which two contestants were asked general knowledge questions and had to choose the answer from a board . The higher the odds , the greater number of points were scored . Occasionally there was consensus ( usually when the question was dead simple ) but from time to time differences of opinion occurred . We knew this because Jimmy would say : " We have a difference of opinion ! " . The questions and answers were read aloud by the invisible form of Geoffrey Wheeler , whom I recall presented an early ' 70's schools programme called ' Meeting Your Needs ' . He had a lovely relaxing voice which somehow suited the style of the show . Geoffrey appeared on camera from time to time , usually in the Christmas specials . Speaking of which , a question concerning a type of hot drink led to an unexpected guest appearance by Dorothy Sleighthome , presenter of the iconic daytime show ' Farmhouse Kitchen ' . She had come prepared with drinks for both contestants as well as Tarby . Nice lady . But , as she turned to leave the studio floor , carrying her empty tray , she slipped and went flying . Presumably this was a live show as her mishap went out on air . Like ' Sale Of The Century ' , ' Winner Takes All ' was best viewed with a mug of cocoa and plate of Jammie Dodgers to hand . I watched not because I was a big fan of Tarbuck but because the show occasionally threw out interesting if somewhat useless facts , verified by the equally invisible Deborah Sutherland using the Encyclopaedia Britannia . In the early ' 80's , it underwent a makeover . Dolly bird hostesses were brought in to provide glamour ( one of whom - Jani-Z - went on to an unsuccessful pop career as well as appearing in 1983's Bond epic ' Octopussy ' ) . A jazzy new theme tune replaced the more sedate old one . Its catchy lyric went thus : ' Winner Takes All ! Winner Takes All ! Parp ! Parp ! Parp ! Parp Parp ! ' . The new set looked like the bridge of the Liberator spaceship from ' Blake's Seven ' . Somehow this seemed like an act of desperation , it was as though the Antiques Roadshow were suddenly being presented by Davina McCall . No longer did you need the mug of cocoa and Jammie Dodgers , instead you had to have bromide to stop getting excited at the sight of Jani-Z's stunning cleavage . Some of the answers boggled the mind . For instance , in response to ' Who Wrote The Book ' The Thirty-Nine Steps ' ? ' , a contestant chose ' Victor Silvester ' over John Buchan . Tarbuck later admitted he had to bite his lower lip to stop him calling the man an idiot on air . One question had me roaring with laughter . It was " Who Said ' You've Never Had It So Good ? ' " . Alongside Harold Macmillan ( which was the correct answer ) was the name ' Linda Lovelace ' . I could imagine sweet old biddies all over the country turning to each other and going : " Who's she ? " . As host , Tarbuck's job was to chat to the contestants , put them at ease , and wherever possible make a golfing joke . The combination of his cheeky chappie humour and Wheeler's earnestness went down well and the show ran for twelve years , earning itself promotion from a non-networked midweek show to a peak-time Sunday night highlight along the way . Tarbuck left in 1987 , and it continued with Wheeler as host . But the viewers decided it was not the same and it did not return . Like ' Sale Of The Century ' , Sky's ' Challenge ' threw it a lifeline sometime in the ' 90's with Bobby Davro as host . I never saw it so I cannot comment . An episode of the original was repeated on ' Challenge ' a few years back . The most interesting thing was the appearance of the young male contestant ; he had fashionable shoulder-length hair , but also a Hitler-style moustache . I was amazed that Tarby did not try to make fun of him . Should ' Winner Takes All ' be revived by I . T . V . ? Of course . Presenter ? I should have thought that was obvious . Michael Winner , of course .
" Kalthon Lives ! "	Koenig and Alan are exploring a jewel-like asteroid which has wandered into Alpha's vicinity . In a cavern that looks like a hall of mirrors , Koenig is duplicated by an unknown alien force . The duplicate overpowers the real Koenig , steals his jacket and commlock , and returns to Alpha in his place . He orders an energy beam be directed at the asteroid . The others , particularly Helena , think he has gone mad . The beam will use up Alpha's remaining power . She also notices he has become cold to the touch . . . Suspecting something , Maya and Tony flee the Moon in an Eagle . The fake Koenig orders that it be shot down . . . One of the best episodes from ' Star Trek ' was ' The Enemy Within ' in which an evil Captain Kirk was created as the result of a transporter malfunction . Here ' Space : 1999 ' ( ahem ) pays homage , with Commander Koenig undergoing a similar division of personality . Alas , Martin Landau isn't given much of an opportunity to make the ' bad ' Koenig particularly interesting . Its a one-note performance . At the heart of the asteroid is the seed of an alien race known as ' the Kalthon ' , which the fake Koenig wants revived at all costs . Its never explained what the Kalthon intend doing once they regain corporeal existence . They can't live on the asteroid , and Alpha will have been destroyed as a result of the energy drain . Unless there's an underground hangar full of spaceships we haven't been told about , their chances of survival look very slim . That was the trouble with many of the Fred Freiburger produced ' 1999 ' episodes , an idea would be created , but never properly developed or explored . There are other disappointments too ; no big name guest stars , and none of the spectacular S . F . X . we expect from this show . Even the cave looks like the hall of mirrors at Coney Beach Fun-Fair , Porthcawl , Wales . One of the weaker Year 2 stories .
" We Is Revoltin ' ! "	The Goodies look into their family histories ; Graeme's ancestor , Celtic Kilty , was from a remote part of Scotland where the inhabitants enjoyed hunting the haggis and bathing in porridge ; Bill's ancestor , Kinda Kinky , came from Cornwall and was a member of the ' oo ah , oo ah ' tribe who wore smocks and drank cider ; Tim's ancestor , County Cutie , was an upper-class sheep-stealer . The trio are rounded up by the whip-wielding Tourmaster , taken to the B . B . C . T . V . Centre , London , and auctioned off for use as dancers in light entertainment shows . No-one wants the Goodies ' ancestors , so they are put on ' The Black & White Minstrel Show ' , where they organise a revolt . . . Alex Haley's book ' Roots ' became a blockbuster television mini-series in 1977 . Watched by the highest recorded audience ever , it told of a shameful period in American history - how native Africans were snatched from their homeland and transported by sea ( in the most appalling conditions imaginable ) to the United States to be sold off as slaves . No-one who saw the series can possibly hope to forget it . Which makes it all the more strange why the Goodies should think it a suitable subject for parody . Had The Goodies been around in the mid-90's , do you think they'd have meted out similar treatment to ' Schindler's List ' ? I don't think so somehow . The Goodies ' ancestors ' whirlwind journey round London is reminiscent of the famous ' Lightning Tours ' sketch from Marty Feldman's show . This may seem like a daft question , but the adventure of the Goodies ' ancestors is clearly taking place in the ' 70's , so how can they exist at the same time as their descendants ? The late , great Brian Pringle crops up as the sinister ' Tourmaster ' , though he's woefully underused . Once the action moves to the B . B . C . , the Goodies abandon the ' Roots ' spoof and switch their attention to a somewhat less revered show of that era - ' The Black & White Minstrel Show ' . Attempting to equate blacked-up Welsh singers with oppressed African slaves is just not on , lads . Jim Franklin had been taken off directorial duties , and was replaced by Bob Spiers , who had worked on ' Dad's Army ' and would go on to helm the second season of ' Fawlty Towers ' , ' The Comic Strip Presents ' and more recently , ' Absolutely Fabulous ' . He would stay with the Goodies right until the end . Funniest moment - despite the appalling taste exhibited by this episode , there are some genuine laugh-out-loud moments , such as the restaurant above the G . P . O . Tower spinning faster and faster to the accompaniment of the theme from Rodgers & Hammerstein's ' Carousel ' .
Metal Billy !	The Goodies are losing money , so they downsize by cutting a third of their work force - in other words , they fire Bill . To replace the bearded bird watcher , Graeme builds a robot - a walking dustbin with Nookie Bear-eyes that behaves like a baby . They hire ( where did they suddenly get the money from ? ) a Swedish au pair named Helga who turns out to be Bill in drag . Bill tries to destroy the robot , but it proves too clever for him . Soon it has grown ( ! ) to the size of a man and begins having sex with other robots . Determined to put a stop to it , Graeme dresses as a female robot . The android isn't fooled and enlists the aid of a cooker , a toaster and a vacuum cleaner in a bid to take over the business . . . Following the ' Snow White 2 ' Special , this was the first ' proper ' episode of ' The Goodies ' to be screened on I . T . V . Its hardly one of the team's more inspired efforts . To be honest , its one of their worst , bearing an unfortunate resemblance to L . W . T . ' s ' Metal Mickey ' children's comedy series , which starred Irene Handl . Besides , they had a robot servant in the B . B . C . episode ' U-Friend or U-Foe ' ( it was called HEE-BEE-GEE-BEE ) , and had previously done a plot about Bill leaving the business ( ' Cunning Stunts ' ) , so there was something of a ' been there , done that ' feel to the whole thing . The ' robot as baby ' angle became tiresome well before the commercial break ( and what a shock it was in 1982 to see genuine commercials in ' The Goodies ' instead of spoof ones ) . The voice of the robot was provided by the late David Rappaport , best remembered as one of the dwarfs in Terry Gilliam's ' Time Bandits ' . Funniest moment - Holding aloft a placard that reads ' Support Your Striking Mate ' , Bill pickets the Goodies offices . It rains and the ink runs , so that the placard now reads : ' Up Yours , Mate ' . A passer-by sees this and punches Bill out !
Lights ! Cameras ! Assassination !	Over-the-hill Hollywood movie star Jeff Wheeler is sacked from the set of his newest movie . Then wife Lisa announces that she intends leaving him . Depressed , he contemplates suicide , but cannot go through with it . He asks Dirk Brogan , his agent , to kill him , without telling him where or how the murder will take place . Some time later , Jeff is almost run down in a busy street by a black Porsche . Then a lift door comes close to crushing him . A pleasant afternoon's golfing is spoilt when someone shoots at him . Jeff survives , but finds he cannot locate Dirk to get him to call off the attacks . He no longer wishes to die . . . Easily the worst episode of the series , mainly because it is so unbelievable . When Jeff tells his agent he wishes him to be his assassin , Dirk looks unsurprised as though it were an everyday occurrence . No showbiz agent would ever bump off one of his major sources of income . Dirk is such a wimp he looks to be incapable of swatting a fly , much less killing a human being . Jeff should have hired a professional hit-man if were genuinely serious about dying . The plot bears a startling resemblance to ' The Odd Job Man ' by Bernard McKenna , an episode of ' Six Dates With Barker ' broadcast in 1971 . In that , Ronnie Barker played the would-be suicidalist , with David Jason as his inept would-be executioner ( later made into a movie starring Monty Python's Graham Chapman ) . It played the whole thing for laughs , but ' Do Me A Favour ' takes itself very seriously indeed . Joseph Cotten is ' Jeff ' , with future ' Man At The Top ' star Kenneth Haigh as ' Dirk ' . Also in the cast are Joyce Blair ( Lionel's sister ) and Monty Python babe Carol Cleveland . Smooth direction from Gerry O'Hara , who also worked on ' The Avengers ' and ' Man In A Suitcase ' . Neat twist ending .
Nice Format , Shame About Some Of The Guests	When Stephen Fry went on ' Room 101 ' , he lambasted the format and proposed a variant whereby guests named their favourite things . Its easy to see why it wasn't made . Negativity gets big audiences , positivity doesn't . ' Room 101 ' is unmissable only when the guest is brilliantly funny ( the episodes with Spike Milligan , Peter Cook and Linda Smith spring to mind ) . Put someone who used to be on ' Blue Peter ' or ' Eastenders ' on it and you're in big trouble . Nick Hancock was the first and best presenter ; Paul Merton is okay but tends not to put up much of an argument against the guest's choices . To give an example , when Michael Grade selected ' Dr . Who ' , Merton caved in completely , letting Grade spit his venom . Also the use of out-of context film clips is annoying in the extreme . On one occasion , the American singer Johnnie Ray was shown miming badly to one of his hits . I wonder if the studio audience's hilarity would have been as great if they'd been told beforehand he was stone deaf ?
5C Brushes With Dearth !	5C is entrusted with helping local pensioners and looking after kids - tasks which , surprisingly , they excel at . The only person unhappy with the idea is Potter , who has been told by 5C that ' geriatrics ' is the name of a person ( Jerry Atrix ) coming to Fenn Street School to take his job . In disgust , he tears off his badges in the staff room , and flings his hat out of the window . One pensioner who proves difficult is Albert Dearth , who won't wash nor let anyone in his house to tidy up . Craven decides to give him help - whether he wants it or not . . . I suspect that this episode , along with ' Norman's Conquest ' was written to placate those critics who regarded ' Please Sir ! ' as a bad influence on the young . In the earlier programme , they took an interest in wildlife , here its old people and kids . The late Jack Woolgar specialised in playing cantankerous pensioners . ' Dr . Who ' fans will probably best remember him as ' Staff Sergeant Arnold ' in the 1968 classic ' The Web Of Fear ' . Funniest moment - Potter entering the 5C classroom wearing psychedelic boots !
When Lennie & Dianne Met Charlie	Lennie Peters and Dianne Lee ( or ' Peters & Lee ' as they were collectively known ) were a popular singing duo who came to prominence on Hughie Green's ' Opportunity Knocks ' in 1973 . Lennie ( who by the way was blind ) and the beautiful Dianne notched up several middle-of-the-road hits such as ' Welcome Home ' , ' Don't Stay Away Too Long ' and ' Rainbow ' . Following their appearances on A . T . V . ' s ' Des O'Connor Entertains ' , the couple were offered their own series , entitled ' Meet Peters & Lee ' , which ran for one season in 1976 . Interspersed with their songs were sketches featuring Charlie Drake , his first regular television series since ' Slapstick & Old Lace ' in 1971 . Drake had gotten into trouble with Equity after employing a non-union dancer in a pantomime he was starring in , and was effectively blacklisted for a while . ' Meet Peters & Lee ' got him onto the box via the back door . It has to be said , though , that these sketches were far from his best work . In one , he played a World War 2 pilot who lets loose his cargo of bombs , even though his plane has yet to take off . The show was a big comedown for the diminutive comic . Good for fans of Lennie and Dianne , bad for fans of ' The Worker ' . Peters & Lee continued to work in theatre and summer shows , but their popularity was never the same again after this . Eventually , they parted company . Lennie died in 1992 . Dianne went on to appear in Jim Davidson's X-rated pantomimes ( as did Charlie ) . The classic sitcom ' Citizen Smith ' made a delightful reference to the duo in one episode . Attending a talent contest in dark glasses , Wolfie reminds his girlfriend that an old lady asked them for an autograph . " That's because she thought we were Peters & Lee ! " , laughs Shirley .
Special Schoolkids Issue !	Suspecting shopkeeper Mr . Dutton of selling cigarettes to the Fenn Street pupils , Mr . Cromwell declares the shop out of bounds . This not only riles the kids , but also Smithy , who buys his aniseed balls there regularly . To get revenge , 4C launches a new version of the school magazine - ' The Fenntasy ' . Filled with provocative articles and obscene photos ( including a ' Classmate Of The Term ' ) , it shocks the teachers so much they try to suppress it . . . With John Alderton gone , Deryck Guyler was effectively the show's new star . This was the first ' Please Sir ! ' not to be written by Esmonde and Larbey . The writers are Geoff Rowley and Andy Baker , authors of several ' Fenn Street Gang ' episodes . Basically a reworking of ' X Certificate ' from Season 2 , only here the pupils are making a magazine rather than a film . The allusions to the famous ' Oz ' obscenity trial are unmistakable . 4C are given a bit more screen time than in ' Identitwit ' and its easy to see why Hedges disliked them so much that he left . Not a decent actor amongst them . Still , they least they look like children , which was more one could have said about 5C . Funniest moment - an angry Mr . Dutton confronting the headmaster in a corridor , and Potter turning chicken when threatened ( shades of Frankie Abbott ! )
Mr . Humphries-By-The-Sea	" Sleazy and unfunny ! " " Excruciating ! " " Filth ! " . These were a few of the comments made about ' Odd Man Out ' , an obscure Thames sitcom from 1977 . Bearing in mind that it was written by one half of the team behind ' Love Thy Neighbour ' , starred one of the cast of ' Are You Being Served ? ' , and produced by the director of the ' Carry On ' movies - the late Gerald Thomas - it would have perhaps been unrealistic to expect Carla Lane . John Inman's first starring role on television , he played ' Neville Sutcliffe ' , a Blackpool fish and chip shop owner who inherits ( along with prudish sister Dorothy ) half ownership of a seaside rock factory in Littlehampton . The staff includes ' Wilf ' ( Peter Butterworth ) , ' Ma ' ( Avril Angers ) , and big chested Marilyn ( Vivienne Johnson , ' Young Mr . Grace's nurse in ' Are You Being Served ? ' ) . It was ' Nearest & Dearest ' revisited . Even Neville's living room resembled Nellie Pledge's . ' Neville ' was identical to Mr . Humphries ( right down to the mincing walk ) save in one important respect . In ' Are You Being Served ? ' , Jeremy Lloyd and David Croft went to great lengths to keep the nature of Humphries ' sexuality a secret . It was suggested but never overtly stated . Vince Powell showed no such restraint , hence viewers were treated to a string of increasingly crude anecdotes about Neville's best friend ( whom we never saw ) Bobby . In place of ' I'm free ! ' he said ' how's your rock , cock ? ' . His other catchphrase was : " what are we going to do , what are we going to do ? " . Plots included Neville trying to swim the Channel , taking driving lessons , romancing a rich man's daughter , and going to France . The opening credits were - unsurprisingly - done in the form of seaside postcard pictures , accompanied by a bouncy theme by Max Harris , who also wrote the end title music for ' Porridge ' . ' Odd Man Out ' was a compendium of gay jokes , the like of which television had never before broadcast ( up to that point , any way ) . In the era of Julian Clary and Graham Norton , it seems tame , but in 1977 public outrage ended the show after only one season . Inman returned to Grace Brothers , Josephine Tewson had a better sitcom lined up in ' Shelley ' , but sadly Peter Butterworth passed away shortly afterwards .
The Last Gasp Of A Dying Format	With the boom in home video recorders in the ' 80's came a number of ' video review ' programmes , of which this was the last . Earlier examples of the genre include ' The Video Age ' with Patrick Stoddart , ' Re-Vid ' with Gary Crowley and Jon-Stephen Fink , and ' Video Video ' starring Adam Faith . ' Video View ' went out so late you needed a V . C . R . to watch the blamed thing , and was presented by blonde , husky-voiced Mariella Frostrup . Unlike say Barry Norman , Mariella didn't write the reviews , but delivered them in a sexy , confidant manner , while the camera prowled around the set at thigh-level . She only ever annoyed me once ; when ' Ghost ' won an award in 1991 as ' Best Picture Of 1990 ' , she quipped ; " I wouldn't be surprised if it wins it again next year . " . How on earth could a film made in 1990 be ' Best Picture Of 1991 ' in 1992 ? As the V . C . R . boom died down , satellite and then later D . V . D . took over , hence ' Video View ' was relaunched in 1993 as ' The Little Picture Show ' .
Lost In The Dark Dimension !	Chased by Sandmen , Logan - with Rem's help - penetrates a force-field surrounding a bunker-like structure set into a hill . Logan deactivates the minefield beyond , making it safe for them to enter . They find an underground complex , in which lives the beautiful Lisa , with two comical-looking robots - Friend and Nanny - for company . While Francis fumes outside , Lisa falls for Logan , and comes to see Jessica as a threat to her happiness . Lisa has been imprisoned because she was perceived as a threat to Mankind - she has phenomenal psychic powers . . . A variant on ' Forbidden Planet ' . Lisa Eilbacher plays the naive young woman ; first seen in Shirley Temple pigtails , she then dresses provocatively to attract Logan's eye . Hard to tell but for a moment I thought she had the hots for Jessica too . Were this to be made now , the limitless erotic possibilities could certainly be exploited . ' Friend ' looks like one of the Cylons from the original ' Battlestar Galactica ' , then a year away . Not bad , but ending's a letdown , though .
Penny For Your Thoughts	The Solarcraft has broken down , so while Rem fixes it Logan and Jessica go off in search of water . They find it , along with lush tropical vegetation , untalkative parrots . . . and Penny Robinson from ' Lost In Space ' . " Welcome to Sanctuary . " , she trills , in the manner of a Californian air hostess , " I'm Karen . " . Logan and Jessica are thrilled . But , of course , we viewers know differently . This can't be Sanctuary . . . its only the first episode ! Taken to what appears to be a holiday camp for ex-Miss World and Mr . Universe contestants , Logan and Jessica are introduced to ' The Protector ' - a grey-haired man called John and his partner , Joanna ( played by the lovely Leslie Parrish , of ' The Manchurian Candidate ' fame ) . Jessica is reunited with ( ahem ! ) an old friend named Martin , and Logan doesn't appear jealous . It all looks too good to be true , and is . ' Sanctuary ' is an illusion created by aliens out to study Mankind as part of some sort of cosmic experiment . Locked away in a steam bath are two other aliens , resembling extras from ' The Name Of The Rose ' . Logan and Jessica are trapped - and their only hope of salvation lies with Rem . . . Pleasant , undemanding episode which recalls ' Star Trek's ' first pilot ' The Cage ' and ' Space : 1999''s ' Missing Link ' without managing to be as good as either . A bit more action and fewer flying pillows would not have gone amiss . Some of the creatures could have stepped out of the ' Star Wars ' cantina . Most interesting moment - Logan's nightmare in which he is taunted by Sandmen , though Francis is not amongst them . Jessica looks beautiful even when climbing a hill . Nice to see Rem brooking no impertinence from the aliens .
Jessica Does The Splits !	Logan , Jessica and Rem are attacked by primitive people known as Castouts , but rescued by another group of people known as Positives , who take the travellers to a community protected by a force field . The Positives have developed a method of splitting people into positive ( good ) and negative ( evil ) duplicates . The process is used on Jessica . When complete , the negative Jessica is banished into the wilderness . Logan senses that something is up when Jessica changes her views on Carousel . He and Rem break through the force field and go looking for the negative Jessica , hoping to reverse the treatment . . . One of television sci-fi's favourite clichs - the perfectly ordered society with a dark secret - is given another outing here . Kim Cattrall , who plays ' Rama 2 ' is better known today as that Castout ' Samantha ' from ' Sex In The City ' . Nice photographic effects as Jessica undergoes the process . At one point we even see her through a kaleidoscope . I wish the negative Jessica was given a bit more screen time though . Apart from a dirty face , she doesn't look all that evil to me . Script by Simon Wincelberg .
Washing The World Clean	Worthington Prendergast has created the blueprint for a new city , to be constructed using slave labour . But first he has to destroy the U . S . A . KARTEL supplies him with a laser projector whose ray can greatly increase mass . Prendergast plans to sink a ship carrying nuclear waste off California , thus contaminating the coastline . Unfortunately for him , a wily cat burglar named Harry Helms jeopardises the operation by stealing the blue crystal needed to power the device . Sloane decides to impersonate the thief . . . Michael Pataki's organ-playing villain is straight out of ' The Phantom Of The Opera ' , and gives Clive Revill a run for his money in the over-the-top stakes . He executes an ineffective agent by subjecting him to a barrage of deadly sonic waves . Sloane's gymnasium jeopardy was obviously inspired by the ' Shrublands ' scene in the Bond film ' Thunderball ' , while his dart-firing signet ring echoes Bond's wrist-watch gun from ' Moonraker ' . Fun episode , let down slightly by the finale . Even Roger Moore's Bond never used soap suds to save the world .
" Dash ! Dash ! Dash ! "	Social climber Jennifer Corner has invited her new neighbours , the Wyatt-Pearsons , round for a friendly drink . Mr . Wyatt-Pearson is a city stockbroker , and Jennifer automatically associates the profession with good breeding . In the lounge she swiftly replaces Henry's portrait of a nude with one of a bowl of fruit . The children are playing in the garden . When Robin , the eldest , falls over he lets slip an expletive . Jennifer is appalled . Where has the word come from ? She suspects Henry . . . My my . How times have changed . A boy using a four-letter word is the basis for a sitcom plot . ' Children ' was created by Richard Waring , a specialist in forgettable , middle-of-the-road sitcoms in the ' 60's and ' 70's . His other shows include ' Batchelor Father ' , ' And Mother Makes Three ' ( also starring Wendy Craig ' ) and ' The Many Wives Of Patrick ' . They're guilty pleasures . Pleasant to watch but hardly groundbreaking . Wendy Craig's character is well-meaning but scatterbrained , a sort of British Lucille Ball . It wasn't until 1979 and Carla Lane's ' Butterflies ' that she would finally be rid of that persona . As ' Henry ' her devoted husband , the late Paul Daneman is rather good , bringing a much-needed touch of sanity to the proceedings . Waring comes up with several good lines , such as " Remember when you talked about The Pill ? You made it sound so interesting the kids wanted to try it ! " . ' Trudi Corner ' was played in the first two seasons by Roberta Tovey , who had been ' Susan ' in the ' Dr . Who ' movies starring Peter Cushing . Olaf Pooley , seen here as ' Mr . Wyatt-Pearson ' , would appear opposite Jon Pertwee's ' Dr . Who ' in the brilliant 1970 story ' Inferno ' . ' Children ' became a byword at the time for ' naff ' television comedy . much as ' Terry & June ' did two decades later . On the evidence of the solitary episode I viewed recently , its seems an unfair reputation . We are left in no doubt as to what the offending word ( Jennifer is seen mouthing the first letter ) is . I bet there were a few angry letters read out on ' Points Of View ' the following week all the same . Viewed in the context of its time period ( as all archive shows should be ) , its good fun . Funniest moment - Jennifer attempting to teach Robin how to swear like a true English gentleman ie . " Botheration ! Blow ! Dash ! "
" Then you won't mind paying for it ! "	Sharon is working at the ' Dolls House ' boutique , managed by the camp Mr . Winters . Visiting her there , Duffy ( wearing decorator's overalls ) manages to get paint on an expensive dress . To get her own back , Sharon agrees to go on a date with a good-looking rep , Tony Lawson . As Duffy and his mate Batch have various run-ins with the police ( mainly concerning illegal parking of their van ) , Sharon is being wined and dined by Lawson , and they go back to his place . Unbeknowest to her , hard-boiled private eye Frankie ' Hank ' Abbott is keeping watch on the apartment block . . . A young Christopher Timothy appears here as ' Lawson ' , the master of seduction . Mike Grady , who plays ' Batch ' would go on to be ' Ken ' in ' Citizen Smith ' and more recently , ' Barry ' in ' Last Of The Summer Wine ' . Carmen Monroe , cast as ' Yvonne Parker ' , Sharon's work colleague , went on to be ' Vilma ' in ' The Fosters ' . She's a great actress , far too good for this thankless role . No laugh-out-loud funny moments in this Geoff Rowley and Andy Baker penned episode , I'm afraid , but Frankie's ridiculous private eye act raises the odd smile .
When Hammer Rose From The Grave	The last official ' Hammer horror ' film - ' To The Devil A Daughter - was released in 1975 . That seemed to be it . Five years later , this I . T . V . series appeared . Despite the title it was actually made by I . T . C . Entertainment ( ' Lew Grade's House Of Horror ' didn't have the same ring , I suppose ) . The thirteen episodes were a mixed bag , many relying on gore and nudity for their shock value , rather than well written stories . Easily the best was ' The Silent Scream ' starring the late , great Peter Cushing . Great final shot ! ' Witching Time ' was pretty memorable too ( because Patricia Quinn and Prunella Gee both got their kit off ) . But there was little of the essence of the movie series that had scared audiences for two decades . The strongest influence came from ' Thriller ' , an anthology made by A . T . V . in the early ' 70's . ' Guardian Of The Abyss ' was the most Hammer-like episode , bearing a resemblance to ' The Devil Rides Out ' ( 1968 ) based on the famous Dennis Wheatley novel .
" To the Dennis , the spoils ! "	Penny Hedges takes an embarrassed Bernard to a boutique to get him a new pair of underpants , and here he is reunited with Sharon ( who works there ) , Maureen and Dennis , the latter after a new shirt . Bernard wants to study Sociology at London University . But thanks to a malicious student - whose game of tennis he accidentally spoils - he not only goes to the wrong building , but turns up for class six weeks too early . Hedges and Penny accompany Dennis to a race where one of the horses in his care is a contender . They celebrate the animal's victory with champagne . Unfortunately , this makes Penny late for work at the airport , and she faces the sack . Unless Bernard can smooth things over . . . John Alderton bowed out of ' Please Sir ! ' in the episode ' The Pruning Of Hedges ' , broadcast on / 71 . Just over a week later , however , he , along with the lovely Jill Kerman as ' Penny ' , resurfaced in the third instalment of ' The Fenn Street Gang ' . Even at this early stage you could tell the show was destined to outlive its parent . David Bailie , seen as the ' Student ' , would menace Tom Baker in the ' Dr . Who ' classic ' The Robots of Death ' in 1976 . The late Arthur Borough , best known as ' Mr . Grainger ' in ' Are You Being Served ' , plays a doddery old lecturer . Maggie Henderson ( anyone remember her from the B . B . C . children's show ' Ragtime ' ? ) crops up briefly as a flight departure announcer whose heavily accented Scottish voice changes to posh English as soon as she gets near a microphone . Funniest moment - Hedges absentmindedly putting on freshly ironed trousers !
" I've got Sleeping Sickness ! "	Maureen is down in the dumps after failing to pass the ' O ' Levels required to become a full-time Nurse . To cheer her up , Eric and Peter takes her to a Young Conservatives do ( ! ) . Sharon , Dennis and Frankie go to the pictures instead . Amidst the sandwiches and sherry , Maureen gets friendly with Edgar , a good-looking and ever-so posh architect . Unfortunately , he thinks she is a soft touch ( he must have watched too many ' Doctor In The House ' episodes ! ) and as soon as they are alone in his car tries to sexually assault her . Luckily Sharon and the others happen to be passing by . . . Christopher Mitchell , later to play ' Gunner Parkins ' in the B . B . C . sitcom ' It Ain't Alf Hot Mum ' , guests in this Esmonde and Larbey-penned episode ( one of the few to feature the entire Gang ) as ' Edgar ' the Young Tory Boy who fancies his chances with Maureen . " I know what you nurses are like ! " , he yells , before attempting to kiss her to death . The attempted rape of Maureen is a shocking moment , but the audience strangely finds it amusing , along with her strangled cry of ' I've been raped ! ' . In the final scene , Liz Gebhardt looks genuinely terrified as Peter Cleall repeatedly throws her into the air to celebrate Maureen having passed her Practical Exam . The Tories seem to have forgotten that in the ' Please Sir ! ' episode ' Catch A Falling Drop-Out ' , Maureen stole a valuable silver cup from one of their Clubs . Maureen has a photo of Mr . Hedges in her flat , bearing a dedication of love she wrote herself . Dennis tells Sharon he loves Maureen , but bottles out of telling her to her face later on . Funniest moment - Frankie throwing a dart in the pub , and hitting some poor guy's hat ( while he is wearing it ) !
" You're drunk ! You're disgusting ! "	Craven , now a G . P . O . courier , fears the sack after wrecking his motorbike . Reporting it stolen , he along with Duffy and Frankie , push it off a bridge . But a woman sees them and calls the police . Frogmen search the river for a body . Meanwhile , Dennis has been invited to a trendy party by Maureen . Feeling out of place , he goes home . Maureen follows , and on seeing the police dredging the river , thinks he has committed suicide . . . No horses appear in this Geoff Rowley and Andy Baker penned episode , which makes the title a bit of a mystery . There's a touching moment as Dennis tells Maureen he misses his friends , and wishes they were all back at school . Sally Thomsett appears as ' Kathleen ' , a dizzy blonde who mistakes Dennis for a private eye . Two years later , her pert bottom would grace the opening credits of ' Man About The House ' . Funniest moment - a paralytic David Dunstable admonishing his son for coming home drunk !
I've Gotta Horse	As a birthday surprise for Dennis , the Gang decide to buy furniture for his flat . They attend an auction , which Frankie disrupts by making unrealistic bids . Dennis has a surprise of his own - he buys a horse , which he calls ' Spitfire ' . With nowhere to keep the animal , he puts it in the stable where he works , and sleeps alongside it . But Spitfire steps on his alarm clock and Dennis oversleeps . The next morning , the stable owner finds them there and sacks Dennis on the spot . . . Poor Dennis . Having been arrested and suspected of committing suicide this season , now he gets the push from his beloved stables . Needless to say , his old school chums rally round , and attempt to sell the horse on his behalf . How marvellous it must have been in Fenn Street in 1971 ! The auctioneer is James Beck , on loan from ' Dad's Army ' . His performance as the fast-talking spiv ( not unlike Private Walker ) is the highlight of an otherwise humdrum Esmonde / Larbey penned episode . He was hotly tipped to be the new Sid James , but tragically died the following year . May Warden appears as a troublesome old woman . In 1973 , she would play a similar role in ' Billy Liar ' . Funniest moment - a flummoxed Dennis attempting to work out his personal finances , before opting to draw a horse instead . With gas and electricity bills rising constantly , I know how he feels !
Loving With Leslie !	Capitalising on the notoriety of the B . B . C . - 2 series ' Casanova ' ( written by Dennis Potter , and starring Frank Finlay ) , ' Casanova 73 ' cast Leslie Phillips as ' Henry Newhouse ' , a suave lounge lizard , not far removed from the character he played in the ' Doctor ' films . The level of humour was epitomised by the title sequence ; it showed Henry at the wheel of an open-topped sports car , eyeing up various mini-skirted lovelies , in particular a sexy garage attendant who suggestively inserts her pump into his fuel tank . Henry seemed to charm the clothes off every gorgeous chick he met , such as Cyd Hayman or Maureen Lipman , but this being a sitcom , things would not go as smoothly as planned . In one episode , Henry went mad trying to find a tape recorder hidden in the flat where he and his latest conquest had just had sex . In another , he panicked after a frumpy friend of his wife's ( Josephine Tewson ) spotted him dining out with his newest amour . In yet another , he travelled to his son's private school to investigate a complaint brought by a sexy maths teacher . Newhouse Junior had taken pictures of said teacher skinny dipping in some woods . Henry tried to smooth things over by wining and dining the woman , but they got drunk and wound up in bed . The evidence of Henry's guilt was visible when he removed his shirt in his wife's presence - in the heat of passion , the teacher had scrawled sums all over his back . The show was pure farce , with innuendos flying around like confetti at a wedding . Why his wife Carol ( who knew of his adultery ) didn't divorce him was a real mystery . Galton and Simpson intended it as a humorous comment on the so-called ' permissive society ' , but the Mary Whitehouses of this world didn't appreciate the joke , branding it ' lewd ' and ' smutty ' . The B . B . C . agreed , and shifted it to a post-watershed slot , where it was quietly forgotten . One unmade script , in which Henry took Carol to a wife swapping party , was later used in the 1977 Yorkshire T . V . series ' The Galton & Simpson Playhouse ' . Richard Briers played Henry on that occasion .
" Build Your Own Stegosaurus ! "	Billy's latest craze is making model dinosaurs . When Mr . Fisher finds him putting the finishing touches to a plastic stegosaurus , he reminds him he is late for work at the funeral parlour , so off he goes , taking the model with him . He spends the day playing with the creature , but leaves it in Mr . Shadrach's office . The stone mason thinks his boss wants a monument in the shape of the monster . Billy must get the model back at all costs . . . One of the lesser instalments of the first series ; Billy's dinosaur fixation leads to a number of ' One Million Years B . C . ' type sequences such as the one where the stegosaurus tries to eat Mr . Fisher , who is dressed as a caveman . Roy Barraclough plays the stone mason . Funniest moment - Billy riding the monster as though it were a horse !
Does Anyone Out There Still Own A ' Crackerjack ! ' Pencil ?	On Channel 4's ' The 100 Greatest Kids T . V . Shows ' , some twerp I've never heard of said he " couldn't understand how ' Crackerjack ! ' ever got a commission , seeing how it was a poor quality version of ' Seaside Special ' " . I couldn't understand how he had seen these shows as he looked too young to remember either . For millions of children , ' Crackerjack ! ' was the television highlight of the week , coming as it did on the last day of school . Many presenters , including Elaine Paige , Leslie Crowther , Ronnie Corbett , and Michael Aspel , went on to become big stars ( my favourite , however , was Don Maclean ) . And who can forget dear old Peter Glaze with his owl-like glasses , podgy shape , and habit of exclaiming ' Doh ! ' every time he was made to look foolish ? The show had quizzes , a regular pop group slot , and comedy sketches where the cast sang pop songs with the lyrics rewritten to fit the situation . ' Crackerjack ! ' probably wouldn't work today , but its memory should be treasured .
Olive Turns Into Big Brother !	With Arthur gone , money is tight in the Butler household . Stan pleads with Blakey to take Olive on as a clippie , but the Inspector is not at all keen on the idea . In desperation , Stan tells the hard luck story to end them all , and Blakey relents , provided that Olive work on Stan's bus . To everyone's amazement , she turns out to be good at the job , and before long is quoting the bus company's rule book as though she wrote it herself . Stan and Jack find that , with Olive around , most of their ' busmen's perks ' have suddenly gone . . . This George Layton & Jonathan Lynn penned episode provided Anna Karen with a welcome opportunity to step outside the normal confines of her character ( is it just me , or has Olive lost weight ? Perhaps the depression caused by her divorce caused her to cut down on her eating ) . Of course , she's annoying , that's the whole point . In a very good piece of continuity , Olive's previous time as a clippie ( ' Olive Takes A Trip ' from Season 1 ) at the bus depot is mentioned . Funniest moment - Stan knocking an egg out of Olive's mouth .
Somewhere In An Airport	Sheila has been nagging Peter to ask his boss , Mr . Fitch ( Richard Wilson ) for a fortnight's holiday . After carefully rehearsing his request , he forcefully strides into the man's office , but gets sidetracked into helping him with his ' image ' - Fitch having a thing about wishing to look authoritative to the staff . When the subject of holidays finally comes up , Fitch agrees to the idea , provided that Barnes goes right away . The Barnes ' go to a travel agent where they encounter bus conductor Andrews ( Alun Armstrong ) . He talks them out of a package holiday to Majorca - before snapping it up himself . At the airport , the Barnes ' find themselves amidst chaos as their plane is delayed . Who should be seated next to them but Andrews and his glum-looking wife ( Bella Emberg ) ? The bus conductor is keen to ' make up a foursome ' . The Barnes decide not to go after all . . . The third episode has some nice moments , but does not quite hit the bullseye . The scene in Fitch's office goes on longer than it needed to , while the travel agent bit is a lot less funny than its equivalent in ' Holiday With Strings ' ( 1974 ) . It is only when the action moves to the airport do the laughs come . Funniest moment - Peter's attempts to get coffee out of a machine .
Noughts And Crosses On Television	" What is the day every comedian dreads ? " , asked Ronnie Corbett in one of his famous ' chair ' routines in ' The Two Ronnies ' . " Its the day he gets his call-up papers to appear on ' Celebrity Squares ! " . Like the other I . M . D . B . reviewer , I watched ' Celebrity Squares ' mainly because of Bob Monkhouse . There was something about the man , he could take any game show format - no matter how inane - and make it work . He was quick-witted and slick . This was his first game show since ' The Golden Shot ' ( he had been made to stand down after being suspected of accepting bribes - an allegation that was later proved untrue ) , and was made by the same station - A . T . V . Based on the hit U . S . show ' Hollywood Squares ' , it had nine celebrities seated in boxes on a vertical grid . Bob would ask one a question , and the contestant had to decide whether to agree or disagree with their answer . If they were right , either an ' O ' or ' X ' would appear on the box , and the first to get a line was the winner . Vincent Price ( sans moustache ) was appearing in a play in London's West End at the time it began and graciously found time to fit in a few early editions . It felt strange seeing the guy who had frightened me numerous times on late night television seated alongside the likes of Leslie Crowther and Willie Rushton . Other celebrities to appear over the years included Diana Dors , Michele Dotrice , Dr . Magnus Pyke ( the legendary arm-waving boffin of ' Don't Ask Me ' ) , Hinge & Bracket , Pat Coombs , Charlie Drake ( this was before Equity blacklisted him for hiring a non-union member to appear in one of his shows ) , Norman Wisdom ( one of his questions was ' what is a bidet ? ' ) , Arthur Mullard ( whose pronunciation of ' haemoglobin ' came out sounding like ' I'm a goblin ' ! ) , Jenny Lee-Wright ( from ' The Benny Hill Show ' ) , Little & Large , Rod Hull & Emu ( was there a show in the ' 70's these two were not on ? ) and Val Doonican . Yootha Joyce's appearance was especially sad , the actress passed away a short time after it was recorded . Kenny Everett supplied the breathless voice-over at the beginning of each show : " Its Bob and The Big Box Game ! " . It was a job clearly unworthy of someone of his talents ; fortunately , three years later he landed his own series on Thames and the rest is history . There was a charity element to ' Squares ' - Bob read out letters from viewers in dire need of financial help , and - this may sound extraordinary now - often broke down in tears as he did so . It was not fake emotion either , he was genuinely upset . ' Squares ' went the reverse route taken by ' The Golden Shot ' - starting out on Sunday tea-times , before shifting to a regular Saturday evening slot . It ran from 1975-79 , and returned briefly in the 1990's as a Noel Gay ( a top Australian T . V . producer , also responsible for ' Going For Gold ' with Henry Kelly ) production . The new intake of celebrities included Kim Hartman ( ' Helga ' off ' Allo , Allo ' ) , travel writer Tony Hawks , impressionist Hilary O'Neil , Bradley Walsh , ' Red Dwarf ' funny girl Hattie Hayridge , Jon Pertwee ( in one of his very last T . V . appearances ) , and dear old Willie Rushton , who ( along with Bob ) was the only survivor from the old show . In between the original and its revival was a rip-off - the dreadful ' Punchlines ' , hosted by Lennie Bennett . Bennett was no Monkhouse , and the show featured the likes of Irish singer Rose-Marie , comic Fogswell Flax , dancer Judy Gridley , and brash American comedienne Bryan Joan Elliott , of whom I had never heard before ( nor since ) . While ' Celebrity Squares ' was unmitigated crap , it was made partially watchable by the great , much-missed Bob .
Too Much Filler	' The Fast Show ' is ' Harry Enfield's Television Programme ' without Harry Enfield . No offence to Paul Whitehouse and co . , but they are hardly in Enfield's league when it comes to comic characters . So whilst funny at times ( the lovely ' Ralph and Ted ' sketches , the ' Ground Force ' send-up , the spoof of 70's British film comedies ) at others its the proverbial pain in the butt . Enfield's show used catchphrases too , but they weren't the focal point of the comedy . The early ' Monty Python ' shows had visual catchphrases like the knight with the chicken , the angry Colonel etc . , they were later dropped when the Pythons realised they were a cheap way of getting a laugh . ' The Fast Show ' , on the other hand , is full of the most banal comic catchphrases ever devised . When Arabella Weir complained to the producer about the use of naked breasts in one scene , she was told : " We're being postmodern ironic ! " . Which is a novel way of saying " We can get away with being un-P . C . , because we're clever ! " . Sorry , Charlie , but I won't fall for it . Whenever I watch repeats of ' Fast ' I always tape them first so I can fast-forward through the filler to get to the good stuff .
Double Jeopardy For Adam	A discredited academic named Farnley is hired to impersonate Adam Adamant in order to destroy his reputation by assassinating a visiting African President . Bored with 1966 , the real Adam tries to recapture something of his past by joining the 100 Club , a secret society for those obsessed with the Victorian Era . Little does he know that the club is a front for The Face's criminal organization . . . Name me an action series that hasn't done a ' double ' plot at some time or other . Whilst not particularly outstanding , this Jon Pennington scripted episode has some nice imaginative touches , including Adam's delight at being back in his own era ( or rather a recreation of same ) , and that dastardly fiend The Face showing Farnley a home movie of his predecessor being buried alive . Heh , heh , heh ! A pre-'Upstairs , Downstairs ' Jean Marsh plays ' Lady Lydia ' , while animator Bob Godfrey ( who gave the world ' Roobarb ' and ' Henry's Cat ' ) is seen as ' Roach ' . Sadly , this is one of several ' Adam Adamant Lives ' episodes no longer in existence , but you can read the script on the D . V . D . release .
" I've got a glass eye in a very funny place ! "	Series 3 of ' Please Sir ' concluded with Bernard ' Privet ' Hedges marrying the lovely Penny , and 5C graduating ( strangely we never saw them sitting exams , much less getting qualifications ) . Episode 1 of ' The Fenn Street Gang ' begins with a lengthy scene in a bowling alley which was clearly written to bring viewers up to speed on the Gang's activities ( Duffy must be a good friend to Craven . He allows him to leer suggestively at Sharon as she throws the ball ) . There's a lovely , touching moment as a pompous tannoy announcement provokes a cry of ' Nose ! Nose ! ' . Looking at one another , the Gang laugh . You can take the kids out of the school , but not the school out of the kids it seems . Concerned they might not see one another any longer , they arrange to meet up on Thursdays at eight in ' The Three Feathers ' pub ( presumably they have lied about their ages to get service ) . At the first such meeting , Maureen fails to show up . While the others grumble , she is hard at work in the hospital where she works as a nurse . An explosion in a glass eye factory means her services are required round-the-clock . On leaving the pub , Frankie traps his finger in the door of Duffy's van , and has to be hospitalised . Here the Gang realises the reason for Maureen's non-appearance . . . The first episode is more concerned with setting up the premise for the show , rather than being amusing in its own right . Its also one of the few to feature every Gang member - later stories would focus on individual characters , with the others appearing in supporting roles . Two cast changes occurred - Carol Hawkins replaced Penny Spencer ( fired after asking for a pay rise ) in that year's ' Please Sir ! ' movie , and stayed in the role throughout ' The Fenn Street Gang ' . Fans are divided over who was the best ' Sharon ' . I tend to favour sultry Spencer myself , though bubbly Hawkins was equally beautiful . Malcolm McFee was unavailable , so the role of ' Peter Craven ' went to Leon Vitali . Vitali lacked McFee's flair for sarcasm , and was just too similar to Peter Cleall's ' Duffy ' for his own good . Fortunately , McFee returned for subsequent seasons . Richard Davies makes a welcome guest appearance as the grumpy Welsh teacher ' Mr . Price ' . Spotting the Gang in a pub , he makes various rude comments , before accepting their invitation to join them . The day after this episode first went out , ' Please Sir ' kicked off its fourth and final series with ' Identitwit ' , in which Liz Gebhardt made a similar cameo . Spot the mistake - when the ' end of part one ' caption is on , someone walks past the camera ! Funniest moment - it does not involve the Gang . In the hospital scene , a man with his right arm in plaster attempts with difficulty to drink a cup of tea !
Doctors Reunited	Eleven years after ' Doctor Down Under ' , Duncan Waring and Dick Stuart-Clark were back on British soil , and reunited with their old pal Paul Collier and Professor Loftus for this short-lived B . B . C . series . Actor / writer George Layton thought there would be tremendous public interest in seeing the St . Swithins gang again - there wasn't . Far too much time had elapsed - and public taste changed - since the original show ended in 1977 . Layton acknowledged this by ringing changes on the main characters ; Waring was now a devoted family man , Collier a practitioner of private medicine , and Stuart-Clark ( rather improbably ) had replaced Loftus as Professor of Surgery . Bad continuity errors abounded - how could Waring have been married for twenty years when , in 1971 , he was in America ? For those who wanted the ' lads ' back as they were , it was a crushing disappointment . Appearing on the ' Wogan ' show to publicise his latest sitcom ' Trouble In Mind ' , Richard O'Sullivan claimed he'd been approached about playing ' Bingham ' again , but proved unavailable , hence the creation of the character played by Roger Sloman - ' Dr . Lionel Snell ' . Layton wrote over half the series , ex-'Goodie ' Bill Oddie penned the rest , including a very funny one in which Duncan opts to have a vasectomy . The show's failure was particularly sad in light of the fact that the original had been one of I . T . V . ' s biggest comedy successes in the ' 70's . Lightning didn't strike twice , alas .
" Flame On ! "	When I heard Chris Evans had been cast as ' The Human Torch ' in a movie of ' The Fantastic Four ' , I fell off my chair . Fortunately , it turned out not to be the annoying ex-Radio One D . J . , but an American actor of that name . Following the successful ' Spider-Man ' and ' X-Men ' movies , it seemed inevitable Hollywood would get round to doing the F . F . - Marvel's first smash-hit comic , launched in 1961 . Four people risk their lives flying into outer space - scientist Reed Richards , his best friend Ben Grimm , girlfriend Sue Storm , and her headstrong brother Johnny Storm - where they are exposed to cosmic radiation . Back on Earth , they find they have each been blessed with super powers - Reed can stretch his body like a rubber band , Sue becomes invisible , Johnny bursts into flame without getting burnt himself , and poor Ben changes into a grotesque orange monster that resembles an unfinished statue . They become media darlings ; Reed is nicknamed ' Mr . Fantastic ' , Ben ' The Thing ' , Johnny ' The Human Torch ' and Sue ' The Invisible Woman ' . The movie sticks to this origin story but with one major difference - arrogant industrialist Victor Von Doom goes along for the ride . He becomes progressively insane , his skin peeling away to expose metal . He dons a mask to become ' Doctor Doom ' . When I saw this originally my first reaction was that it would have made a decent pilot for a television series . As a cinema movie it was a bit of a let-down , boasting little by way of spectacular action ( apart from an extended scene on a bridge and the climactic battle in a street ) . Doom did not have any major plots to conquer the world up his sleeve , other than a determination to defeat the F . F . The special effects were fine , and the cast portrayed the characters well ( Michael Chiklis being an outstanding ' Thing ' ) , but the lack of action sequences proved a handicap . Fortunately , the movie performed well enough at the box office to warrant a superior sequel ; 2007's ' Rise Of The Silver Surfer ' . The other thing ( no pun intended ) I liked about the picture was that it eschewed the dark , angst-ridden approach favoured by the likes of other superhero movies such as ' Batman Begins ' . ' Fantastic Four ' was bright , colourful , fun to watch , which is just how it should be . And Stan Lee's ' Willie Lumpkin ' cameo was his best to date !
" I'll be blowed ! "	British scientists have developed a new means of aircraft propulsion - a nuclear unit protected by a lightweight metal known as ' Spurium ' . A gang of villains , headed by Angel and Cherub , want to steal a sample to sell to the Russians . But Charles Vine is not about to let them . . . The second entry in the Charles Vine spy series , played mainly for laughs to try and compensate for a low budget . Adams is his usual laconic self , but Michael Pittock's script lacks the twists and turns of the first movie's screenplay . The late Michael Ripper was not cut out to play Bondian villains , ditto Tim Barrett , cast as the bowler-hatted assassin ' Seraph ' . Though given equal billing with Tom Adams , Dawn Addams is only on screen for the last twenty minutes . Cameos from Sid James as a mortician , Joe Baker as a Cabinet Minister and Wilfred Brambell as a train station guard destroy any hope the film has of being taken seriously . Lindsay Shonteff , director of the first Vine picture , was replaced by John Gilling who seems to know nothing of how to make an action movie . However , there's a good prologue in which Vine - in drag - helps thwart a rocket attack on The Houses Of Parliament . Best among the supporting cast is John Arnatt , back as Vine's harassed boss Rockwell . Some aspects of the plot are somewhat confusing . For instance , when Vine and Seraph leave Rockwell's office , they are photographed by a Chinese woman . She is not seen nor mentioned again . Who is she ? One good gag : getting into a taxi , Vine says " Waterloo ! " . The driver looks baffled . " The station ? " . " Bit late for the battle ! " , quips the secret agent . A few more funny bits like this , and the film might have been worth watching .
The end is nigh . . .	The Luxton bus company insists its drivers and conductors must undergo strictly supervised medicals . Blakey's amusement turns to horror when Mr . Stilton points out he must have one too . Stan and Jack eavesdrop on the examination room , and mishear Blakey talking about his impending departure from the company - they think he is terminally ill . A baffled inspector suspects something is up when Stan invites him home for dinner , and turns up for work on time . Then the truth comes out . . . ' On The Buses ' ' answer to the Doris Day / Rock Hudson film ' Send Me No Flowers ' . Stan's eagerness to regain Blakey's friendship is rather touching , a reminder of past days as seen in ' Stan's Worst Day ' . Black comedy this ain't though . Its a little uncomfortable to watch now - Michael Robbins died of cancer in 1992 .
" I'll think of you every time I watch a horror film ! "	Stan lands himself a job in a car factory in the North of England , which means he must give in his notice as driver for the Luxton bus company . When Blakey refuses to listen , he deliberately antagonises the inspector in order to get the sack ! That night , Jack and the other drivers throw a farewell party for Stan . Olive and Mrs . Butler have prepared a fry-up dinner and trifle for afters . With a skin full of beer in him , Stan can't face the food , and stuffs it into the pockets of his uniform . The next day , Blakey turns up to collect it - and is horrified to find it full of food ! He is there for another reason - to look over Stan's old room , with a view to becoming a live in-lodger ! ' On The Buses ' was still reeling from the loss of Michael Robbins when it was hit by an even bigger blow - the departure of Reg Varney . Reg had become one of Britain's most popular comedy stars as a result of the show , and was keen to move on . He would next be seen on television in a musical comedy show for A . T . V . entitled simply ' Reg Varney ' . Ronald Wolfe and Ronald Chesney made no attempt to replace Stan , instead they had Blakey moving into the Butler household , and gave Olive more to do . But something was missing - ' On The Buses ' without Stan Butler was like ' Porridge ' without Norman Stanley Fletcher - the viewers knew it , and it did not reappear for an eighth run . Because this episode went out mid-season , it wasn't possible to greatly sentimentalise Stan's departure . After all , the show was still going to be around , even if the leading man wasn't . Hence Stan's exit is conducted with minimal fuss and bother - Blakey looks glad to be rid of him , Jack is curiously apathetic about losing his best friend while Mrs . Butler seems more worried about whether or not Stan will be sending home money . Our final view of Stan Butler , that cheeky chappie of a bus driver , is ( ironically ) on a bus pulling out of the Luxton garage , chased by friends and family . Symbolically it signalled the imminent end of the series too .
The Heat Generation !	With Stan and Arthur gone , and Blakey in residence , you'd think that life in the Butler household would be all peace and tranquility . Er , no . There's no hot water on tap , as Blakey discovers when he tries to shave . Jack offers him a good deal on an emersion heater , but it turns out to have been stolen from the bus depot . Blakey and Jack endeavour to get the heater installed , and wind up breaking the stopcock in the street , causing a flood of near-Biblical proportions . . . The first post-Reg Varney episode actually isn't too bad ; one gets the impression that Blakey's lines were originally intended for Stan . No sooner is Blakey around that kitchen table than he starts insulting Olive in much the same way Stan and Arthur used to . Blakey and Jack trying to fit the heater isn't nearly as funny as Stan and Jack would have been . Had Reg been in this , it would have been a great little episode . Fuinniest moment - Blakey and Jack turning off the stopcock in the street . When a policeman comes their way , they try to make it look as though they are dancing !
Not On Your Todd !	Appalled by the worsening standard of the food in the canteen , Blakey suggests Mrs . Butler apply for the job as cook . The new area manager , Mr . Simpson , is an old friend of hers , and Mum gets the job without any difficulty whatever . Soon talk is rife in the depot of impending marriage . With an ally at the top , Jack thinks he has Blakey over a barrel , and starts pushing him about . . . Written by George Layton and Jonathan Lynn . Bob Todd of ' The Benny Hill Show ' guest stars as ' Mr . Simpson ' . Funniest moment - Blakey telling ' Jack ' to get out of his chair . The figure in the chair lowers his paper , and Blakey is horrified to see he has been talking to Mr . Simpson all along .
" This is worse than trying to shoe a horse ! "	Its nearly time for the annual Busman's Ball . This year , instead of a conjurer , the lads want a stripper , and have one in mind , the delectable Sandra . Blakey rejects the idea , but relents when Jack informs him that unless Sandra gets to strut her stuff , the busmen will boycott the ball . Arthur announces he will not attend , but changes his mind when he finds out that Sandra will be appearing . Stan and Arthur collaborate to fix Olive's dress in time for the ball . Needless to say , it is not an easy job , and involves the use of a dressmaker's dummy which is in no way shaped like Olive . . . It was inevitable that the lovely Wendy Richard would turn up in ' On The Buses ' at some point . Before she became a human cannonball , before she became ' Miss Brahms ' of ' Are You Being Served ? ' , she was clippie Elsie . Its not much of a role , frankly , and is not pivotal to the story . An actress of her calibre deserved better . The episode gets off to a good start with Stan and Jack holding Blakey to ransom , but gets sidetracked with the hoo-haa over Olive's dress , and becomes a little tiresome . Still , there's some fun to be had over Stan's attempts to slip a girdle on the dressmaker's dummy . Funniest moment - Olive emerging tearful from the Ball . After the stripper's knickers landed in her lap , the busmen piled on top of her to get it ! ( The lucky bloke with the garment has to take it back to Sandra . No wonder Stan and Jack were so keen to book her ! ) . Stan is the man on this occasion , making this probably the only ' On The Buses ' episode to end with him getting the girl !
Stan's Cashflow Problem !	Flat broke again , Stan borrows from ' Basher ' , who works at the depot . Basher wants his money back within a few days else he will show Stan how he earned the nickname . Stan wonders how to repay him . Salvation comes in the shape of Iris , whose mother is moving house . Stan and Jack agree to convey her furniture in their bus . Stopping off at a bookies to have a flutter , they are horrified to find the bus gone when they leave . . . Messrs . Wolfe and Chesney contributed not one script to the sixth season of ' On The Buses ' . They were probably too busy with ' Romany Jones ' , their other hit sitcom of the early ' 70's . Thanks to writers such as Bob Grant , Stephen Lewis , George Layton and Jonathan Lynn , their absence was not as serious as it might have been . This episode follows the same pattern as ' Cover Up ' in that Stan makes personal use of his employer's property , only to then be found out by Blakey . Rather than give the driver the sack , he simply stops the money out of Stan's wages . You'd think Stan would have learnt his lesson by now . Funniest moment - Arthur is fixing tiles on the kitchen wall . Nearby , Mum and Olive are baking a birthday cake for Aunt Maud . If I were to mention that Arthur's cement and Olive's icing are both yellow , can you possibly guess what happens next ?
Sid gets an airing !	Mike and Sally decide to go into business by buying and selling old junk . Sid tolerates it at first , but when he looks out of the window one morning and sees an old gypsy caravan parked on his lawn he snaps . The children respond by leaving home . Well , not quite . Mike moves into the garage , Sally takes up residence in the caravan . Whenever Jean prepares food she has to ring a bell in the kitchen to get their attention . After a while Sid can stand it no longer so he decides to move out . Well , not quite . He moves into the airing cupboard . . . Carla Lane was a busy lady in the early ' 70's , what with this and ' The Liver Birds ' on her plate . This is an amusing if somewhat unbelievable episode . With a family like his , you would understand if Sid were to leave home for good , but why he puts himself through the uncomfortable ordeal of hiding in the airing cupboard is never explained . Nor how he copes if he needs to use the toilet . Jean herself dabbled in the junk collecting business two years before in the ' Bless This House ' movie , but this is never mentioned . Funniest moment - Trevor creeps into the house late at night and drills a hole in the cupboard door so that he can administer food and drink to Sid . Jean sees what is going on , and once Trevor has left , squirts her husband in the eye with a soda syphon !
Fun in Acapulco With Dino	I . C . E . are brought in to supervise security on the launching of an experimental spacecraft , which resembles a flying saucer . The pilot is glamorous Sheila Sommers . No sooner is the craft in flight than an anti-gravity beam pulls it back to Earth . The thief is one Jose Ortega , owner of a beer factory in Acapulco , and also the leader of a group of fanatical would-be revolutionaries out to overthrow the Government of Mexico . Sheila is found in the jungle some time later , badly beaten and with no memory of her ordeal . To recuperate , she is sent to an ICE rehabilitation centre by MacDonald . Also present ( on a refresher course ) is Matt Helm . . . The third picture in the series , ' The Ambushers ' was also the second and last to be scripted by Herbert Baker and directed by Henry Levin . Once again Donald Hamilton's storyline has been clumsily grafted onto a jokey , sci-fi oriented plot . ' Murderers ' Row ' featured a death-ray , here its a flying saucer ( doubtless had Baker written ' The Wrecking Crew ' , time travel would have figured ) . What's surprising is how much fun the movie is . A big improvement over its predecessor , the locations are beautifully photographed and it breezes along nicely with plenty of action and good humour . Albert Salmi is menacing as the villain , and Janice Rule makes a classy heroine as Sheila . Senta Berger sizzles as the top pilot for ' BIG O ' - Francesca Medeiros . Yes , the Slaygirls are on hand again to assist Matt , some kitted out with guns in their brassieres . At times you feel that there's a good movie struggling to get out . A stronger emphasis on adventure and less on comedy was needed . Better S . F . X . would have helped too . The saucer and Ortega's anti-gravity devices ( where did he get these , incidentally ? ) look like left-over props from ' Star Trek ' . As Matt , Dino is . . . well , Dino . If you don't like Dino , don't watch Matt Helm . For all its failings , this is the best Helm movie since ' The Silencers ' .
" The Basil Fawlty Of St . Swithins ! "	Duncan is undergoing a mid-life crisis which takes the form of bursts of uncontrollable rage . Everything seems to upset him , from coffee machines that do not work to hermetically sealed sandwiches . He even loses his temper with one of his patients , a young boy . Concerned for his well being , Dick suggests he sees a psychiatrist . Luckily , Duncan is married to one . It becomes clear Duncan is jealous of Collier's success . Dick suggests he goes into the private sector too . Paul leaves him in charge of his patients for a day to see what it is like . Unfortunately , his first is the same boy he shouted at in St . Swithins . . . The last episode of ' At The Top ' was by Bill Oddie and , while not as good as his others , was better than those at the start of the series . Funniest moment - Snell trying to calm Duncan by giving him coffee , only to get it thrown in his face ! The big audience for ' Sins Of The Father ' did not stick around . First impressions count and its particularly true of sitcoms . Unless viewers bust a gut laughing at the first episode , they do not tune in again . Which means they would have been unaware of the upswing in quality which occurred with the fourth episode . A similar upswing took place in the first series of ' In The House ' in 1969 . In those days , each season had a longer run ( usually thirteen episodes ) meaning viewers had time to get to like the characters . In ' At The Top ' , what few viewers remained had just gotten accustomed to the new-look St . Swithins , when it was axed . There's no use in denying it was a ratings failure . For all its faults , though , it was superior to other revived sitcoms of that era , such as ' The Liver Birds ' and ' Agony Again ' . It deserved a second season , preferably with new writers aboard . When Layton was the subject of a ' This Is Your Life ' later in the decade , Oddie came on as a guest , and made light of the failure of ' At The Top ' . Apart from a solitary repeat on U . K . Gold in the mid-90's , it has not been seen since . If nothing else , it gave an extra dimension to the characters , reminding us that youth is something we only have once and ought to cherish while it lasts . Five years after ' At The Top ' , the St . Swithins ' gang were back on British T . V . screens , courtesy of the then-new satellite channel ' Granada Plus ' . A whole new generation was able to enjoy a complete run of the L . W . T . ' Doctor ' series , commencing ( rather oddly ) with the second season of ' In Charge ' . ' Men & Motors ' recently repeated both seasons of ' In The House ' and it is out on D . V . D . There seems little chance of it being forgotten . Reviewing all these episodes has left me exhausted , and in need of a nice , soothing massage . Wonder if Nurse Willett is available ?
' The Great Great Britain Crime '	' Homicide & Old Lace ' is regarded by ' Avengers ' buffs as the show's worst ever episode . I disagree . Season Five's ' The Joker ' ( a lame remake of the vastly superior ' Don't Look Behind You ' ) beats it hands down for sheer awfulness . Even so , it is a bit if a dog's breakfast . When John Bryce was fired as producer , Albert Fennell and Brian Clemens were asked to return . They filmed new scenes for the episodes already in the can , with only ' Invasion Of The Earthmen ' going out relatively intact . ' The Great Great Britain Crime ' was not so lucky . Clemens apparently disliked it so much he felt the only way he could possibly include it was to turn it into a comedy , hence the framing device of Mother spinning a tall tale to his dotty spinster aunts ( Mary Merrill and Joyce Carey ) . What ultimately resulted was an ' Avengers ' version of ' Mystery Science Theatre 3000 ' and you cannot get much worse than that . We can see where the faults are , and do not need for anyone to point them out to us . The plot itself is a sequel to ' Intercrime ' , an episode of the second season , written by Malcolm Hulke and Terrance Dicks . The dastardly criminal organisation is up to its old tricks again , this time plotting to trigger ' Operation : Rule Britannia ' , a plan to remove all art treasures from galleries in the event of war , replace them with forgeries , and give the originals for safe-keeping to Colonel Corf ( Gerald Harper ) . Once he places them in his secure vault , Intercrime can then nab them . The ' Great Great Britain Crime ' sequences were directed by Vernon Sewell , but the director's credit goes to John Hough . The problem is that the framing material is obtrusive and leadenly unfunny , despite artful playing from Newell , Merall and Carey . There's no Tara , and Steed only appears in a toe-curling tag scene in which Rhonda ( Mother's mute bodyguard ) is made to speak for the first time . Left intact , this would in my view have been a lot more interesting . Certainly it boasts a couple of decent action bits , such as Tara being chased around a multi-storey car park by hoods and the final shoot-out in Corf's vault . Another mistake on Clemens ' part was the re-use of old footage , such as Steed nearly being buried alive in ' The Fear Merchants ' and being attacked by Christopher Lee in ' Never Never Say Die ' . Sadly , the original version is widely believed to no longer exist , meaning we are stuck with this travesty for all eternity . The final insult is Laurie Johnson's tinkly piano score . It more or less tells the audience : " this is rubbish and we know it ! " . So its for the revisions , for the original material .
A Shotgun Wedding	When Morecambe and Wise left the B . B . C . in 1978 to go to Thames , the B . B . C . looked around for a brand new double-act to replace them . Producer Ernest Maxin took two comedians who had enjoyed limited television exposure , Lennie Bennett and Jerry Stevens , and gave them their own show . Bennett , curly-headed and with big teeth , was the funny one , while Jerry , good-looking and Italianesque , played at being straight man . The show itself was a curate's egg , to be honest , often looking like televised cabaret , but the duo caught the public's fancy , and soon they were doing Royal Variety Performances and the like , their patter often interrupted by toothless northerner Albert Pontefract . Had Lennie and Jerry stayed together its very likely they'd have inherited Eric and Ernie's crown ( their only competition at this time were Little & Large , and Cannon & Ball ) ; even Eric Morecambe admitted to being a fan , but in 1980 they stunned fans by splitting up . Lennie went on to host the I . T . V . game show ' Punchlines ' , Jerry the B . B . C . ' s short-lived ' Telly Quiz ' . When those ended , obscurity beckoned for both comics .
Gloria's T . V . Love-In !	Funny how some television themes stick in your head years after the shows they came from ended . Even now , I can recall that this one went something like : " We love T . V ! / no doubt about it / can't live without it / we love T . V . ! ' etc . Hosted by Gloria Hunniford , ' We Love T . V . ' was a quiz show devoted to T . V . nostalgia . Not the first of its kind ; I . T . V . ' s ' Those Wonderful T . V . Times ' ( hosted first by Barry Cryer , then Norman Vaughan ) beat it to the airwaves in 1976 . Each edition was devoted to a type of programme - comedy , soap , sci-fi , drama etc . A member of the public would be paired with a celebrity , such as Ernie Wise or Joanna Van Gyseghem ( of ' Duty Free ' fame ) , and made to answer questions on old shows . It hailed from the days before archive telly became a source of fun ( " look at those cheesy sets ! " , " look at those awful clothes the cast are wearing ! " etc . ) , meaning that the shows were treated with respect ( although one of the more over-the-top episodes of ' The Avengers ' - ' A Touch Of Brimstone ' - drew mirth from the studio audience ) . I watched mainly to see clips of long-forgotten shows . One was ' The Human Jungle ' , a 1960's filmed drama series that starred Herbert Lom as a psychiatrist . The clip chosen to represent the show - Joan Collins taking her clothes off in the London Underground - served as an appetite wetter for the repeats Channel 4 had lined up for the following year . John Alderton introduced a snippet of ' Please Sir ! ' , a show he said he ' would not have missed for the world ' . In 1984 , repeats of ' On The Buses ' and ' Doctor In The House ' were nowhere to be found on British television , hence ' We Love T . V . ' afforded viewers a welcome chance to reacquaint oneself with these long-unseen shows . The B . B . C . refused to play ball , and denied L . W . T . access to their archives , meaning that ' We Love T . V . ' was forced to use the movie versions of shows like ' Steptoe & Son ' and ' Dad's Army ' rather than the real McCoy . This was not just selfishness on their part - they had their own retro T . V . quiz in the pipeline - ' Telly Addicts ' . ' We Love T . V . ' scored over ' Telly Addicts ' in two important respects : 1 ) it was slicker . The set had had money spent on it , while ' Telly Addicts ' looked as though it was coming from a doss house in Croydon and 2 ) it did not have Noel Edmonds and his ' hoofer-doofer ' . Gloria may have been lightweight , but she was easier on the eye and did not attempt to upstage the clips by cracking inane jokes . She also had better dress sense ( no tacky sweaters for Glo ) . We were also spared the hideously embarrassing spectacle of contestants attempting to ' sing ' television theme tunes , which alas was a recurring feature of ' Addicts ' and , for entertainment , is on a par with open-heart surgery and championship bowling . L . W . T . inexplicably threw in the remote control after only two seasons , leaving the field clear for Noel for the next decade or so . There was never an ' We Love T . V . ' board game in the shops at Christmas , but somehow you felt there should have been .
" I do not write thrillers . I deal in reality ! "	Howard tries his hand at writing a novel . But his efforts - in which the main character is called ' Mark Tempest ' - are derided by Trevor and laughed at by Mary ( who thought it was intended to be funny ) . Mary finds a poem by Byron copied from a book , and thinks Howard himself wrote it . The bounder heads over to Laura's house to see if she will fall for his new persona as a sensitive poet . . . Mildly amusing third episode , not as good as the second but better than the first . I would have liked to have heard more about Howard's literary masterpiece . We do not even find out what it is called . When the scam fails , Howard then masquerades as pulp thriller novelist ' Quincey Brown ' author of ' The Corpse That Would Not Lie Down ' . The lie backfires when Trevor tells Laura that not only did Quincey die in 1973 , but was also a woman ! Funniest moment - Howard withdrawing his proposal of marriage to Laura in wonderfully melodramatic fashion .
More Of A Walk Than A Run	There's an amusing scene in ' Free Enterprise ' when a sci-fi fan turns thirty and dreams he is in ' Logan's Run ' . The movie came out a year before ' Star Wars ' and was one of the last films of its kind for some time - the dysfunctional futuristic thriller . Based on a novel by William F . Nolan and George Clayton Johnson , it is set in a world where the inhabitants live in a city of domes , and can have everything they want - except their thirtieth birthday . Then they are subjected to the ordeal of ' Carousel ' , which is in fact population control . Logan is a ' Sandman ' , a security officer trained to track down and kill ' Runners ' - people who try and escape Carousel . He is ordered by the central computer to run , in order to find and destroy ' Sanctuary ' , the mythical refuge sought by all Runners . Accompanied by the beautiful Jessica , Logan runs , only to be stalked by fellow Sandman , Francis . For the first half-hour , Michael Anderson's film sticks to the book , but then it goes in a different direction . The book took Logan and Jessica to different locations all over the planet , but in the movie they don't stray far from the city before returning , resulting in a schmaltzy ending . Worth watching for the dazzling art direction , special effects and Jerry Goldsmith's music . The short-lived television series was better . Normally I hate remakes but would love to see this redone .
" You've got the wrong chap , old chap ! "	Rita gives Alf a jacket she bought in a charity shop . He is offended at the thought of being given someone's cast-offs , but changes his tune when he sees medals sewn on to the breast pocket . An idea occurs to him . The next Saturday , Alf wears the jacket to the West Ham football stadium , with Marigold pushing him in Else's wheelchair . Posing as a crippled war veteran , he tries to gain access to the disabled stand , but an attendant ( Ron Pember ) disputes his entitlement ( possibly he remembers Alf tried to pull a similar stunt in Season 1 ) , and Alf does not help matters when he begins frantically waving his legs about . When his team scores , he is so elated he jumps out of the chair and does a little victory dance , forgetting he is meant to be disabled . Later , Alf catches Rita putting ' Vote Labour ' posters in his window , and loses his rag . The argument escalates when first Marigold joins in , and then a canvassing Labour candidate ( Graeme Garden ) , followed by Mrs . Hollingbery . The Indian shopkeeper ( Renu Setna ) we saw two episodes back reappears , now standing as a Tory candidate . . . The first part of this episode is very good , with Alf behaving as though the medals on his new jacket are really his , but the second where he brings a whole street to a standstill by shouting at the Labour candidate only manages to annoy , not amuse . It is here that you appreciate the contribution made to ' Till Death Us Do Part ' by Tony Booth . He would have told Alf to shut up , or attempted to deflate his pomposity in some way . But here everyone stands around , arms folded , listening to what he has to say . Ex-'Goodie ' Graeme Garden makes a welcome appearance , he also appeared in ' Yes , Minister ' as I recall , and it is a pity he was not used more often in sitcoms . I'm with Alf regarding the posters . It is his flat , after all , not Rita's . Her childish behaviour looks like a cheap attempt to wind up her father for the sake of a few laughs . Funniest moment - Alf's victory dance at the stadium , followed by a cry of " Its a miracle ! " .
Hancock The Gag-Man	Written by Terry Nation , ' The Writer ' was the penultimate episode of ' Hancock ' - The Lad From East Cheam's ill-advised attempt to do ' Hancock's Half Hour ' on I . T . V . but without the services of Ray Galton and Alan Simpson . By this juncture , the comedian was well aware that the show was in no danger of being a hit . As it opens , he walks into a pub carrying a bag . No-one is about . For several seconds he just stands there , looking around him , as though he has forgotten what to do . Fortunately , things start to happen . He tries to ring a bell on the counter . It does not work , and he hurts his hand in the process . Yet the next person to use it does so with no difficulty whatever . Hancock has brought back his empty beer bottles , but after accidentally breaking most of them gets only enough back to buy a single bottle of Brown Ale . In the next room , two men are laughing at a recorded television programme . Hancock joins them . On the box is top British comedian Jerry Spring ( now there's a great name for a comic ! ) , played by John Junkin . Hancock grumbles incessantly about Spring's corny jokes . To his surprise , sitting next to him is none other than Spring himself . The other man is manager Elmo Dent ( Francis Matthews ) . Spring asks Hancock if he can write better jokes than those he is currently using in his act . Of course Tony says yes , and goes home to sharpen his pencils - and wits . . . It surely must have been tempting fate to depict Hancock as a man devoid of a single funny idea in his head at a time when the British viewing public were beginning to think he was just that . Certainly the longueur at the beginning of this episode is quite extraordinary . What was Alan Tarrant thinking ? John Junkin went on to play ' Evelyn ' in ' The Blackpool Show ' , a variety show in which Hancock served as compre . Francis Matthews voiced ' Captain Scarlet ' in the puppet sci-fi show of that name , was ' Paul Temple ' for the B . B . C . , and appeared alongside Morecambe and Wise both on television in their films . As was the case with ' The Assistant ' , there are some laughs here , but the whole thing is let down both by Hancock's obvious reliance of teleprompters and the unimaginative ending . I would have liked it better if Spring had tried to perform Hancock's material in public and gotten no laughs , instead he simply reads the pages and creeps out of the room while Hancock is talking . Funniest moment - Hancock , back in the pub , complaining about a wrestler . Guess what ? The wrestler is only sitting next to him . Next thing Tony is flung across the room , and crashes into a table .
" You're beautiful , man ! "	In the early ' 80's , Roger Corman gave a talk at the British Film Institute , where he was interviewed by ' Guardian ' critic Derek Malcolm . He then fielded questions from the audience . One of these concerned his 1967 film ' The Trip ' . Although the then-unknown Jack Nicholson was credited as writer , Corman pointed out that he himself had had input into the script , particularly with regards to the drug scenes . He had used L . S . D . , as had Dennis Hopper ( one of the cast ) , and their various experiences were incorporated into the film . Spotting the then-head of the British Board of Film Censors - the late James Ferman - in the audience , Malcolm asked him why the B . B . F . C . had twice refused ' The Trip ' a certificate . Ferman said he felt the film was an incitement to drug use ( even though other movies featuring drugs were passed without any difficulty whatever ) . In 2003 it was finally deemed fit for British audiences . ' The Trip ' begins with a portentous disclaimer warning the audience about the risks involved in taking L . S . D . Then we see a bride and groom standing on water . No , the trip has not yet started . It is for a television commercial . Paul Groves ( Peter Fonda ) , the director , is going through an unhappy time with his divorce to Sally ( Susan Strasberg ) almost complete . He approaches drug dealer John ( a bearded Bruce Dern ) and asks him for L . S . D . as he wants to find out about himself . So Paul swallows the pill and the madness begins . Over the course of seventy-five minutes , he sees kaleidoscopic visions , is chased along a beach by masked figures on horseback , strolls naked through woods with some attractive ( equally naked ) women , is put on trial by Dennis Hopper , and generally has a pretty weird time of it . John initially acts as a minder , stopping Paul from jumping out of the window ( the house is high up on a hill ) , but then Paul escapes , and sees the world as a entirely different place . In one excellent scene , he wanders along a street at night and the neon shop signs take on a particularly menacing quality . As he spends most of the movie in a drug-induced haze ( which is after all the point ) it is difficult to praise Fonda's acting . Susan Strasberg is woefully underused , while Salli Sachse is drop dead gorgeous as the drug dealer's girlfriend . James H . Nicholson and Samuel Z . Arkoff apparently intended this as an anti-drug film , but a section of the audience saw it differently , and smoked certain substances during screenings , as they later did with Kubrick's ' 2001 ' . Anyone expecting another ' Reefer Madness ' will be disappointed though , it is not bad enough to be that . The film proved successful enough to spawn a sequel of sorts - 1968's ' Psych-Out ' , directed by Richard Rush , which also featured Susan Strasberg and Bruce Dern ( with Jack Nicholson as one of the cast ) . I prefer the latter because , unlike ' The Trip ' , it has a plot . I agree with the commentator who said that the hallucinatory sequences lose their impact or so after a while and the film becomes tough to sit through . Cynthia Lennon , in her book ' A Twist Of Lennon , said that taking L . S . D . was the most frightening experience of her life . I have not used the stuff ( the nearest I got was Barratt's Sherbert Fountain ! ) so cannot comment , but if ' The Trip ' is to be believed , I do not think I ever will either . We are far from those times now , when people had abstract paintings on their walls , wore colourful clothes , and ended every sentence with ' man ' . A modern audience might have difficulty trying to distinguish between the drug scenes and those set in the real world . Interesting then mainly as a curio .
Duffy Versus The Doctors	Its Rag Week at The Duke Of York Hospital , where Maureen works as a nurse . She is chosen as their official Rag Queen , but a gang of loutish students kidnap her before she can be crowned . Duffy , Frankie and Craven rescue Maureen . However , Duffy's van is stolen by the students . Eric is furious with Frankie as he'd left him in charge of the vehicle . To make matters worse , the van contained a box in which is a wedding dress intended for Duffy's cousin Deborah . As the clock ticks down to the ceremony , Eric must find the van and retrieve the garment . . . A Rowley / Baker penned episode that has a strong ' Doctor In The House ' feel to it , what with the anarchic students and infantile pranks . Its not surprising that the writers wrote for ' Doctor At Large ' that same year . Its hard to say for sure but the hospital exterior looks like the same one used in that other show . ' Bernard ' , the leader of the students , is played by future ' Robin Of Sherwood ' star Nickolas Grace . Funniest moment - Frankie leaning against the window of Duffy ' s van , only for his hand to pass through it as there is no glass there !
" I'm Billy ! " " I'm Johnny ! " " Hello everyone ! "	Gareth Hale and Norman Pace rose to fame part of the alternative comedy boom of the ' 80's , which was strange because strictly speaking , they were far from alternative . Their repertoire of comic characters included the ' Two Rons ' , thuggish gangsters whose catchphrase was " We are The Management ! " ( based on the Kray Twins , who allegedly were fans ) , the idiotic children's T . V . presenters ' Billy ' and ' Johnny ' ( " We know a song about that , don't we ? " ) , and a pair of drug-addled Hell's Angels . In short , they were the dark side of ' The Two Ronnies ' . Traditional in tone , but going just that little bit further . Following several series in which they played supporting roles , such as ' Pushing Up Daisies ' ( later to be retitled ' Coming Next ' ) , ' Saturday Live ' , and ' The Saturday Gang ' , they finally landed their own sketch show in 1988 . Made by London Weekend Television , the first edition got them into trouble with an item in which they microwaved a cat ( it wasn't a real one , of course , but a lot of people were upset nonetheless ) . A later sketch had frogs used as tennis balls . One of the ' Billy & Johnny ' items featured the daft duo engaging in a threesome with Johnny's sexy wife . Another was set in a house constructed entirely from human waste . Gareth and Norman relished in flaunting their political incorrectness - particularly with the Teutonic country and western singer ' Hank Von Schweinhund ' whose backing group consisted of sexy , goose-stepping Nazi girls - and audiences loved them for it . As a mark of their popularity they landed guest roles in what turned out to be the last ' Dr . Who ' story for sixteen years - ' Survival ' in 1989 . The show ran for the best part of ten years in a late Sunday night slot . But not everyone appreciated Hale and Pace's ' poo and pee ' humour . A letter writer to ' The Daily Mirror ' said : " I agree that Hale and Pale are not afraid to be offensive . They're not very funny either . " . The outspoken Alexei Sayle took a swipe at the lads on his B . B . C . show : " When Oliver Hardy went golfing , Stan Laurel would time gags , edit scripts and cut film . When Gareth Hale goes golfing , Norman Pace goes with him . Which explains why their show is so awful ! " . He had a point . The later ' Hale & Pace ' shows looked tired and flat , and they faced tough competition from Vic Reeves and Bob Mortimer , so they killed it off and crossed over to the B . B . C . to do a new version of ' In At The Deep End ' in which they performed unlikely tasks . ' Hale & Pace ' is not widely remembered as a comedy classic , but it was fun - at first , anyway - its only major flaw being that the lads didn't know when to call it a day . Nothing lasts forever . Matt Lucas and David Walliams would do well to remember this as they continue to reap the ' Little Britain ' dividend .
Nixon And His Magic	I've never been fond of magic acts ( Tommy Cooper excepted ! ) but I always watched ' The David Nixon Show ' , which occupied the ' Opportunity Knocks ' slot of 6 . 45 on a Monday evening . Why ? Because of Nixon himself . He was like your favourite uncle - bald , elderly , a shade eccentric , had he been an actor he'd have made a wonderful ' Dr . Who ' . For years he dazzled television audiences by sawing people in half , making playing cards disappear and reappear , conjuring flowers out of thin air , the sort of things you expect magicians to do . He had a relaxed , confidant manner that was marvellous to watch , and he knew how to tell a joke . Anita Harris , Freddie ' Parrot Face ' Davies , and Basil Brush all regularly appeared on the show . Nixon would never have gotten up to the stunts so beloved of today's magicians such as David Blaine . When he died in 1978 , British television searched for a replacement - and came up with the awful Paul Daniels . At least Nixon never bored us rigid with stupid catchphrases like ' not a lot ' .
The Man Who Officially Does Not Exist	In 1965 , Adam Hall ( Elleston Trevor ) wrote ' The Quiller Memorandum ' , in which a British secret agent goes to Berlin to investigate the death of one Kenneth Lindsay Jones , who had uncovered a neo-Nazi revivalist group known as ' Phonix ' . This highly acclaimed book was filmed a year later , with George Segal as ' Quiller ' , Alec Guinness as his superior ' Pol ' , Senta Berger as ' Inga ' , and Max Von Sydow as ' Oktober ' . The screenplay was by Harold Pinter , and it remains one of the more intelligent and well-acted spy thrillers of that era . Nearly a decade later , the B . B . C . bought the rights to the character , and assigned as producer Peter Graham Scott , producer of ' The Troubleshooters ' . ' Quiller ' had all the makings of a smash hit . Starring the talented Michael Jayston in the title role , it was to have boasted exotic locations , big-name guest stars , scripts by leading writers such as Michael J . Bird ( Hall himself wrote an episode based on one of his books - ' Tango Briefing ' ) , beautiful girls , and a catchy signature tune . But something went wrong . Interviewed for ' Shatter ' magazine in 1976 , Brian Clemens said budgetary cutbacks at the B . B . C . resulted in ' Quiller ' looking a bit shabby . He wrote an episode set in France , but without his knowledge it was filmed in Hastings . " Had I known they'd film in Hastings , I'd have set it in Hastings . " , he said . Quiller himself came across as somewhat colourless . Earlier spy shows such as ' Danger Man ' and ' Mission : Impossible ' also featured ciphers as heroes , but ' Quiller ' was made in the mid-'70's when , in the wake of ' Callan ' , audiences wanted their spies a bit more human . A second season might have corrected the first's flaws , alas it was not to get one .
The Battle Of Oil Drum Lane !	Season 8 of ' Steptoe & Son ' saw some classic episodes such as ' And So To Bed ' and ' Upstairs , Downstairs , Upstairs , Downstairs ' , but also one or two below-par efforts such as ' Back In Fashion ' and this one . It begins with Albert emerging from a cinema showing ' Enter The Dragon ' starring Bruce Lee . His attempts to mimic one of the action scenes result in a passer-by getting accidentally thumped in the stomach . Harold has brought home what he thinks is a priceless Oriental vase . His joy is compounded when his father finds the word ' Han ' inscribed on the base . But there's more : ' Ley ' . Hanley near Stoke-On-Trent is famous for making toilets . Harold is gutted , having paid 25 for the thing . A knock on the front door signals the arrival of Frankie Barrow ( Henry Woolf ) , Shepherd's Bush's answer to ' The Godfather ' , newly released from prison . Barrow has gone into the insurance business ( a . k . a . the protection racket ) and gets the Steptoes to take out a policy . When Harold refuses , Barrow's thugs smash the vase . Reluctantly , Harold signs the contract . From now on , he will have to pay 15 ( a lot of money then ) a week to Barrow . Harold cannot go to the police as Barrow's insurance company is officially registered with the Board of Trade ( I doubt whether an ex-con would be allowed to set up an insurance company so soon after being released , but we'll let that pass ) . So what to do ? Albert tells Harold not to worry , as he has friends who know a thing or two about kung fu . . . The kung fu craze swept across the world in the early ' 70's . You could watch ' Kung Fu ' ( starring David Carradine ) on television , see it at the cinema in films such as ' The Big Boss ' and ' Fists Of Fury ' , read comics with titles such as ' Deadly Hands Of Kung Fu ' , listen to Carl Douglas singing ' Kung Fu Fighting ' , eat ' Kung Fu ' crisps , and watch a children's cartoon called ' Hong Kong Phooey ' . It was everywhere . However , ' Steptoe & Son ' does seem an odd place to spoof the genre . The climactic kung fu fight ( arranged by Bill Weston and directed by Mike Crisp ) is well staged , but jars with the show's realistic tone . Perhaps Ray and Alan were running low on ideas by this time . Diminutive Henry Woolf plays ' Frankie Barrow ' . With his whining voice , red shirt , slicked-back hair and bow tie ( which resembles a dead butterfly stapled to his collar ) , he is a ludicrous figure who somehow manages to be intimidating . The actor ( also a playwright ) appeared the following year in Eric Idle's seminal sketch show ' Rutland Weekend Television ' and was ' The Collector ' in the 1978 ' Dr . Who ' story ' The Sunmakers ' . ' Barrow ' returned to menace Harold and Albert later in ' 74 in the movie ' Steptoe & Son Ride Again ' . When Barrow orders his thugs to smart smashing things , the comedy suddenly stops ( it did for me anyhow ) . The title - and indeed the plot - comes from Akiro Kurosawa's classic ' The Seven Samurai ' , made in 1954 . Funniest moment - as Frankie's boys start breaking things , Harold discreetly hides the goldfish bowl !
" Stannnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn ! "	Flu strikes the Butler household . Olive and Mrs . Butler take to their beds , hot water bottles at the ready , while Stan and Arthur are forced to carry out all the domestic chores . Poor Stan is driven to the point of nervous breakdown by the insistent demands of his family . Eventually , they recover , but then Stan goes down with it ! With Cicily Courtneidge gone , the show needed a new Mrs . Butler . Doris Hare was a perfect choice , far more natural as a Cockney housewife , she brought warmth to the role . Her cries of " Stannnnnnnnnnnnnnn ! " gave the show its second major catchphrase after " I ' ate you , Butler ! " . With Hare on board , the classic ' On The Buses ' line-up was in place . Within a very short space of time , it had overtaken ' Coronation Street ' and ' Crossroads ' in the ratings . But why ? Why should a piece of homespun Cockney humour about busmen prove so astonishingly successful ? And not just in Britain either ; it was No . 1 in Yugoslavia , and a hit in Holland . It certainly wasn't down to the quality of the writing . Many of the ' On The Buses ' plots are not much different to those you'll find in other shows of the period . I think the secret of its success lay in the fact that viewers could readily identify with the Butler family , and thus care about them . What a contrast to today's comedies , which by and large are peopled with thoroughly unlikeable ( not to say , unfunny ) types interested only in themselves . ' On The Buses ' hit a chord because viewers recognised the truthfulness of it . There's a scene in one of the early episodes when the milk man calls and , unable to pay him , the Butlers pretend to be out by hiding under the kitchen table . This was how millions of working-class people all over Britain lived from week to week . I saw Stan and Jack as naughty schoolboys , forever playing childish pranks on the headmaster figure ( Blakey ) . Almost everyone who watched ' Buses ' found at least one element they recognised . ' Family Flu ' is not the best episode by a long chalk , but its more than adequate an introduction for Doris Hare . Anna Karen's surname is given as ' Karan ' on the credits . Funniest moment - Stan's problems with a tapioca pudding !
A Hair Raising Time For Arthur !	Once again money is tight in the Butler household , and Stan cannot secure overtime as Blakey wants conductors not drivers . In desperation , he is forced to join the cleaning ladies . His first day in the job is not a success - he smashes a window on his own bus . Back home , Arthur is behaving in a furtive manner . Struck on a sexy clippie named Beryl , he tries to attract her interest by wearing a wig . . . A slight but amusing episode ; best appreciated by middle-aged men with an alopecia ( baldness ) problem ( I'm sorry to say I include myself in this category ) . No man likes to think of himself as losing his sex appeal , which is why many resort to the kind of desperate measures Arthur undertakes here . Of course , it fails miserably . Though Beryl is initially impressed , she sees through the deception when the doors to Stan's bus unexpectedly close , trapping Arthur's head , and causing the wig to fall off . Good work from Michael Robbins , particularly when he tries to justify buying the wigs . " When I came here , I had a full set of hair . I want it back ! " . Funniest moment - our first sight of Stan in his ' Mrs . Mopp ' gear !
" My dead husband has walked in through the door ! "	Syrie Van Epp digs up Phil Scrotty's final resting place - only to find he is not in it . Anticipating elimination by Miss Dunner ( June Watson ) of Dept . K for double-crossing them , he got someone to put blanks in her gun . So now he is on the run , and sleeping with the recently widowed Mrs . Abigail Whitebait . Except that she is not - her late husband has just been brought back from the dead , thanks to Robag ( Aubrey Morris ) . Van Epp wants Scrotty resurrected because he has important information . . . One of Twin Peaks ' most popular characters was a dwarf . Well , ' The Corridor People ' ( often likened to David Lynch's surreal series ) had one too - ' Nonesuch ' ( William Trigger ) . In a truly startling scene , Van Epp - dressed as a nanny - pushes a pram through a park . Clouds of smoke issue from it . It contains no baby , but a cigar-smoking Nonesuch , who proceeds to shoot a man called Whitebait - who is supposed to be dead anyway . If all this makes sense , I cannot have explained it properly . I am not going to waste time attempting to rationalise the events of this bizarre show . That way madness lies . Scrotty gets more air-time here than in the previous instalment , and a right pain he proves to be too . Not merely content with openly bragging about having conned both Dept . K and Van Epp , he allows an innocent man to be eliminated just so he can resume carrying on with his wife . Van Epp's base of operations is in a disused theatre , allowing for Scrotty and her to have some fun with clown masks . ' Robag ' is that wonderful actor Aubrey Morris , who specialised in eccentrics .
" Hello . This is The Brown Cow speaking ! " .	Based on a stage play by Tom Brennand and Roy Bottomley , ' Not On Your Nellie ' cast the irrepressible Hylda Baker as Nellie Pickersgill , a northern spinster who inherits a shabby London pub which she decides to run with her father Jed ( John Barrett , who'd also played her father in the ' Nearest & Dearest ' pilot ) . The pub's regulars consist of a gay couple ( " And what are you today , Gilbert ? Oh , you're one of those , are you ? " ) , a layabout window cleaner called Charlie and an Asian bus conductor - typical ' 70's sitcom stereotypes , in other words . Nellie Pickersgill was so like Nellie Pledge it hardly seemed worth changing the surname . Various busty barmaids came and went , amongst them a young Wendy Richard . It was crude , vulgar , hardly P . C . , but very funny . In the third season , Jed's place was taken by Jack Douglas as Nellie's cousin Stanley . Baker broke her leg during the filming of one episode and had to do the next in a wheelchair . When she got so ill she couldn't work anymore , the show was sadly abandoned .
Duncan Waring - Prime Suspect !	Angered by the Purser's malicious gossip , Duncan assaults him before the passengers and crew . Some time later , the Purser is accidentally locked in the ship's storeroom whilst observing Duncan helping himself to a bottle of wine and a couple of steaks . When the Purser's absence is noticed , suspicion falls on Duncan . Has he finally flipped and committed murder ? Duncan turns detective in this episode , attempting to clear his name before it is too late . Dick and Joyce don't offer much help , and behave as though they think he might actually be guilty . Funniest moment - Duncan alone on the deck , and hearing the Purser's voice carried through the ventilation system , thinks he is listening to a ghost !
The School Of The Sixth Unhappiness !	5C embarks on a project which involves them measuring the exterior walls of Fenn Street School and , in Dennis ' case , counting the number of bricks in them . When Hedges ventures onto the roof to obtain a piece of brick , 5C lock the trapdoor behind him , ensuring they do not have to waste more time on the pointless project . Price , meantime , has had enough of 5C's refusal to learn and asks Mr . Cromwell for a leave of absence . The headmaster grants it , telling the other teachers he has gone to China to adopt six children . Hedges attempts to stand in for Price with little success as he knows nothing about science . The truth about Price's whereabouts are revealed when a television set is accidentally left switched on . . . Ah , school projects ! Remember them ? The perfect excuse for a morning or afternoon away from the classroom . In my case , our geography master Mr . Davies ( or ' Dai Geog ' as we used to know him ) would take us into the town square , where we would sit under the war memorial counting the cars and lorries as they went past . As soon as Dai's back was turned , several of our number would dive into the nearest newsagents and emerge moments later carrying Amazin ' or Super Mousse bars and cans of Pepsi . It was like having an early Breaktime . 5C aren't so lucky as their project takes place within the school grounds . Abbott goes up a ladder with a measuring tape , loses his balance , and accidentally smashes a window . An angry Potter appears on the other side . Thanks to Frankie , the headmaster's lavatory is now full of broken glass . 5C are impressed when Hedges tells them of Price's Chinese trip . Sharon likens it to the film ' The Inn Of The Sixth Happiness ' ( 1958 ) which starred Ingrid Bergman as missionary ' Gladys Aylward ' . Funniest moment - 5C watching Price on television . Instead of China , he is in Betws-y-Coed , at the Eisteddfod , where he is wearing Druid's clothes , singing ( in Welsh , naturally ) and playing the harp !
Enter The Weaver Street Gang !	Eighty-seven pupils from the newly-closed Weaver Street School move to Fenn Street . They include hard-case Terry Stringer , his dimwitted cousin Robin ' Godber ' Gibbons , guitar-playing anarchist Des Ridley , the lovely if common-as-muck Celia , and her devoted friend , Daisy . Ffitchett-Brown finds the class impossible to handle . When he jokingly tells Terry to go home , the boy takes him at his word - and the rest of the class follows suit . Meantime , Potter has learnt than Fenn Street School is to go comprehensive , and begins sucking up to the man he believes will replace Cromwell as headmaster . . . Though the comprehensive school system started in the late ' 50's , it got into full swing a decade later , as more and more schools merged in the hope of producing places where comprehensive ranges of subjects could be taught across the academic and vocational spectrum . The decision to turn Fenn Street into a comprehensive , however , seems to have been motivated by the fact that the cast changes to ' Please Sir ! ' were not working too well , and a new mix of characters was badly needed . My friends gave up watching at this point because they did not feel it was ' their show ' any more . Most of the plots now revolved around the teachers . Esmonde and Larbey played safe by patterning the new intake on the old 5C line-up ; Terry being the new Eric Duffy , Godber a more violent version of Dennis Dunstable , Daisy another Maureen Bullock , and Celia the new Sharon . Daisy's infatuation with Celia is especially interesting , being a rare example of pubescent lesbianism in an early ' 70's family sitcom . A major problem , though , remained . ' David Ffitchett-Brown ' was not given anything like the same prominence in the scripts as his predecessor . Still , this episode's an improvement on others from this season . Funniest moment - Potter and Price being menaced by Terry and Godber while the former is washing Mr . Cromwell's car . As you'd expect , he turns the hosepipe on them ! Yes , a corny gag , but still funny !
Kev's ' ere !	In the wake of ' Not The Nine O'Clock News ' , several sketch shows sprang up , each attempting to recapture the original's healthy disrespect for authority and revelling in sheer bad taste for the sake of it . Made by B . B . C . Scotland , ' A Kick Up The Eighties ' is best remembered today for bringing the then-unknown Rik Mayall ( credited as Kevin Turvey ) to a mass audience . Turvey , a Brummie idiot who fancied himself as an investigative reporter , delivered surreal monologues to camera which he concluded by saying : " Kev's ' ere ! " , whilst touching his left ear . The first show upset viewers with a sketch in which Miriam Margolyes played a nurse who unplugs a patient's life support machine in order to be able to use her vacuum cleaner . Richard Stilgoe provided David Frost-style linking material for the first year's sketches , some of which - such as ' Toyah Wilcox Masterclass ' - wouldn't have looked out of place on ' Three Of A Kind ' . It was hit and miss stuff , but it laid the groundwork for the superior ' Naked Video ' .
The Charge Of The Light Fingered Brigade !	Cromwell is invited to address The Rotary Club , and asks Miss Ewell to write his speech . When she refuses , he locks himself in his office , and begins to reorganise the school , drawing up a giant-sized timetable . David wants to use the playground to stage a reenactment of ' The Charge Of The Light Brigade ' , but , finding it off-limits , takes 4C to see the film of the same name . Liz complains about being unwell , so he has to leave 4C to take her home . . . One aspect of school I ( along with the rest of the class ) used to enjoy was the ' educational trip ' , whether it be to a play , museum or zoo . If nothing else , it provided a welcome respite from the stifling atmosphere of the school . In this Rowley / Baker episode , three such trips occur simultaneously , the others presided over by Price and Smithy . Price returns from the brewery drunk , and Smithy goes missing . Spot The Mistake : when David leaves the cinema , 4C are unsupervised . By rights he ought to have appointed one pupil to act as monitor . Mollie Sugden plays the mother of one of David's pupils . The Dreaded Liz returns , fortunately her only line is : " Sir , I feel sick ! " . One of her fellow classmates is a young Elaine Donnelly . Ten years later , she would star in the L . W . T . sitcom ' Lovely Couple ' . ' The Charge Of The Light Brigade ' starred David Hemmings and was made in 1968 , so this must be a reissue . Funniest moment - an inebriated Price sits on David's desk , and breaks it !
" Oh Chichester , Oh Chichester , you bastion of endeavour ! "	Cromwell decides that the pupils of Fenn St . School should be sub-divided into ' houses ' , each named after a great British hero . Hedges asks Duffy which house he would like to be in , so he chooses one at random . The rest of the class joins him . Potter is appalled to discover that 5C are in ' Montgomery ' , named after the wartime general . Hedges appoints Duffy , Maureen and Dennis ' prefects ' and tells them to choose a captain . They choose Dennis . Initially , he is thrilled but on realising the extent of the responsibilities that come with the title , such as reading aloud from the Bible in Assembly , he becomes frightened . . . I well remember the idiocy of my school when it came to choosing pupils for ' houses ' . For days , children were running round , shrieking : " What house are you in ? " . Ever the smart-alec , my reply was : " No . 40 , Maes-Y-Wern . " . Nothing ever used to come of this bizarre form of apartheid . We would sit about in groups , talking constantly , attempting to organise ' events ' , only for them to be conveniently forgotten as soon as the last bell went . Still , it was better than lessons . Interesting that 5C should rig the voting in Dennis ' favour and yet unintentionally make him unhappy . Luckily Hedges has a solution . Funniest moment - Potter locking up his office tighter than a drum , then realising he has forgotten his hat and has to reverse the procedure .
" I want a duck-duck ! "	Penny emerges from Hedges ' bathroom wearing only a towel , and accompanied by David Rose's ' The Stripper ' . Nice way to begin an episode , don't you think ? Frankie is rushed to hospital with appendicitis . His hypochondriac mother begins inflicting her complex medical problems on fellow patients . Over Frankie's sick bed , Hedges kisses Penny . Mrs . Abbott thinks he is molesting one of the nurses , and heads for Fenn St . School to register a formal complaint . . . Hedges and Penny are officially engaged in this episode , which doesn't sit too well with Maureen . She takes the news badly indeed , thus setting up a number of future plot lines . Barbara Mitchell makes a welcome return as Frankie's mother . Around this time , she was also to be seen as Irene Handl's daughter ' Ruthie ' in ' For The Love Of Ada ' . Funniest moment - in the staff room , Mrs . Abbott rants about Frankie : " I bore him ! " . To which Price replies : " You bore me too ! " .
" Look ! I'm dreadfully confused ! "	Contestants for ' The Nicest Person In The World ' award are being systematically nobbled . The Goodies find this out the hard way when they get chased by an angry mob out to steal their trandem . Taking refuge in a police station , they cannot believe it when the desk sergeant starts blowing raspberries and issuing schoolboy insults . On the wall is a ' wanted ' poster featuring the Goodies . But who is discrediting them ? The last episode of Season 2 was also the last to be produced by John Howard Davies ; with its over-the-top arch-villain out to make a name for himself by building robot doubles of his rivals , it feels like an episode of ' The Avengers ' . Our heroes even find themselves in two ' inescapable doom-traps ' ! The gag about Julie Andrews going topless proved astonishingly prescient ; nine years , she did ' S . O . B . ' for her husband , Blake Edwards . The late Patrick Troughton gleefully hams it up as ' Dr . Wolfgang Adolphus Ratphink Von Petal ' , complete with maniacal cackle , pet vulture and dressed in a Richard The Third costume . John Junkin had worked with Tim Brooke-Taylor in ' Its Marty ! ' . Peter Reeves supported ' Tommy Cooper ' in his 1969 L . W . T . series . Felix Bowness , seen here as a bookie , was a decade away from his role as jockey ' Fred Quilly ' in ' Hi-de-Hi ! ' . Funniest moment - the Goodies battling their robot doubles . Must have a swine to film , but it was worth the effort ! On / 72 , B . B . C . - 2 put out ' A Collection Of Goodies ' , a compilation of material specially recorded for ' Engelbert With The Young Generation ' . Tim and Graeme are playing ' Strip Scrabble ' while Tim fills out a Tax Evasion form . In flashback we see the Goodies working out in the gym , playing football with a plum pudding , ' Pan's Grannies ' ( a very funny send-up of ' Pan's People ' ) , converting a car wash into a Baby Wash , and becoming street entertainers . It helped relieve the long wait between Seasons 2 and 3 .
Army Games	The Goodies fancy a nice holiday in Penrudden Cove , Cornwall . They find it strangely deserted , except for one dotty old vicar . The British army has evacuated the area , planning on using it as a testing site for a new missile . The Goodies aren't having that , so they break into the barracks and alter the blueprints so that a new children's playground gets built instead . . . One can easily see why ' The Goodies ' was immensely popular with the young . ' Love The Police ' made fools of the boys in blue , here the military gets it in the neck . George Benson who plays the vicar ( not Richard Caldicot , as listed above ) was in the delightful British comedy short ' A Home Of Your Own ' , while Timothy Carlton was the unctuous chat-show host ' Colin Pillock ' in the second series of ' The Fall & Rise Of Reginald Perrin ' . Interestingly , no attempt is made to justify the military's actions on patriotic grounds . Its assumed ( probably rightly ) that the audience is broadly sympathetic to the Goodies ' environmentalist aims . Whatever , its nice to see them working for themselves for once . Shame about the woman taking her clothes off to distract the missile experts though . Funniest moment - soldiers beating a hasty retreat as the Goodies pelt them with eggs !
The Goodies Go For Gold !	The Minister of Sport asks The Goodies to represent Britain in the Commonwealth Games . As all the other Commonwealth countries have gained independence , the only competitor is August Bank Holiday Island , where the games will take place . The Goodies undergo various fitness procedures ( including a sex test courtesy of The Minister's sexy secretary Miss Foster ) , before travelling to the island . But they have an unpleasant surprise in store - the stadium is located at the top of an incredibly high mountain , where the oxygen is very thin . As the Goodies endeavour to pole vault , do the high jump , run etc . , they are fighting to survive in a hostile environment . . . Along with Season 1's ' Caught In The Act ' , this is the only other ' Goodies ' episode known to only exist in monochrome . The first of a batch of episodes to feature the Goodies taking part in major sporting events . Others include ' Winter Olympics ' and ' A Kick In The Arts ' . There's some good visual gags both in the training and games sequences , such as the spectacle of our heroes running in slow motion . It looks as though it may be an ' Action Replay ' but no , they really are running at that speed . Bill leaps over a hurdle , lands in water , and is attacked by a crocodile . Prior to the high jump , Graeme asks for the pole to be lowered until it nearly touches the ground , and still he doesn't make it . One or two racist gags here , I'm afraid . When the Goodies arrive on the island , their accommodation turns out to be a dirty old hut inscribed with the following graffiti : " Whitey Go Home " and " White Bas . . . . . " . The late Reginald Marsh , who plays ' The Minister Of Sport ' , is familiar to comedy fans for his roles as ' Sir ' in ' The Good Life ' and ' Sir Dennis Hodge ' in ' Terry & June ' . Funniest moment - The Minister meeting the Goodies at his office , located inside Big Ben . Stuffing cotton wool into his ears , he is the only one protected from the deafening sound when the bell chimes on the hour !
Lewis In London	In the mid-'60's , Walter Shenson scored at the box office with the Richard Lester directed Beatles films ' A Hard Day's Night ' and ' Help ! ' and was keen to do other films in a similar madcap vein . One was the underrated ' 30 Is A Dangerous Age Cynthia ' starring Dudley Moore . Another was this - ' Don't Raise The Bridge , Lower The River ' . Jerry Lewis plays ' George Lester ' , a smooth American con man based in London . He is married to lovely ' Pamela ' ( Jacqueline Pearce , the future ' Servalan ' of the B . B . C . ' s ' Blake's Seven ' ) , but she grows tired of his constantly travelling around the world trying to make a fast buck , and wants a divorce . The final straw comes when he turns her family home into a discotheque and ( it is implied ) knocking shop . To raise the money needed to restore the house , he embarks on his biggest caper yet - making illicit copies of the blueprints for a new kind of electronic drill , which he hopes to sell to the Arabs . He smuggles half of the plans out of the country in the dental work of an airline steward called Fred Davies ( Bernard Cribbins ) . To help him out , he enlists the aid of fellow crook - H . William Horner ( Terry-Thomas ) . . . Unlike the majority of Jerry's Sixties films , this was not written by him ( it was by Max Wilk , adapting his own novel ) and directed instead by Jerry Paris , whose other credits include the ' Happy Days ' television series and a couple of the ' Police Academy ' sequels . The fact that Jerry was at large in Swinging London was the film's main selling point . Unfortunately , the ludicrous story leaves little room for the kind of satire the film badly needs . Perhaps it would have been funnier if Lester had been manager of a rock band or something . Lewis himself seems more restrained than usual . Some might think that a good thing , but the ' Jerry ' of ' The Disorderly Orderly ' and ' The Family Jewels ' would , had he been injected into the proceedings , have gone some way to making the film fun . As it stands , it is mainly down to the supporting cast ( Bernard Cribbins , Michael Bates , John Bluthal , Nicholas Parsons , Patricia Routledge - very good as the head of a girl guide troupe - and , of course , Terry-Thomas ) , to try and salvage something out of the almost joke-free script . Cribbins having an attack of toothache while serving drinks on a plane is very funny indeed . Sally Gesson of ' Bless This House ' can be glimpsed as one of the girl guides . Pearce is rather wasted as Lester's wife . Apparently she did not get on with Lewis during the film's making , and it shows . Jerry Paris ' direction breezes the inane story along to a not very amusing conclusion . Two other reasons to see the film - Margaret Nolan and Sandra Caron ( sister of Alma Cogan ) , both of whom play dental nurses . They can extract my molars any time !
Oh Cod !	Iceland extends its fishing limits by a further 2 , 000 miles , which alas encompasses most of the British Isles . Tim learns this the hard way when , sitting by a riverbank one day , he is shot at by a boat load of eskimos . With most of the U . K . ' s fish reserves now officially belonging to another country , Graeme tries to end the shortage by breeding a super-cod , which he calls Brian . But he becomes emotionally attached to the fish , and can't bring himself to kill it . Tim and Bill don't feel the same way , and a battle of wills ensues . . . With ' Jaws ' having become the highest grossing film of all time the year before , it was inevitable that ' The Goodies ' would sooner or later take a pop at it . John Williams ' theme is heard as the cod takes to the Serpentine . One wishes they had parodied ' Jaws ' more closely ; its still a popular film . Too much time is spent spoofing the ' Cod War ' which , alas , results in this episode looking more dated than it should . Funniest moment - Bill attempting to frighten the fish by putting on a Nicholas Parsons mask !
Trapped In The Triangle	' The Fantastic Journey ' , along with ' Planet Of The Apes ' , ' Logan's Run ' , ' The Invisible Man ' and ' Gemini Man ' flopped in the U . S . A . , but here in the United Kingdom proved enormously popular . They were slickly produced , boasting better special effects ( and lots of flashing lights ! ) than our British shows could manage . ' Journey ' had a most captivating premise . Trapped on a mysterious island at the heart of the famed ' Bermuda Triangle ' , a group of travellers venture from one dangerous time zone to the next , searching for a way home . Jared Martin's ' Varian ' was from the future , and carried a tuning fork weapon not unlike Dr . Who's ' sonic screwdriver ' . Katie Saylor made the biggest impact on me ( well , I was 15 at the time ) as Liana . She had a telepathic cat called Sil-L . Roddy McDowall's ' Willaway ' fulfilled a similar function to Jonathan Harris in ' Lost In Space ' . Hardly Hugo-award winning stuff perhaps , but ' Journey ' was lively and entertaining and deserved a much longer run .
" What A Brilliant Man ! "	Its the first day of a new term at Fenn St . School and 5C return to find a painter and decorator - Mr . Turner - at work in their classroom . Mr . Hedges tries a novel way of teaching his unruly class maths - using betting shop terminology as a model . His class displays a natural aptitude for the subject , particularly Duffy . " They're not fractions ! " , he tells the teacher , " They're odds ! " . Hedges is appalled to learn the class has placed two shillings on a horse race , and goes along to the bookies to cancel the bet . But the horse romped home - leaving 5C considerably richer . Miss Ewell spots Hedges entering the betting shop , and jumps to the wrong conclusion . The opening episode of Season 2 was also the first to be made in colour . Its not particularly outstanding , but Geoffrey Hughes - forever immortalised in the television hall of fame as Scouser ' Eddie Yeats ' in ' Coronation Street ' , as well as ' Onslow ' in ' Keeping Up Appearances ' - manages a few laughs at a decorator in awe of Mr . Hedges ' teaching abilities . Funniest moment - a furious Miss Ewell confronting Mr . Hedges in the betting shop . " My senior mistress ! " , he tells the bemused bookie .
5C Gets Multicultural !	A new boy joins Hedges ' class - Panalal Datta - who is only there temporarily until he returns to India . Hedges is unhappy because he feels his class is full enough already . Word gets out about the new arrival . At the next meeting of the Teachers & Parents Association , the only parents who turn up are Panalal's . 5C like Panalal , and are fascinated by his wealth of knowledge on Indian culture . The next meeting of the T . P . A . is packed to the rafters , now that Panalal has gone home , and much to Potter's disgust as he has not provided enough refreshment . . . Interesting if underdeveloped culture clash episode . Note the amused reaction of the studio audience when Panalal first appears . Thankfully we are spared one of those head waggling ' goodness , gracious me ' stereotypes so beloved of sitcom writers . Its the adults rather than the children who show most disdain for Panalal's presence , which if nothing else , leaves the viewer with a glimmer of hope for the future . One wishes this had been a two-parter , all the same . Funniest moment - Mrs . Abbott recounting her medical problems to Hedges in a caf , and putting him off his meal !
Caught On Camera !	Fenn Street Secondary Modern are planning an ' Open Day ' , but 5C's contribution will consist of ' coats and teas ' . Hedges is having none of it , and suggests the class make a movie entitled ' Our School ' . The class are thrilled , particularly Sharon , who sees it as her chance to break into movies . But the resulting film is a disaster , consisting of monotonous shots of the school , and unconvincing footage of both teachers and pupils attempting to look natural . Then Hedges hits upon an idea - to turn the film into a critique of the education system . This does not make him popular with Mr . Cromwell and Miss Ewell . . . A standard sitcom plot line for years was ' the home-made movie ' . ' Man About The House ' used it in ' The Last Picture Show ' , ' Only Fools & Horses ' in ' Video Nasty ' , and ' The Goodies ' did ' Movies ' . Here ' Please Sir ! ' does its version of the idea , but the execution is not as good as it might have been . Miss Ewell steals the film , end of story . So why does Hedges not make another ? He gives in all too easily . The beautiful Suzan Farmer crops up briefly as journalist ' Judith Howard ' . Funniest moment - the film itself , which looks like it was made by Benny Hill on an off-day . At one point , Mr . Cromwell is seen nervously edging off screen , then reappears from a different direction !
Mary Whitehouse Was Not A Fan	Remembered as a bland ' 70's I . T . V . sitcom , ' Robin's Nest ' outraged Mrs . Mary Whitehouse when it first appeared ! Unlike the set-up of ' Man About The House ' , Robin was clearly sleeping with the girl - airline stewardess Vicky - he lived with . It was only as the series progressed - Robin married Vicky , and fathered twins - that it degenerated into cosy tweeness . The first two series were by Johnnie Mortimer and Brian Cooke , and when they were in charge , all was well . Alas , different writers took over for the remainder of the run ( amongst them Richard O'Sullivan's ' Doctor At Large ' co-star George Layton ) , and poor Robin found himself relegated to the role of straight man , as one-armed Irish dish washer Albert Riddle and pompous James Nicholls became the main source of the show's humour . The biggest slap in the face to ' M . A . T . H . ' fans was when Robin failed to invite Jo , Larry , and the Ropers to his wedding . Given that they'd been so close before , this was strange indeed .
Terror In The Post Office !	Les wishes to buy a 25 pence postal order to go with his pools coupon . An easy enough task you might think . But at the Post Office he encounters problem after problem - firstly , he is mistaken for a robber , the cashiers run out of postal orders , he keeps losing his place in the queue , a gay man ( yes , its Roy again ! ) gets fresh with him , and finally , when he gets what he wants , posts the coupon to the wrong pools company . Easily the weakest of the ' Dawsons Weekly ' series , the one-joke script wastes the talents of not only Les and Roy but but also Avril Angers and Patsy Rowlands . I recall Dave Allen once doing a monologue on his early ' 90's I . T . V . series on the subject of Post Offices , and it was a heck of a lot funnier than this . Worth keeping to show to future generations what Post Offices were actually like . Funniest moment - Les , trying to get back into the queue , explains to a disgruntled man that he was behind Roy before , and a cashier yells : " Do you two poofs want serving or not ? " .
McGill's Treasure Hunt	Richard Bradford said that several ' Suitcase ' episodes were originally intended for other shows . ' Find The Lady ' gives the impression of having been planned for either ' The Baron ' or ' The Saint ' . McGill is in Rome when he is visited by Mori ( John Garrie ) , a filthy little man who refers to him as ' Macagill ' . The Rossini jewels have been stolen , and Mori thinks he knows who the thief is - Guilio ( Maxwell Shaw ) , Italy's answer to ' Raffles ' . Mac is then called in by the local police , who want him to recover the missing gems . The Commandante ( Patrick Cargill ) confiscates his passport so that he cannot leave the country until the job is done . At a specially arranged rendezvous in a park , Mori meets Guilio . Mac is hiding , waiting to nab the gems . But things go wrong and a brief gun battle ensues . In the confusion , Mori runs off with the jewels and manages to hide them before Guilio kills him . Before he passes on , he whispers one word : ' Signora ' . . . A fairly uneventful adventure this , boasting lots of talk , mostly between Mac and the lovely Francesca ( Jeanne Roland ) . Clever old Mori hid the jewels in some catacombs , leading to a climactic fight there . Patrick Cargill is suitably sinister as the ' Commandante ' , more so than the jewel thief he is intent on arresting . Maxwell Shaw , who plays ' Guilio ' , was married to casting director , Rose Tobias Shaw . 1967 was a good year for lovely Jeanne Roland - in addition to this , she appeared in not one but two Bond movies : ' You Only Live Twice ' as Bond's masseuse , and as ' Captain of the Guards ' in the spoof version of ' Casino Royale ' . Carlos Douglas , the waiter in ' Duty Free ' , plays a hotel receptionist . The hotel lobby looks like the one used in ' Sweet Sue ' ( it probably was ) .
Save Our Pool !	The St . Swithins ' indoor swimming pool is scheduled to be demolished shortly , so that a new ward can be built , to be named after Loftus . A pretty young doctor named Diana organises a protest , and ropes in Dick and Duncan , the latter being sweet on her . Bingham , of course , sides with Loftus . After promising to keep the pool open , Loftus arranges for it to be demolished early the next day . Realising they have been tricked , Duncan and the others lay in front of the pool , blocking the path of the bulldozer . Bingham seizes the controls and , laughing maniacally , prepares to do battle . . . David Askey stepped out from behind the camera to pen this episode , an enjoyable enough romp which provided an early television role for Jan Francis , later to star in ' Secret Army ' and ' Just Good Friends ' . Arthur English is seen briefly as a hospital porter . Funniest moment - Loftus accidentally demolishing his own car !
" Sir , Waring is a tea-bag ! "	A spate of petty pilfering at St . Swithins leads Duncan to suspect Paul and Dick , who in turn suspect him . Bingham , meanwhile , suspects them all . The atmosphere in the hospital suddenly turns paranoid . Bingham's attempt at playing detective lead him down a laundry chute . He cries wolf so many times that , when he finally uncovers the real thief , no-one listens to him ! Okay episode , nothing special , interesting mainly for the sight of the St . Swithins gang regarding one another with suspicion . No guest cast . We find out Bingham's political affiliation - he is a Tory . Well , what a surprise ! Funniest moment - Bingham's ' Perry Mason ' act !
" I wish they all could be . . . "	Kirby Allen is young , American and beautiful . Loftus wants her wealthy father to buy a expensive piece of medical equipment for St . Swithins . Which means that for the next 24 hours , she must remain ' sober and unmolested ' . Fat chance . As soon as they clap eyes on her , Duncan , Dick and Andy start drooling . A race ensues to see who can bed her first . But then an unexpected element enters the equation - Kirby starts to fancy Gascoigne . . . Basically a remake of ' Men Without Women ' from ' Doctor In Charge ' , this Wolfson / Thorn episode is typically ' 70's in its approach to women . A pretty girl walks into a room , smiles and all the men can think of is sex . Having said that , if remade now , with the genders of the main characters reversed , it probably would be acclaimed as a proto-feminist tract . What a strange world we live in ! The piece of equipment Loftus wants ( I'm not sure of the spelling but ' scintillascope ' is the nearest I can get ) is the same he wanted in ' Loftus The Terrible ' . Presumably Lady Loftus reneged on her promise to buy the thing . Either that , or this story is a prequel . Funniest moment - at Gascoigne's door , Dick and Andy hear heavy breathing and heartbeats . Its only a recording , but they wrongly assume the normally shy James has scored !
Off To The Caribbean !	Ffitchett-Brown wants to dust the cobwebs out of Fenn Street School , so requisitions a tape recorder and television set for his class , but Cromwell seems more interested in the yo-yo craze currently sweeping the country . Noticing some lads absent from school , David tracks them to the Caribbean Billiard Hall . The boys have fallen in with a bad crowd , made up of absentees from Weaver Street School . They care little for their job prospects , and seem to think they can make a living at the green baize table . . . Not far from my local Secondary Modern was a seedy caf which served as a refuge for pupils who'd opted-out of school . All day long boys would drink Coke , chat , play slot machines and cards . We called them ' mitchers ' . This Geoff Rowley and Andy Baker penned episode provides the new teacher with his first baptism of fire . Putting Mr . Dix in his place was nothing compared with overcoming teenage apathy . Robin Askwith appears as hustler ' Eddie ' , a character he previously played in ' The Fenn Street Gang ' episode ' Meet The Wizard ' . Charles Bolton is his dimwitted sidekick ' Godber ' from Weaver Street School . We will see more of him later . Future ' Eastenders ' star Shirley Cheriton has the small role of ' Pat ' . Funniest moment - Potter trying to play billiards !
Accused !	Duncan and Stuart-Clark are warned by Captain Loftus not to make amorous advances towards the lady passengers . As if they would ! On their next port of call - Spain - they make for the beach in search of senoritas . While Dick goes to fetch ice-cream , Duncan relaxes . Spotting a girl in trouble in the water , he rushes in to save her . His attempts at mouth-to-mouth recussitation are misinterpreted by the locals , who think he is trying to molest her . Duncan suddenly finds that he is to marry the girl , whether he wants to or not . When he protests , he is formally charged with rape . . . This is the episode that got the show in ( if you'll pardon the expression ) hot water on its first transmission . I . T . V . received complaints from people protesting that ' rape ' was not a suitable subject for comedy . ' The Sun ' hypocritically ran a story that week entitled : ' Has ' Doctor At Sea ' sprung a leak ? ' . The complainants were right , of course ; rape should never be taken lightly . But the argument needed to be put into context ; Duncan had not committed rape , he was being falsely charged with the offence . When Stuart-Clark rushes to tell Loftus , the old sea-dog automatically accepts that Duncan is innocent . In this and other episodes , Duncan has been shown to be such a Casanova he would never need to commit such a dreadful offence . The row was a contributory factor in Humphrey Barclay's decision not to make another series of ' At Sea ' . When Neville Hope ( Kevin Whately ) was accused of rape in an early ' Auf Wiedershen , Pet ' episode , there was no repeat of the hoo-ha because a ) times had changed and b ) ' Pet ' was a comedy drama , not a sitcom . On the plus side , this episode offers nice location filming , and the sight of our smartly dressed heroes strolling along a busy Spanish street ( nice work if you can get it ) , eyeing up the local talent , is enough to gladden the heart of any ' Doctor ' fan . The barman is played by Ricardo Montez , ' Juan ' from ' Mind Your Language ' . He does not get to say ' por favor ! ' here , but you expect him to . Funniest moment - Duncan in jail . His attempts to communicate with the guard all meet with the same response ; " No comprendo ! " . Duncan loses patience , and insults the man . The guard understands this , however , and whacks the doctor across the back of the head .
Today The Hairdryer - Tomorrow The World !	Interviewed by ' The T . V . Times ' in 1981 , James Coburn claimed that Fox were so keen to get ' In Like Flint ' into cinemas they didn't care if the script was workable or not . It wasn't unfortunately ; reversing the premise of the original , the ' baddies ' here are women attempting to impose a new world order whereby all men are slaves . Which makes it all the more strange why they then rely on General Carter of Z . O . W . I . E . and Presidential lookalike Sebastian Trent . The film gets off to a cracking start with the launching of the space platform and the President's kidnapping , but goes awry when Flint goes to Russia , and never recovers . Too may plot holes abound to make this as enjoyable as it could have been . Why haven't ' Fabulous Face ' prepared for the possibility of General Carter turning against them ? How is he able to take over their operation without so much as a shot being fired ? Why does Carter go into space with the bombs when he knows Flint is in the rocket too ? The action sequences are not on a par with those in the first film , in particular the finale in outer space is shockingly unspectacular . Poor effects work from the normally reliable L . B . Abbott . What little excitement there is comes mainly from Jerry Goldsmith's wonderful music . Coburn also claimed Gordon Douglas was ill for most of the shoot , hence much of the film was directed by the cinematographer . A rewriting of the script was badly needed to eliminate tedious scenes such as Flint's seduction of Natasha . The Russian Premier's phone call to The President ( named as ' Melvin Muffly ' in the novelisation ) looks suspiciously like an attempt to parody ' Dr . Strangelove ' . A big disappointment , and a sad finale to what promised initially to be a thrilling franchise .
Men's Sana In . . . Oh , Whatever It Is	Upton and Dick are at Stokely Manor Health Farm , run by the eccentric Stanley Moon . The patients are driven to near-insanity by the strict regimen he enforces . Endless cups of lemon-flavoured water and grapefruit are the order of the day . Dick bets Upton a fiver he cannot go without food for twenty-four hours . Unable to win the money , Upton leads a mass exodus of patients to a nearby country pub . . . John Cleese's last ' Doctor ' script is his weakest , though it has its moments . ' Stanley Moon ' was the name of Dudley Moore's character in ' Bedazzled ' ( 1967 ) . John Le Mesurier plays him as a combination of ' Sergeant Wilson ' and ' Private Godfrey ' from ' Dad's Army ' . Geoffrey Lumsden , who played ' Captain Square ' in that series , appears here as ' Colonel Oliphant ' . Jacqueline Clarke was familiar to viewers through ' Dave Allen At Large ' . Wanda Ventham's ' Maggie ' is a television actress , famous for her role in the sitcom ' The Abattoir Lads ' . A sly dig at ' The Likely Lads ' , perhaps ? Funniest moment - two of Moon's patients squabbling like children over a grapefruit !
Upton In Love - Again !	Upton is smitten by Dr . Nicky Barrington , and the feeling is reciprocated . He plans a holiday-for-two in Devon , but then Collier brings some exciting news - Bingham has been sacked from the Dean's firm ( a post he landed in ' Now Dr . Upton . . . ' ) , meaning there is now a vacancy for a surgeon . Despite having blotted his copy book by parking the Dean's Mini on the sunroof ( see ' Students At Heart ' ) , the old man is keen for Upton to have the job . Mike is torn between taking up the post ( which means taking him away from Nicky ) or staying . Further complications arise when it transpires that Nicky has applied for the job herself . . . Concluding the storyline begun in ' With A Little Help From My Friends ' , this Rowley & Baker episode sets the scene for the remainder of the series , with everyone back at St . Swithins . Of course there was never any real chance of Upton and Nicky becoming an item , so the thing practically wrote itself . Collier seems to have forgiven Mike for sacking him , although he later exacts a form of revenge by setting in motion the chain of events that wrecks Mike's romance with Nicky . Finally , Nicky withdraws her application , allowing Mike to get the job unopposed . Funniest moment - Mike and Nicky arguing in full view of the patients , including a bemused Mrs . Mollett ( Mollie Sugden ) .
Typhoid !	Dick and Paul are suffering from dreadful hangovers , so Duncan makes their lives hell by deliberately dropping bedpans and the like . With Bingham off sick , Duncan agrees to take his students round the ward . Among them is the cack-handed Reggie Grace ( Tony Robinson ) , last seen in the previous year's ' Amazing Grace ' . The bespectacled blunderer is behaving unusually oddly ( even by his standards ) ; whenever Duncan mentions a symptom Grace suddenly exhibits it . Soon he is staggering round the ward , knocking over students , fighting the urge to vomit , urinate etc . When Grace's symptoms are fed into a computer , it diagnoses his condition as typhoid . Duncan immediately orders that the hospital be sealed , and a mass sterilisation programme gets underway . . . One of the weaker episodes of this season , bearing a striking plot similarity to the previous year's ( much better ) ' The Long , Long Night ' . Phil Redmond's script is only made funny by the performances of the cast , rather than any major effort on his part . Grace's exhibition of typhoid symptoms would have been inspired had not Jerry Lewis not done something similar in 1964's ' The Disorderly Orderly ' . Still , its nice to have Robinson back , and a pity he made no further appearances after this . Future ' Are You Being Served ? ' cast member Nicholas ( ' Mr . Rumbold ' ) Smith appears as panicking patient ' Mr . Neave ' . Funniest moment - a news reporter ( Tim Brinton ) interviews Dick on camera . " Emergency supplies are being delivered ! " , he tells worried ' News At Ten ' viewers . We then see Dick taking stock of two crates of whisky !
Nasty Nick Gets My Goat !	A runner named Hal 14 is pursued through the City Of Domes and shot dead by a Sandman . At a laboratory , the Sandman's entire physical appearance is surgically altered to resemble the dead runner , who was a friend of Jessica's . Logan , Jessica and Rem encounter ' Hal 14 ' , who claims that there a revolution brewing back at the City Of Domes , and urges them to return . Before they can do so , the Solarcraft is suddenly imprisoned in a force-field by ' The Provider ' - the leader of a community whose inhabitants use electronic means to achieve happiness . . . The late John Meredyth Lucas is probably best remembered by cult T . V . fans for his work on ' Star Trek ' . His one and only contribution to the world of ' Logan's Run ' is a somewhat disjointed affair ; the ' Hal 14 ' and ' Provider ' story lines are not particularly well integrated . Nicholas Hammond , who plays ' Hal 14 ' , was one of Heather Menzies ' co-stars in ' The Sound Of Music ' , and went on to play ' Peter Parker ' in ' The Amazing Spider-Man ' television series . Most interesting moment - Rem saving his friends ' lives by killing ' The Provider ' , in so doing he breaks a condition of his programming - never to take the lives of humans .
" Carousel Is Death ! "	The television version of ' Logan's Run ' begins in much the same fashion as the 1976 movie of the same name ; we open with an aerial shot of a fantastic city of domes , decades after nuclear wars have ravaged our planet . The year is 2319 . It is a perfect world of pleasure - but only if you're under 30 . Then , on ' Lastday ' , citizens must subject themselves to the ghoulish ritual of ' Carousel ' , believing it to be renewal . Logan and Francis are Sandmen - security officers whose task it is to hunt and kill ' runners ' - people who have realised ' Carousel ' is in fact population control . Logan is under surveillance as he has been overheard questioning authority . We are therefore unsurprised when he throws in his lot with runner Jessica . After a chase through the city , Logan and Jessica venture outside , finding the air to be clean and the water and soil uncontaminated , the exact opposite of what they'd believed to be true . Now the plot ventures in a different direction from the movie ; Francis goes before the Council Of Elders , a group of wizened men who hold the real power in the city . He is offered a place on the Council if he brings Logan back for reprogramming . Finding a solar-powered craft , Logan and Jessica begin searching for ' Sanctuary ' - a mythical refuge for runners - only to find a community living in a fallout shelter , which is constantly under threat from ' riders ' - warriors on horseback , kidnapping people to use as slave labour . Logan and Jessica may be free of the city , but haven't escaped from danger yet . . . I prefer the ' Logan's Run ' television series to the movie . Gregory Harrison and Heather Menzies make an attractive couple as ' Logan ' and ' Jessica ' respectively , and British actor Donald Moffat adds a welcome touch of humour as the lovable cyborg ' Rem ' . Hiring the co-author of the original novel as one of the pilot's writers was a smart move . Quite a bit of recycled movie footage , most notably the ' Carousel ' sequence , but not as much as there would have been if this were an Irwin Allen series . The pilot barely sketches in the characters before they start running . Logan seems to have quite a lot of ammo about his person ; perhaps he knew in advance he was going to run ? How come Francis is always one step behind Logan and Jessica even though he's on foot and they're not ? How come Jessica's hair always looks great ? Don't question - just enjoy . A decent series opener .
The Hunting Of The Sandmen	Francis finally catches up with Logan , Jessica , and Rem . Leaving Rem in the company of fellow Sandman Benjamin , Francis takes the Runners back to the City Of Domes for reprogramming . En route , Jessica is abducted by James Borden , a big game hunter who lives in a gadget-packed house protected by a force field . Borden has grown tired of hunting Runners and is after bigger game - Sandmen . Equipped with a laser rifle , he stalks Logan and Francis through the forest , while his wife Irene goes after Jessica . . . Richard Connell's ' The Most Dangerous Game ' provided the inspiration for several T . V . sci-fi plots , such as ' The Incredible Hulk ' episode ' The Snare ' , here it is pressed into service for ' Logan's Run ' and makes a welcome respite from the normal pattern of the series . Horst Bucholz , who plays ' Borden ' , was the youngest member of the original - and best - ' Magnificent Seven ' , while Mary Woronov is mouth-wateringly sexy ( especially in a tiger skin dress ) as Irene . Logan and Francis work as a team for once . Episode could have been better directed , though ; the hunt consists of little else but people running through sunny forests . A few more death traps ( like the pit and the phantom cage ) would have been nice . Francis saves the day by shooting Borden . Logan lost his Gun near the pit , though Rem retrieves it later on . Sandmen are useless without their Guns , aren't they ?
Get The Abbott Habit !	With Peter Rogers and Gerald Thomas in charge , the film version of ' Bless This House ' was bound to wind up looking like a ' Carry On ' . No bad thing , it has to be said . The first and most sensible thing they did was replace Robin Stewart with Robin Askwith as Sid's son Mike . Stewart was boring , Askwith is cheekier and funnier . Secondly , they brought in Peter Butterworth to play Sid's friend and next-door neighbour Trevor . While I liked Anthony Jackson's ' Trevor ' , Butterworth and Sid are a far more natural comedy team . Thirdly , they had Terry Scott and June Whitfield as the Abbott's new neighbours , the Baines . Scott's character is not the lovable ' Terry ' of ' Happy Ever After / Terry & June ' , in fact he's a pompous snob . These changes benefited the movie , though I wish the Geoff Love theme tune had been retained . Favourite bit ? Sid mowing the lawn with a tattered Panama hat on his head . ' Bless This House ' offers no startling insights into the human condition , but its a nice way to chill out on a Sunday afternoon .
Beware : Caesar !	At the London planetarium , Sloane has a rendezvous with a fellow U . N . I . T . agent - only to find him dead , two marks on his neck . Pursuing an attractive young woman , he is set upon by her minders , knocked out cold , and nearly electrocuted , until rescued by Torque . The dead agent had uncovered a plan to fire missiles at Caesar's Comet , thus altering its trajectory ( it passes Earth every 100 years ) and placing it on a collision course with North America . The villain of the piece is an old adversary - Jefferson Crane . But Crane died years ago . . . Stephen Kandel wrote the ' Harry Mudd ' episodes of ' Star Trek ' , as well as various ' Mission : Impossible ' capers . Though set in England , no location filming was done . Nice moment when Sloane is nearly murdered by a fake tailor . And one very surreal one when polo players attack Sloane's van with sticks .
" The Big Sayonara ! "	Carlos Casal , the premier of San Marcos , South America , is in the United States on an official visit . He has been receiving unknown threats urging him to stand down , so he calls on U . N . I . T . for protection . They send along their top man - Thomas Sloane . A group of men break into Casal's residence , overpower Sloane , and make off with the Premier's daughter Marja . Sloane identifies the leader as an old enemy of his called Tanaka . Highly skilled in the martial arts , Tanaka escaped from a Jakarta prison and founded a mystic cult , though he does odd jobs ( murder and kidnapping ) for KARTEL . Casal is told that in order to save his daughter's life he must resign on live television . San Marcos will then be run by a new KARTEL-friendly Premier . The one lead Sloane has is Carrie Baldwin , an ex-disciple who left the cult on realising that the ' Samurai ' was just another charlatan . He visits her at the Kabuki Theatre , Tokyo , where she works , and here is attacked by one of the players , Sato . Sloane tricks Sato into thinking he has killed him and follows at a discreet distance . Sato leads the agent back to Tanaka , though the wily Samurai has expected this and prepared a neat little trap in the form of an exploding ivory puzzle box . . . The second contribution to the series by Dick Nelson , his first being ' Tuned For Destruction ' , this is unique in that its the only episode to feature something resembling a believable plot . It also looks noticeably cheaper . Had the series lasted longer its my guess we would have seen a few more in similar vein . The late Japanese actor Mako is very good as ' Tanaka ' , providing a serious physical threat to the agent as well as getting rough with KARTEL boss Mr . Prentice ( Earl Boen ) . Nancy Conrad ( daughter of star Robert ) plays ' Carrie Baldwin ' . Fortunately , there's no lovey-dovey stuff between the characters or else the connotations could have been most unfortunate . She also acted alongside her old man in one of his previous shows : ' Black Sheep Squadron ' . Sloane's gadgets - a bugging device hidden in a badge . Torque's van comes equipped with a nifty little periscope . There's an amusing scene where Torque is caught breaking into Tanaka's place . He gives the guards a quick demonstration of his cybernetic hand , and then gasses them where they stand ! The episode climaxes with a sword fight between Sloane and Tanaka . My only beef is that the latter is defeated a bit too easily . A longer fight would have done the story a power of good . At least Conrad manages to look a lot more proficient in karate than Roger Moore did in ' The Man With The Golden Gun ' .
Bannister's Angels	Sloane and Torque are in France , watching technicians testing a new laser gun . Suddenly , they are attacked by a group of ' schoolgirls ' , who make off with the weapon . Sloane tries to stop them , but is overpowered and thrown out of a speeding truck . Luckily he has managed to steal a ruby without which the gun is useless . Only two more like it exist in the world . Posing as an African king , Torque auctions the diamond to the highest bidder , hoping it will lure whoever has the gun into the open . The party most interested is Bannister , leader of an all-girl terrorist squad known as ' Sweethearts ' . But someone else is too - Anna , Sloane's Russian counterpart . . . This story is a virtual remake of ' Death Ray 2000 ' , which had not been transmitted in the U . S . A . at that point . The idea of Sloane of teaming up with a beautiful Russian spy was a nod to ' The Spy Who Loved Me ' , released two years earlier . Why does Sloane discuss the mission with The Director , with Anna only a few feet away ? Sloane's latest gadget is a comb that fires an incapacitating ray . Obviously of no use whatever to Xander Cage . . .
" When the man at the top panics , the dominoes start to fall ! "	In the aftermath of Watergate , a number of conspiracy movies appeared , such as this one , written by the late Adam Kennedy ( based on his novel ) . Gene Hackman plays ex-Vietnam veteran ' Roy Tucker ' , a loser who has wound up in prison . He receives visits from Marvin Tagge ( Richard Widmark ) , who claims to represent an organisation designed to assist the wrongly convicted . They offer him freedom , and despite distrusting Tagge he accepts . But he brings along a fellow cell mate by the name of Spiventa ( Mickey Rooney ) . Exactly why is hard to see , as Spiventa is an irritating little man who drives Tucker mad with persistent talk of sex , not what you want to hear when you are behind bars . Tagge's benefactors kill Spiventa before Tucker's astonished eyes . Reunited with wife Ellie ( Candice Bergen ) , and given a new identity ( strangely , he does not attempt to change his appearance . Shaving off that cheesy moustache would have been a start ) , he settles down , but finds there is a catch - Tagge wants Tucker to do no less than assassinate the President of the United States . He refuses , so Tagge has Ellie abducted . . . I will leave the synopsis here , but I am sure you can guess the rest for yourself . The script has enough plot holes to make you want to read the book ( neat trick that ! ) . The people Tagge represents are never revealed . The allusions to J . F . K . ' s killing are unmistakable . Despite the findings of The Warren Commission , the doubt as to whether Lee Harvey Oswald acted alone persists to this day . This was Stanley Kramer's first movie in years , and while no turkey , it lacks the grip of say John Frankenheimer's ' The Manchurian Candidate ' or Alan J . Pakula's ' The Parallax View ' . Being a left-wing conspiracy movie , it tends to skirt around its subject matter instead of getting to grips with it . I prefer right-wing ones myself - they are funnier ! ' Domino ' has the look and feel of a made-for-T . V . movie , and boasts what must be the easiest prison escape in movie history not to mention an ending copped from the Michael Caine classic ' Get Carter ' . What makes it watchable are Gene Hackman and Richard Widmark . The latter , who sadly passed away earlier this year , is superb as the mysterious Tagge , who initially appears to be behind the operation until he too is ruthlessly eliminated , beginning a chain of deaths designed to remove all trace of evidence as one by one the perpetrators of this evil plot fall - just like dominoes . As Tucker , the innocent pawn , Hackman is marvellous . You have to wonder though why he chose to hide out in such an obvious place . In his shoes , I'd have fled to the other side of the world , anywhere to get away from these fanatics . Hackman's love scenes with Bergen slow the plot down , and it is almost a relief when she gets snatched . Presumably the producers thought so too , which explains why it opens with a bizarre prologue setting out the film's entire premise - voiced by British actor Patrick Allen - warning the audience that ' they ' are out there , and that ' they ' are out to get us . Comedian Les Dawson later spoofed this opening in his B . B . C . show ' The Dawson Watch ' . Mickey Rooney had earlier worked with Kramer on ' Its A Mad , Mad , Mad , Mad , Mad World ' . His ' death ' scene here resembles like an outtake from that picture , with the actor looking as though he has been stung by a wasp rather than shot dead . Conspiracy movies used to be only made by the left , but now the right are getting in on the act too . Last year , ' Taking Liberties ' , an absurd concoction of lies and half-truths about Tony Blair's Government turned out to be Britain's answer to ' Reefer Madness ' . At least , ' Domino ' had lovely Candice Bergen . The best Chris Atkins ' film could offer was Anne Widdecombe ! Surprisingly , ' The Domino Principle ' was made by Sir Lew Grade , the legendary British television mogul behind ' The Saint ' , ' Jesus Of Nazareth ' and ' The Muppet Show ' . He worked with Adam Kennedy again in 1980 on ' Raise The Titanic ! ' , whose failure was so great it sank Grade's ambitions of being the new Louis B . Meyer . Being somewhat open-minded , I would not rule out the possibility of a conspiracy .
" Its his brain we care about , my dear ! "	This was the American public's first sighting of Priority One agent for U . N . I . T . - Thomas Remington Sloane The Third . British audiences , however , got the pilot - ' T . R . Sloane Of The Secret Service ' ( later retitled ' Death Ray 2000 ' ) - first when it was shown over the Christmas 1979 period . I can remember tuning in to this a few months later and feeling confused . Where was Robert Logan ? How did Torque survive and why is he now working for U . N . I . T . ? It was by Peter Alan Fields , whose other television credits include ' The Minus X Affair ' episode of ' The Man From U . N . C . L . E . ' and ' The Six Million Dollar Man ' caper ' The Seven Million Dollar Man ' . Posing as a thief named Cooper , Sloane is on a small plane soaring over vast acres of woodland . The pilot is the beautiful Krista ( Christine de Lisle ) . Concealed on his person are stolen K-3 plutonium energised pellets , which he hopes to sell to her employer . Krista thinks he is about to jack up the price , hence Sloane is ejected into the sky . Luckily , he remembered to put on a parachute that morning . Landing in a tree , he is met by Melrose ( Jack Tyree ) , a tall , impossibly handsome man who demands he hand over the pellets . Melrose's employer - the eccentric Manfred Baranoff - discovers they are fakes , and orders his servant to kill Sloane . After a fight , Sloane throws the parachute over his attacker , and pushes him down a steep bank . Baranoff retrieves the ' corpse ' . Melrose is a robot . Several fantasy T . V . shows of the period featured mad scientists out to control the world using androids . Henry Jones pitted his wits against the ' Six Million Dollar Man ' no less than three times , while John Houseman menaced ' The Bionic Woman ' in the ' Kill Oscar ! ' three-parter . Here in the U . K . , ' The Last Of The Cybernauts ? ' wanted rid of John Steed , Mike Gambit and Purdey of ' The New Avengers ' . This ' Sloane ' adventure is really no worse than any of them . Manfred's robots don't kill people by flailing their arms though - they have flame throwers built into their mouths ! Sloane's gadgets - a pipe gun and an ink spray . Roddy McDowall guest-stars as ' Manfred Baranoff ' , and as you would expect from someone who was in Adam West's ' Batman ' does not underplay the role . Its a pity he is underused instead . To add insult to injury , he is killed off well before the end . Baranoff has built a super-robot named ' Alexander ' ( Chris Marlowe ) , intended to be his alter ego . But in true ' Frankenstein ' style , the robot turns out smarter than expected , and kills his creator . Blessed with telepathic abilities ( which make his eyes glow ) , Alexander is able to steal more K-3 pellets and energise further robots . With ten under his command , he orders them to break into a private nuclear research facility , intending to energise an army of 500 . He is too ludicrous to be really menacing ( it does not help that our first sighting of him is under what looks like a ladies ' hairdryer and wearing T-shirt and shorts ) . Despite his being nothing more than a pile of nuts and bolts , Krista is attracted to him . Kinky ! The other leading lady here is Diane Stilwell as sculptor ' Sara Nightingale ' . Her big moment comes when she uses a silver tea tray to help Sloane escape one of Baranoff's impenetrable force-fields . We never know for sure , but presumably Alexander has removed the robot's major weakness - they short-circuit on falling into pools . Of course the agent manages to locate another in time for the final fade-out . A lively start to ' A . M . C . S ' . Hokum , but it hooks you .
" I Think We Gave Him The Slip ! "	A U . S . space probe to Venus brings back an unwelcome hitch-hiker - a microbe capable of destroying all life on Earth . Dr . Charles Franklyn is part of a team of scientists working on an antidote , only to steal both the microbe and antidote with the help of the lovely Charlene . Sloane and Torque chase after him , and are pursued by an ambulance whose siren doubles as a rocket launcher . Franklyn gets away , handing his booty to evil gambling den owner and KARTEL agent Jonathan Cambro . The ungrateful Cambro tests the antidote on a live subject - Franklyn himself . When the scientist dies , Cambro realises the antidote is incomplete . Apparently Franklyn mislaid a page when transcribing the formula in his mountain cabin . The person who has it is Melissa Nelson , a sexy detective hired by Franklyn's wife to keep tabs on him . Eager-to-please Melissa has no idea of how important she has suddenly become . . . Marc Brandel wrote for the original ' Danger Man ' starring Patrick McGoohan , and the short-lived ' Amos Burke Secret Agent ' . He could have called this ' The Satan Bug ' had the title not been used already . Its another outing for that hoary old spy clich - killer virus threatens Mankind . Sloane has only twenty-four hours to retrieve the antidote as the scientists who developed it are trapped in their lab . He and Cambro have met before , apparently , the latter was responsible for the death of a woman Sloane loved . Which makes it all the more strange why Sloane doesn't exact a more satisfying revenge than the one eventually achieved - he simply punches the villain in the stomach . The underrated Monte Markham plays ' Cambro ' ; fans of ' The Six Million Dollar Man ' will recall he played bionic ' Barney ' in two memorable episodes : ' The Seven Million Dollar Man ' ( written by Peter Alan Fields , co-author of this episode ) and ' Bionic Criminal ' ) as well as being one of the hired gunslingers in ' Guns Of The Magnificent Seven ' . Why he never achieved stardom is a mystery . Fellow cast member Morgan Fairchild , who played ' Melissa ' , fared rather better , notching up roles in hit 80's soaps ' Dallas ' and ' Flamingo Road ' . Sloane's gadget - a pen torch capable of projecting light that can open locks . Very handy . Best bit - the ambulance chase . Whilst hardly in the same league as ' Bullitt ' , it gets the episode off to a good start . Luckily , our man is prepared for such an eventuality - he sprays the road with oil , causing said ambulance to go spinning off the road . Cue witty quip ( quoted above ) .
Gentle humour from Jimmy	This popular Harry Driver / Vince Powell series starred the late , great Jimmy Jewel as Tommy , an embittered pensioner forced to go and live with his daughter and her garrulous husband in their high-rise flat after his house is demolished by the local council . Feeling a misfit , he goes for a walk in the park , where he meets Charlie , a young Cockney tearaway being raised by his single mum . The old man becomes a father figure to the boy and soon they are to be seen fishing , walking and sharing their wildly differing views on life . If this were made now , there'd almost be a ' Brass Eye'-style public outcry , even though its plainly obvious that there's nothing sexual going on between Tommy and Charlie . One episode addressed this concern directly , and for once the normally boisterous studio audience was silent . ' Spring & Autumn ' was warm , funny , altogether charming , and its a sad reflection on our present-day society when a series such as this cannot be made for fear of people jumping to the wrong conclusions .
David's Lost Weekend	Dennis has got a fortnight's holiday entitlement , and does not know what to do with himself , so Duffy books him into a guest house near the seaside . It isn't the most exciting place in the world to be ; the residents are elderly , and some appear senile . With no-one of his own age to talk to , Dennis quickly becomes bored . Hearing that his father is in hospital , Dennis cuts short the holiday . He finds a very different David Dunstable to the one he is used to - clean , well-mannered , and - most surprising of all - stone-cold sober . Dennis suggests his father return with him to the seaside . But for how long will the new image last ? Once more the late Peter Bayliss turns in a funny performance as ' David Dunstable ' , the man who makes Albert Steptoe seem like Noel Coward . Part of the fun here is the contrast between the drunken old sot he usually is and the reformed character he becomes . There's also a delightful film sequence showing Dennis at the seaside , which effectively conveys his boredom without once becoming boring itself . Funniest moment - David asking Nurse Maureen for a bedpan , and then - because he has the D . T . ' s - using it to swat imaginary insects on his bed !
For My Next Trick . . .	In a cruel irony , ex-teacher Bernard Hedges is out of work , while his former pupils have landed good jobs . The Labour Exchange offers him the exciting prospect of ' wizarding ' - demonstrating kitchen appliances at a department store whilst dressed as a wizard . But the food mixers and blenders cannot be turned off and , on pulling the plugs , he inadvertently causes a power failure . His next job is as debt collector for the same firm of private investigators which employs Frankie Abbott . In yet another cruel irony , he is sent to the very department store which had dismissed him . . . John Alderton was once quoted as saying he would be happy if a crane were to fall on his ' Please Sir ' / ' Fenn Street Gang ' character ' Bernard Hedges ' . After three seasons , various Christmas specials , a movie and two episodes of the spin-off , he was bored with playing the mild-mannered teacher . To his credit , his boredom is not evident on screen . This was his penultimate appearance in the role . Hedges may have been unemployed , but there was no danger of anything similar happening to Alderton . After ' Fenn Street ' , he was next seen in the second season of L . W . T . ' s hugely successful Edwardian drama ' Upstairs , Downstairs ' in which he played Welsh manservant cum chauffeur ' Thomas Watkins ' . He went on to star in a further five hit television series in the ' 70's alone . Robin Askwith makes a guest appearance as ' Eddie ' , Craven's friend . Unconfirmed reports suggest he may have been a last minute replacement for Peter Cleall's ' Duffy ' . Two years later , Askwith was to be seen running around bare-arsed in the ' Confessions ' series of sex farces . Funniest moment - Hedges finding Penny in a massage parlour ( she works there as a masseuse , but hasn't told her husband ) and jumping to the wrong conclusion !
Frankie Turns Criminal !	At an army reunion , Frankie is reunited with his old pal Chalky White . Also in attendance is Sergeant Hardman , their old nemesis . Frankie takes the opportunity to turn the tables by publicly humiliating the ex-sergeant with the aid of a cream cake and a soda syphon . Later , at Chalky's flat , Frankie is given a valuable grandfather clock for safekeeping . The bailiffs are due the next day , and Chalky does not want them to have it . But the clock is stolen property and the flat not his . When he realises this , Frankie has to break in to try and return it before the owner - Sergeant Hardman , by the way - notices it is missing . . . Another funny Stuckey / Robinson script , benefiting hugely from the guest appearances of the wonderful Alfie Bass and Alan Curtis , the latter had been the ' Captain Of The Guards ' on Frankie's B . B . C . show ' Whoops Baghdad ! ' . Linda Thorson looks incredible in a see-through nightie ( obviously topless underneath ) as the sex-mad ' Eve ' , a role far removed from Steed's glamorous sidekick - ' Tara King ' - in ' The Avengers ' . Spot the mistake - Frankie says " Tonight I want to talk about my war experiences . " . But he does not . The episode is set in the present day . Funniest moment - Alfie Bass getting a line wrong . Instead of ' dyspepsia ' , he says ' nervous disposition ' , causing Frankie to splutter ' nervous what ? ' . Bass collapses in a heap of giggles , but to his credit , Alan Curtis stays stone-faced throughout .
" Mamma Mia ! "	With his mother away , Frankie has the house all to himself . He boasts to the other Gang members that he intends getting ' a couple of birds ' . With Dennis in tow , he chats up a pair of Italian girls ; Liza , who is pretty , and Gina , who isn't ( and also upset because she is pregnant ) . In the nearest bus shelter ( a favourite spot of courting couples ) , they blow their chances with the girls . But news of their amorous intentions reaches ' Papa ' - the Godfather like leader of the girls ' family . Thinking Frankie to be the father of Gina's child , they force him to propose marriage . . . I suppose ' The Godfather ' was uppermost in the minds of Geoff Rowley and Andy Baker when they wrote this , hence the reference to ' sleeping with the fishes ' . Its a good episode , even if the Italians are hand-waving , pot-bellied stereotypes ( and that's just the women ) . David Barry gets to do some physical comedy as he struggles to elude Gina's brothers when they invade his house . Lynda Bellingham plays ' Liza ' . What a lady ! Great actress and beautiful to boot . The ' 70's were a good time for her . After seeing her flashing her boobs in ' Confessions Of A Driving Instructor ' , it was difficult for me to accept her as ' the Oxo lady ' . Her overwrought sister , Gina , is portrayed by Rosalind Eliot , who became a semi-regular in Season 2 , though as a different character - the dimwitted ' Celeste ' . Funniest moment - a policeman and policewoman turf snogging teenagers out of the bus shelter , and as soon as they are alone begin snogging each other !
Frankie On Trial !	While reporting a stolen car to the police , Frankie is asked to take part in an identity parade . He is made to wear an old coat , and stand in line with other similarly attired men . An old woman named Mrs . Beauchum claims to have been bothered by a flasher , and picks Frankie as the culprit . Poor Frankie goes to court , and brings on character witnesses who turn out to be totally useless . Things look grave for him . Mrs . Beauchum finally admits to having invented the charge , simply to get her own back on Frankie for all the bad jokes she has endured over the years . . . Another Stuckey / Robinson collaboration , this one bringing Frankie into conflict with the law . Joan Sims reappears ( though as a different character ) , John Junkin plays a Police Sergeant ( as he did in countless other sitcoms of the period ) , and there's an astounding turn by Robin Hawdon ( ' Randolph ' the music teacher in ' Bedazzled ' ) as a camp policeman named ' P . C . Trimble ' . One wonders if the role was originally written with John Inman in mind . As was the case with Nicholas McArdle's ' Dr . Smelley ' , Hawdon comes tantalisingly close to upstaging Howerd , no mean feat . Frankie's attempted cross-examination of himself would have been hilarious had Woody Allen not done the gag first in the film ' Bananas ' in 1971 . Funniest moment - the line-up scene . At the command of the Sergeant , the suspects - Frankie included - are made to open and close their coats in rapid succession . Believe me , it looks funnier than it sounds !
" Do you want sex now or later ? "	Frankie tries computer dating , and meets Nellie , a three-times married widow with some strange habits such as playing an imaginary piano . He is repulsed by her initially , but weakens , eventually proposing marriage . To celebrate , she offers to cook him Chilli Con Carne . Frankie tucks in gratefully . What he does not know is that his fiance has recently escaped from a lunatic asylum . She was put there because of her love of poisoning husbands . . . Dick Hills was one half of the writing team behind Morecambe and Wise's shows and movies in the ' 60's . Here he comes up with an amiable bit of nonsense , essentially a two-hander involving Howerd and Joan Sims ( yes , her again ) , spoilt only by some unnecessary cutaways to Dr . Morgan's clinic . Frankie chatting to himself courtesy of video trickery does not work either , the device was not used again after this . Frankie's cat Godfrey plays a pivotal role in the plot , which means the word ' pussy ' gets bandied around an awful lot , I'm afraid . The story's time scale is slightly askew ; if Nellie has only just broken out of the asylum by taking the place of Mrs . Palethorpe , how could she have found time to register with a dating agency ? Whatever its flaws , the episode was considered strong enough to go out at the start of the show's one and only run in 1976 . Funniest moment - Suspecting he has been poisoned , Frankie looks at the camera and says : " This is just like Lacenic and Old Arse ! " .
" I've been caught by the Privates ! "	Its World War Two , and Frankie is part of a concert party out to entertain the troops in France . After becoming separated from his platoon , he wanders into an old farmhouse , wherein he is captured by members of The French Resistance , led by the stunning Captain Latour . Establishing his nationality by scrawling the word ' bum ' on a wall , Frankie is hurriedly bundled into a German Captain's uniform , moments before the Germans arrive . Having convinced them , Frankie finds himself having to backtrack when the British show up in force . . . Hugh Stuckey was an Australian comedy writer who worked on a number of British shows in the ' 70's , usually in collaboration with Peter Robinson . Stuckey had been the principal writer on the ill-fated ' Hancock Down Under ' series , never completed due to Hancock's suicide . This caper is what you would expect from a Frankie Howerd show , and may or may not have provided an influence on the later ' Allo , Allo ' . Caroline Munro , who plays ' Captain Latour ' was a stunningly beautiful woman who appeared in several films in the ' 70's , most notably ' Naomi ' the helicopter pilot in ' The Spy Who Loved Me ' . Funniest moment - attempting to cheer up the troops with his famed George Formby impression , Frankie is thrown bodily out of a moving truck . Clambering to his feet , he remarks : " How was I to know they didn't like George Formby ? " .
" Dr . Smelley ? He sounds a real stinker ! "	Frankie goes into hospital to have a tonsillectomy , but finds the staff , especially the wise-cracking Dr . Smelley and bullish Matron Scuttlebutt , a pain . The receptionist fails to recognise him and old men in striped pyjamas bombard him with their ailments . To make matters worse , he is placed in a small ward with aged Mr . Cockspur , whose cries of ' I want my bottle ' every few seconds get on his nerves . Frankie receives a visit from his agent , who cannot even remember his name . Some consolation comes in the curvy shape of Nurse Barron . . . This long-forgotten series has just resurfaced on D . V . D . While not up to standard of ' Up Pompeii ! ' , its a lot better than some of Frankie's other shows , particularly ' Then Churchill Said To Me ' . Talbot Rothwell's script has much in common with his script for the 1968 film ' Carry On Doctor ' . The same leading man for one thing , a battle axe of a matron , insane patients , and a sexpot nurse . Oh , and acres of bad puns . Joan Sims ' ' Matron Scuttlebutt ' is not far removed from ' Matron Joanna Sweet ' , her character in ' Doctor In Clover ' in 1966 . Madeline Smith is ' Nurse Barron ' and , as you'd expect , her busty substances ( to borrow a phrase of Peter Cook's ) are displayed to maximum effect . All good fun but nothing really special . Funniest moment - Frankie attempting to administer a bottle to Mr . Cockspur , resulting in the old man's plastered leg falling on top of him , and the entire bed collapsing !
' Hi-de-Hi ' Was Never Like This !	Having failed dismally with their driving school , Sid Noggett ( Tony Booth ) and Timmy Lea ( Robin Askwith ) head off to Funfrall Holiday Camp , a paradise where the possibilities for sex are limitless . The only thing missing is the weather . But then their fun is stymied by the arrival of new manager Whitemonk ( John Junkin ) , a former prison governor . He wants to impose militaristic discipline on the staff . Noggett proposes a beauty contest . The Lea family turn up en masse and begin causing trouble , in particular Dad ( Bill Maynard ) who gets involved in an ongoing dispute with the father of a cheeky kid ( Nicholas Owen , ' Tristan ' from ' George & Mildred ' ) . Timmy's numerous sexual exploits become increasingly public , leading the manager to conclude there is a mad streaker on the loose . Against Sid's wishes , Rosie enters the beauty contest . But when the kid chucks a cream pie at a contestant , all hell breaks loose . . . I used to work in a holiday camp ( as a chef ) so know how accurate a lot of this film is . Some of the things I saw would make even Timmy blush ! It is the usual slap and tickle , enlivened by guest appearances from John Junkin , Colin Crompton ( from ' The Wheeltappers & Shunters Social Club ' ) and Lance Percival ( whose role of ' Lionel ' seems to have been written for Kenneth Williams ! ) . The formula was looking a bit tired by this time ; this entry closely resembles ' Holiday On The Buses ' , while the finale was obviously inspired by that of ' Carry On Girls ' ( both 1973 ) . Liz Fraser and Linda Hayden , both of whom featured in earlier ' Confessions ' pictures , return as different characters . Sue Upton ( later to be one of Benny Hill's ' Angels ' ) and Caroline Ellis are particularly good as a pair of giggling Brummie girls called ' Glad ' and ' Reen ' . Shame about Timmy's racist remarks to ' Blackbird ' ( Nicola Blackman ) though . Top marks to the cast for throwing themselves into the piece with abandon . It could not have been easy being filmed in bikinis and swimming trunks in March . Funniest moment ? Whitemonk complaining to Sid about the streaker , while behind him a naked Timmy thrashes about in a pool . ' Confessions Of A Plumber's Mate ' was planned next , but Columbia unexpectedly shut down film production in the U . K . , and it went unmade , though Stanley A . Long cheekily put into production the not-dissimilar sounding ' Adventures Of A Plumber's Mate ' . That too was the last of its line . British audiences were beginning to be more interested by American comedies such as ' National Lampoon's Animal House ' and ' 10 ' . I hope no-one tries to revive ' Confessions ' ; like the ' Carry On ' films , they were of their time . Naughty but nice !
Charity Begins At Home	I do miss Leslie Crowther . Though hardly one of Britain's greatest ever comedians , he had great likability and charisma , and could turn his hand to anything , whether it be kids T . V . ( ' Crackerjack ' ) , variety shows ( ' The Saturday Crowd ' ) , sketch shows ( ' Crowther's In Town ' ) , talent shows ( ' Stars In Your Eyes ' ) , and , of course , sitcoms . His first , ' The Reluctant Romeo ' , was for the B . B . C . and made no impact on the world . He later described it as an embarrassment , believing himself to be ' totally miscast ' . He fared somewhat better with his second . ' My Good Woman ' , made by A . T . V . , starred Crowther as ' Clive Gibbons ' , an antiques dealer constantly at loggerheads with wife Sylvia ( Sylvia Syms ) , who is heavily involved in local charity work . She hates to see things being thrown away , meaning Clive is up to his neck in jumble sale fodder most of the time . Exerting an Svengali-like influence on her is the local vicar , the Reverend Martin Hooper ( Richard Wilson , in his first major sitcom role ) . Clive's best friend is Philip Broadmore ( Keith Barron ) , also his next-door neighbour , a man whose tight-fistedness could give Scrooge a run for his money . When Barron left after two seasons , Glyn Houston replaced him as ' Bob Berris ' , darts player and ladies man . One typical episode had Clive agreeing to stand in for his wife on ' Meals On Wheels ' duties . Unfortunately , he collected the wrong list of names , and handed out meals to people who did not need them . Realising his error , he tried to snatch a plate of food away from a man halfway through the repast . If one had to define ' My Good Woman ' it must be as ' middle of the road ' . The whole set-up - husband and wife , next-door neighbour , vicar , comic misunderstandings - was very ' Terry & June ' . Crowther and Syms had great chemistry together though , very much as Terry Scott had with June Whitfield . The writer , Ronnie Taylor , went on to pen David Jason's first solo success ' A Sharp Intake Of Breath ' , which also featured Richard Wilson . While not an outstanding comedy writer as such , like Vince Powell , he knew how to construct a sitcom , and while its hard to avoid charges of blandness , the amiable show was a five season hit . There was also a sketch in the 1973 All-Star Comedy Carnival , and this is the only bit of the show I own .
What John Alderton Did Next . . .	' Please Sir ! ' was a massive success for I . T . V . in the late ' 60's / early ' 70's , making John Alderton into a household name . He left the show at the start of its fourth and final season in 1971 . Naturally he was not about to sign on at the local Employment Exchange . Television companies kept him gainfully employed for much of the decade . His next sitcom role would be as ' George Bassett ' in the B . B . C . - . 1 show ' My Wife Next Door ' . George and Suzy ( the lovely Hannah Gordon ) are newly divorced , and have moved to the countryside . But - in one of those incredible coincidences you only ever find in sitcoms - they find they have unknowingly bought cottages next door to each other . Each tosses a coin to see who will move out . But it does not happen ( naturally , or there would have been no show ) , and they have to make the best of a bad situation . It was like a middle-class version of ' Love Thy Neighbour ' minus the racial element . When I tell you that Tim Barrett played George's friend and colleague ' Henry ' , Diana King played Suzy's mother , and Mollie Sugden was cast as George's mother , you should be able to correctly guess what it was like . It was one of several middle of the road sitcoms penned by the late Richard Waring , whose other credits include ' Not In Front Of The Children ' starring Wendy Craig , ' The Many Wives Of Patrick ' with Patrick Cargill , ' Rings On Their Fingers ' with Martin Jarvis and Diane Keen , and ' Marriage Lines ' with Richard Briers and Prunella Scales - shows that somehow managed to pull off the trick of being pleasantly amusing without ever being particularly funny . The basic idea for ' Door ' was co-credited to Brian Clemens , best known for his work on ' The Avengers ' television series . Middle of the road or not , it topped the ratings in 1972 , helped along by the the charm of stars Alderton and Gordon . William Franklyn and ' Dad's Army ' star James Beck made one-off guest appearances . Rather like the later ' To The Manor Born ' , there was an element of ' will they , won't they ' to the show . As it progressed , George and Suzy stopped hating one another , and the fire that was their marriage slowly rekindled . In the last episode , they raced to prevent the divorce from becoming final . It meant that there was no chance of a second series , but did not matter as the comic possibilities had more or less been exhausted by the first . In one episode as I recall , George and Suzy had to pretend to be still wed so as not to upset an elderly relative . He found out at the end though , and was far from pleased . The thirteen episodes were repeated well into the ' 80's . ' U . K . Gold ' showed it several times , but have not done so now for over a decade . Its continuing absence from D . V . D . is perplexing given its enormous popularity at the time . If it were to become available , I would buy it , mainly for the pleasure of seeing these marvellous actors at their best . I would like to end this review by wishing a Merry Christmas to all I . M . D . B . users - in particular fellow comedy fans ' cornonthecobb ' , ' Ecky Thump ' , ' Cyril Blake ' and ' Deathmark VIII ' . Have a good one !
Norman Throws Away The Cloth Cap	As the ' 60's began to swing , a sea change took place in British comedy . Family-oriented fare gave way to a much ruder , cruder style . The ' Carry On ' films were well placed to take advantage of this , but poor old Norman Wisdom found himself out in the cold . Determined not to be left behind , he co-wrote and co-produced this low-budget sex farce for Tigon Pictures . In it , he plays ' Timothy Bartlett ' , a meek , middle-aged businessman , happily married to Margaret , and a devoted father . En route to a banker's conference at the seaside , he gives a lift to a pair of free-spirited young women , one of whom is ' Nikki ' , played by future ' Bless This House ' star Sally Geeson . The girls annoy him at first , eating his sandwiches and urging him to overtake lorry drivers , but he winds up becoming infatuated by Nikki , and tracks her down to a discotheque . Sneaking her into his room , they wind up in bed , and over the course of the next few days he learns to love life again . Soon he is wearing trendy clothes and they are riding the Big Dipper at funfair's , dancing , and even skinny-dipping ! Timothy installs Nikki in a flat he has bought . But the fun ends when he finds her in bed with a younger man . Devastated , he accuses her of behaving like a whore . The relationship is over . Rather than go home , he sends for his wife , and behaves with her the same way he did with Nikki . ' Goose ' plays like a 60's version of ' Shirley Valentine ' with the sex of the main character reversed . Norman does not do drugs here thank goodness ( besides , he already had a trip in ' The Early Bird ' when he ate doped apples ) , but seeing him frollicking with a young woman must have been a tremendous shock to his fans . Some traces of ' Pitkin ' remain , however . When Timothy enters the disco , two men swinging from a rope Tarzan-style crash into him sideways . Locked out of his room , he climbs up the side of the hotel . The dialogue could have been a bit sharper . For a sex farce , there's surprisingly little innuendo . Its amazingly sweet-natured too . The film's main strengths are Norman's and Sally's performances , plus supporting roles from Derek Francis , Terance Alexander and Paul Whitsun-Jones . And a great soundtrack from Reg Tilsley ! ' Goose ' bridged the gap between the old school of British comedy ( in which accident-prone losers like Norman became winners ) , and the ' oo er missus ' stuff of the ' 70's , such as the ' Confessions ' series . Well worth a look .
Norman Catches The Worm !	Mention the name Norman Wisdom to many and the chances are the first thing they think of is of him in that ill-fitting ' gump ' suit , mugging frantically , falling over to the strangulated cry of ' Mr . Grimsdale ! ' . Comedy film fans may make the sign of the cross at his name , but the fact is he was the No . 1 British box office star for well over a decade . There is nothing pretentious about him or his films . You do not need to be ' in ' on the joke because there is nothing to be in on . Now it is very different - unfunny material can make millions for its creators as long as it is perceived to be ' cutting-edge ' . Norman's brand of knockout comedy was old hat even in his hey-day , owing a debt to silent era comics such as Chaplin and Keaton . But he soon put on his own stamp on the genre , finding out what worked for him and what did not . His regular ' stooges ' were Edward Chapman as his boss , the aforementioned ' Mr . Grimsdale ' , and long-faced Jerry Desmonde as the pompous authority figure whose side Norman becomes a thorn in . ' The Early Bird ' was the last time all three appeared together . It came along at a time when British film comedy was becoming less and less family oriented ( look at 1966's ' Doctor In Clover ' and compare it with the earlier Dirk Bogarde ones ) . Norman tried to move with the times by going into colour , and then parted company with his producer Hugh Stewart , who went on to make three pictures with Morecambe and Wise . Norman once more is ' Pitkin ' , this time a milkman for Grimsdale's Dairies , a small-town firm under threat from the much-bigger ' Consolidated Dairies ' . When he finds broken bottles on his round , it amounts to a declaration of war . Consolidated Dairies's top milkman is ' Austin ' ( Brian Pringle ) , and when they confront one another in a deserted street it is like ' High Noon ' all over again . " Little men like you do not stand a chance ! " , sneers Austin , before landing a nasty-looking punch to Pitkin's jaw . But when the ' little man ' is Norman , he is in with more than just a chance . Right , that's the premise established . What about the slapstick ? Well , Norman is dragged through Desmonde's garden on an out of control lawnmower , disguises himself as a vicar to gatecrash Desmonde's game of golf with ' The Colonel ' ( John Le Mesurier ) , eats doped apples intended for his horse Nellie ( a sequence more disturbing than all 75 minutes of Roger Corman's ' The Trip ' ) , falls downstairs goodness knows how many times , and manages to nearly demolish Consolidated Dairies's H . Q . No wonder Norman was offered the role of ' Frank Spencer ' before Michael Crawford . Corny ? Yes . But there's nothing wrong with corn . Despite the many fun moments , Norman's popularity was in rapid decline . His next picture - ' Press For Time ' - combined the knockabout stuff with a half-hearted attempt at political satire , and his 1969 offering ' What's Good For The Goose ' saw him shedding the cloth-cap ( along with everything else ) by jumping into bed with Sally Geeson of ' Bless This House ' . Whether you like ' The Early Bird ' depends on whether you like Norman , and to many he is simply is not funny . But he gave a lot of pleasure to an awful of people - including the entire population of Albania - and I suspect his cheap and cheerful movies will still be gracing Saturday afternoons long after the ' cutting-edge ' stuff has been forgotten .
Back To St . Swithins	' Doctor On The Go ' saw Duncan Waring and Dick Stuart-Clark back at St . Swithins , and once more under the watchful eye of Professor Sir Geoffrey Loftus . New characters included the permanently inebriated Scot ' Dr . Andrew MacKenzie ' ( played by future ' Terry & June ' scriptwriter John Kane ) , the conceited ' Bingham'-like ' Dr . James Gascoigne ' ( the late Andrew Knox ) , and ' Dr . Kate Wright ' ( the attractive Jacquie-Ann Carr ) , who became Waring's regular girlfriend . Of particular note is the episode ' For Your Own Good ' which marked a welcome return to writing duties for Graham Chapman , who co-wrote it with the then-unknown Douglas Adams . Two new writers were Rob Buckman and Chris Beetles , later to land a show of their own - the very funny ( and bizarrely forgotten ) ' The Pink Medicine Show ' . It was business as usual for the St . Swithins gang , even if they now looked a little long-in-the-tooth to be still chasing pretty nurses . In the final episode - ' Happy Ever After ' - Waring and Kate announced marriage plans - only to abandon them at the very last minute . Though the door was kept open for another series , L . W . T . turned off the life support machine on Richard Gordon's creation , concluding one of I . T . V . ' s biggest ever comedy successes . Waring and Stuart-Clark would next be seen in ' Doctor Down Under ' , an Australian T . V . spin-off in 1979 , and then in 1991 crossed channels for the unsuccessful ' Doctor At The Top ' .
" I am not what I seem ! "	Released in 1964 , ' A Hard Day's Night ' was a movie classic . ' Help ' , which came out a year later , had the potential to be better still ; a bigger budget , colour , exotic locations , top-notch British character actors of the calibre of Leo McKern , Patrick Cargill , Victor Spinetti and Roy Kinnear . Yet despite all these plus factors , it turned out to be a major disappointment . Having wisely retained the services of director Richard Lester , producer Walter Shenson inexplicably failed to hold onto writer Alun Owen . Marc Behm and Charles Wood's script for ' Help ! ' is , frankly , dreadful . The plot - such as it is - concerns a mystic Eastern sect who pursue the Fab Four all over the world in an effort to recover a sacred ring , which has somehow gotten stuck on Ringo's finger . For sheer inanity , it gives the worst of Elvis Presley's celluloid efforts a run for their money . Much of the Goonish humour seems forced , and the cast constantly winking at the audience grows wearing . Sadly missed are Norman Rossington , John Junkin and Wilfred Brambell from the first film . John Lennon later likened ' Help ! ' to the ' Batman ' television series . I think it has more in common with ' The Monkees ' . Arch plots such as this were routine in that show . The decision to turn ' Help ! ' into a larger-than-life action comedy is the main reason for its artistic failure . The pseudo-documentary look of ' Night ' suited The Beatles down to the ground ; all they had to do was be themselves . Here they are required to react to bizarre happenings , and aren't able to convince themselves , let alone the audience . Their frequent cries of ' ho ho ho ' leads one to believe they were so high on pot they forgot they were making a film . Lennon's comment about how they ' became extras in their own film ' is accurate . With McKern , Cargill and Spinetti hamming it up outrageously , and Eleanor Bron looking stunningly sexy in Julie Harris ' costumes , how could it have been otherwise ? The best gags in ' Help ! ' are visual , such as The Beatles simultaneously entering four houses and being reunited in a single room , and Patrick Cargill getting out of a small plane to be greeted by a massive flight of steps . But the overall impression is one of complacency on the part of the production team . They knew that the film was likely to make a mint , so were not too concerned with minor details such as a script . ' Help ! ' only comes to life when The Beatles perform ; the ' Ticket To Ride ' sequence in the Austrian Alps is stunning ( love the notes on the telegraph lines ) , as is the ' Another Girl ' section in the Bahamas . My favourite , though , is ' You've Got To Hide Your Love Away ' . Marvellous photography throughout . Its no wonder that Lester later became regarded as the ' father ' of M . T . V . An underrated aspect of ' Help ! ' is the incidental music . Ken Thorne caught the Bond-like atmosphere to a tee , and even includes a clever homage to Monty Norman's ' James Bond Theme ' at one point . ' Help ! ' is a relic from the time when The Beatles were conquering the world . Its worth watching for the music , but it could and should have been so much better .
Billy's Kung Fu Fighting !	Billy has been bitten by the Kung Fu bug . To the horror of fiance Barbara , he breaks off their engagement ( again ) to embark on a quest to China ( or India or Pakistan , he does not know where ) in search of his spiritual destiny . Billy's Dad is more interested in knowing where his gardening hat and tool bag have mysteriously vanished to . His son is keeping them under his bed , intending to take them with him to the East . Mr . Shadrach , in the meantime , is alarmed at the spectacle of his junior clerk smashing urns and practising martial arts moves around the funeral parlour . . . The movie ' Enter The Dragon ' ( starring the late Bruce Lee , of course ) in 1973 provoked a worldwide craze for martial arts movies that even infected British sitcoms . The same year this episode of ' Billy Liar ' went out , ' Steptoe & Son ' did ' The Seven Steptoerai ' , a very funny homage to Akiro Kurasawa , climaxing with a pitched battle between a gang of thugs and Albert's pensioner friends . Most of Billy's daydreams are spoofs of the hit American series ' Kung Fu ' which starred David Carradine . Billy plays ' Caine ' ( the Carradine character ) with his Dad as the blind ' Master Po ' ( played in the original by Keye Luke ) . Alan Chuntz choreographed the fights , which are unusually violent for a prime time sitcom . The scene where Mr . Fisher punches Billy in the face made my jaw drop . Funniest moment - Billy's ' Ironside ' impression , achieved with the aid of his granny's wheelchair !
Billy Sees A Shrink !	Concerned by his son's inability to tell a truthful word , Mr . Fisher consults eminent psychiatrist Dr . Smiley . Questioning Billy , the doctor concludes that the elaborate fantasies are as a result of his craving for affection . Hence the Fishers , Gran , and even Mr . Shadrack , endeavour to be as nice to Billy as possible . But the strain of smiling all day long proves too much for them , and they start hitting the bottle . . . The peerless Roy Kinnear guest stars as ' Dr . Smiley ' . If nothing else , this episode gives us a chance to see George A . Cooper's father in a different key , being quieter and less aggressive towards Billy . By this stage in the series , Mr . Shadrach was almost one of the family . Though he does not really need to go along with the ' be nice to Billy ' deception , he pitches in all the same . Funniest moment - Gran sneakily helping herself to Mr . Fisher's whisky !
Billy Drops Out !	Stealing a model Concorde from a display in Mr . Shadrach's window , Billy is having the time of his life in the shopping mall pretending to be a pilot when he hears his name called . His old friend Colin Westmacott has become a guitar-playing hippie who rejoices in the new name of ' Slug ' , and , with his sexy girlfriend ' Fifty-Five ' , plans on going to a commune in Cornwall . He invites Billy to come along . Thinking that a new life of unlimited free love awaits , Billy agrees . But first there's the problem of what to do with his new friends . Billy smuggles Slug into his bedroom , whilst installing ' Fifty-Five ' in his dad's television repair van . Unbeknowest to him , Slug smuggles the girl in through the window . Billy tells his parents he plans on becoming a hippie , and they hit the roof . . . Sooner or later , hippies were bound to turn up in ' Billy Liar ' . ' Slug ' is played by Simon Rouse , better known these days as ' D . C . I . Jack Meadows ' from ' The Bill ' . Its quite a good episode , actually . For the first time , Mr . Fisher is faced with a young man even more rebellious than his son . There's no sense of the hippies being out to con anyone , which was the case in many ' 70's sitcoms to feature them . But then these were largely written by middle-aged men . The source of the humour here is Mr . Fisher's narrow-mindedness . The fact that ' Slug ' refers to his girl by a number is odd . Its the very kind of depersonalisation the hippie movement were dead against . What's even more strange is that ' Fifty-Five ' ( Pam Scotcher ) doesn't seem to mind . Funniest moment - Billy imagining himself as a hippie pop star !
What is wrong with ' camp ' ?	One thing that strikes me from reading these reviews is that people have sadly forgotten how to appreciate ' camp ' . Back in the ' 60's , camp was in vogue , thanks to the ' Batman ' television series , as well as movies such as ' Our Man Flint / In Like Flint ' and Dean Martin's ' Matt Helm ' series ( which began with ' The Silencers ' ) . What is camp ? It is a ridiculous story approached with deadly seriousness on the part of the main characters , so serious in fact that it becomes amusing . So , yes , ' Batman & Robin ' is campy . And that's how I like the Caped Crusader . Taken seriously , I find him a bit of a bore . So many modern movies are ' dark ' now that I have to take a flashlight every time I visit the local multiplex . ' B & R ' was the third sequel to the 1989 Tim Burton blockbuster , which starred Michael Keaton . Both left the series at the same time . Their replacements were Joel Schumacher and Val Kilmer . Schumacher retained the dark , brooding atmosphere of the Burton films , while bringing in some of the colourful campery of the ' 60's series . He was ripped to pieces for doing so but I think he was right . Kilmer was an adequate replacement . George Clooney donned the cowl and cape for ' B & R ' , and was better than Kilmer , but Keaton was still far and away the best . Warner Bros . ' ' Batman ' franchise was bound to run out of puff , and did . All franchises run out of puff in the end . James Bond did with ' The Man With The Golden Gun ' in 1974 . The less said about ' Superman 4 : The Quest For Peace ' the better . But they both recovered . Ditto ' Batman ' . ' Batman Begins ' could never have been made were it not for ' B & R ' . The plot concerns ' Mr . Freeze ' who is trying to save his dying wife by freezing Gotham City . . . something like that . It is not important . People who go to ' Batman ' in search of great plots are fools . Arnold Schwarzenegger was miscast as ' Mr . Freeze ' - the man cannot , and never could , act . Patrick Stewart should have gotten the role . Then there's Uma Thurman as ' Poison Ivy ' , a villain I'm not familiar with , but she was the best thing in the movie . Sexy , sassy and cool . This was how she should have been in ' The Avengers ' . Alicia Silverstone as ' Batgirl ' ? Another mistake . ' Batgirl ' is to ' Batman ' what ' Scrappy Doo ' is to ' Scooby Doo ' . Chris O'Donnell reprised his role as ' Robin ' , but like ' Batgirl ' , I never could stand the character . As soon as the title of this film was announced , I thought : " Oh oh trouble ! " . Its so crass . ' Batman Supreme ' would have been better . So with all these strikes against it , why is ' B & R ' so much fun ? Simple . For those of us who fondly remember the ' 60's version , it works perfectly as a homage . If you ask me , they should have gone further by putting ' Pow ! ' , ' Zap ! ' and ' Kerpow ! ' on the fights . Nothing in the movie makes sense , nor is it meant to . Just as reality makes no sense . Don't go to ' B & R ' expecting Fellini , and you'll have a great time . The opening chase alone is worth purchasing the D . V . D . for . To all the doom mongers , I say this - lighten up ! Watch ' B & R ' and enjoy . We can get ' dark ' and ' edgy ' movies anywhere . ' Batman ' is not ' Seven ' !
Brush Up Your Shakespeare !	Billy plans on spending a weekend with Barbara at Stratford-Upon-Avon , ostensibly to see a theatre production of ' Julius Caesar ' . Really , he has his sights set on slightly less intellectual pursuits - he wants a dirty weekend . When Barbara storms out on him after a heated row in a cafe , he starts flirting with sexy waitress Betty , and asks her to go with him instead . She accepts . All looks good for Billy until Barbara reappears , having changed her mind . So now he is stuck with not one , but two women who want to go with him to the Bard's hometown . Which one should he take ? Once again Billy has girl trouble , and has to lie his way out of it . The thing is , he really hasn't much of a choice . Betty is coarse , vulgar and sexually experienced , while Barbara is soft , soppy and virginal . I know who I would take ! ' Betty ' is played by Elissa Derwent , one of the hottest females ever to grace a television screen . In one of Billy's fantasies , she is dressed as a French maid , who then strips off behind a screen , before streaking ( literally ) into the bathroom . The sight of a nude woman in a ' 70's sitcom was rare indeed , and being Elissa its a welcome one . She plays ' Betty ' in the same key as Gwendoline Watts in the ' Billy Liar ' movie . As with almost any ' Billy Liar ' episode , its the fantasy sequences that stand out as the funniest moments . Billy chasing Betty ( clad in only a towel ) around a bedroom Benny Hill fashion is easily the highlight here .
The Little Aussie Bleeder	In 1982 , the newly-launched ' Channel 4 ' set out to widen British viewers ' horizons by screening two Australian comedy imports : ' The Paul Hogan Show ' and ' The Norman Gunston Show ' . The former , a straight copy of ' The Benny Hill Show ' , was more accessible to U . K . audiences ( and paved the way for the comic's ' Fosters ' lager adverts and ' Crocodile Dundee ' movie ) . However I personally found the latter to be the funnier of the two . So who was ' Norman Gunston ' ? He was the creation of talented comic Garry McDonald . Sheltering behind a fictitious comic character as Barry Humphries did with ' Dame Edna Everage ' , McDonald gave us no less than the worst talk show host of all time . Stan Laurel-like Norman had slicked back hair and a face full of toilet paper dabs where he had nicked himself shaving . He interviewed some of the world's biggest stars , such as Charlton Heston , Lee Marvin , Burt Reynolds , and James Garner , often making a fool of himself by asking the most ridiculous questions . He famously told Reynolds ; " You were great in ' Deliverance ' . I loved the bit where you played the banjo . " . To Mick Jagger he said : " I was a big fan of yours when you were in ' The Beatles ' " . The German movie actress Elke Sommer was bombarded with questions about Rod Stewart , Gunston obviously having confused her with Swedish Britt Ekland ( who had had a well-publicised affair with the rock star ) . When Warren Beatty flew to Australia to promote a film , Gunston asked him what he thought of the local girls . " I've only just got here ! " , the star thundered . Gunston shot back : " What about the stewardesses on the plane ? Have you tried one of those yet ? " . Beatty was speechless . ' The Norman Gunston Show ' was not Britain's first exposure to the Aussie comic . Six years earlier , the B . B . C . gave him a one-off special . Quite a lot of critics , including Margaret Forwood of ' The Sun ' liked him ( I loved his disaster movie cakes ! ) , but British audiences failed to see the joke . Things hadn't changed much when Channel 4 threw him a lifeline . Hilary Kingsley , television critic of ' The Daily Mirror ' , expressed her appreciation for Gunston in a spoof letter . " Dear Norman . . . " , it began , " Loved the interviews . Want more . But please come to Britain to make your next show . Your Aussie producers are hopeless . Those scenes of you stuck at the top of a fireman's pole were as amusing as finding a dead kangaroo on your doorstep . " . It is certainly true that Gunston was not as amusing away from his talk-show studio . Following a series called ' Norman Gunston's Australia ' , he was effectively grounded for good . It was a pity in a way as he was more original than Hogan , and can now be regarded as the prototype for Steve Coogan's ' Alan Partridge ' and Paul Kaye's ' Dennis Pennis ' .
Stan Vs . The Macho Men !	Fearful of being sacked by Blakey , Stan enters a contest to find the perfect busman - the winner's face will used on on a new poster promoting the bus company . His competition are three macho-looking males , so to stand a fighting chance he agrees to undergo ' beauty treatment ' , which involves being fitted with a face-pack . . . I seem to recall a ' Sergeant Bilko ' episode with a similar plot ; anyway Wally Malston and Garry Chambers ' episode is quite funny , particularly the scene where Stan's competitors are introduced , all conforming to the ' rugged he-man ' stereotype so prevalent in the early ' 70's . You can almost smell the after-shave . The climactic crash looks as though it was originally intended for one of the ' On The Buses ' movies . Note Olive's smirk ! Funniest moment - the removal of the face-pack . Stan is horrified to see his face is now redder than an apple !
Just the ticket !	Peter is looking forward to England playing West Germany at Wembley Stadium . Walking past a post box , he absent-mindedly pops in the envelope containing his ticket . A policeman , seeing him trying to put his hand inside , wanders over . The postman ( Albert Moses ) opens the box , but refuses to hand back the ticket as tampering with Royal Mail is illegal . Barnes snatches it but , before he can do a runner , a boy on a skateboard grabs it from him , and races off . The chase is on . . . I do not know if this was a remake of one of Powell's earlier shows ( as ' Wheels ' was ) , but it is an okay episode , giving David Jason a chance to do physical stuff such as climbing over the fence of a factory , running , and ( in a ' Billy Liar ' type dream sequence ) fantasising about being part of the English football team . Richard Wilson is still missed though . Alister Williamson , cast as the stadium's ' security officer ' , was Eric Duffy's dad in both ' Please Sir ! ' and ' The Fenn Street Gang ' . A young Linda Robson plays one of Peter's colleagues , whom we see in a pub . Albert Moses was , of course , in ' Mind Your Language ' , scripted by Powell . Funniest moment - in the pub , Peter bends down to pick up his dropped ticket and , when he rises , knocks over a tray of drinks a man is carrying . CODA : I note that the fourth season did not carry a credit for the late Ronnie Taylor , such as ' Series Created By . . . ' . Bearing in mind that the show was originally his idea , it seems somewhat odd .
It Could Be You !	An episode of the second series of ' The Worker ' . Charlie reports to the Employment Exchange . As Mr . Pugh rants and raves about how he has devoted twenty years of his life trying to find him steady work , Charlie is secretly listening to a horse race on the radio . He has a gambling problem - namely , he is no good at it . Instead of giving up as any sensible person would do , he goes on betting in the hope that his bad luck will somehow change . Mr . Pugh gets Charlie a cleaning job in a betting shop . But the lure of ' having a flutter ' proves too much for him , and soon he is blowing one week's wages after another on the nags . In desperation , he goes to work for ' Gamblers Anonymous ' , an charitable organisation dedicated to helping poor unfortunates such as himself . His first client is Mr . Niggs , a compulsive winner . Niggs ' house is full of colour T . V . sets , uncashed cheques , motor cars , and other valuables he has won as prizes . Charlie suggests that he play on his behalf in an effort to lose the money . . . Poor Charlie . Some people just never know when to quit . This fun episode actually has quite a serious underlying theme , namely that gambling can be as addictive in its own way as alcohol or drugs . Charlie was said to have suffered from such a problem in real life . Glyn Houston , brother of Donald , guest stars as ' Mr . Niggs ' . Funniest moment - Charlie's attempts at placing bets are constantly frustrated by shabbily-dressed ( and taller ) punters . Each time he loses , he takes out his anger by repeatedly pushing the same man over .
Your Grumbleweeds Need You !	I have a confession to make . One that will astound my loyal band of devoted followers ( I know you're out there , folks ! ) . Here it is : I actually like The Grumbleweeds . There I've said it . Now the world can carry on as before . Why , I hear you ask ? Weren't they those idiots who used to be on I . T . V . on Saturday evenings back in the ' 80's , a couple of them had no teeth , while the others capered about in front of tacky sets , doing jokes straight out of ' The Beano ' ? Well , yes . I can't pretend that The Grumbleweeds broke new ground in comedy , or anything fancy like that . They were just funny . Robin Colvill's ' Jimmy Saville ' impression made me roar ( J . S . himself was a fan ) , while the Sutcliffe brothers ( Albert and Carl ) looked so gormless you could not help but laugh . Graham Walker used to put me in mind of Charlie Drake , As for Maurice Lee ( the bearded one ) he was the lemon of the group , but that didn't matter . Every group has to have a lemon . I used to watch The Grumbleweeds before going out on Saturdays . It put me in a good mood for the evening . The jokes were terrible but that wasn't the point . Like Tommy Cooper or Freddie Starr , The Grumbleweeds got laughs simply by being there . I think its a pity they haven't had the recognition they deserve .
Ding Dong !	A decade ago , B . B . C . - 2 brought us ' Politically Incorrect Night ' , the usual talking head stuff interspersed with out-of-context clips of ' Mind Your Language ' , ' The Benny Hill Show ' , ' Curry & Chips ' and , of course , ' Love Thy Neighbour ' . Mysteriously absent was ' Casanova 73 ' , Ray Galton and Alan Simpson's spoof of the so-called Permissive Society . It ran for a single season in 1973 and has never been repeated ( not even on U . K . Gold ) nor issued on D . V . D . If the latter ever happens you can be sure that the likes of Stuart Maconie will bash it in the pages of ' The Radio Times ' ( as he did with ' Not On Your Nellie ' ) , branding it ' sniggering schoolboy smut ' and ' the sort of comedy we have banished from our screens forever ' . He will be right on both these counts . The thing is , I liked it . It is a true guilty pleasure . Leslie Phillips plays 44-year old ' Henry Newhouse ' , the ultimate lounge lizard . He has a good job in the city , lives well , is married to the lovely Carol ( Jan Holden ) , and yet cannot keep his hands off other women . They in turn are charmed by him . In the first episode , he talks to himself while trying to keep in trim , explaining his reasons for his philandering . " A man likes a change " , he says : " I do not like to play a game of chess where I know all the moves ! " . In other words , he is excited by the thrill of the chase rather than the actual conquest . Carol knows what he is up to and complains constantly but never contemplates divorce . Rather like Alan and Sarah B'Stard in I . T . V . ' s ' The New Statesman ' , they hate one another but stay together for reasons of convenience . The first episode begins with Henry panicking after being sent letters from abroad by one of his amours - airline hostess Valerie Masters , who got his address when he left behind his credit card . Terrified that his wife will see these , he takes time off work and pretends to dig the garden so he can intercept the correspondence , even going so far as to bribe the postman . But then his regular postman is involved in an accident and a new one takes his place , much to Henry's horror . Luckily for Henry his blood pressure reaches normal again at the end - poor Valerie is eaten by sharks while swimming in Australia and her stream of correspondence stops . In the final scene , Henry is dining with a Chinese girl ( Pik Sen-Lim of ' Mind Your Language ' ) when he realises he has been eating shark . Remembering Valerie's fate , he runs to the loo to be sick - as indeed did some viewers at home . At the show's press conference , the men were laughing their heads off while women walked out in disgust . I can see why . It is sexist with a capital ' S ' . Henry is arrogant , unfeeling , racist ( check out his comments on Japanese businessmen ) and a chauvinist . But thanks to Leslie Phillips you cannot help but like him . We middle-aged married blokes with mortgages would kill for a lifestyle like his . Galton and Simpson defended their show by claiming it was moral , and that Henry's appalling behaviour was usually seen to be punished . To get an idea what this was like , watch the ' Galton & Simpson Playhouse ' episode with Richard Briers . ' Swap You One Of Those For One Of These ' started life as a script for ' Casanova 73 ' . Funniest moment - spotting a white hair on his head , Henry panics , and searches his body for other detectable signs of ageing . He looks down at his chest , tries to peer under his arms and - in a scene that got Mary Whitehouse fuming - stares down into his pyjama bottoms . Ray and Alan had just - to use a current phrase - pushed the boundaries of what was permissible on television .
Like Father , Like Son	Henry ( Leslie Phillips ) gets a phone call from his old headmaster , Dr . Spratforth ( Ronald Adam ) concerning his fourteen-year old son , Roger ( Roger Monk ) who is facing possible expulsion from Windthrift School For Boys because of a complaint brought by maths teacher Miss Phyllis Dropmore ( Cyd Hayman ) . Roger took photos of her when she went skinny dipping , and has been selling the snaps to the boys . Henry , who had been expelled himself from the place thirty years before after being caught with a Land Army girl , goes to the school to try and smooth things over . Newhouse Junior is making pots of money out of his classmates by taking bets on horse races , which they then watch on television in the science lab . He has rigged up a system of C . C . T . V . cameras , enabling him to see every part of the school . Henry meets ' Droopy Draws ' ( as the boys refer to Miss Dropmore ) , and she turns out to be a stunning beauty . Immediately his crumpet-o-meter goes into overdrive . . . One of the first things to be said about ' Casanova 73 ' is that it does not feel like a Galton & Simpson show . There's none of the pathos of ' Steptoe & Son ' nor inspired humour of ' Hancock's Half-Hour ' . It feels more like the work of Talbot Rothwell , writer of numerous ' Carry On ' pictures . I'll give you an example . The headmaster tells Henry that his son justified his presence in the woods by claiming he was on an ornithological expedition ' to photograph tits ' . Ooh , double meaning ! Roger is a strange boy indeed ; his interest in his teacher being one of financial profit , rather than lust . He regards her as ' ancient ' even though she is only 25 ! How on earth did he manage to install a C . C . T . V . camera in her room without her knowing ? Though credited as ' guest star ' , the lovely Cyd Hayman ( you may remember her as ' Madame Cocotte ' from the ' Death Can Be Fatal ' serial in the fourth series of ' The Two Ronnies ) is only in one scene , where she comes over all prim and proper in Henry's presence , feeling that her right to privacy has been violated . He of course never tells her it was not a good idea to go skinny dipping in the vicinity of a boys ' school . Before you ask , no we do not get to see the photos . Erik Chitty a . k . a . ' Smithy ' from ' Please Sir ! ' plays the ' Sports Master ' ( if you can believe it ! ) . Funniest moment - Henry spinning his wife Carol a pack of lies concerning his behaviour the night before . Removing his shirt , his infidelity is revealed . In the heat of passion , the maths teacher had scrawled sums all over his back !
Triple Date !	Mrs . Tranmere , one of the passengers aboard the M . S . Begonia , is rich , American , and - how can I put this - has a fondness for crew members . On clapping eyes on Duncan , she falls for him . Her daughter , Susan , is also taken with the young doctor . Suddenly he finds himself on a simultaneous date not only with Mrs . Tranmere and Susan , but also Nurse Wynton . . . We've been here before , haven't we ? Bernard McKenna and Richard Laing's script effectively takes the plot of the ' In Charge ' episode ' Honey Lamb ' and shifts the location to sea . Once more poor Duncan is forced to dash around , lighting fags and pouring drinks , and come up with all sorts of daft excuses for leaving the women alone . Nedwell would do it all over again four years later in the opening episode of ' The Upchat Connection ' . Sandra Dickinson makes her second appearance in ' At Sea ' , she had earlier been seen ( as a different character ) in the ' Sir John & Baby Doc ' episode . Here she sports a red wig , possibly to distinguish her from Elisabeth Councell . Nurse Wynton's sudden interest in Duncan is a bit hard to take . Previous episodes had depicted her as rather independent and aloof , but now she behaves like a love-sick puppy . Still , Councell gets a lot of comic mileage out of her ' wronged woman ' routine . Funniest moment - it involves Councell , funnily enough . Smashed out of her mind , she drags Duncan to the ship's discotheque , and they begin dancing . Around the dance floor are bars like those found on cages . The music stops suddenly , and she is left flouncing about like a fool . To make her humiliation worse , Duncan rushes off , leaving her crying helplessly , her hands gripping the bars like a convict . Top marks to the actress for getting laughs out of a virtually laugh-free script .
Welcome To SlapstickWorld !	The final edition of ' Six Dates With Barker ' was a rare excursion by Ronnie Barker ( he wrote it under his ' Gerald Wiley ' alias ) into science fiction . It is 2774 A . D . A head of state lays dying . A physician arrives to tend to his final needs . He makes his entrance by jumping through a circus-style hoop , before executing a Billy Dainty-style funny dance . The viewing masses roar with laughter . Yes , we are in a bizarre future where comedy has become the new religion . Instead of The Father , The Son & The Holy Ghost , it is Chaplin , Keaton , and W . C . Fields . No-one is allowed to be serious anymore . People greet one another by thumbing their noses . A banana skin graces the national flag . When Prince Boffo ( Ronnie Barker ) weeps for his dead father , the viewers at home are mystified . When he questions the status quo , his wife reports him to the authorities , who decree he be re-indoctrinated to regain his sense of humour . He must face the Arch Funster . . . If you went to the cinema in the early ' 70's to see a science fiction film , chances were you would be confronted with the likes of ' A Clockwork Orange ' , ' No Blade Of Grass ' , ' The Final Programme ' , ' Soylent Green ' and ' Zardoz ' , all of which predicted doomy futures for the Human Race . It is a little surprising to see a half-hour sitcom on the same theme . ' Stooge ' depicts a nightmarish world , with everyone constantly cracking jokes , and an air of forced joviality in place at all times . Michael Hordern makes a guest appearance as the ' Arch Funster ' , a cross between Bob Monkhouse and Groucho Marx . The actor had previously worked with Barker on the silent film comedy ' Futtock's End ' . Lesley-Anne Down , who plays Prince Boffo's daughter ' Cheeky ' , went on to the period drama ' Upstairs , Downstairs ' as the annoying ' Georgina Worsley ' . The author's message is obvious ; only by being serious can we ever hope to measure the joy of laughter . Like the ' Galton & Simpson Playhouse ' episode ' Variations On A Theme ' , this should be regarded as a piece of experimental comedy , an attempt to do something other than what was the norm for I . T . V . comedy at the time . I cannot say for sure but my guess is that it probably baffled audiences . It makes its point fairly quickly , and then has nowhere to go . Perhaps the idea would have worked more effectively in sketch form . A similar premise appeared on ' Dr . Who ' in 1988 - ' The Happiness Patrol ' starring Sylvester McCoy . Funniest moment - Prince Boffo's re-indoctrination , in which he has to supply the punchlines to the Arch Funster's incredibly corny jokes . If it failed to offend anyone of a certain religious faith at the time , then I would be most surprised . Of course when this was written old school comedy was still around . Just imagine an updated version , featuring a world in which people worshipped ' The Mighty Boosh ' . Doesn't bear thinking about , does it ?
Gonna Have Fun In The Sun	We don't get shows like ' Hi ! Summer ' anymore , do we ? Name me one programme on now that opens with its high spirited cast cast larking about on a brightly coloured bus to the upbeat strains of a Lyndsay De Paul tune . Some might think that the culling of these shows was a good thing , but I beg to differ . I used to enjoy these seaside-themed variety shows , cheesy though they undeniably were . Like the B . B . C . ' s long-running ' Seaside Special ' , ' Hi ! Summer ' was light , frothy and fun . At least programme planners in those days acknowledged the existence of summer . Nowadays they put the same boring old crap out as the rest of the year . The cast , whose number included Leslie Crowther , Lena Zavaroni , Derek Griffiths , and Derek Waring , looked as though they were enjoying themselves , and this was communicated to the audience . Even my father , who normally hated this sort of thing , found it a good laugh . ' Hi ! Summer ' was one of several programmes designed to capture the feel of the good old traditional British holiday . The hot sun , the smell of the sea , the flavour of fish and chips . Many of the jokes could have been penned by Donald McGill . One sketch was set in a restaurant . A waiter brings Crowther's meal over . Lifting the dish , he finds the head of Lena Zavaroni underneath . " I asked for cannelloni , not Zavaroni ! " , he roared . Alright , so its not the world's funniest gag , but it worked . Another sketch sent up ' Charlie's Angels ' with Crowther as Farrah Fawcett-Majors . It owed a great debt to ' The Saturday Crowd ' which also had Crowther in charge of a team of comics . The difference was that ' Hi ! Summer ' moved around the country , from one popular tourist attraction to another . Derek Waring stood out like a sore thumb mainly because he could not sing to save his life . He was best known to viewers as a straight actor . You have not lived until you have heard his gravelly rendition of ' Get Out & Get Under ' . De Paul's catchy theme was later re-used on commercials for ' The T . V . Times . I think it is sad that people have forgotten how to enjoy fluff like this . These days Sunday evenings are full of depressing dramas about serial killers . Writing to ' The Sunday People ' , one enthusiastic ' Hi ! Summer ' viewer called it ' super ' and wanted to know if there would be a ' Hi ! Winter " .
Henry's Final Fling !	The final episode of Galton and Simpson's mickey-take of the sexual revolution brought the series to a definite end . Henry is suffering from that middle-aged man's curse - impotence . " If Raquel Welch walked in here now stark naked , I's be lucky to raise a smile ! " , he tells Carol in bed . He vows to visit a private doctor , but does not . He instead winds up in the bed of tarty Muriel ( Elvi Hale ) , whose husband is in Scarborough . Henry's problem does not go away . But he has an even worse one to contend with - her moronic husband Montague ( George Murcell ) comes home unexpectedly early . He is a professional wrestler built like a Yeti . A terrified Henry hides in the wardrobe . . . This is the most farcical of the episodes , with Henry trapped and Murial having to pass him food when her husband isn't looking . Despite his appalling behaviour in earlier stories , you do feel sorry for him with regards to his personal problem . Viagra was not around then , so he has to suffer regardless . Elvi Hale was ' Anne Of Cleves ' in the B . B . C . ' s classic series ' The Six Wives Of Henry VIII ' , while Geoge Murcell played villains in both ' The Saint ' ( ' The Death Game ' and ' The Power Artists ' ) and ' The Avengers ' ( ' You Have Just Been Murdered ' ) . The ending has Henry regaining his sexual prowess and vowing only to use it on Carol from then on . Obviously had another series been made this would have been forgotten but it makes a nice conclusion all the same . The series was doomed from the moment the B . B . C . shoved it into a late-night slot . One script was left-over , and it was made into an episode of ' The Galton & Simpson Playhouse ' in 1977 starring Richard Briers . Funniest moment - Murial giving Henry a bottle of wine and a salad through the wardrobe door , followed by a box . " Ah , pudding ! " , says Henry , excitedly . But it contains instead a jug for him to pee in . Despite the often objectionable nature of this series , I enjoyed seeing it again after all these years . One has to remember that it very much a product of its times , hailing from the same era as ' Are You Being Served ? ' . It did offend some , mostly women . Personally any show that got up Mrs . Whitehouse's nose is fine by me . The sight of a 44 year-old man relentlessly chasing nubile young women for his own sexual gratification would not go down well now . Best viewed as a period piece . I'll leave the final word to Leslie Phillips himself . When asked whether he ever enjoyed Henry's lifestyle for real , he laughed and shook his head . " One would be tired all the time , wouldn't one ? " .
Terror From The Tube	Some things about the past are best left undisturbed - Count Dracula's coffin , King Tut's tomb , and the career of Noel Edmonds . Ever since I can remember Noel's name has been synonimous with ' rubbish T . V . ' . From ' Top Of The Pops ' through to ' Noel's House Party ' , everything he has touched has turned to soggy paper . Watching this programme - a breezy romp through Noel's television history - was like reliving a nightmare . The Bearded Wonder's presenting skills have not improved one iota since the days he introduced Clive Dunn in a rocking chair singing ' Grandad ' . Bad programmes aside , Noel does not appear to be particularly nice as a person ; he disparaged the lifeboat man who'd saved him from drowning after he later sold his story to the press , and indulged in self-pity in the aftermath of the Michael Lush tragedy . Some fun to be had out of seeing Noel made to look stupid by Chris Morris on ' Brass Eye ' , and the downfall of the ' Crinky Bottom ' theme park chain , but as it ended , I thought : " There's a danger this programme could lead to a career rebirth for Noel . Oh no . Please don't let it be so . " . Well , it did , didn't it ? So the nightmare is with us all over again !
" Will this war never end ? "	Fritz Braun ( Ronnie Barker ) , butler to Kaiser Wilhelm ( Dennis Ramsden ) , is believed to be a security risk , so the Kaiser orders Captain Otto Von Diesel ( Graham Armitage ) to shoot him . But Von Diesel , Braun's brother-in-law , only pretends to do so . Glamorous German agent Lola Fisher has gone missing , hence Braun drags up to impersonate her . Von Diesel places a message on Braun's back using special ink that only shows up when exposed to heat . It is intended for the eyes of British officer Major Yappe ( Freddie Jones ) , meaning Braun has to go back to the randy old goat's flat . . . The third episode of ' Six Dates With Barker ' may or may not have been inspired by The Kinks ' hit ' Lola ' which was in the pop charts the year before . It contains the line : ' she talks like a woman but walks like a man ' , and that certainly applies to Ronnie here . I could not help but think this would have been funnier as a vehicle for Frankie Howerd . He later did do something like it - 1973's ' Up The Front ' . The writers , Ken Hoare and Mike Sharland , were responsible for ' Mr . Digby Darling ' starring Peter Jones and Sheila Hancock . Hoare also worked solo as Stanley Baxter's head writer . O . K . , but the cast deserved something stronger . Hugh Walters is rather good as a young Hitler , and Valentine Dyall appears briefly as ' General Kitchener ' , taking a break whilst posing for that famous ' Your Country Needs You ' poster . Funniest moment - Braun ( as ' Lola ' ) having the message written on his back while on a train . " Be careful where you dot the ' i's ! " , he tells Von Diesel . A passing waiter , hearing Braun grunting from discomfort , peeps through the keyhole and jumps to the wrong conclusion . Incidentally , the fate of the real Lola is never revealed .
Move Over Moore ! The Other Feller's Back !	As the ' 70's drew to a close , rumours began to fly in the entertainment industry about the possible return of Sean Connery to the role he had made famous back in 1962 - James Bond . Cubby Broccoli was asked on location in Brazil during the making of ' Moonraker ' by the B . B . C . ' s Barry Norman how he viewed the prospect . Understandably , the producer was reluctant to commit himself to an opinion . When ' Moonraker ' opened , Bond fans were outraged by what they perceived to be a cheapening of the character , and the jumping onto the ' Star Wars ' bandwagon much as ' Live & Let Die ' had done with the blaxploitation craze a few years earlier . Many publicly vocalised their hope that Connery would return , if only to show Eon how a real Bond movie should look . Years of legal battles followed . The original script , entitled ' James Bond Of The Secret Service ' ( later retitled ' Warhead ' ) was written by Kevin McClory , Len Deighton , and Connery , was never filmed , and remains one of the great unmade movie blockbusters . A new script , closer to the ' Thunderball ' storyline , was commissioned . It was written by Lorenzo Semple Junior , best known as the man who put the camp into ' Batman ' . He had also written ' The Parallax View ' , one of the decade's finest conspiracy thrillers . Feeling the script needed a British touch , Connery brought in Dick Clement and Ian La Frenais , writers of hit British sitcoms ' The Likely Lads ' and ' Porridge ' . The witty title was suggested by Connery's wife Micheline . ' Never Say Never Again ' opened just before Christmas 1983 to a shower of critical praise ; normally sensible critics were so ecstatic at Connery's return they ignored all other aspects of the film . Many used it to viciously attack the Roger Moore series , particularly that year's ' Octopussy ' . In truth , ' Octopussy ' is superior in every respect . ' Never ' lacks the excitement and spectacle one associates with Bond , at times it looks like a made-for-T . V . movie . The story had been done before and better in 1965's ' Thunderball ' , hence ' Never ' was always going to come off second best . It was also hampered by not being part of the official series , meaning that Monty Norman's ' James Bond Theme ' and Maurice Binder's gun-barrel logo could not be used . As Bond , Connery is magnificent , effortlessly stepping back into his most famous role . Playing Bond as an older , wiser agent worked . Barbara Carrera landed her best movie role as villainous ' Fatima Blush ' , a lady whose love for murder is such she dances after ( so she thinks ) killing Bond . Kim Basinger smolders as ' Domino ' . As S . P . E . C . T . R . E . agent ' Maximillian Largo ' , Klaus Maria Brandauer gives a chilling performance . A major disappointment though is Max Von Sydow as ' Blofeld ' . The posters gave the impression he would be a major character , in fact he appears only in a few scenes . With a stronger script , he could have been one of the all-time great Bond villains . ' Never ' promised to be a throwback to the early Eon Bonds such as ' From Russia With Love ' , but did not deliver . The gadgets were there , but were used almost apologetically . Bond's rocket-firing motorcycle was a tired gimmick even in the ' 60's . The film tried to compete with Eon's Bonds in terms of humour . Bond saving himself by throwing his own urine sample into an assassin's face is a farcical a moment as any you will find in ' Moonraker ' . But the nadir comes with the introduction of Rowan Atkinson as bumbling Foreign Office official ' Nigel Small-Fawcett ' . He gives a performance so staggeringly awful you wonder if he thought he was in a Footlights revue . Michel Legrand's music is horrible , the man seems to never to have seen a Bond film in his life . Though the film was a financial success , viewed years later it stands as the weakest Bond of the ' 80's . Connery himself was disappointed with it , and not did act in a movie again for some years . 1983 was a good year for 007 maniacs , in addition to the Connery and Moore movies , George Lazenby did a delightful cameo in the made-for-T . V . ' Return Of The Man From U . N . C . L . E . : The Fifteen Years Later Affair ' .
Before ' The X-Files ' , There Was ' The Enigma Files '	Rugged British actor Tom Adams , once tipped as a possible successor to Sean Connery as ' James Bond ' , never seemed to find the right vehicle for stardom . He was in ' The Great Escape ' , not that anyone probably noticed , and played secret agent ' Charles Vine ' in a trilogy of low-budget spoofs in the mid-60's . He achieved greater success on television , playing ' Major Sullivan ' in ' Spy Trap ' , and suave villains in shows such as ' The Avengers ' , ' Strange Report ' , and ' The Persuaders ' , as well as a doctor in the long-running I . T . V . soap ' General Hospital ' . In 1980 , it looked as though his big break had finally arrived , when he starred as ' D . C . I . Nick Lewis ' in the B . B . C . police drama ' The Enigma Files ' , created by Derek Ingrey . Lewis was an honest copper who had had the misfortune to be involved in a police corruption scandal . Rather than be sacked outright , he was placed in charge of ' The Prisoners Property Office ' , an archive of unsolved police cases . Preferring active duty , he was far from happy , but decided to follow the advice of his daughter Liz and blow the dust off the files . He was assisted by sexy Kate Burton ( Sharon Maughan - the lady off the old ' Gold Blend ' coffee ads ) , and Phil Strong ( comedian Duggie Brown ) , a computer boffin . Future ' Emmerdale ' star Alyson Spiro played ' Liz ' , Lewis ' only daughter . Over the course of fifteen weeks ( an unusually long run for a B . B . C . drama series ) , the team went after missing girls , master forgers , murderers , a porn king , a man who made money by inventing charities , two Cordon Bleu criminals whose victims would not testify against them , and a millionaire's killer . These wrong-doers assumed that the passage of time guaranteed them immunity from arrest - until Lewis came after them . The show was curiously old fashioned , a sort of cross between ' Department S ' and ' Dixon Of Dock Green ' . It could easily have been shown at 7 . 15 on B . B . C . - 1 on a Sunday evening , but was given the rather odd slot of 9 . 30 on a Tuesday night on B . B . C . - 2 . Nobody swore , took their clothes off , or did anything remotely violent . It was pleasantly undemanding entertainment , the sort of programme you could unwind to after a tiring day . The catchy disco-flavoured theme was by Anthony Issac . Christine Sparks novelised the first eight episodes for B . B . C . Books . Prior to the series , Adams gave an interview to ' The News Of The World ' in which he unwisely disparaged other television detective shows such as ' Shoestring ' and ' Target ' . Offended fans retaliated by writing angry letters to the tabloids . One went as follows : ' The Enigma Files is well named . It is indeed an enigma . ' . Eight episodes into the run , Sharon Maughan left ( her character handed in her notice in the first episode ) , and in her place came Carole Nimmons ( ' Coronation Street's ' Sarah Ridley ' ) as ' Sue Maxwell ' . This was the era before T . V . cops had nervous breakdowns , attacks of conscience , or suffered from angst , hence Lewis was fairly one dimensional , a man of action rather than thought . Adams gave a solid performance , but was not allowed to explore the character in any depth . I have never found Duggie Brown amusing , so I was surprised to find myself warming to him here . Though popular , ' The Enigma Files ' was closed for good after only one season . However , it was later repeated on B . B . C . - 1 ( where it should have been in the first place ) in a prime-time Friday night slot . It would be wrong to describe it as a ' classic ' , but I suspect that if it were repeated on satellite or issued on D . V . D . it would hold up rather well .
Take A Movie Like This	I read someplace that the Boulting Brothers ' 1957 film of ' Lucky Jim ' was originally to have starred Jonathan Miller ( it eventually was made with Ian Carmichael ) . How true that is I do not know . It seems highly unlikely as Miller was virtually unknown until ' Beyond The Fringe ' in 1960 . In 1970 the good doctor directed this - his only movie - an adaptation of another Kingsley Amis novel - ' Take A Girl Like You ' . It stars Hayley Mills as the charmingly named ' Jenny Bunn ' , who moves to London to work as a teacher . She takes up lodgings with the Thompsons ( John Bird and Sheila Hancock ) , an argumentative middle-aged couple . Alchoholic Mr . Thompson is the local Labour candidate , and expects Jenny to canvass for him . No sooner has she moved in than Jenny meets Patrick ( Oliver Reed ) , the boyfriend of her roommate . It is lust at first sight . He does not get very far though - she is a virgin , and intends staying that way until her wedding night . Another man would have given up on the spot , but Patrick embarks on a quest to get her into bed without actually marrying her . . . As the book was written in the ' 50's , the story had to be updated , making Jenny's decision to remain chaste seem all the more bizarre , given the different moral climate of the era . The late George Melly wrote the screenplay . Curiously enough , three years earlier , he wrote a movie called ' Smashing Time ' which also began with a comely Northern lass ( two of them , in fact ) heading down South and finding it a sinful place . ' Take ' is a different kettle of fish , free of the surreal comedy of that earlier picture . Miller's direction is functional rather than flash . Reed gives a solid performance , virtually identical in fact to the one he gave in Michael Winner's ' The System ' . Like ' Tinker ' , Patrick regards women as existing mainly for his amusement , arguing with Jenny that her attitudes to sex are outdated . Hayley Mills is suitably sexy as ' Jenny ' , though her decision to succumb at the end to the lures of Patrick's upper-class friend ' Julian ' is a little hard to understand , especially as he seems an even bigger chauvinist . Noel Harrison ( son of Rex ) is excellent as ' Julian ' , whose life consists of drunken parties . He backs Thompson only because he wants him to cancel a project to build a new airport - one that would see his country home demolished . Unluckily for him , Thompson reneges on the promise ( politicians , eh ? ) . Lovely Aimi MacDonald is hilarious as dippy game-show hostess ' Wendy ' . For me though the stand-out performance came from John Bird as the seedy ' Dick Thompson ' , a Labourite with more than a passing resemblance to Harold Wilson . Future ' Liver Bird ' Nerys Hughes appears briefly as a teacher . Patrick's pursuit of Jenny takes place against a background of country pubs , posh restaurants , and trendy flats . Surprisingly , they do not go anywhere near Carnaby Street . The film is nice to look at and there are some wonderfully funny moments , but the ending unfortunately spoils it . In 2000 , the B . B . C . remade the story , putting in all the things the film lacked , such as nudity and bad language . Not a great movie then , but worth a look . For a true classic based on a Kingsley Amis book , check out ' Only Two Can Play ' ( 1962 ) starring the great Peter Sellers .
" Like mushrooms ? There's plenty growing on the ceiling ! "	Olive and Arthur are constantly complaining about the state of their room , so Stan bribes Nobby at the depot into letting him have a couple of tins of paint . The room is duly decorated , and nice it looks too . But there's a snag - Arthur has forgotten to mix hardener in with the paint , hence it is still wet when he and Olive go to bed . Stumbling about in the dark , the short-sighted Olive leaves green hand prints everywhere . . . This plot later provided a story element in the film ' Holiday On The Buses ' , only then it was a holiday camp chalet that got painted . Lynn Dalby went on to play ' Hazel ' in the hit series ' Budgie ' starring Adam Faith . Funniest moment - Olive asking an incredulous Stan if its not too late to put the hardener in the paint . His reply : " Hang on love , I'll scrape it off the walls and put it back in the tins ! " .
Stan Goes Diamond Hunting !	Finding a couple of portions of fish and chips on their bus , Stan and Jack gratefully tuck in . However , the woman who bought them turns up at the depot to see if they have been handed in . Blakey lets the woman look over the bus . Noticing a strong smell of fish , she comments on it . Jack tells her that Blakey has been having incontinence problems . A furious Blakey demands that in future all lost property be handed to him personally . Sensing a chance for a bit of fun , Stan and Jack hand over various embarrassing items such as a chamber pot and a pair of woman's knickers . Finding an envelope , Stan takes it home , not realising it contains a diamond worth 100 . . . You would be surprised at the strange things people leave behind on buses . An old neighbour of mine once went to town to buy a chicken for his Sunday dinner , only to arrive home a few hours later without it . It was never found . Presumably either another passenger or one of the staff got their hands on it . Knowing Stan and Jack as we do , its unsurprising they would take a ' finders keepers ' approach to lost property . Amelia Bayntun is the old lady looking for her fish and chips . She was ' Mrs . Fussey ' in ' Carry On Camping ' in 1969 . ' Joe ' , the maintenance man , is none other than Bartlett Mullins . With his bald head , glasses and bird-like manner , Mullins was a familiar figure in countless films and series of the ' 60's and ' 70's , from ' The Likely Lads ' ( in which he played ' Cloughy ' ) to ' The Prisoner ' . Definitely one of Britain's unsung character actors . Funniest moment - Stan locates the missing envelope in Olive and Arthur's room , but the diamond is not inside . Carefully , he begins searching the bed - while they are still in it !
Stan & Jack Have A Hot Time	Jack bets Stan a fiver he cannot last a day without a cigarette . Later that day , Arthur bets Stan a ten-pound note he cannot last a day without a cigarette . Stan tries to stem his craving by over-eating , but the addiction is too strong and he heads to the toilet to have a drag . Arthur appears on the landing , so Stan puts the burning cigarette in his mouth , eventually spitting it out . Arthur declares himself the winner of the bet . But what is he up to ? A recurring old sitcom plot device involved a major character attempting to win a bet by demonstrating ' willpower ' . In the ' Rising Damp ' episode ' Food Glorious Food ' , Rigsby tries to go a whole day without a meal , here its Stan yearning for a smoke . Years later , ' Father Ted ' did a variation on the theme , in ' Cigarettes & Alcohol & Rollerblading ' . The penultimate series of ' On The Buses ' begins in spectacular fashion , as Stan accidentally sets fire to a bus , which is completely gutted by the end . You'd think Stan and Jack would certainly get the sack for this , but no , the bus company can only claim insurance by attributing the fire to faulty wiring . So their jobs are safe . Funniest moment - Stan and Jack using part of a broken fence to rescue Blakey from the upper deck of the blazing bus !
An American Wolf In London	Fast-talking U . S . comic Kelly Monteith made such an impact on ' Des O'Connor Tonight ' he was given his own B . B . C . - 2 show . Unlike the dreary Joan Rivers , however , Monteith was a brilliant stand-up in the Robin Williams mold , when telling jokes he could play different characters and switch voices with exhilarating speed . One of his best routines was called ' The Symptoms Of Eddie's Disease ' in which he delivered a speech outlining the symptoms ( hicupping , twitching etc . ) of said malady whilst displaying them himself . The series starred Monteith as a fictionalised version of himself , an American comic based in London , living in a flat with wife Suzanne , played by the sexy Gabrielle Drake . Monteith would chat to the audience , and his monologues alternated with domestic sketches , written by Monteith and Spike Milligan's ' Q ' collaborator Neil Shand . In one amusing item , Monteith impressed an elderly couple he met at a party so much they invited him round for dinner the following Tuesday . On arrival , however , he found the couple had gone cold on him , and laughed at none of his jokes . Drake left the show eventually , and the format was changed . The last season was about the making of the Kelly Monteith series , and didn't prove as popular with viewers . After the show ended , Monteith returned to the States , where he now concentrates on nightclub work .
1969 : A Space Odyssey	' Doppleganger ' , ( or ' Journey To The Far Side Of The Sun ' as it is more commonly known ) was written ( with input by the late Donald James ) and produced by Gerry and Sylvia Anderson , best known for their ' Supermarionation ' television shows such as ' Thunderbirds ' . The international space agency Eurosec discovers the existence of a mysterious planet on the other side of the sun , and proposes a manned flight be sent there . The committee balk at the exhorbitant cost , and shelve the project . But when a security leak at the agency is discovered , fearing that the Russians might get there first , the project gets the green light . American astronaut Glenn Ross ( Roy Thinnes ) is teamed with British scientist John Kane ( Ian Hendry ) . After weeks of gruelling training , the Phoenix blasts off , heading for the unknown . Three weeks later , their ship crashes in what appears to be a bleak , mountainous landscape . Ross survives , but Kane is badly injured . A light is seen moving towards them . . . I will leave the synopsis here . Until this point , the film has been gripping , with excellent special effects ( by Derek Meddings ) and music by Anderson's resident composer Barry Gray ( why it has not been issued on C . D . is a mystery ) . But when Ross and Kane crash land , and we discover the secret of the alien world - it is a duplicate of our own , everyone on it is the same , the only major difference is that things are reversed - it becomes less interesting , and ends with a shattering anti-climax . I think the cinema was the wrong place to do this idea , in fact Gerry & Sylvia later did something similar on their ' Space : 1999 ' show . Ross risks ( and ultimately loses ) his life in an effort to return to Earth - his Earth . But why ? The new Earth is so similar he might as well not have bothered . Roy Thinnes had recently done ' The Invaders ' television series , and gives a competent performance ( pity there weren't more scenes like the one where he rows with his wife ) . Ian Hendry is good as ' Kane ' , but vanishes from the story too soon . Several actors went on to appear in the Andersons ' ' U . F . O . ' such as Ed Bishop and George Sewell . Blink and you will miss Nicholas Courtney ( ' The Brigadier ' from ' Dr . Who ' in a tiny role ) . But the acting honours go to the late Patrick Wymark as ' Jason Webb ' , head of Eurosec . The character is not far removed from ' Sir John Wilder ' , the one he played in A . T . V . ' s ' The Power Game ' . Webb is such a devious character he is marvellous to watch . Herbert Lom's contribution ( as a spy with a camera hidden in a false eye ) amounts to little more than a cameo . Like I said , the special effects are marvellous , as are the sets . So the film is worth watching , but do not expect very much to happen once the action moves to the mirror planet . With a stronger script , this could have been another ' Planet Of The Apes ' or - dare I say it - ' 2001 : A Space Odyssey ' . In Anderson's productions , he made the future seem like a great place , an adventure playground where science was cool , everyone had swank cars whose doors opened vertically , sexy women , and absolutely no suggestion that anything is seriously wrong with the world . We are in the future now and people are still watching ' Coronation Street ' every other night . How disappointing . If a mirror Earth really exists somewhere , one hopes that is a better place than this one . If all the women there look like Lynn Loring or Loni von Friedl , I will be on the next flight !
" Its Time To Return . . . "	Since the triumphant return of ' Dr . Who ' to our screens in 2005 , fans have downgraded the 1996 T . V . movie from a ' disappointment ' to a ' disaster ' . Certainly it didn't lead to the expected follow-up series , but that was down to bad scheduling in the U . S . A . rather than the quality of the film itself . Over here it got nine million viewers ( an excellent rating for B . B . C . - 1 ) . The film's biggest mistake was to start with Sylvester McCoy as the Doctor . On landing in San Francisco in 1999 , he is shot by a drug gang and taken to a hospital where he dies - or seems to . In the mortuary , the ' corpse ' assumes a completely new form . Elsewhere , the Doctor's old enemy ' The Master ' has taken over the body of an ambulance driver , and plans to steal the Doctor's remaining regenerations . Viewers who hadn't seen ' Dr . Who ' before were totally mystified . As McGann asserts his personality , the film becomes fun to watch . He's a terrific Doctor , and had the potential to be the best since Tom Baker , but it wasn't to be . Eric Roberts is a very different ' Master ' from the ones we're used to , but its a good thing . Daphne Ashbrook makes a delightful ' Dr . Grace Holloway ' , a character in the ' Liz Shaw ' mold . Yee Jee Tso's ' Chang Lee ' is great too . The interior of the TARDIS is a stunning piece of design , the S . F . X . are the best the show's ever seen ( faint praise though that is ) , and by and large the positives outweigh the negatives . But ' Dr . Who ' didn't impress the Americans , and back he went into limbo - until 2005 anyway .
" You are the gentleman with the two prawn balls ! "	Sid is thrilled to discover that his layabout son Mike has gotten engaged to a rich man's daughter - Pamela Huntley-Johnson . He is less than thrilled , however , when Sally announces her engagement to Pamela's father , who is some thirty years older than herself . . . This episode was the last by the show's creators , Vince Powell and Harry Driver , before the latter's death in 1973 . Once again Sid's old fashioned look on life blinds him to common sense ; any man with a scrap of intelligence would be delighted at the thought of his daughter marrying into money , no matter what the age of the husband . Interesting cast . ' It Ain't Half Hot Mum ' had been running for three months when Windsor Davies showed up here as Sid's colleague from work . Cheryl Hall was several years away from becoming Wolfie Smith's girlfriend ' Shirley ' in ' Citizen Smith ' , while Sue Holderness , who plays the frightfully posh ' Pamela ' , is better known these days as tarty ' Marlene ' in ' Only Fools & Horses ' and ' The Green Green Grass ' . Funniest moment - warned by his wife not to set foot on the new lounge carpet , Sid uses a tea trolley to sail across to the kitchen !
' Wild , Wild West ' Set To A Disco Beat	' A Man Called Sloane ' was a short-lived Quinn Martin show which starred Robert Conrad as trendy antiques dealer Thomas Remington Sloane The Third , also a Priority One secret agent for the counter-espionage organisation U . N . I . T . On entering a secret base behind the facade of a toy boutique in California , he would be briefed by The Director ( Dan O'Herlihy ) . U . N . I . T . ' s opponents were KARTEL , a mysterious syndicate of arms dealers bent on world domination . Each week , the organisation would attempt to seize power with the aid of some improbable new super-weapon , such as a tuning fork that gave off sonic waves , killer locusts , or a laser satellite designed to destroy specific targets . Conrad replaced Robert Logan , who'd played ' Sloane ' ( rather badly ) in the pilot . The veteran actor brought to it the laconic style he'd used in the hit ' 60's series ' Wild , Wild West ' . Ji-Tu Cumbuka returned as the ' Jaws'-like henchman ' Torque ' ( steel hand instead of teeth ) , even though the pilot ended with him falling to his death . As if this was not confusing enough , Torque was now a good guy , working alongside Sloane the same way Illya Kuryakin did with Napoleon Solo ! The lovely Karen Purcill played ' Kelly ' , the show's ' Q ' equivalent . The impressive list of guest-stars included Robert Culp , Morgan Fairchild , Roddy McDowall , and Monte Markham . Michelle Carey was the sexy voice of E . F . F . I . E . the computer . This fun show was modelled on the Roger Moore Bond films of the time , which meant that there were laughs amongst the girls and gadgets . It was screened in America at around the same time as the first season of the Gil Gerard ' Buck Rogers ' and mirrored it inasmuch as it did for espionage what Buck did for science fiction . Conrad has been rather uncomplimentary about ' Sloane ' in interviews since , describing it as ' terrible ' . Why then did he direct one episode ? I have the series on D . V . D . , and find it rather more enjoyable than the lame ' Wild Wild West ' reunion T . V . movies he did the early 80's . ' Sloane ' was a pretty decent show . It was just not given a chance to find an audience .
" We've passed a resolution . . . "	Television , that master illusionist , can conjure universes out of a hat , inhabited by the wild creations of tortured souls , watched by millions in the belief that what they are seeing is reality . Thanks to television , I thought Johnny Morris was a zoo keeper , Jack Hargreaves lived and breathed the countryside , Kelly Monteith and Gabrielle Drake were husband and wife , and that ' The Wheeltappers & Shunters Social Club ' was a real Northern working men's club . Was I gullible - or were these illusions really that convincing ? Every Saturday night , the doors would open , and we'd see Bernard Manning , elbow on the bar , eyeing the busty barmaid , and announcing the ' turns ' , with fellow ' Comedians ' star Colin Crompton ringing a bell every now and then and uttering spoof resolutions , all prefaced with ' On behalf of the Committeeeeeeeeee . . . . ' . The attention to detail was indeed impressive ; recognisable brands of beer such as ' Double Diamond ' were on sale , along with ' Golden Wonder Jungle Fresh ' salted peanuts , the ashtrays looked full , you'd spot people carrying trays of beer and crisps to their tables and wandering off to the toilet between ( and sometimes during ) the ' turns ' , with pictures of Harold Wilson ( the then-Prime Minister ) prominently displayed . The set was a masterpiece of design . To add further authenticity , the customers smoked , resulting in a thick fog hanging over the Brycreem and Harmony hairspray covered heads . What about the ' turns ' ? These included acts one hadn't seen in years , such as Bill Haley & The Comets , Freddie Garrity , Buddy Greco , Tessie O'Shea , Yana and Kathy Kirby , while others were up and coming stars such as Cannon & Ball and the late impressionist Dustin Gee . Viewers never wondered how a humble workingmen's club could afford such famous people . I was not alone in being taken in by Johhny Hamp's illusion ; apparently Granada received hundreds of letters each week from people wanting tickets . As a young boy unable to drink in pubs or clubs , this show was compulsive viewing , giving me a foretaste of the joys of adulthood . As soon as as I was eighteen , I planned to put my name down for membership . When Granada Plus repeated ' Shunters ' in the mid-90's , I tuned in and found that the illusion was as strong as ever . We may not have been watching a real club , but what we got was immeasurably better . No brawling in the street , no mad scrabble to find a taxi after eleven o'clock , and best of all , no hangover the next morning . Now that's what I call magic !
When Bobby Was On The Box	In the ' 80's , Bobby Davro was hotly tipped to replace Mike Yarwood as Britain's leading impressionist . The blonde , handsome Davro counted among his repertoire the likes of George Michael , Alex Higgins , Roy Castle , Jonathan King , Johnny Briggs , Duncan Norvelle and Jim Davidson . This series - whilst hardly original - was a perfect showcase for his talents , also featuring the equally brilliant Jessica Martin , best known as the voice of ' Madonna ' on ' Spitting Image ' . The unusually well-written sketches consisted mainly of take-offs of well-known shows such as ' Crimewatch U . K . ' , ' Adrian Mole ' and ' Blind Date ' . Unfortunately , a few years later , a purge of the more traditional British comedy styles saw Davro swept off the air , returning only occasionally as a contestant on shows such as ' Never Mind The Buzzcocks ' . Martin went on to a successful stage career , television seemingly not knowing what to do with such an amazingly talented woman .
Tara King - Traitor ?	Like Philip Levene before him , Jeremy Burnham was an actor ( he appeared in the ' Avengers ' episode ' The Town Of No Return ' ) who switched to writing . He penned five of the 32 Thorson adventures , all of them good , of which this is one . Tara has been assigned to try and break the security of the War Room - an underground centre where a computer known as ' The Field Marshal ' is in control of Britain's nuclear defences . Gilpin ( Alan MacNaughtan ) , the man in charge of the War Room , informs General Hesketh ( Ralph Michael ) that the Field Marshal thwarted a rocket attack in 1961 . Incredulous , the General says : " But there was no rocket attack in 1961 ! " . " Precisely ! " , responds Gilpin . Following an unsuccessful break-in ( why she is blacked-up ? It is daytime ! ) , she prepares to organise another . But unbeknowest to her - foreign agents Gregory Zaroff ( Alan Browning ) and Dangerfield ( Alan Wheatley ) plan to discredit her by making it appear as though she has gone over to the other side . When pictures of Tara chatting to Zaroff in a London street are sent to Mother , he immediately reduces her Departmental rating . She is kept prisoner in her flat , but escapes and sets out to clear her name . Her only ally is Steed . . . The late Alan Browning is best known for his role as ' Alan Howard ' in ' Coronation Street ' . The character married the Street's resident sex bomb Elsie Tanner ( Pat Phoenix ) as did the actor who played him . Like Ian Hendry , he was a good actor who would have gone on to bigger things had it not been for a drink problem . He died in 1979 . Alan Wheatley - the elegantly dressed ' Dangerfield ' - was the ' Sheriff Of Nottingham ' in ' The Adventures Of Robin Hood ' which starred Richard Greene . Why his base of operations is a boxing ring in an opulent drawing room is not made clear ( though its no more bizarre than some of Mother's hide-outs ) . The concept of a computer controlling a country's defence system would be explored in the movie ' Colossus : The Forbin Project ' , released in 1970 . The villains ' hope that by discrediting Tara they can force the War Room to dismantle the Field Marshal for a limited time , leaving the country wide open to rocket attack . The scene where Tara drives up to a red phone box in the middle of the English countryside inspired the original opening of the 1998 film . Steed's trick with the house of cards is clever . How did he do it ?
A Big Hand For The Little People !	Scientists may not approve ( I don't think it was aimed at them anyway ! ) but in the U . K . in 1969 ' Land Of The Giants ' was a smash hit . At school on Monday mornings , the number one talking point in the playground was the latest episode of ' Land ' . I would try to steer the conversation towards the ongoing saga of ' Dr . Who ' in ' The War Games ' , but it was no use . ' Land ' had Britain's children ensnared in its grip . It was kind of like ' Planet Of The Apes ' in that it too featured a group of humans who , after passing through a ' space warp ' , find themselves marooned on a strange world where evolution has taken a different turn . As you'd expect from an Irwin Allen series , characterisation was barely in evidence , but the show boasted some amazing S . F . X . sequences , intriguing story lines such as ' Ghost Town ' , and the excellent Kevin Hagen as the sinister Inspector Kobick of the S . I . D . As was the case with a lot of U . S . sci-fi shows , the novelty soon wore off - ' Land ' was cancelled after two seasons .
Coughs & Sneezes Spread ( Deadly ) Diseases !	This episode opens with a classic ' Avengers ' teaser - Harley Street doctor Camrose ( Hamilton Dyce ) opens his mail , and is perplexed to find an empty envelope addressed to him . Only it is not as empty as it seems - inside is a microscopic germ , a distillation of the common cold . In mere seconds , Camrose has literally sneezed himself to death . He is the latest in a line of doctors to die the same way . Fearing a major flu epidemic could be about to engulf the country , Mother dispatches Steed and Tara to investigate . The trail leads first to the Anastasia Nursing Academy , and then to the home of Colonel Timothy ( Retired ) , played by Roland Culver , who runs an anti-allergy clinic . Glover ( Fulton Mackay ) is in league with the A . N . A . ' s Matron ( Sylvia Kay ) to develop the ultimate weapon - a bug that kills in seconds by inducing so much sneezing in the victim that all air to the lungs is cut off . They will sell it to the highest bidder once it is perfected . First , they must kill the only doctors who might have found an antidote . . . Jeremy Burnham wrote this originally for the Emma Peel series , under the title ' Atishoo ! Atishoo ! We All Fall Down ! ' . It is based on a suitably outrageous premise , peopled by fine actors of the calibre of Valentine Dyall , Henry McGee , Dudley Sutton , Charles Lloyd Pack ( father of Roger ) , and has some good moments , but strangely never becomes the classic it promises to be . I think Paul Dickson , the director , took it much too seriously . He also worked on ' The Champions ' and ' Department S ' - with far greater success . This was Fulton Mackay's second appearance in ' The Avengers ' - he was in ' Return Of The Cybernauts ' and reappeared later in the Thorson series in the final episode ' Bizarre ' . Sylvia Kay , who plays ' Matron , was ' Mrs . Warrender ' in John Sullivan's ' Just Good Friends ' . Mother's office is strange even by his standards - it looks like an unfinished film set , with a pool and stepladders galore . During the briefing , Rhonda gives both Steed and Mother ice cream cornets ! Colonel Timothy's clinic is a wonderful piece of design - so that we never forget its main purpose , the main corridor wall has a gigantic nose carved from stone ! A different director , such as Robert Fuest or Charles Crichton , would I think have made a better episode . At least it got Burnham's stint as ' Avengers ' writer off to an above average start .
Hitler's Back - Cosmic !	Created by Roger Price , ' The Tomorrow People ' was one of several I . T . V . sci-fi shows that attempted to rival ' Dr . Who ' . For the uninitiated , the T . P . are a group of youngsters - the next stage in human evolution - possessed of telepathic powers , like Tim Kring's ' Heroes ' only minus the tedium . The fondly remembered children's show ran from 1973-79 . This was the first of a two-part story . A new craze among young people for Nazi uniforms sweeps the world . When Mike ( Mike Holloway ) turns up at the T . P . ' s H . Q . in a Nazi jacket and peaked cap , he is roundly admonished by John , the T . P . ' s leader , who regards his wearing them as an insult to the war dead . Humbled , Mike removes them , but after being roughed up in a caf by thugs calling themselves ' stormtroopers ' , gets the overwhelming urge to put them back on . Meanwhile , a teenage boy in an S . S . uniform is run over and killed in Germany . Records show he is in fact 44 years old , yet does not look a day over fourteen . John , the leader of the T . P . , views archive footage of Hitler in 1944 with the scientists working to perfect cryogenic suspension . The same boy can be seen in the film . So can it be true ? Did the Nazis freeze some of their most brilliant men - including Der Fuhrer himself - place their bodies in an underground bunker , to be watched over by a squad of Hitler youth , kept eternally young through drugs , waiting to be revived to instigate The Fourth Reich ? Hitler was a busy fellow in the mid-to-late ' 70's ; a year before , he had been in the care of monks on a remote Scottish island in ' The New Avengers ' caper ' The Eagle's Nest ' . But whereas he spent the duration of that episode off-screen in a casket , here he is up and about before the end of the first episode , embodied by the late Michael Sheard . The actor played the role several times , most notably in ' Indiana Jones & The Last Crusade ' in 1989 . It should be pointed out , however , that here Hitler is actually a shape-shifting creature from outer space ( strange that Lord Olivier failed to mention this on ' The World At War ' ! ) . In a particularly gruesome ( for the time ) scene , we see Der Fuhrer regain his true state ; black goo oozes out of his eyes , his skin goes a slime green , and ( yuck ! ) his right eyeball leaves its socket and trickles down his face ! I did not see this when it first went out , but bet there were one or two sleepless nights experienced by the original audience . Spot The Future Star : yes , that is Nicholas Lyndhurst as ' Karl ' , one of Der Fuhrer's guardians . This was just before ' Going Straight ' in which he played Ronnie Barker's drippy son ' Raymond ' . He gives a good account of himself here ; his experience with Nazis would serve him in good stead twenty years later when he did ' Goodnight Sweetheart ' . As a matter of fact , there was a craze for Nazi badges around this time , but I never saw anyone going so far as to wear a uniform . It would not be tolerated nowadays , of course - unless you are a member of The Royal Family .
The Ultimate In Camouflage !	As ' The Avengers ' series developed , a little repertory company was formed of performers who would appear in the show time and time again , mostly playing villains . The roster included Peter Jeffrey , Julian Glover , Peter Wyngarde , Patrick Cargill , Garfield Morgan , William Franklyn , Patrick Allen and Peter Bowles . The future ' Bounder ' was in three episodes : ' Second Sight ' , ' Escape In Time ' , and , of course , this . British Intelligence have picked up three Russian agents in Britain , here on a mission to assassinate top British operatives , and imprisoned them in a base concealed in a monastery . When two manage to escape from under the watchful eyes of the ' monks ' , and eliminate their designated targets , Steed is naturally worried . The third name on the hit list is his own . . . Bowles plays ' Ezdorf ' , the last of the Russians to pull off a daring escape act worthy of Houdini , with a little help from a bottle of Lizard vodka . When bathed in , it gives one the ability of a chameleon , hence the Russians are able to become invisible , fooling their captors into thinking they have escaped . As soon as the cell doors are opened , they slip away . The theme of invisible enemy agents had previously been explored in ' The See Through Man ' , also written by Philip Levene . The main difference is that here the invisibility is real ! In the 1998 movie , Patrick Macnee provided an amusing cameo as ' Colonel I . Jones ' , a camouflage expert so good at his job he literally could not be seen !
James Bond In Outer Space	I . T . V . started with at a disadvantage with ' Buck Rogers ' in the autumn of 1980 - they didn't have the rights to the pilot episode ' Awakening ' , so they began with ' Planet Of The Slave Girls ' and hoped for the best . They needn't have worried . ' Buck ' was a smash-hit in Britain , its ratings outstripping those of ' Dr . Who ' over on B . B . C . - 1 . It was colourful escapist fun , perfect Saturday night entertainment . Such was its popularity that when I . T . V . ran out of Year 1 episodes , they went straight into Year 2 , causing confusion amongst fans here . Everything good about Year 1 was dumped , including - unforgivably - Pamela Hensley as ' Princess Ardala ' . Buck , Wilma and Twiki were relocated on a spaceship called ' Searcher ' , Dr . Huer was never seen nor mentioned again , a boring alien called ' Hawk ' was introduced as a regular , the plots scraped the bottom of the sci-fi barrel , and Buck lost his famous sense of humour . Worst of all , Wilma looked less sexy ! As Twiki would say : " What a bummer ! " .
" Ladies and Gentle-men . . . "	When ' Hancock's Half-Hour ' ended in 1960 , Ray Galton and Alan Simpson expressed interest in writing for a comedian they had long admired - Frankie Howerd . But Tom Sloan , the B . B . C . ' s head of comedy , told them to forget the idea as he was no longer popular . To prove his point , he produced graphs showing the low ratings for Howerd's last series . The writers went on to create ' Comedy Playhouse ' , one of which - ' The Offer ' - was the launching pad for ' Steptoe & Son ' . Howerd then surprised everyone in the entertainment industry by staging a remarkable come back ; firstly , he was booked by Peter Cook to appear at ' The Establishment ' night club , and secondly , landed a spot on the B . B . C . ' s top-rated Saturday night satire show ' That Was The Week That Was ' in which he commented on the recent Budget . It may seem strange that a comic of Howerd's calibre should have jumped on the satire band wagon , but to his credit , did not fall off again . In 1964 , Galton and Simpson got to write a series for him - produced by Duncan Wood - and unsurprisingly it bore a remarkable similarity to ' Hancock's Half-Hour ' . Howerd played ' Francis Howerd ' , an exaggerated version of himself , a humble comedian with aspirations to becoming an international star . Each edition began with Frankie addressing the audience directly , before relating a personal experience which would be told in flashback . In one episode , he went to the House of Commons to research political humour , and got mistaken for an M . P . In another , he tried to get ' with it ' by hanging out with the ' mods ' of Carnaby Street . In another , he appeared in a television play and caused a strike by admitting to not being a member of Equity . Howerd's talking to the audience enabled him to get in a few crafty insults at the expense of those he encountered . He constantly referred to Sir Hugh Carleton-Greene as ' Thingy ' . When he met some long-haired young men - members of a pop group - he instantly mistook them for girls . " We're not birds , we're blokes . " , said one of their number : " We're ' The Question Marks ' " . Glancing at the camera , Frankie quipped : " I don't doubt it ! " . Encountering Arthur Mullard , he said : " Robert Morley , I presume ? " . The guest stars included Warren Mitchell ( as Frankie's agent ) , June Whitfield , Patrick Cargill , Peter Butterworth , Beryl Reid , Arthur Mullard , Hugh Paddick , and John Le Mesurier . Many of whom had been on the Hancock show . Michael Robbins - ' Arthur ' from ' On The Buses ' - appeared fleetingly one week . Two seasons were made , comprising twelve episodes . Having viewed a few recently , I would say that it is like ' Dawsons Weekly ' and ' Casanova 73 ' in that it is enjoyable but not among Galton and Simpsons ' best . After it ended , Frankie appeared on various variety shows and a movie - ' Carry On Doctor ' - before landing the series for which he is best remembered - ' Up Pompeii ' .
The Show That Made Con-Men Tremble !	' Braden's Week ' was a popular Saturday night consumer affairs show . After being seen in a margarine commercial for commercial television , Bernard Braden was fired by the B . B . C . , the show handed over to co-presenter Esther Rantzen , and renamed ' That's Life ! ' . Bob Wellings ( of ' Nationwide ' fame ) and George Layton ( best known as ' Dr . Paul Collier ' from I . T . V . ' s ' Doctor In Charge ' ) sat at her side in its first year . The change was more than just cosmetic ; ' Braden's Week ' was a serious consumer affairs programme with comedic undertones , whereas ' That's Life ' veered more towards the humorous . Each Sunday , that brass band theme tune heralded a hodge-podge of a show in which newspaper misprints would be read aloud by a dinner-jacketed Cyril Fletcher , companies apologised for their mistakes in the form of over-twee songs , Jake Thackray , Victoria Wood or Richard Stilgoe sang humorous ditties , and there'd be a vox pop sequence in which Esther terrorised shoppers ( one in particular , giggly old age pensioner Annie Mizzen , became a popular character in her own right . One of the first reality T . V . stars ? ) Then there was the ' Jobsworth ' Award - a gold , peaked cap awarded to sticklers of bureaucratic rules , no matter how foolish . As well as the talking dogs , tap-dancing ducks and beer-loving bats . One well-remembered item concerned a strange animal called a ' Lirpa Loof ' . It was a hoax ; all one needed to do was reverse the letters of its name to find that out . Every comedian has a catchphrase ; Esther's was her penis-shaped vegetables . All she had to do was hold one up to the camera and the audience had hysterics . But the show had a serious side too . In the mid-80's , it launched a campaign to find an organ donor for a dying little boy named Ben Hardwick . One was found , and Ben duly got his new liver . Sadly , it came too late . Even so , thanks to ' That's Life ! ' , his story touched the nation . Then there was the expose of paedophilia at a boys ' private school , which made chilling viewing . During its twenty years on air , presenters came and went . For my money the best were Kieran Prendiville ( later a script writer ) and Glyn Worsnip ( who died tragically young from a brain disease ) . Paul Heiney and Chris Serle also proved popular , going on to front their own show ' In At The Deep End ' . In 1979 , Esther launched a short-lived spin-off aimed at children called ' Junior That's Life ! ' . It was a disaster . Viewers thought the whole show was supposed to be funny , and laughed at the serious bits . ' That's Life ' was not without its critics . Some felt it inappropriate to feature real-life tragedies side by side with schoolboy jokes about bums and wee wee . The ' Not The Nine O'Clock News ' gang did their usual hostile send-up , with Pamela Stephenson as Esther ( " Sorry said The Gas Board . This has absolutely nothing to do with us ! " ) . ' Spitting Image ' went further , accusing Esther of tastelessly exploiting Ben Hardwick's illness in the name of ratings . The sketch was itself attacked in the popular press . The best spoof was done by L . W . T . ' s ' End Of Part One ' ; entitled ' That's Bernard Braden's Show Really ! ' it featured Sue Holderness as Rantzen and Denise Coffey as Annie Mizzen ! In 1994 , viewers decided they had had enough and so ' That's Life ! ' was put out to pasture . The entire cast reunited for one final show entitled ' That's Life All Over ! " . Gone it may be , but its spirit lives on in the form of the B . B . C . ' s ' Watchdog ' and I . T . V . ' s ' House Of Horrors ' .
Where There's A Will	By the late ' 60's / early ' 70's , the hey-day of British comedy films was well and truly over . Though they continued to be made , their chief inspiration was television . Alongside the numerous ' On The Buses ' and ' Steptoe & Son ' spin-offs were remakes of past glories . ' Some Will , Some Won't ' was based on the classic Mario Zampi film ' Laughter In Paradise ' , which starred Alistair Sim . When arch-joker Henry Russell dies , he bequeathes to his four relatives a share in his fortune . But there's a catch ; in order to qualify each must carry out a specific task to the letter . Haughty spinster Agnes ( Thora Hird ) must spend a month working in a hotel . Philandering Simon ( Leslie Phillips ) has to marry the first woman he speaks to on leaving the solicitor's office . Timid bank clerk Herbert ( Ronnie Corbett ) needs to rob the bank where he works . Bestselling pulp crime novelist Dennison ( Michael Hordern ) has to spend a month in prison . Needless to say , the would-be beneficiaries are not very good in carrying out their respective tasks , and there's a twist ending you can see coming a mile off . Of the four sections which comprise the main body of the plot , the best is the Hordern one , while the worst is Phillips ' tedious romancing of gold digger Barbara Murray . Lew Schwarz's script sticks closely to the Jack Davies and Michael Pertwee original , even incorporating the original film's most famous scene - Denniston trying to get arrested for shoplifting in a department store . Most of the cast brought along their established comic personas ; Leslie Phillips plays the roguish cad , Thora Hird the sharp-tongued battle axe , James Robertson Justice the bombastic tyrant and so on . Also along for the ride were Arthur Lowe , Stephen Lewis from ' On The Buses ' , Wilfrid ' Steptoe ' Brambell , and Noel Howlett of ' Please Sir ! ' fame . The director of was Duncan Wood , producer of the television shows ' Hancock's Half-Hour ' and ' Steptoe & Son ' , as well as a charming Harry H . Corbett vehicle entitled ' The Bargee ' ( 1964 ) . If you have never seen ' Laughter In Paradise ' , you should enjoy this film . Despite the familiarity of the material , its worth watching mainly for the wonderful cast . And its not every day you get to see Ronnie Corbett as ' John Steed ' from ' The Avengers ' !
" Let's Get The Network Together ! "	Bruce Forsyth's decision to quit ' The Generation Game ' at the height of its popularity probably earned him more criticism than anything he had ever done before , including leaving his wife for a younger woman , hostess Anthea Redfern . He rightly felt the show to be getting stale , and wanted to move on before it deteriorated further . He was also tired of game-shows , and wanted to return to his first love - performing . London Weekend Television signed him to front ' Bruce Forsyth's Big Night ' . Launched to great fanfare , it was a two-hour circus , with Bruce as ringmaster . It had singing , dancing , comedy , games , something for everyone . If you didn't laugh at Charlie Drake's ' The Worker ' all you had to do was wait for Steve Jones to bring on his ' Pyramid Game ' . If you weren't keen on that , you didn't need to panic because along in a minute would be a spot of disco dancing , or maybe a bit of fun with Russ Abbot ( so popular did Russ prove that a few years later he was given his own show - ' Russ Abbot's Madhouse ' ) . The B . B . C . were naturally worried at the thought of losing one of its biggest stars , so by way of competition assembled a strong line-up that included ' Dr . Who ' , ' All Creatures Great & Small ' and ' The Little & Large Show ' ( alright , I know Syd and Eddie were awful , but they were huge in 1978 ) . ' The Generation Game ' was revamped as ' Larry Grayson's Generation Game ' in which the camp comedian co-hosted with Scottish singer / actress Isla St . Clair . If Bruce thought his audience would follow him onto the commercial network , he was sadly mistaken . To the amazement of everyone , Larry made a success of ' The Generation Game ' , while ' Big Night ' - after a strong start - began to sink in the ratings . Critics , predictably , tore it to shreds . Many branded Bruce a ' traitor ' for leaving the B . B . C . , some accused his wife Anthea of playing up backstage . Bruce was so hurt he publicly returned two awards given him by ' The Sun ' , and , in an unusual move for the time , angrily defended the show on air . Yes , it had teething troubles , but was really not that bad . If nothing else , it deserves credit for introducing a new generation to the brilliant comedy writing of Frank Muir and Denis Norden ( Jimmy Edwards , Patricia Brake , and Ian Lavender starred in remakes of ' The Glums ' sketches from ' Take It From Here ' ) . L . W . T . spared no expense ; Bette Midler closed the first show , Dudley Moore , Elton John and Sammy Davis Jr appeared on later editions . ' Big Night ' was moved to an earlier time slot , then reduced in length to ninety minutes . When all that failed to work , it was dropped completely , a great shame in my view as it was a sparkling gem and miles better than the dross ( yes , I'm talking about you , Ant & Dec ! ) we get on Saturday nights now . Bruce must have thought his career was over . But within two years he bounced back as the host of ' Play Your Cards Right ' .
Brilliant Billy !	Billy Dainty ( yes , that was his real name ) won this show on the strength of a show stopping appearance at the previous year's Royal Variety Performance , whereby he reduced The Queen Mother to tears of laughter . Famed for his ' eccentric dancing ' , he was a marvellous physical comedian , vocalist , not to mention outstanding pantomime Dame . ' Esq . ' combined sketches with music , and occupied the ' Opportunity Knocks ' slot on Monday evenings . It gave him full rein to display his numerous talents , particularly a sketch entitled ' The Eurovision Dance Contest ' . I can recall falling about at an item in which he played a man in a library who annoys the staff with his squeaky shoes . He was ably supported by Graham Crowden ( often cast as authority figures ) , Derek Deadman , and of course the lovely and talented Sheila White , at that time appearing in the hit ' Confessions ' movies ( in which she was one of the few females not to take off her clothes ) . ' Esq . ' afforded Sheila the opportunity to do some amazing impersonations of Suzi Quatro , Cher and Nina ( of ' Nina & Frederick ' fame ) . In addition , she and Billy played a warring middle-aged couple who conducted a fierce row in the manner of a televised boxing match . Despite having many excellent qualities , the show was surprisingly not recommissioned , although it was repeated in full a year or so later . Billy went on to become a regular in the B . B . C . children's show ' Emu's Broadcasting Company ' ( E . B . C . ) . He died in 1986 , and an edited episode of ' Esq . ' was shown on I . T . V . by way of a tribute . Sadly only two editions are known to have survived .
Bounder Bowles At Large	Trevor Mountjoy ( George Cole ) , successful estate agent , is happily married to the lovely Mary ( Rosalind Ayres ) . He goes home one day to find a drink waiting for him , and senses something is wrong . The couple's idyllic lifestyle has been shattered . Mary's freeloading brother Howard ( Peter Bowles ) has been released from prison after serving a two-year sentence for fraud . Worse , he has moved in with them . Howard plays for sympathy by leaning heavily on a stick and claiming to be a changed man , but Trevor is not too sure . He still calls him ' Trev ' for one thing . Finding the stick left round the house , he dashes round to the local pub , hoping to catch Howard out in a lie . But the wily bounder is prepared , telling Trevor the stick is a spare . . . Comedy writers are lucky to get one hit sitcom in their lifetimes . In the mid-'70's , Eric Chappell had two running concurrently on I . T . V . - ' Rising Damp ' and ' The Squirrels ' . If you think that is impressive , consider this - he pulled off the same trick a few years later with ' Duty Free ' and ' The Bounder ' . Peter Bowles had finished a long stint as rich hypochondriac ' Archie Glover ' in ' Only When I Laugh ' , and was keen to get his own show . Eric Chappell wrote this specially for him , in which he played suave confidence trickster ' Howard Booth ' , a sort of upmarket ' Mike Upchat ' from ' The Upchat Line / Connection ' . Like that other character , the show got much of its humour from Howard's spinning of elaborate lies , and then having to spin yet more to get out of trouble . ' Minder ' was running around this time , giving George Cole fans ( of whom I am one ) an extra chance to see their hero in action . ' Trevor Mountjoy ' is essentially a supporting role , but Cole made more of it than was there on the printed page . His looks of exasperation at Howard's behaviour are wonderful . Rosalind Ayres ( wife of Martin Jarvis ) played ' Mary ' in the first season , while Isla Blair was cast as lovely ' Laura Miles ' , a rich widow whom Howard has set his sights on . His pursuit of her became a running theme through the series ( speaking of Isla , I recall her going on the phone-in show ' Open Air ' in the ' 80's and cringing in embarrassment when a caller addressed her as ' Isla St . Clair ' ! ) . Ironically , Laura lost money by investing in Howard's company . The truth be known , there are not that many laughs in the first episode but it served a purpose in establishing the characters and premise . It improved sharply with the next episode . The opening violin theme was ' Winter ' from Vivaldi's ' The Four Seasons ' combined with an original composition by the late , talented Peter Knight ( also wrote the ' Duty Free ' signature ) . Funniest moment - Howard dancing gaily with Laura , unaware that Trevor and Mary are behind him , glowering .
" Hello . Is that Interpol ? "	' The Two Ronnies ' was perhaps not the most imaginative title for a series starring two men with the first name of ' Ronnie ' , but we'll let that pass . Following a pair of one-off shows - ' The Ronnie Barker Yearbook ' ( with special guest star Ronnie Corbett ) and ' Ronnie Corbett In Bed ' ( with special guest star Ronnie Barker ) , the first episode proper of ' The Two Ronnies ' got underway , establishing a formula that was to endure for the next sixteen years . Following spoof news items , they moved onto a party sketch . In the first ( widely believed to have been written by Michael Palin and Terry Jones ) Barker plays a man who slaps Corbett whenever he tries to make small talk . The musical guest was a young Tina Charles , belting out ' River Deep , Mountain High ' in a dress that appeared to have been made from drawing room curtains . Corbett got two things right about her in his introduction ; firstly , she was very tiny and secondly , she did go on to become a star ( in 1975 , she topped the British pop charts with ' I Love To Love ' ) . The lecture sketch featured Barker speaking on behalf of a society for People Who Repeat Everything Twice . . . Everything Twice . The first of many serials was called ' Hampton Wick ' ( that's Cockney rhyming slang for . . . oh , work it out for yourself ) and starred the scrumptious Madeline Smith as ' Henrietta Beckett ' , the 21-year old governess to 36-year old ( ! ) Edward Hampton . Soon she and Edward are running around the orchard Benny Hill-fashion , but then Sir Geoffrey takes a shine to her and she has to fend off both their advances . Dismissed from the post , Henrietta heads for London , where she falls in with rogues who look suspiciously like ' Fagin ' and ' The Artful Dodger ' from ' Oliver Twist ' . Terry Hughes displays the flair for period comedy he would later bring to ' Ripping Yarns ' . 1971 was a good year for lustful Madeline fans ( of whom I was one ) as only a month before , she'd been seen in L . W . T . ' s ' Doctor At Large ' as Arthur Lowe's daughter ' Sue Maxwell ' . But , wait , what's this ? Another musical item ? Surely not . As this was not yet a proved success , the B . B . C . hedged its bets by including singers and imported novelty acts . ' New World ' - consisting of three men with big sideburns - sang ' Rose Garden ' . I never worked out which category they belonged in . I cannot comment on Ronnie's first chair monologue as I don't think I ever sat through a single one . In my house , the mere sight of Corbett in a relaxed position was sufficient to send me to the kitchen to make the tea . A sketch set in a hearing aid clinic followed . " I'd like a hearing aid please . " , says Corbett . " Pardon ? " , responds Barker . Of course , this is a forerunner of the famous optician sketch , with Barker playing a blind oculist . But its okay . But then comes ' Alfredo ' , a John Astin-lookalike able to gurn Sammy Davis Junior , spit ping pong balls at a music stand ( and catch them again in his mouth ) whilst seated at a drum kit , and race around in circles with a glass of beer on his head . According to the book ' And Its Goodnight From Him ' , Ronnie Corbett's wife Anne Hart recommended him to Terry Hughes . Easy to sneer now , but these abilities - bizarre though they are - make him more worthy of putting on television than half the people we see now . Eh Jade Goody ? For the big finale , we get Corbett as ' Big Jim Jehosophat ' and Barker as ' Fat-Belly Jones ' , American country and western singers who look like refugees from ' Woodstock ' , and perform numbers with lyrics that would make Madonna blush . These characters proved enormously popular and would make return appearances , as well as guest on other people's shows . For instance , ' Fat-Belly Jones ' did a duet with Lulu in 1975 . After more spoof news items , it was goodnight from them both . Cue Ronnie Hazlehurst's theme tune . Not bad for a first episode - even if some of the sketches ( notably the Interpol one quoted above ) had been done before in ' The Frost Report ' - but the best was yet to come .
" How did you know she was a school teacher ? "	Following a successful diamond robbery in London , criminal mastermind Paul Clifton ( Stanley Baker ) decides to pull off the crime of the century - the theft of three million pounds from a train heading from Glasgow to London . He tries to join forces with other gangs , but they object to the money going to Switzerland . Clifton agrees to share it out on British soil , using a deserted aircraft hangar as hideout . A thief called Robinson ( Frank Finlay ) stupidly attempts to phone his wife during the robbery , and thus the police gain a valuable lead . As the law closes in , Clifton and his gang endeavor to make a getaway . . . A fictionalised account of The Great Train Robbery of 1963 , this Stanley Baker / Michael Deeley production benefits from taut direction by Peter Yates and a first-rate supporting cast . Alongside Baker , there are old reliables such as James Booth , Barry Foster , Frank Finlay , George Sewell and William Marlowe , with the beautiful Joanna Pettet thrown in to provide some glamour . As Clifton's long-suffering wife , she has little to do other than complain about her husband's prolonged absences from the bedroom on account of him forever being in prison . The script by Edward Boyd , Peter Yates and George Markstein does not paint the main characters in any great detail , even Clifton himself ( based on Bruce Reynolds ) comes across as fairly one dimensional . His main nemesis is Inspector Langdon , and James Booth ( who had played ' Hook ' in Baker's earlier ' Zulu ' ) , cast against type for a change , gives far and away the best performance . The film opens with a thrilling robbery sequence culminating in a high-speed car chase through London . Its as exciting as you would expect from the future director of ' Bullitt ' . Good music from Johnny Keating too . ' Robbery ' , though , is a curiously old fashioned piece which at times has the flavour of an I . T . C . show such as ' The Saint ' ( and which Yates had contributed to ) . It was made in 1967 , the year that ' Bonnie & Clyde ' and ' The Dirty Dozen ' raised the bar for screen violence . The only real act of G . B . H . here is when the train driver is brutally coshed ( mirroring what happened to Jack Mills ) . No nudity or bad language is on display . Its interesting to reflect that had it been made only a few years later it would have been very different . Look at ' Get Carter ' and you will see what I mean . For all its faults , this gripping crime film is well worth seeking out and is vastly superior to the over-sentimentalized ' Buster ' starring Phil Collins .
Pronounced ' azell	' Hazell ' was the creation of Gordon Williams and Terry Venables ( yes , that Terry Venables ! ) . A sort of Cockney version of ' Philip Marlowe ' , James Hazell looked cool driving around ' 70's London in his Triumph Stag . His main adversary was Detective-Inspector ' Choc ' Minty , a hard-faced Scotsman who acted as a kind of ' Teal ' to Hazell's ' Saint ' . With its brassy opening theme and Bond-style titles , ' Hazell ' blasted onto I . T . V . with the force of a howitzer . The plots ran the gamut of ' 70's crime show clichs ( missing children , drug smuggling , bank raids ) , with Hazell often on the receiving end of a good hiding from some underworld felon . What lifted it above the average were the witty scripts and Nicholas Ball's laconic performance in the title role . At the time , he was married to ' Not The Nine O'Clock News ' star Pamela Stephenson . ' Hazell ' made him a star , but alas the fame it brought him was fleeting . Allegedly the series ended after only two seasons because Ball issued an ultimatum - do it on film or else . The prospect of ' Hazell ' becoming a Euston Films Production was certainly intriguing , but alas it wasn't to be . Williams and Venables later confessed that they thought him too young for the role anyway , their preferred choices were John Bindon and Michael Elphick . I . T . V . briefly considered reviving the series a few years ago , but decided against it on the grounds that it was ' dated and sexist ' . Haven't times changed !
" The best way to get people off the dole is to stop giving it to them ! "	One year after ' The Young Ones ' and ' The Comic Strip Presents ' launched a new wave of British comedians on an unsuspecting world , Granada T . V . brought out ' Alfresco ' . Despite starring Ben Elton , Stephen Fry , Hugh Laurie , Robbie Coltrane , Emma Thompson and Siobhan Redmond , it doesn't seemed to have burned itself into the national consciousness the way those other shows did , possibly because it felt more like a Channel 4 show than an I . T . V . one , and the obvious canned laughter killed many of the sketches stone dead . Beginning each week with a cheeky saxophone arrangement of ' I'm Forever Blowing Bubbles ' , ' Alfresco ' wandered widely between the borders of the inspired and the inane . Among the former was a spoof U . S . variety show , hosted by the giggly , vacuous singer ' Sherri ' ( Thompson ) who announces a tribute to The Beatles and manages to forget the drummer's name ( Ringo ) , Fry's pompous doctor unable to grasp why his Sikh patient is wearing a turban ( he thinks its bandages ) , and Thompson's fussy librarian revealing to bookworm Laurie the twist endings of the mysteries he intends to read . ' The Pretend Pub ' was a spoof soap peopled by oddballs with names like Ezzer , Bezzer , Lord Stezzer , Shizzer and so on . The off the wall humour Fry and Laurie later used in their own show was first in evidence here . Emma Thompson made the most impact on yours truly , mainly because she was stunningly beautiful . I can remember not finding Elton very funny though , sketch comedy was not really his forte , and he was overshadowed by the others . He would later find his niche with ' Saturday Live ' and ' The Man From Auntie ' . Critics at the time gave the show a pasting , one even renamed it ' Al-fiasco ' . It also came under fire from alternative comic Alexei Sayle . " Posh people can have anything they want . " , he said , " Even their own satirical show on Granada Television . " . Well , compared to the vile mess that was ' O . T . T . ' in which Sayle was a regular , ' Alfresco ' was ' Monty Python ' standard . Given that many of its cast went onto become major stars ( and Oscar winners in Thompson's case ) , its surprising how ' Alfresco ' has so far eluded a D . V . D . release .
Shelley's Watergate !	Shelley has to come up with a sales campaign for a new range of Instant Paella . The stuff proves hard to market as it is virtually tasteless . In a meeting , he inadvertently insults his boss Cyril ( John Barron ) , not realising the comment has been captured on tape . When a colleague tells him this , he is horrified . Fearful that he may lose his job , he breaks into the office at night to steal the offending tape , but mistakenly steals the wrong one . . . ' Shelley ' was never at its best when the main character was seen working . The scenes at the advertising agency are mildly funny at best . It is only when Shelley goes back to Pangloss Road does any real humour appear . One of Shelley's workmates is played by David Warwick , who appeared in the first season of ' The Fall & Rise Of Reginald Perrin ' as Reggie's actor son , Mark . Also from that series is good old John ' C . J . ' Barron , reprising the role of ' Cyril ' . Funniest Moment - Shelley being woken at 3 a . m . by Fran and Mrs . H returning home drunk from the disco , singing Boney M's ' Brown Girl In The Ring ' . That song drove me up the wall too so I can well understand why he feels miffed !
Desert Island Movies	I . T . V . ' s ' Play It Again ' was a popular daytime show in which celebrities picked clips from their favourite films , and explained what they meant to them . Amongst those taking part were Dick Emery , Alun Armstrong , Dave Prowse ( of ' Star Wars ' fame ) , Larry Grayson , Joan Bakewell , Derek Jacobi and , in her final television appearance , Hattie Jacques . The interviewer , Tony Bilbow , had a natural charm and got celebrities to open up simply by putting them at ease . To give an example , he extracted from Hattie a heartfelt admission that she was fundamentally unhappy with the ' fat woman ' comedy roles she'd played over the years . Shocking stuff at the time . ' Play It Again ' was hardly groundbreaking , but it provided the ideal accompaniment to a cup of tea and a chocolate biscuit at the end of a hard day's household chores . Compared to the salacious rubbish currently on daytime television ( ' Loose Women ' anyone ? ) , it was brilliant . I . T . V . bosses , take note , the simplest ideas are usually the best .
No-one Sez It Better Than Les	After coming to prominence on ' Opportunity Knocks ' in the late ' 60's , Les Dawson was given his own show by Yorkshire Television , which combined sketches , stand-up and music and ran well into the ' 70's . Given that Les ' comic persona was that of a misanthrope , it seemed strange to see him in a show with dancing girls , glitzy sets , and The Syd Lawrence Orchestra . ' Sez Les ' was initially biased towards international guest stars such as Trini Lopez , with as many as three musical acts on each show . But , as time went on , the producers gave Les more and more to do . Things perked up considerably with the arrival of Roy Barraclough , who would eventually develop with Les the talkative housewives Cissy and Ada . John Cleese , fresh from ' Monty Python's Flying Circus ' , became a regular for a time , and he and Les made a surprisingly effective comedy team . One of their best sketches was a surreal item set in an office where the staff vie for promotion by constantly trying to assassinate one another . It wouldn't have seemed out of place in ' Python ' . Then there was ' Superflop ' , an incompetent superhero who later became the subject of a comic strip in ' Look-In ' . Good fun .
" He came in a meteor and they can't find the antidote ! "	When Shelley fails to come home one night after working behind the bar of ' The Victory ' , Mrs . Hawkins tells Fran not to worry . " Wherever he is , he won't be with a woman ! " . But that's just where he is - in bed with the sexy Angie . They have not had sex though . Shelley goes home and comes clean with Fran . She accepts his story , far fetched as it sounds , but when he jokes about it she loses her temper and hits him in the groin . Cue invective from Shelley . . . A notch or two down from previous episodes , ' Gainfully Employed ' throws away an interesting comic situation . It cheats too . We never get to see Shelley in his Nelson gear for one thing . Nor is it explained why Angie took him home and let him sleep in her bed just to do nothing with him . On finding that his clothes are back at ' The Victory ' , Shelley panics as all he has is his ' Nelson ' costume . Yet when he next see him ( walking into a newsagent ) he is wearing normal clothes . Where did they come from ? Luckily , Josephine Tewson saves the day as the trouble-making landlady . Her excitement at the thought of a big bust-up between Shelley and Fran is hilarious . Unfortunately , the episode climaxes with a posh dinner party . ' Shelley ' was never very funny when he became upwardly mobile . Nice to see John Barron - ' C . J . ' in the ' Reginald Perrin ' series - as ' Cyril ' though . ADDENDA In the novelisation , it says Shelley borrowed t-shirt , jeans and a mackintosh off Angie . So that's cleared that one up .
Thick as thieves !	' Mr . Big ' started out as a one-off ' Comedy Playhouse ' broadcast in 1974 . It proved popular enough to warrant not only one series , but two . The late Peter Jones , best remembered as ' Mr . Fenner ' in ' The Rag Trade ' , played ' Eddie ' , a would-be mastermind who dreamt of pulling off the ultimate crime , hence the theme song : " We're In The Money " . He shared a house in East London with Prunella Scales , who played wife and fellow thief ' Dolly ' . The tone of the humour is established at the start of the first episode when she walks in with two heavy-looking carrier bags . Asked where she has been , she replies : " Shoplifting for the weekend . " . In fact , everything in their house was stolen . Whenever Eddie needed cigarettes , he got Dolly to go out and steal him some . Also in the house were their children ' Ginger ' ( played by ' Dad's Army''s Ian Lavender ) , an idiot who usually messed up Eddie's plans , and the gorgeous ' Norma ' ( Carol Hawkins of ' The Fenn Street Gang ' ) . We never quite found out what was going on between these two . They were brother and sister , yet were often in bed together . As incest was not permissible in ' 70's sitcoms ( even David Nobbs had to drop an affair between the Geoffrey Palmer and Sally-Jane Spencer characters when adapting ' The Fall & Rise Of Reginald Perrin ' ) , its reasonable to assume that nothing naughty was going on . Each week , Eddie would come up with a daring new criminal plot , such as ripping-off a bookies , and put it into action , using Dolly , Ginger and Norma , but this being a sitcom , things would go wrong and then they had to escape before the police caught them . A far cleverer man would have dropped these dimwits , but Eddie stood by them . You must bear in mind this was made long before sitcoms about losers became fashionable . Peter Jones co-wrote the scripts with Christopher Bond , and very funny they were too . To get an idea of what ' Mr . Big ' was like , watch the Sid James film ' The Big Job ' ( 1965 ) . I haven't seen the show since its original broadcast , so cannot tell you if it has aged well or not . It was never repeated , and U . K . Gold has yet to show any interest . There are no plans to put it out on D . V . D . I would like to see it again if only to marvel at the superb comic timing of Jones , Scales , Lavender and , of course , Hawkins ( as well as admire her wonderful legs ! )
" Smile . . . You're on Candid Camera ! "	Created by America's Allen Funt , ' Candid Camera ' was exported to Britain in 1960 , with Bob Monkhouse as host . The best remembered prank was the ' car-with-no-engine ' , perpetrated by arch-joker Jonathan Routh . My earliest memory , though , is the ' 70's version , hosted by its producer , the late Peter Dulay , who occasionally participated in the pranks . It went out on Saturday nights , and was often hysterically funny . I've give you a few examples ; a man in a phone box panics when it suddenly rises into the air ; a milkman tries to interest regulars in multi-coloured milk ; a secretary instructed to search a desk for important information finds it contains unlimited junk ; a man goes into a shop and eats a goldfish in front of shocked customers ; a top record producer hears an astonishing new idea for a concept album - a tribute to the world's greatest jugglers ; a woman watching snooker on television is frightened out of her wits when a ball smashes the screen and a player peers out of the set , sheepishly asking for it back ; a blind man is used as a car park attendant ; a nude woman goes for a secretarial job interview , and , my favourite , a man checking out of a hotel has the catch on his suitcase break , enabling staff to see it is full of stolen towels and cutlery . ' Candid Camera ' was made on film , with no studio audience cackling maniacally over the best bits . Dulay made a perfectly relaxed and amiable host . The head pranksters were initially Arthur Atkins and Sheila Burnette . The final season was in 1976 , retitled ' Jonathan Routh & Candid Camera ' to reflect the fact that its most famous prankster had returned . Routh's marvellously lugubrious face never cracked a smile despite the total absurdities of the situations in which he found himself . After the series ended , the title ' Candid Camera ' was never again used on British television , but ' Game For A Laugh ' , ' Beadle's About ' , and ' Trigger-Happy T . V . ' all successfully followed its trail . It could be said to be television's first reality show .
After The Funeral	Else has finally passed on , leaving Alf alone in the world . Well , not quite alone . After the funeral , he - along with Rita , Marigold , Arthur , Mr & Mrs . Johnson , a rabbi , an old lady and landlady Mrs . Hollingbery - return to the Garnett's flat for tea . Her death means that half of Alf's pension is now gone , although he still requires the same amount of gas and electricity , he will have far less money for the bills . Arthur points out that when a rich man dies his family becomes automatically richer through inheritance . Alf's reaction is not what you would expect from a die-hard Tory . Mrs . Hollingbery shocks the gathering by revealing that Alf voted Labour in the council elections and got her to do likewise . Alf proposes a special ' winter ' allowance for pensioners ( he was ahead of his time . It was introduced by the Labour Government in 1997 ) . She then delivers a tirade of hate against the idea of black people being buried in the same cemeteries as white , causing Rita to lose her temper . When Dandy Nichols declined the opportunity to participate fully in the sixth season of ' Till Death Us Do Part ' , Johnny Speight toyed with the idea of killing Else off . Fortunately , he did not go through with it , and the door was left open for her return . But in 1986 she finally went to join the infinite . This was the first episode recorded after the actress ' sad death . Unlike ' Only Fools & Horses ' and the passing of Grandad , we do not see the actual funeral , just the aftermath . As the characters drink tea ( or in Alf and Arthur's case something stronger ) and eat sandwiches , they talk about various subjects , including death . Else is more or less forgotten as the episode progresses . It has some amusing moments but there is - as you would expect - an air of melancholia about the show . Carmel McSharry appeared as an unnamed woman in a pub in the first series . ' Mrs . Hollingbery ' was clearly intended to replace ' the silly old moo ' by giving Alf a good argument at every turn . By the end of this edition , she wants him to move out , fearing the sexual advances he may make while under the influence of alcohol . She changes her mind , of course . Ken Campbell , who plays the garrulous ' Mr . Johnson ' , sadly passed away recently . Funniest moment - following her racist tirade , Mrs . Hollingbery is kissed on the cheek by Marigold ! ( This gag may have been inspired by a moment in ' All In The Family ' when Archie Bunker ( Carroll O'Connor ) got a similar peck from none other than Sammy Davis Jr . ) The episode ends on a poignant moment , with Alf gazing sadly at Else's empty wheelchair . His eyes brimming with tears , he mutters for the very last time : " Silly old moo . . . " .
" Streakers are cowards . If they were brave , they'd walk ! "	Likable Liverpuddlian comic Tom O'Connor came to prominence on Granada's ' The Comedians ' , and like Charlie Williams and Jim Bowen , progressed to game shows and variety specials such as ' London Night Out ' and ' Wednesday At Eight ' . His humour was mainly observational , often cleverly pointing out the differences between the past and the present . In 1984 , he joined the B . B . C . to make three seasons of a sketch-led show , each edition built round a topic such as education , cinema , hobbies and so on . Looking at it now its hard to believe it originally went out post-watershed . Yet not an expletive was used , nor body function joke made . It could easily have filled the slot on B . B . C . - 1 after ' Songs Of Praise ' . As was the case with ' Dave Allen At Large ' , the sketches were the weak point , though helped by support from Derek Griffiths ( what an underrated talent ) and old ' Manuel ' himself - Andrew Sachs . Ex-'Top Of The Pops ' dancer Cherry Gillespie provided glamour , much as she had done in the previous year's Bond movie ' Octopussy ' . O'Connor was on safer ground with his stand-up act . A regular item had him perched on a stool , knocking back whisky and telling jokes to a smirking bartender . For instance : " A bag of chips now costs ten bob in real money . Years ago , you couldn't carry home ten bob's worth of chips . The man would have to shut the shop afterwards . And the police would come round to find out where you got the money ! " . O'Connor's humour was obviously not aimed at the young , which made him a victim of the early 90's purge that rid the airwaves of all comedians lacking a toilet wall vocabulary . Bland the show may have been , but it was watchable . The 80's was probably the last decade in which family comedy was acceptable on prime-time television . Now everything is ' dark ' and ' cutting edge ' , and that's a shame .
" This is ' What's on Next ? ' . Write to your M . P . about it ! "	' What's on Next ? ' was a quick-fire comedy sketch show which originally went out in the old ' Opportunity Knocks ! ' slot of 6 . 45 P . M . on Monday nights . As Gwynplaine F . MacIntyre has noted , it was highly derivative of the hit U . S . show ' Rowan & Martin's Laugh-In ' , with comedians poking their heads out of garish sets , uttering corny quips , pulling faces , and disappearing . It scored over its inspiration , however , by not making the comedy topical , although if viewed today would certainly be regarded as ' very ' 70's ' . The late William Franklyn headed up this pack of jokers , his urbane manner made him a suitable figurehead , rather like Kenneth Horne . His patter would often be interrupted by Anna Dawson , playing a nymphomaniac traffic warden . Sandra Dickinson was the token totty ( replaced by the equally sexy Linda Lou Allen in Season 2 ) . Barry Cryer , Bob Todd , and Jim Davidson ( fresh from ' New Faces ' ) made up the rest . In one sketch , a depressed Andonia Katsaros says : " My husband drives me to drink ! " to which Dickinson replies : " Your're lucky . I have to walk ! " . In another , Davidson announced : " I'm a verger ! " . " If you believe that , you'll believe anything ! " , said Cryer , dressed as Groucho Marx for a reason which escapes me . The show also featured ( in its first season , at any road ) regular guest spots from Pam Ayres and Hinge & Bracket . I can recall being baffled by the latter . Were they real women or not ? Season 2 saw the show move to an 8 . 00 slot on Monday nights , and cut down to a slimmer half-hour . With Pam , Dame Hilda and Dr . Evadne gone , it wasn't quite as much fun , but provided a welcome bridge between ' Coronation Street ' and ' World In Action ' . Yes , half the jokes were old , the other half hurried . But nobody , least of all the viewers , seemed to care . Rather like the later ' Russ Abbot's Madhouse ' , ' Next ' gave the impression that the cast were enjoying themselves hugely , and making something worthwhile out of very little .
Blakey-By-The-Sea	When you watch a Reg Varney film , you shouldn't expect Fellini . The third and last cinematic outing for Stan Butler and co . came out at the end of 1973 , several months after the television series had ended . Stan and Jack are ( finally ) dismissed from the bus depot and finish up at a surprisingly sunny looking holiday camp in North Wales . As was the case with ' Mutiny ' , there's a fair amount of product placement , in fact the ' Pontins ' name is visible in every other shot . In a mind-bending coincidence , Blakey is there too , as Security Inspector . Arthur Mullard and Queenie Watts play ' Wally ' and ' Lil Briggs ' , their characters from Ronald Wolfe and Ronald Chesney's other hit L . W . T . sitcom ' Romany Jones ' . Wilfred ' Steptoe ' Brambell crops up as a randy pensioner ( look out for the moment when he slips on the dance floor . It looks accidental to me ) . As you'd expect from a film of this type , subtlety is virtually non-existent ; the script contains almost every seaside postcard joke written . ' Little Arthur ' has aged considerably since his last appearance , meaning we are thankfully spared all those ' potty ' gags . I wonder if Sir Fred Pontin was happy to see the name of his business linked to exploding toilets , bare bottoms and randy nurses . If nothing else . ' Holiday ' reminds one how poorer the television series was when Reg Varney and Michael Robbins left . It was good to see the cast reunited for one final romp . A fourth film - ' Fun On The Buses ' - was planned , but never got made . Don't watch if you want great comedy , but if you want a good dirty laugh , tune in . Compared to The Farelly Brothers films , this is Noel Coward . Funniest moment - Stan driving under a low bridge , terrifying everyone on the upper deck !
Flawed Yet Fascinating	This was basically three programmes in one ; a ' Goodies ' reunion special ( wasn't it great to see Bill , Tim and Graeme in their old office again ? ) , a documentary tracing the history of ' The Goodies ' television series , and an ' I Love The ' 70's ' style nostalgia fest . The first two were fine , but the third was a waste of time . Who cares what Emma Kennedy thinks ? With most of ' The Goodies ' currently unavailable on D . V . D . , this provided a golden opportunity to see clips from as yet unreleased episodes such as ' Goodies Rule O . K . ' . Its easy to forget just how big ' The Goodies ' were back in the ' 70's . I've still got the books and records . Nice that Jim Franklin finally got some credit for his part in the ' Goodies ' success story . Welcome though this was , I can't help wondering why it didn't lead to a comprehensive rerun of the series ( aside from the ' Winter Olympics ' episode , shown on B . B . C . - 2 in January ) . It seems odd that B . B . C . - 2 can make this , yet won't repeat the series itself . They're a bunch of teapots !
Off To Brighton !	The Gang are shopping for their impending trip to Brighton . Witnessing Sharon being propositioned by a randy supermarket manager , Eric loses his cool and rushes to her defence . Sharon is so impressed at his gallantry she reinstates their relationship . The Gang are thrilled . At Brighton , they have a whale of a time . But Sharon and Eric decide not to return on the same train with the others . Posing as a married couple , they prepare to spend the night together . . . A sweet Esmonde / Larbey episode , and one that belies the myth of the ' permissive society ' . Eric and Sharon come close to making love , but decide not to go through with it . Unfortunately , when they get home , Duffy's parents and Sharon's mother are convinced that they have done so , and a row breaks out . Then Dennis turns up , and makes the situation worse by handing over wedding presents ( the ring on Eric's finger has fooled him into thinking they are now married . Eric only wore it to foll the hotel staff ) . Nice location filming in Brighton , with Frankie taking the opportunity to re stage the D-Day landings on the beach . Funniest moment - Eric and Sharon being served by a sniggering waiter , played by Bob Todd of ' The Benny Hill Show ' .
Britain's Answer to ' Westworld ' ?	Sometimes its possible to create a wonderful television series , and still contrive a mighty flop . Such was the case with ' Bootle Saddles ' , a series that poked gentle fun at British Wild West enthusiasts . Men from all walks of life - bank managers , solicitors , doctors - who choose to spend their weekends dressed as cowboys , pretending to shoot one another with toy Colt 45's . Set in ' Apache Wells ' , a Wild West theme park run by northerner Percy " Call me Jesse ! " James , his wife and sexy daughter Betty , it featured a motley group of characters learning the ways of the Old West . The quality of the writing and acting was extremely good . Gordon Rollings made one of his final appearances as ' The Kid ' , an elderly man dressed in black who never spoke and walked around with a gun in one hand and ear trumpet in the other . A one-joke show perhaps , but a funny one . The B . B . C . didn't seem to know what to do with it , and put it out on B . B . C . - 2 where it was unjustly ignored . It deserved a far better reception .
Last Tango In Fenn Street	Having been to see Ken Russell's ' The Music Lovers ' , Eric and Sharon go back to the Duffy family flat . Eric is feeling romantically inclined , but when Sharon spurns his advances they row . Dennis turns up , telling them Frankie is in hospital , having bayoneted himself in the foot . While visiting him , Eric meets and is attracted to Staff Nurse Mary Taylor . He asks her to go on a date . She accepts . Feeling cramped by always having to take girls back to his family home , Eric persuades Dennis to loan him his flat for the evening . Then Maureen gets wind of the situation . . . Esmonde and Larbey in good form here . With the exception of Craven , the whole gang are featured . Frankie's mother is absent though ; we are told that the shock of seeing her ' little soldier ' in a hospital bed caused her to faint , knocking herself out cold ( why I do not know as she had seen him in hospital before - in the ' Please Sir ! ' episode ' Stitches & Hitches ' . Justine Lord , who plays the sexy Irish staff nurse , was also ' Hilary ' in ' Two In Clover ' and ' Sonia ' in the classic ' Prisoner ' episode ' The Girl Who Was Death ' . Ian Stirling , cast as Frankie's C . O . , went on to become a continuity announcer for Westward Television . Funniest moment - Frankie threatening to hang himself with the cord of his dressing gown .
" If that's a Scientologist , I'll serve him with chips ! "	Shelley's attempts to prepare a dinner party meet with continual interruptions ; first , a Jehovah's Witness rings the doorbell and refuses to go away , then an elderly neighbour called Mrs . Ratcliffe asks him to fix her shelf . Mrs . Ratcliffe is , unfortunately , senile , and thinks that all the women at that address - Mrs . H included - are on the game . Jim thinks up an ingenious way to get these time wasters off his back - he introduces them to each other . The party begins before Shelley has had time to clear up the flat , so his guests helpfully oblige by doing it for him . It ends in disaster . A row breaks out when two guests let slip that they have been having an affair . . . The final episode of Series 1 ( though as I've stated in earlier reviews it was not broadcast as such ) owes a small debt to the classic ' Porridge ' episode ' No Peace For The Wicked ' , though its nowhere near as funny . As the interruptions increase , so Shelley's anger rises , though he stops short of actually throttling someone ( as Fletcher did ) . Spot The Future Star : yes , that is Alan Rickman as the hippie-like ' Clive ' . The man who would go on to star in ' Die Hard ' , ' Robin Hood Prince Of Thieves ' and ' Galaxy Quest ' amongst other hit films is seen here in a minor role . A major problem is that we never actually see the blazing row the party degenerates into . We are simply told about it . Obnoxious Ned is present , and makes matters worse by lecherously winking at Trish and exclaiming : ' Everybody's doing it ! " . As the party takes place off-screen , we are thankfully spared a return appearance by David Pugh as ' Ned ' . One good thing to be said for it , I suppose . The best bits are Shelley's interaction with the Jehovah's Witness ( haven't we all wanted to tell them to go forth and multiply ? ) and Mrs . Ratcliffe . Funniest moment - Jim telling the former to leave the premises , adding that if he comes back he'll turn him into a pillar of salt !
" Watching the spies go by ! "	Hancock is standing idly on a street corner when a policeman strolls up . Tony chats about the inclement British weather ( for which he blames atom bomb testing ) . The policeman has observed Hancock on the same street corner every day for weeks , and wonders what he is up to . Hancock claims to be merely ' people-spotting ' . Like train-spotting , only with people . He claims to be fascinated by the human character . After an altercation with an elderly news vendor ( Wilfrid Lawson ) , Hancock spots what seems to be a man furtively passing an envelope to a woman . Convinced he has just witnessed spies at work ferrying stolen secrets , he tries to contact M15 . . . This was one of a number of episodes written by Godfrey Harrison , writer of the popular B . B . C . radio comedy ' A Life Of Bliss ' . Harrison was infamous for his late delivery of scripts , and one suspects he was still working on this one as the cameras started rolling . The dialogue is good , but the basic plot of Hancock becoming an agent for Her Majesty's Secret Service ( ' Number 13 - codename Canteen ' ) is silly and unbelievable . Why does Colonel Beresford ( Geoffrey Keen ) so readily accept Hancock's claim ? And whose canteen does Tony succeed in reaching by phone ? M15's ? There is some fun to be had watching Hancock being ' James Bond ' even if it does fly in the face of his long-held desire to create realistic comedy . I half expected him to wake up at the end and find the whole experience to have been a dream . Geoffrey Keen and James Villiers went on to appear in bona fide Bond movies - the former was Minister of Defence ' Sir Frederick Gray ' in several Roger Moore films including ' Moonraker ' , while the latter ( for one film only ) portrayed ' Chief Of Staff ' in ' For Your Eyes Only ' in 1981 . Sheila Burnette is one of the canteen women who humours Hancock by making him think he is talking to someone in M15 . Funniest moment - allocated the number 13 by Colonel Beresford , Hancock asks what happened to his predecessor . " I can't tell you that ! " , says the Colonel , " And you won't find out from his widow either ! " .
" To be or not to be - that's what I want to know ! "	Anglia Television is chiefly remembered today for ' Roald Dahl's Tales Of The Unexpected ' , ' The World Of Survival ' and ' Sale Of The Century ' ( " Now From Norwich - Its The Quiz Of The Week ! " ) hosted by the one and only Nicholas Parsons . In 1977 , the station forayed into the realm of sitcoms with ' Backs To The Land ' which attempted to do for the Women's Land Army what ' Dad's Army ' did for the Home Guard . The year is 1940 , and young women from all walks of life are recruited to work in the countryside to do the jobs the menfolk did before going off to the front . Milking cows , feeding chickens , baling hay , that sort of thing . The three central characters in ' Backs ' are dbutante ' Daphne Finch-Beauchamp ' , cheerful Cockney ' Jenny Dabb ' and down-to-Earth Jewish girl ' Shirley Bloom ' . They are sent to Crabtree Farm , Norfolk , owned by the tight-fisted and cantankerous ' Farmer Tom Whitlow ' . The show that followed was a kind of hybrid of ' Two In Clover ' ( townies struggling to adjust to the country way of life ) and the ' All Is Safely Gathered In ' episode of ' Dad's Army ' . The scripts were by David Climie , co-author of the hit Derek Nimmo monastic sitcom ' Oh Brother ! ' , and adaptor of P . G . Wodehouse's tales for ' Wodehouse Playhouse ' , which starred John Alderton and ( initially ) Pauline Collins . Climie wrote a novelisation based on ' Backs ' , and later did one for Ronnie Corbett's ' Sorry ! ' . Anne Shelton sang the patriotic title theme , which went something like : ' Backs To The Land Girls / There's So Much That You Can Do / Lending A Hand Girls / Britain Is Proud Of You ' . Anne later sang the theme to another wartime sitcom , the B . B . C . ' s ill-fated ' Then Churchill Said To Me ' , which starred Frankie Howerd . After one season , Marilyn Galsworthy ( who played ' Daphne ' ) left ( to appear in ' The Spy Who Loved Me ' as that unfortunate secretary who falls into a pool where she is eaten alive by sharks ) , and was replaced by the equally sexy Pippa Page as showgirl ' Bunny Burroughs ' . Three seasons were made in total . I have not seen ' Backs ' since its original broadcast , but remember it as being pretty good . No ' Dad's Army ' though . The late John Stratton was often hilarious as the miserable farmer . What damaged the show in my view was the annoying ( and somewhat obvious ) use of canned laughter . Sometimes a laugh track can improve a sitcom ( how Johnny Speight's ' Till Death ' in 1981 could have used one ! ) , but here it had exactly the opposite effect . Every line uttered on screen was accompanied by patently artificial tittering , giggling and chortling . The end result was like watching a film in the company of a senile relative who finds everything he / she sees amusing . Another problem the series had was that Phillippa Howell ( Shirley ) and Terese Stevens ( Jenny ) apparently did not get along in real life , and disparaged one another in the popular press . Farmer Whitlow's sons appeared in the first series , and were played by two real-life brothers - Michael and David Troughton . Michael went on to be ' Piers Fletcher-Dervish ' in ' The New Statesman ' . ' Backs To The Land ' had tremendous possibilities , but the canned laughter unfortunately killed much of the humour stone dead . A great shame .
Britain's Answer To ' Bob & Carol & Ted & Alice ' ?	On a Sky One retro programme ( ' T . V . Years ' ) a while back , disc jockey Mark Radcliffe said : " The only thing I can remember about ' Duty Free ' is that it was bloody awful . " . Peter Kay was not impressed either : " I hear they're going to ban ' Duty Free ' next year . They should have banned it after the first series . " . Ho , ho . We can take it then that these gents were not among the ten million or so fans who watched back in 1984-86 . Its popularity was so great that at one point it challenged ' Coronation Street ' . It was written by Eric Chappell ( in collaboration with his secretary Jean Warr ) , author of ' Rising Damp ' , ' The Squirrels ' , and ' Only When I Laugh ' , and many other hit sitcoms . The premise is this ; Amy ( Gwen Taylor ) and David Pearce ( Keith Barron ) are in Spain on a package holiday , spending his redundancy money ( nice topical touch . Everybody had redundancy money in those days it seemed ) . David , suffering from a mid-life crisis , becomes infatuated with Linda Cochrane ( Joanna Van Gyseghem ) , the elegant wife of Robert ( Neil Stacy ) , a stuffy ultra-English type forever moaning about the behaviour of the German guests at the hotel . David's infatuation is reciprocated ( the Cochrane's marriage being a sham ) to the point where he and Linda contemplate running away to start a new life together . But it never happens . Over the course of the series , events conspire to derail the romance , and in the last episode David meekly returns to his wife's arms . The first thing to be said here is that it is no ' Rising Damp ' , but then neither were Chappell's other shows . It owed a debt to those old British stage farces in which trouserless men were forever hiding in wardrobes and pretty girls scampered about in their underwear . You had to wonder why Amy did not simply call a halt to the holiday instead of letting David make a fool of himself by behaving like a love-sick puppy . Roger Sloman appeared in one episode as David's old pal ' Kev Wilson ' , whom he had secretly envied for years . It turned out Kev envied him in return ! The first two seasons were good , but then they laboured the joke by making a third . It beggared belief that the same people could turn up at the same time in the same Spanish hotel to begin the saga all over again . A couple of episodes were extended plugs for ' Emmerdale Farm ' ( as it was then called ) and ' Wish You Were Here ' , also made by Y . T . V . Of the cast , Gwen Taylor was the stand out . I had only previously seen her in Eric Idle's ' Rutland Weekend Television ' so it came as a surprise to see her in sitcom ( I had forgotten ' Ripping Yarns ' ) . She was great as the wronged wife ( she played another four years later in ' A Bit Of A Do ' ) . I never understood why David wanted to ditch her for Linda . Amy was sexier by far . Keith Barron had done sitcom before , as Leslie Crowther's friend in ' My Good Woman ' . Joanna Van Gyseghem , who played ' Linda ' , first appeared in the crime drama ' Fraud Squad ' as ' Vicky Hicks ' . Neil Stacy was terrific as the pompous ' Robert ' , all blazer and blazing indignation , a kind of younger version of Arthur Lowe's ' Potter ' character . Carlos Douglas made an big impression as the waiter , often getting big laughs by saying nothing . Another outstanding attribute was Peter Knight's theme tune . One or two poor souls grumbled that it was not actually filmed on location in Spain . So what ? ' Red Dwarf ' was not filmed in outer space , yet was still funny ! ( The Christmas Special did have some location filming , but sadly due to prior commitments Gwen Taylor was only seen in interior shots ) . David Nobbs ' B . B . C . sitcom ' The Sun Trap ' was also set in Spain - and partly filmed there - yet turned out a stinker . So no classic but not as bad as Radcliffe and Kay would have you believe . Having just sat through two hours of the spectacularly awful ego-trip ' Britain's Got The Pop Factor etc . ' , I suggest the latter watches ' Duty Free ' closely to learn how to structure ( and more importantly pace ) comedy .
Harmless Slapstick From More Innocent Times	To me the films of Jerry Lewis are guilty cinematic pleasures up ( or should that be down ? ) there along with the ' Airport ' disaster movies , Britain's ' Confessions Of ' series , and the Dean Martin ' Matt Helm ' pictures . Whenever one aired on U . K . television in the ' 70's , it was like a Royal Wedding , ' Live Aid ' and ' Concert For Diana ' all rolled into one . There was no simply no way I was going to miss a Jerry Lewis movie . He basically played the same character over and over again - the gormless goof-ball , a child inhabiting a man's body , ' Forrest Gump ' meets ' Inspector Clouseau ' - and that's why we loved him . In ' The Disorderly Orderly ' , he is Jerome Littlefield , an accident-prone orderly at a private hospital . If anything can go wrong , when he's around it will . Ask him to fix a television set and he will break it beyond repair . Tell him to brush someone's teeth and he won't bother to check to see whether the patient actually has them in his mouth . If he smashes a bottle of pills , nurses will step on them and go flying like skittles . As one would expect from a Frank Tashlin film , its full of inventive sight gags , and Lewis performs them in his own wonderful , crazy way . The climax in which he chases a patient rolling down a steep hill on a gurney will have you goggling in disbelief even now . No C . G . I . in those days , folks ! Incredible stuff . Not so hot is the romantic subplot in which Lewis comes to the aid of would-be suicide patient Susan Oliver . Like Chaplin before him , Lewis combined comedy and pathos , but not so successfully . One of the great things about D . V . D . is that one can fast forward the soppy stuff to get to the really good bits ( of which there are many ) . We are far away from the ' 60's to have reached the point where movies such as this now represent nostalgia . Yet ' The Disorderly Orderly ' does not depict the world as it was , but as it should have been , a land where women wore Edith Head clothes , everything looked colourful and shiny , no-one swore or did terrible things and even idiots like Jerome got the girl at the end . Lewis had burned himself out by the late ' 60's , but when ablaze he was a comedy supernova .
" You are not Uncle Bunny ! "	The first episode of Tony Hancock's ill-fated A . T . V . series . A London department store has had a window broken , so an assistant is told to move out stock in case people try to make off with it . Hancock , passing by , is shocked to see what appears to be a woman undressing in full view of the public . Of course she is only removing an expensive garment from a mannequin . He goes to cover it with his jacket and , not realising there is no glass there , falls through . He takes the dummy into the shop and complains to the manager ( Patrick Cargill ) about the poor service . The manager challenges Tony to work there for one week without managing to lose his temper . . . Probably the single biggest mistake of Hancock's career was his decision to sack Ray Galton and Alan Simpson . Those men understood the character of ' Anthony Aloysius St . John Hancock ' better than anyone else , and this is evident from viewing ' The Assistant ' . It was written by Terry Nation ( creator of ' Blake's Seven ' , ' Survivors ' , and the ' Daleks ' from ' Dr . Who ' ) from a story by Rhy Whyberd ( better known as ventriloquist Ray Alan ) and , while not being particularly bad , could have been written for anybody . It is as though Hancock has wandered by mistake into Charlie Drake's ' The Worker ' . Though it has some genuine laughs , the major flaw is the ending - we never find out whether or not Hancock won his bet . Ray and Alan would not have made this mistake . At least he had the good sense to keep supporting actors of the calibre of Patrick Cargill , who was ' The Doctor ' in the classic ' The Blood Donor ' . Kenneth Griffith is very good as ' Owen Bowen ' , a fiery history-obsessed Welshman who Hancock encounters in the packing department . The annoying little girl whom Tony meets while dressed in a rabbit costume ( ' Uncle Bunny ' ) is Adrienne Poster , later to change the spelling of her surname to ' Posta ' and appear in films such as ' To Sir With Love ' and ' The Alf Garnett Saga ' . Funniest moment - the aforementioned brat denouncing Hancock's ' Uncle Bunny ' as an impostor , to which he replies : " Clear off before I fetch you one around the ears ! " .
Benny's Sketchbook !	British cinemas in the ' 70's were full of features based on popular television sitcoms such as ' Bless This House ' , ' Please Sir ! ' , and , of course ' On The Buses ' . When Benny Hill was asked by Thames to make a movie , he opted for a compilation of his top-rated sketch show . He had probably been inspired by ' Ten From Your Show Of Shows ' which had been released the year before to great success . Unlike the Monty Python film ' And Now For Something Completely Different ' , ' The Best Of Benny Hill ' showcased the original television sketches , not a single item was remade for the big screen . These included ' Tribute To The Lower Tidmarsh Ambulance Brigade ' , ' Garden Of Love ' , ' The Short Life Of Maurice Dribble ' , ' The Messenger ' , and ' Wishing Well ' amongst others . Benny's old gang - Bob Todd and Jackie Wright - are in evidence , and the wonderful Patricia Hayes appears in several items . I saw this in the seaside resort of Tenby in South Wales and it perfectly rounded off an afternoon of fish and chips , crazy golf , sun and candy floss . Despite the fact that the material was directly taken from television , no-one felt cheated or left the theatre in a mood other than happy . My only complaint was that in the transference to the big screen , the picture quality had noticeably deteriorated , giving the movie a washed-out look . Fellow reviewer Theo Robertson wonders why the ' Sale Of The Half-Century ' sketch was not used . Benny had yet to come up with the idea . ' Hill's Angels ' were not formed until 1980 . The movie's success led to Thames making similar compilations for I . T . V . , these would be mainly be screened on Bank Holidays . Network has released all of Benny's early Thames work on D . V . D . now , so I could not really recommend purchasing this . Besides , the picture quality on ' The Annuals ' is far better . Funniest moment - ' Tuppertime ' , Benny's spoof on ' Dee Time ' ( a popular ' 60's B . B . C . chat show starring Simon Dee ) . Over the course of the sketch , Benny's ' Tommy Tupper ' struggles to interview a bored , pipe-smoking Henry McGee , the country's oldest man , an inebriated actress , and a vicar ( Michael Sharvell-Martin ) who has gone on air with his flies undone !
" I Was Wellington's Boot ! "	Arriving at ' The Dolls ' House ' boutique , Duffy is horrified to see the supposedly gay Mr . Winters flirting with Sharon , as well as chasing her round the shop . Winters is only joking , but Eric feels genuinely insulted . Over a burger and chips at a caf , they have a row , and he storms off . Sharon then gets friendly with a poor student named Chris , who has used the row as cover to steal chips from Sharon's plate . Chris takes Sharon to a museum and then to a stately home . They hit it off rather well . Chris is the complete opposite of Duffy , being intelligent and articulate . During walks in the park , he reads poetry to her . But Sharon makes a horrifying discovery : as part of his laboratory experiments Chris uses live rabbits . End of relationship . After a shaky first episode , ' Gang ' was really hitting its stride with some well-crafted story lines , including this one by Tony Bilbow . Its Sharon's show , with some nice if irrelevant contributions from Frankie and Craven . Sharon's date with Chris boasts some splendid location filming , although the choice of music is a bit unimaginative . Sharon's good-time girl of a mother is back , this time played by Barbara Keogh ( Diana Coupland was the original ' Connie Eversleigh ' ) . The character last appeared in the ' Please Sir ! ' episode ' The Decent Thing ' . Andria Lawrence is ' Sandra ' ( Sharon's new work colleague ) . Blonde , busty Ms . Lawrence seems to have been in every sitcom ever made in the ' 70's , most notably ' Doctor At Large ' and ' Doctor In Charge ' as the man-mad ' Nurse Willett ' . No mention is made of the fate of her predecessor , Yvonne Parker ( Carmen Munroe ) . Funniest moment - Frankie disguised as an old bearded man , a ruse so transparent I could see right to the back of my television screen !
" I'm a decorator ! "	Having been sacked by the G . P . O . , Peter Craven is working alongside Duffy and Batch as an interior decorator . Their first job is to paint a block of flats , owned by Mr . Stringer , a man so miserable as to give Rigsby from ' Rising Damp ' a run for his money . Meanwhile , Dennis has left home , and when he cannot find accommodation Duffy suggests he spend a night in one of Stringer's unoccupied flats . That night , Stringer shows up with a pretty girl in tow , and finds Dennis there in his pyjamas . . . Okay episode , notable mainly for the appearance of the late Dudley Foster as ' Mr . Stringer ' . This talented actor ( who sadly committed suicide in 1973 ) appeared in numerous films and television series of the 60's / early ' 70's . ' Steptoe & Son ' fans will remember him as the detective in the episode ' Robbery With Violence ' . His wife is played by Fanny Carby , another sitcom regular , mostly cast as nosey housewives . Funniest moment - a pyjama-clad Dennis attempting to justify his presence in the flat to Mr . Stringer . Pretending to be a decorator , he grabs a paint brush and makes a horrendous red daub on the door .
Simon In The ' 70's	When Ian Ogilvy was announced as the new ' Saint ' back in 1977 , I remember thinking : " Good casting . " . The series appeared the following year in a peak-time slot on Sunday evening and right away you could tell it wasn't going to work . The original ' Saint ' was still turning up on various I . T . V . regions in daytime slots , resulting in unfavourable comparisons . The character of Simon Templar seemed anachronistic at a time when ' The Sweeney ' and ' Starsky & Hutch ' ruled the roost . Ogilvy's trendy suits and the hideous saxophone / synthesiser music only made matters worse . Producer Anthony Spinner , a former contributor to ' The Man From U . N . C . L . E . ' and ' The Invaders ' amongst other shows , had the good sense to retain many of the original production team , such as writers John Kruse and Terrance Feely , directors Leslie Norman and Jeremy Summers . The expensive location filming gave the series a glossy sheen , but lost it the charm of the Elstree-bound Moore shows . Ogilvy could have made an excellent ' Saint ' had he been encouraged to develop his own personality and not simply impersonate Moore . He was also much too young for the role . ' T . V . Times ' readers disagreed , they voted him ' Most Compulsive Male Personality ' of 1979 . He was also the recipient of a ' This Is Your Life ' book that year , and walked into the Thames studio to great gales of applause . Loads of top totty for Simon to work his charm on , including Kate O'Mara , Prunella Gee , Judy Geeson , Mary Tamm , Catherine Schell , Tessa Wyatt , Carolyn Seymour , Lynn Dalby and Gayle Hunnicutt . It was the last of its kind - the glossy , globe-trotting I . T . C . adventure series , a line that can be traced back to 1959 and the half-hour version of ' Danger Man ' . Lew Grade switched to feature film production ( with middling results ) and no more ' Saints ' were made . Despite my not liking the show at the time , its stock has increased over the years , mainly because the Simon Dutton and Val Kilmer versions were worse ! Best episode - ' The Armaggeddon Alternative ' . Worst episode - ' Death In Venice ' . Parodied by L . W . T . ' s ' End Of Part One ' as ' Return Of The Doughnut ' .
" I go see proper doctor for the eyes . I go see chiropodist ! "	Rob Buckman and Chris Beetles were doctors who switched to writing radio comedy , progressing into television with episodes of the final run of ' Doctor On The Go ' , then landing their own sketch show , created by , written and starring themselves . Made by London Weekend Television , ' The Pink Medicine Show ' owed a great debt to ' Monty Python's Flying Circus ' . The medically-themed sketches were linked by similar surreal devices ; for instance , a picture on an office wall suddenly turning into the opening shot of the next sketch . As a comedy team , Buckman and Beetles were a sort of ' Smith & Jones ' with stethoscopes . They were assisted by future ' Robin Of Sherwood ' star Nickolas Grace and Peter John , with sexy Lynda Bellingham as the show's equivalent of Carol Cleveland . In the first episode , the aftermath of a heart transplant operation was depicted as akin to that of a soccer match , with doctors and nurses laughing and splashing about in the showers ( viewers were treated to a lovely naked back shot of Bellingham ) . Highlights included the ' Starsky & Hutch'-style paramedics ' Fasolt & Fafner ' , an exploding bed-pan , a commercial for Nodrogs syrup of figs ( shot in the style of a 1960's Martini ad ) , ' The Maurice Chevalier School Of Surgery ' , how Rudyard Kipling's poetry was affected by having his tonsils out , a music hall number called ' The Night They Invented Penicillin ' , and ' Signor Robino Goes To The Doctors ' in which a politically incorrect foreigner ( Buckman ) causes havoc when he visits his G . P . Somewhat less successful were Buckman's monologues to camera . The show either tickled your funny bone or had you writhing in agony . I liked it ! It was unusually rude for a comedy that went out at 7 . 30 P . M . on a Friday night - which endeared it to us filthy-minded kids ! EXAMPLE : Doctor Beetles responds to an emergency . He finds his patient , Buckman , sitting up in bed . BEETLES : What's the matter ? BUCKMAN : I empty my bowels every morning at eight . BEETLES : So what's the problem ? BUCKMAN : I don't get up until nine !
" And you can get it ' On The Buses ' , upstairs or down inside . . . "	Those who regard the ' 70's as ' the decade that taste forgot ' cite the success of ' On The Buses ' in spurious defence of their views . " It was the most popular film of 1971 ! " , they rage , " Everyone in Britain then must have been stupid ! " . Er , no . It came out at a bad time for British cinema . Big American studios had withdrawn funding for productions , hence something drastic needed to be done to keep cinemas open . The success of the ' Till Death Us Do Part ' movie in 1969 provided an answer ; make feature-length versions of hit television sitcoms . The bigger the sitcom the more popular the film was likely to be . In 1971 , you could not find one more popular than ' On The Buses ' , then three years old . It made sound economic sense for a studio - in this case , Hammer Films - to buy the screen rights . Nobody could have predicted just how successful it would turn out to be , overtaking ' Love Story ' as that year's biggest picture in the U . K . Yes , it out grossed ' Diamonds Are Forever ' too , but the latter only opened in December , while ' O . T . B ' was on release in July , so oft-repeated comparisons between the box office performances of these films are grossly unfair . One possible explanation for the film's extraordinary success may have been that it afforded many ' O . T . B . ' fans , the ones who hadn't upgraded to colour television , with their first glimpse of their favourite show in anything other than monochrome . Also , in the seaside towns and holiday camps it may have provided a respite for sodden tourists keen to escape from the occasionally appalling British weather ( which is how I came to see it ) . With that year's ' Carry On ' ( ' Carry On At Your Convienience ' ) proving a flop , ' On The Buses ' was well placed to take advantage of audiences feeling let down by the latest outing of Sid , Hattie and co . The main part of the plot ( the Luxton bus company getting up the noses of its staff by hiring women drivers ) could have formed the basis of a typical episode , but the writers were able to broaden ( some would say , coarsen ) the humour , which is why we get clippies taking their clothes off , slapstick ( Blakey getting drenched as Stan's bus goes though a puddle ) and jokes about incontinence . However , a subplot concerning Olive's pregnancy distanced the film from its television counterpart , as Arthur and Olive were childless in the series . One thing common to nearly all these films ( apart from ' Please Sir ! ' , ' Steptoe & Son ' , and ' Dad's Army ' ) was the absence of the original theme music ; here we get a dreary pub singalong ( credited to ' Quince Harmon ' ) entitled ' Its A Great Life On The Buses ' . I can understand why some ' O . T . B ' fans loathe the movies , but they should bear this in mind - for many years , this - and indeed the other two films - were the only ' On The Buses ' to be found on British television . Whatever their perceived shortcomings , they at least kept the flag flying for the crazy world of Stan , Blakey and co . Otherwise it might have been totally forgotten .
" Want a bit of cake ? "	Stan is engaged to Sally , a clippie who happens to be Blakey's niece . The inspector isn't too happy about the situation . Inviting her home for tea , Stan tries to create a good impression by wearing the kipper tie Sally has bought him - but it makes him look like a twerp . Sally aggravates Mrs . Butler by continually correcting Stan's speech patterns . and criticising the food . A row blows up across the kitchen table , with Stan , Mrs . Butler and Arthur on one side , and Blakey and Sally on the other . She calls off the engagement . A reworking of ' The Inspector's Niece ' . Madelaine Mills would reappear in the ' Vacancy For Inspector ' episode , as ' Christine ' . Arthur reveals that he and Olive have been married for nine years . Instead of taking a neutral stand in the family argument , as one might expect , he pitches in . Blakey shows Stan a photo of his twin sister , also played by Stephen Lewis . She would feature in the spin-off ' Don't Drink The Water ' , played then by Pat Coombs . Funniest moment - Stan's ' with it ' hairstyle which makes him look like one of The Beatles !
Exit Mike Upchat , Enter . . . Er . . . Mike Upchat ?	Broadcast in 1977 , ' The Upchat Line ' was a witty and sophisticated Thames sitcom which starred the King Midas of ' 70's telly - John Alderton - as an incorrigible liar with a way with the ladies . It proved a hit with viewers , and a second series was commissioned . But a public falling out between the actor and writer Keith Waterhouse meant that it needed a new star . Replacing Alderton would not be easy , as the producers of ' Please Sir ! ' found to their cost seven years earlier . Enter Robin Nedwell , fresh from L . W . T . ' s long running ' Doctor ' series in which the role of ' Duncan Waring ' had required him to ' pull birds ' ( or rather , nurses ) and lie like no tomorrow . Ideal qualifications . More importantly , Nedwell had also proved he could successfully replace a sitcom's leading man - he had done as much in 1972 when Barry Evans packed his medical bag and left St . Swithins for good . Interviewed at the time , Nedwell glibly said : " I have been chatted to about doing Upchat ! " . The show was retitled ( a mistake in my view ) ' The Upchat Connection ' . The first episode opens at Marylebone Station . A man ( Nedwell ) waves goodbye to another as he gets aboard a train . Presumably the departed is the original Mike Upchat ( we do not see his face close up ) . As the train pulls out , the first man grins mischievously as he holds up a luggage locker key . Inside are all of Mike's possessions , including a declaration that the owner of the key is the new Mike Upchat . So rather than put Nedwell into the show and pretend as though nothing has changed , Waterhouse chose instead to make a big issue of it . The new Mike gets a lift in a van to Polly's Club . This is the first time we have seen the sassy landlady ( Bernadette Milnes - mother of Lystette Anthony , incidentally ) since the first episode of ' Line ' . When he introduces himself as Mike Upchat , she does not believe him . But then she did not believe anything the original said either . To test him , she gives him Mike's ' usual ' - a vile looking drink in a tall glass - and after taking a swallow , he almost chokes . He explains that the original Mike has gone to California ( though he told others he was going to Australia ) , presumably for good . On his last night in London , he raffled all his worldly goods - an address book containing his pseudonyms , his luggage locker key , a blind date with the stunning ' Suzie ' , and even the name ' Mike Upchat ' . Maggie ( Susan Jameson ) , one of the old Mike's ' friends ' , arrives , and also thinks the new one an impostor ( well he is , isn't he ? ) . But she is sufficiently intrigued to insist he take her to lunch at Mario's restaurant . So now Mike has two dinner dates arranged simultaneously , one with the lovely Maggie , the other with the equally lovely Suzie . Rather than let either down , Mike chooses instead to dash back and forth between restaurants ( luckily they are within walking distance of each other ) , gobbling down mouthfuls of food and wine while engaging in meaningless small talk . To excuse himself , he comes up with outrageous lies like " I need to make an urgent phone-call to Wales ! " . The girls eventually work out what he is up to and leave him alone . Returning to Polly's , he strikes up an instant friendship with another stunning beauty . . . As ' Upchat ' , Nedwell is more than adequate an replacement for Alderton . The script takes into account this is not the same man by making him less of a smooth-talker and more a fumbling amateur . The problem is that the ghost of ' Duncan Waring ' has not been ( and sadly never would be ) sufficiently exorcised . Nedwell also badly missed a performer of the calibre of Geoffrey Davies to bounce his humour off . Waterhouse shot himself in the foot by reworking his opening episode of ' Billy Liar ' ( 1973 ) in putting his hero on multiple dates . ' Maggie ' is Susan Jameson , who guested in the ' Line ' episode ' Casualty Ward ' as ' Susan ' the nurse . She appeared in every edition of ' Connection ' . Karin MacCarthy , who plays ' Suzie ' , was married to actor Alun Armstrong at the time and would have been familiar to viewers through her role as Bernard Hepton's sexy secretary ' Carol ' in Eric Chappell's delightful ' The Squirrels ' . Funniest moment - the look on Mike's face when Polly presents him with a giant plate of spaghetti bolognese . Not the sort of thing you want to eat after two dinners !
Permission To Change Channels , Sir !	' My Old Man ' was an edition of ' Seven Of One ' , shown on BBC-2 on / 73 . Ronnie Barker starred as former engine driver ' Sam Cobbett ' , a cantankerous old codger turfed out of his house in Ironmonger Row by the council , and who moves in with his daughter Doris ( Ann Beach ) and her grumpy husband Arthur ( the late Larry Martyn ) in their high-rise flat . Arthur sees Sam's presence as an unwelcome intrusion and does not get on with him at all . The humour largely arose from Sam's efforts to adjust to his new surroundings . For instance , he calls in at the local pub and is appalled to find that the barman Cyril ( Robin Parkinson ) is outrageously gay . But he bumps into an old friend in the shape of Willie ( Leslie Dwyer ) and they have a good old Cockney sing-song . Like the later ' Victor Meldrew ' , given half a chance Sam could still misbehave . It was not actually bad , it was merely that the other shows were superior . ' Prisoner & Escort ' and ' Open All Hours ' both led to series . When ' My Old Man ' was not picked up , writer Gerald Frow took the idea to I . T . V's Yorkshire Television . Ronnie Barker was under contract to the B . B . C . , so with ' Dad's Army ' still in production at that time , I . T . V . turned it into a star vehicle for Clive Dunn . They were keen to cash in on the success of Jimmy Perry and David Croft's sitcom , and had earlier lured over James Beck to make ' Romany Jones ' . Dunn chose to play ' Sam ' in much the same manner as ' Jonesy ' , as a lovable bumbling old fool , but with a flat cap and a woollen scarf replacing a uniform . Taking the place of Larry Martyn as ' Arthur ' was Edward Hardwicke , one of the stars of the first season of B . B . C . ' s ' Colditz ' ( he played ' Major Pat Grant ' ) . Priscilla Morgan , Dunn's real-life wife , took over Ann Beach's role as his daughter ! A young Keith Chegwin played Sam's grandson ' Ron ' . The first episode of ' My Old Man ' was a virtual remake of the ' Seven Of One ' original . Dunn sang the theme song whose lyrics went something like : " My old man , with his brolly unfurled , his sandwiches curled , he's off to change the world , my old man . ' . Critics grumbled at the change-over , and tried to compare the ways that Ronnie and Clive tackled the role . A few noticed a similarity in the basic premise to that of ' Spring & Autumn ' , a Vince Powell sitcom starring Jimmy Jewel which had debuted the year before . I personally was reminded of Dick Emery's ' Lampwick ' sketches . But it was sufficiently popular to run to two seasons .
Dawson's Half-Hour ?	Imagine , if you will , that Tony Hancock had not died in 1968 . Furthermore , that he had re-teamed in 1975 with Ray Galton and Alan Simpson , and Kenneth Williams to make a new series of ' Hancock's Half-Hour ' for Yorkshire Television . If you can imagine all that , you should then have a rough idea of what ' Dawson's Weekly ' was like . Comedian Les Dawson had shot to stardom on ' Opportunity Knocks ! ' following years of doing stand-up in British clubs - often to unresponsive audiences - and landed his own show on I . T . V . - ' Sez Les ' . Galton and Simpson had noted the uncanny similarity between Dawson's comic persona , that of a right old misery guts , and the late Hancock , and thought it would be interesting to put him in a ' Hancock ' type show . The starting point was ' Holiday With Strings ' , a one-off special screened on / 74 . In it , Les played a would-be traveller wishing to see the world for 22 . He books a package holiday to Tossa del Mar with a cheap tour company . He gets an idea what sort of holiday this will be when the air hostess ( the great Patricia Hayes , a one-time Hancock regular ) sells raffle tickets to see who is going to have lunch on the plane . Les strikes up a friendship with Peregrine ( Roy Barraclough ) a gay coal-miner . Things get worse as passengers are made to hand over loose change to pay for an unexpected refuelling . It is not hard to imagine Hancock saying Les ' lines . In addition to Barraclough and Hayes , Dawson had good support from the likes of Mollie Sugden and Frank Thornton . It worked well , and ' Dawson's Weekly ' appeared the following year . Roy Barraclough returned , though as ' Roy ' , and he filled the Kenneth Williams role as an irritating little man who crops up every week . Instead of a Homburg hat and Astrakhan collar , Dawson wore a Hell's Angels type leather outfit - ' Darby & Joan Club , Leeds ' written on the back of the jacket , complete with long white scarf . Seven episodes were made . In ' Les Miserables ' , Les is so depressed that he goes to a psychiatrist . ' Where There's A Will ' has him trying to get married within seven days in order to qualify for an inheritance . In ' Stage Struck ' , Les's Hancockian pretensions lead him to try his hand at acting . The show ended with ' Strangers In The Night ' , set aboard a British Rail sleeper train to Scotland . Les meets an attractive woman ( Sue Lloyd ) and sneaks into her cabin for some naughty business . The next morning , however , he makes a horrifying discovery - he went to the wrong cabin and had sex with an old woman by mistake . Panicking , Les calls for an ambulance . Critics were less than impressed , however , branding it ' crude ' and ' rude ' ( funny how the definition of crudity has changed since 1975 ! ) and , at least one said the show should be renamed ' Dawson's Weakly ' . While it is not as good as the Hancock shows ( mainly down to Les looking uncomfortable in sitcom ) , it is very funny and worth a major reevaluation . Les returned to sketch shows and eventually replaced Terry Wogan as the host of the B . B . C . ' s ' Blankety Blank ' . The episodes ' Where There's A Will ' and ' The Clerical Error ' were remade twenty years later starring Paul Merton .
When The World Went Ape !	' Battle For The Planet Of The Apes ' in 1973 was the last in the series of motion pictures inspired by Pierre Boulle's novel ' Monkey Planet ' . Arthur P . Jacobs , the producer , had been planning a spin-off show for some time , but his sad death that year meant the idea had to be bequeathed to others . The series begins much in the same manner as the first movie . A spacecraft containing three American astronauts - only Alan Virdon ( Ron Harper ) and Pete Burke ( James Naughton ) survive - has crash landed on Earth in the far future . Apes have taken over and Man has been reduced to a slave workforce . Dr . Zaius ( Booth Colman ) fears the humans are a threat to Ape civilisation and wants them dead . A curious chimpanzee named Galen ( Roddy McDowall ) assists the astronauts to escape the clutches of vicious General Urko and his gorilla army , but in doing so inadvertently causes a death and so has to go on the run with them . ' Apes ' had little of the meaningful social commentary of the movies , playing more like David Janssen's ' The Fugitive ' . Each week , our heroes arrived in a different community , got involved in a local difficulty , solved it , and moved on , all the time struggling to stay one step ahead of Urko ( ' The Incredible Hulk ' series with Bill Bixby also utilised this format ) . This show was my introduction to the ' Planet Of The Apes ' universe . None of the movies had been seen on British television prior to the series . I . T . V . gave it a network showing on Sunday evenings , something the British-made ' Space : 1999 ' was not able to achieve . The performances were good , with Roddy McDowall's lovable ' Galen ' capturing the hearts of millions . Like a good little boy , I dutifully bought the bubblegum cards , the Marvel Comics weekly , and proudly wore a ' Planet Of The Apes ' T-shirt around town . You couldn't escape from the Apes in 1974 . The show boasted a classic title sequence in which the premise was ingeniously spelt out in a few seconds . Imagine my horror when I learnt that it had been cancelled after only fourteen episodes ! How did it end , I wondered , did Virdon and Burke ever get back to their own time ? Had the show depended on British ratings for its survival , it would have lasted years . Only when I saw the movies years later did I realise how inferior the series was by comparison . Still , it occupies a special place in my heart . Compared to the Tim Burton fiasco , it is a towering work of genius !
Strictly Goodies Dancing !	When The Penelope Fay Dancing Team are doped just prior to the finals of the B . B . C . ' s ' Come Dancing ' , Miss Fay asks the Goodies to replace them . There's a snag - they can't dance . Graeme rigs up some special ' dancing suits ' - suits that dance by remote control . The Goodies soon pull level with Miss Fay's rival - the unscrupulous Delia Capone - but she isn't about to let the Goodies waltz off with the trophy and prize money . She challenges them to an open-air duel . . . The original ' Come Dancing ' was a very different show to the one currently on air . No Z-list celebrities , no pompous judges , no booing audiences ; instead they had formation dancing teams pitted against one another , lots of elegance and charm . Its that which this episode sends up . June Whitfield is surprisingly sexy as ' Penelope Fay ' ( must be those false eyelashes and wig ) , while Joan Sims comes on strong as the gangster-like ' Delia Capone ' . With his dark brilliantine hair , Tim Brooke-Taylor looks uncannily like Conservative leader David Cameron ! Funniest moment - Tim and Bill learning to dance courtesy of a instructional record by Lionel Bleagghh !
Where It All Began	Using money left to him by his late Aunt , Tim Brooke-Taylor sets up an agency comprised of himself , his friends Graeme Garden and Bill Oddie , whose motto is ' we do anything , anytime ' . They are summoned to the Tower Of London , where a dreadful crisis has occurred . In the words of the Chief Beefeater : " someone is stealing the Beefeaters ' beef . " . The Beefeaters are forced to eat corned beef , and as a consequence are wasting away . The Goodies investigate , and discover that the culprit has blue blood . . . ' The Goodies ' first episode is a patchy affair ; the beginning is the best , where Graeme shows the others round the office . " In there is a year's supply of food . " , he says , opening a door , to reveal a large photograph of a supermarket aisle . In the same way ' The Avengers ' presented an exaggerated version of ' 60's Britain , ' The Goodies ' depicted an over-the-top ' 70's , in which girls wore short skirts and the men kipper ties , Hai Karate after-shave and and flowery shirts . Unfortunately , some young people now think the show is an accurate commentary on that era . The main plot about the Crown Jewels is a little dull , but enlivened by an amusing sequence in a torture chamber which has been converted into a kitchen . To cut the corned beef sandwiches , the Chief Beefeater uses a giant pendulous blade straight out of Edgar Allan Poe . Tim's line " Its beef ! Its beef ! " is a reference to a then-current television commercial for Knorr beef cubes starring Bob Todd . George Baker is best known for his role as ' Inspector Wexford ' , but he has done comedy too . He played the title role in ' Bowler ' , a spin-off from I . T . V . ' s ' The Fenn Street Gang ' . Not a bad opener , but the best was yet to come . Funniest moment - the mock advertisement for ' Fairy Puff ' washing powder !
The Mad Scientist Show !	What did I . T . V . used to show in the bad old days before it became obsessed with soap ? The answer - sitcoms , U . S . imports , nature documentaries of the ' Survival ' variety , and shows such as ' Don't Ask Me ' . It was science for the masses ( some would say ' dumbed down ' science , and it probably was ) , but done with a knowing wink . Three resident boffins - David Bellamy , Magnus Pyke and Miriam Stoppard - took it in turn to answer viewers ' questions . These ranged from ' why does water taste minty after you've been sucking Polo mints for a couple of hours ? ' to ' how did the salt get in the sea ? ' and ' how do birds know when to migrate ' ? ' . It was ' How ! ' for adults . The first show drew complaints after Stoppard was seen hurling babies into a pool , apparently to prove they had a natural ability to swim . No-one drowned , but even so , it was a disturbing sight to behold . A couple of the toddlers looked really terrified . The show probably would have been cancelled after one season were it not for one magic ingredient - the boffins themselves . Bellamy's mangling of the English language made him a boon to impressionists such as Lenry Henry and Stanley Baxter ; Pyke dressed like William Hartnell's ' Dr . Who ' and couldn't say two words without turning into a human windmill ; Stoppard simply looked gorgeous . The original presenter was actor Derek Griffiths . His successors included actor Brian Clover and future Labour M . P . for Grimsby Austin Mitchell . Allegedly Adrienne Posta auditioned for the job , only to be rejected on the grounds she was too young and trendy ! What could have been a stuffy old science lecture peopled by boring old fogeys in cravats instead became a masterclass in English eccentricity . Every boffin had his / her fans . Mine was Pyke . ' Don't Ask Me ' made him an overnight star , leading to appearances on ' Celebrity Squares ' and ' Parkinson ' etc . I doubt whether anyone became a scientist as a result of watching ' Don't Ask Me ' , but it was a lot more fun than what's in that Wednesday 7 P . M . slot nowadays . And if it got kids asking questions such as ' what is the Ozone layer for ? ' then so much the better .
" Monsters don't exist ! "	The Goodies save a man who is about to throw himself off a bridge . He is the keeper of the Monster House at the London Zoo , and is depressed because he doesn't have a monster to exhibit . So the Goodies set off for Scotland to capture the Loch Ness Monster . . . An enjoyably daft start to the second season . Scotland as seen here is a land of tartan kilts , bagpipe spiders , Andy Stewart , haggis hunting , road signs that say ' Och Aye The Noo ' and sporrans that drink milk and make mewling noises . In other words , one that has only existed in the fevered imaginations of comedy writers . ( Wales would come in for a similar ribbing in Season Five ) . Stanley Baxter was under contract to the B . B . C . when he made this , but his performance is so close to John Laurie's you wonder why they didn't hire the real one . ' Carry On ' star Bernard Bresslaw appears as the zoo keeper . Funniest moment - the Goodies towing the Loch Ness Monster back to London !
I ' ate you , Senor !	My memories of this show are hazy to say the least . I recall that the ' T . V . Times ' did a special feature to tie-in with the opening episode . Written in the form of diary extracts , it told of the events leading up to the first transmitted episode - how Inspector Cyril Blake retired from the Luxton bus company after years of loyal service and moved to Spain with his sister Dorothy ( " Who's driving this plane ? Stan Butler ? " ) . We knew Blakey had a sister because in the ' On The Buses ' episode ' Going Steady ' he shows Stan a photo . Stephen Lewis put on drag to play Dorothy , but for ' Don't Drink The Water ' , it was ( rightly ) decided to hire an actress to play the role . The wonderful , much-missed Pat Coombs was then appearing regularly as a foil for Dick Emery . Lewis and Coombs made a formidable comedy team , much as Lewis and Varney had been . Rather like ' Duty Free ' nearly a decade later , ' Water ' was shot entirely in the studio , with travelogue footage spliced in . It made no difference . Audiences did not demand authenticity in their comedy in those days . It did well enough to secure a second season , but the ghost of ' On The Buses ' proved hard to exorcise . Rather like ' Going Straight ' , ' The Fenn Street Gang ' and most recently , ' The Green , Green Grass ' , ' Water ' was deemed inferior to the original , its merits ignored . It was an uphill struggle for Ronald Wolfe and Ronald Chesney to recapture the success of ' Buses ' . Eventually , they gave up and moved on to , surprisingly , another spin-off - the awful ' Yus , My Dear ' starring Arthur Mullard . The first episode of ' Water ' has been made available as an extra on the ' On The Buses ' season 7 D . V . D . and makes enjoyable viewing , if you like ' fish out of water ' comedies . Interestingly , six years later , ' Reggie Perrin ' creator David Nobbs wrote a similar series for the B . B . C . - the appalling ' Sun Trap ' - which despite being shot in Spain , was far less amusing than ' Water ' .
Fun In The Sun With Marty	Picture the scene : Marty is on a holiday flight to Spain . Wearing sunglasses and with a white towel over his head , he thinks he looks cool . On his way to the john , he picks up a toy sub-machine gun a kid has dropped . Before he can return it the plane hits an air pocket and Marty is propelled into the cockpit , where the crew take him for a would-be hijacker ! Later , our hero arrives in Spain to find the hotel he is booked into is not finished . Off he goes to a beach when he gets an unusual request from a topless British sunbather . A dog has made off with her bra so , ever the gallant rescuer , Marty agrees to ride a tandem back to the hotel with him seated behind her , holding sombreros over her breasts ! All goes well until he spots an old friend and absent-mindedly doffs one of the hats ! This one-off silent comedy , shot on location , featured Marty Feldman doing what he was best at - visual comedy . His favourite support comedian John Junkin was at hand , cast as a smarmy hotel manager . It was one of Marty's last television projects ; not long afterwards , he succumbed to the lure of Hollywood .
" Mr . Hedges is a sexual pervert ! "	Having failed to interest 5C in art , Hedges attempts to teach them Shakespeare , beginning with ' Romeo & Juliet ' . Frankie would rather they read Mickey Spillane instead . One person keen to act out the love scenes in the play with her teacher is Maureen Bullock , who is hopelessly infatuated with him . After refereeing a football match , Hedges is helped by 5C - along with Duffy's Dad - to settle into his new flat . But a nosey neighbour spots a smiling Maureen leaving with Hedges - and jumps to the wrong conclusions . The gossip spreads like wildfire , and when it reaches Potter's ears , he goes to tell Mr . Cromwell . . . With this episode , the characters were fully defined . Maureen's habit of bursting into tears led to a running gag in which Hedges always handed out hankies ( there was a great pay-off to it at the end of Season 3 ) . Potter complements the headmaster on making a witty remark when all he did quote a proverb , and Frankie's fascination with the criminal underworld makes itself known . Alistair Williamson plays ' Mr . Duffy ' , and would still be in the role when ' The Fenn Street Gang ' got underway three years later . Funniest moment - Dennis interrupting the Romeo & Juliet reenactments with ( bad ) imitations of nocturnal animals .
" Well , I'll Be Hornswoggled ! "	The Goodies are asked by Major Cheeseberger of the U . S . Army to dispose of a large drum of tomato soup . After trying ( and failing ) in this task , they decide the simplest way to get rid of it is to eat the stuff . It looks like no tomato soup they've seen before - its green , for one thing , and tastes foul . They sell the rest to a motorway service station who try and pass it off as not only soup , but also coffee and petrol . But the ' soup ' is really Virus C . V . 70 , which has the unfortunate effect of changing people into . . . clowns . The Goodies have become the victims of a sinister plot by The Pentagon to turn Britain into the 52nd state , so that the country can be written off as a tax loss . As marines land on the beaches , rifles at the ready , only the Goodies stand between us and domination by Uncle Sam . . . Owing a debt to the first season episodes ' Snooze ' and ' The Greenies ' , this episode provides the Goodies with a perfect excuse to do a lot of slapstick gags ( not that they needed one ! ) whilst dressed as clowns . The U . S . Army gets bashed here ; the road to their base is guarded by a sign that reads : ' No Commies ' , they have bombs whose smoke when inhaled induces clapping , and Major Cheeseburger has tape recorders stashed around his office ( including a portrait of Jane Fonda in her ' Barbarella ' guise ) . Assuring the Goodies he is not taping their meeting , Cheeseburger presses a button and the ashtrays on his desk start to revolve , just like spools on a tape deck . John Bluthal , who plays ' Cheeseburger ' , is a dead ringer for the current U . S . President George W . Bush . And not just in looks either . Australian comedy actor Bluthal is best known these days for his role in ' The Vicar Of Dibley ' . The late Peter Dyneley , seen briefly as a Pentagon General , is remembered as the voice of ' Jeff Tracy ' from Gerry Anderson's ' Thunderbirds ' . Funniest moment - the clown virus getting of control , and infecting motorists , old men on bikes , the Queen and the members of the Houses Of Parliament ( so no change there ! ) .
Art For Art's Sake	The Goodies attend an auction at Sothebys . Patriotic Tim is horrified to see a gang of rich Americans eyeing up a priceless Valesquez . Determined that the painting should stay on British soil , he joins in the bidding , which eventually escalates to ludicrous proportions . Having successfully bought the painting , the Goodies attempt to sell it to The Minister For The Arts . He accepts it reluctantly for the nation after first promising Tim not to increase gallery entrance fees and to pay the Goodies if the Government gets an unexpected windfall . Posing as cleaners , the Goodies steal the National Gallery's art treasures in the hope the insurance money will enable the Government to pay for the painting . . . One of the weaker Season 2 episodes , there is still a fair amount of fun to be had here , particularly when Tim bids astronomical sums of money ( which he does not have ) for a priceless work of art . The Americans wear out-sized stetsons , and clichd cowboy music accompanies them wherever they go . As a prediction of the twenty-first century vogue for ' dumbing down ' the arts , this works pretty well . Julian Orchard plays the latest in a long line of pompous ' Ministers ' to feature in Season 2 . The long-faced actor ( who died in 1979 ) appeared in ' Carry On Doctor ' amongst other things , and was also famous for being able to using a saw as a musical instrument . Tommy Godfrey , a regular in Vince Powell sitcoms such as ' Love Thy Neighbour ' , appears as ' The Auctioneer ' . Funniest moment - the National Gallery turned into a fairground , full of such startling attractions as ' Pin The Ear On Van Gogh ' and ' Knock The Arms Off Venus ( De Milo ) . The sequence has animation which would not have looked out of place in ' Monty Python's Flying Circus ' .
The Alien With the Child In His Eyes !	' Alpha Child ' opens with one of the most shocking scenes ( well , it was back in 1975 ) ever broadcast on television . Cynthia Crawford ( Cyd Hayman ) gives birth , the first child ever born on Moonbase Alpha . The Alphans are naturally thrilled . Then she starts screaming . In mere seconds , the newly-born baby has suddenly matured into a five-year old boy . What is going on here ? Tests prove the boy is physically normal , other than being a deaf mute . He becomes the darling of the base , but Commander Koenig is concerned . Just how normal is little Jackie Crawford ? Alien ships appear from nowhere and put Carter's Eagle out of action . Jackie undergoes a further growth stage , becoming ' Jarak ' , the leader of a race of beings fleeing from some unknown adversary . Killing Cynthia , Jarak reincarnates her as ' Rena ' , his wife . He wishes his people to take over the bodies of all on Alpha . . . This was by Christopher Penfold who , along with Johnny Byrne , was the best writer on the first series of ' Space : 1999 ' . Like I said earlier , it opens with a startling teaser , gets a bit syrupy thereafter with the likes of Alan Carter giving the mute boy piggyback rides around Main Mission . Things get moving again when Jackie evolves into Jarak , the latter played by the superb Julian Glover , a man who could play villains in his sleep . The sight of Jarak kissing Rena has slight Oediepal connotations , after all , the woman is supposed to be his mother ( or rather , her body was ) . Exactly why Jarak and his people are being pursued is not revealed . The lovely Cyd Hayman does not get to do much , her role as ' Madame Cocotte ' in ' The Two Ronnies ' serial ' Death Can Be Fatal ' gave her more lines ! When Cynthia becomes Rena , she not only acquires a new personality but also a new hair-do with matching lip-gloss ! Still , I like this . Its better than the rubbish Mr . Freiberger foisted on us in Year 2 . Even so , I wish more had been made of the ' evil child ' situation . This could have been ' Space : 1999''s answer to ' The Omen ' !
" I Saw This Movie Once . . . "	Surely this was one of Mike Myers ' favourite movies from his childhood ? ' Salt & Pepper ' was produced by its stars Sammy Davis Jr . and Peter Lawford . ' Charles Salt ' and ' Christopher Pepper ' are owners of a seedy Soho nightclub who get into trouble when a beautiful Chinese agent dies in Salt's dressing room . Then , one by one , V . I . P . ' s start dropping like flies . Despite continual interference from the law , Salt and Pepper manage to uncover a diabolical plot by extremists to take over the country using a stolen nuclear submarine , H . M . S . Hercules . Its like watching a ' Matt Helm ' picture without Dino . The opening scenes are atrocious , but as soon as Salt and Pepper are kidnapped by fake policeman , it perks up . Some of the action is surprisingly violent for a lightweight comedy , particularly the finale in a military academy in which an M . P . dies when Pepper removes the pin from one of the grenades hanging from his belt . The excellent British cast are a big help - Michael Bates as the incompetent ' Inspector Crabbe ' , Ernest Clark as ' Colonel Balsam ' , and John LeMesurier as the eye patch-wearing villain ' Colonel Woodstock ' . Johnny Dankworth's swinging music catches the mood of the film perfectly . Michael Pertwee went on to write for ' The Persuaders ! ' starring Tony Curtis and Roger Moore . Financially successful though the film was , it didn't lead to Sammy and Peter becoming ' the new Hope & Crosby ' . A sequel , ' One More Time ' ( directed by Jerry Lewis ) was an unmitigated disaster . Richard Donner went on to make ' The Omen ' , ' Superman ' and ' Lethal Weapon ' .
The Woman With Two Brains	A mysterious phenomenon ( what ' Red Dwarf ' would term a ' swirly-thing alert ' ! ) engulfs the Moon , splitting it into two . Personnel are duplicated , with the exception of Regina Kesslann ( Judy Geeson ) who babbles incessantly about Alan and Koenig being dead , and talks as though she is back on Earth . Shocked at seeing Alan ( a man she hardly knows but believes she was married to ) in Main Mission , she drops dead . An X-ray reveals the presence in her skull of two ( count ' em ) brains ! As if that was not bizarre enough , the Moon has returned to its point of origin - our Solar System . In its absence the Earth has become uninhabitable , except for an area called Santa Maria . Another Moon is in the sky . Koenig and Alan find the other Alpha deserted , and the remains of a crashed Eagle containing the corpses of their duplicates . . . In 1969 , Gerry and Sylvia Anderson made a feature film called ' Doppelganger ' ( a . k . a . ' Journey To The Far Side Of The Sun ' ) which postulated the theory that Earth had a twin , inhabited by duplicates . That idea is revisited here . The absurd notion of one person having two brains ( where could the other one conceivably go ? ) aside , it is an intriguing tale , affording a glimpse into an alternative future for the Alphans , one in which Koenig and Alan are dead , Bergman survived , Sandra had Paul's babies , and Helena lost pride in her appearance . Still sounds more appealing than Year 2 to me . The lovely Judy Geeson guest stars as ' Regina ' , although gets little to do other than act in a deranged manner . I felt most sorry for Alan - fancy being married to Judy Geeson , only to then discover it never happened . Time corrects itself eventually , and the normal course of history is resumed , all with no help from Dr . Who whatsoever !
The Commercialisation Of Camelot !	One year before ' Monty Python ' get hold of the King Arthur legend , ' The Goodies ' gave us their take on it ( well , sort of ) . Tim receives a letter from his Uncle King Arthur ( real name : Arthur King ) , who thinks he is the King Arthur of legend . Married to Queen Doris , he ( along with Uncle Sir Lancelot ) lives in a house in 33 Acacia Road , Solihull , which has been made to resemble a medieval castle , replete with moat and drawbridge . Uncle King Arthur wants to go to Bognor , and requests that The Goodies mind ' Camelot ' for the duration of the trip . They throw themselves into the spirit of the thing by dressing in appropriate clothing - Graeme as a minstrel , Tim a jester , and Bill wearing a coat of arms ( that is , arms of the sort used to connected one's hands to one's body ) . In lieu of a codpiece he wears a packet of frozen fish fingers . Graeme decides to throw ' Camelot ' open to the public . In a few short hours , they have the public queueing to rescue damsels in distress , hear the twitter of medieval minstrels ( of the black and white variety ) , and see The Royal Boar ( on wheels ) . But an evil Town Planner ( Alfie Bass ) wants to demolish ' Camelot ' for redevelopment purposes and when the Goodies refuse to sign it over , he sends them to the Torture Chamber . . . The fourth series of ' The Goodies ' got off to a good start with this rollicking episode , although it would not be until the following year that they entered what might be termed their ' Golden Age ' . Alfie Bass is marvellous fun here ; watch his malignant glee as he prepares to inflict untold pain on our heroes . He would , of course , reappear ( as a different character ) in the classic ' The Goodies & The Beanstalk ' . Listen out for the applause when the dog's name - ' Spot ' - is mentioned . This was a reference to a long-running gag in the radio series ' I'm Sorry I'll Read That Again ' . Plenty of ye olde puns and jolly japes to get the most jaded viewer groaning ( and grinning ) . I love the episode's other ' Torture Chamber ' - a potty with spikes ! Yes , there's even a fire-breathing dragon , but it turns out to be two men from Solihull Council in a costume ! Funniest moment - the Town Planner asks for a pair of red-hot pokers . He picks them up the wrong way and burns his own hands !
" Get Your Hair Cut ! "	The latest directive from Cromwell's office is that the boys have their hair cut short and the girls wear longer skirts . The children are lined up in the playground so that the teachers - including Potter - can conduct army-style inspections . Seeing this as an affront to their civil liberties , 5C - led by Terry Stringer - stage a mass protest in the assembly hall . They call off the sit-in under the condition that one of their number be allowed to attend future staff meetings . Surprisingly , Cromwell agrees . 5C elects as its representative the less-than bright ' Godber ' Gibbons . . . At my school , discipline was enforced to such an extent that anyone daring to turn up for lessons wearing jewellery , jeans or platform shoes was automatically sent home . Long-hair inspections akin to the one seen in this programme were frequent . Some girls protested their right to wear trousers , but their protests fell on deaf ears . No-one apparently thought to stage a sit-in . Two new teachers are introduced ; one is Bernard . No , not Hedges . Holley . Best known for playing ' P . C . Newcombe ' in ' Z-Cars ' , Holley's ' John Hurst ' looks like a belated attempt to recreate ' Hedges ' . Hurst used to teach at Weaver Street School , and knows Stringer to be a trouble-maker . As was the case with his predecessor , he isn't given much to do . 5C don't seem surprised to see him again . The other newcomer is the charmingly-named ' Miss Gloria Petting ' , played by the very funny Vivienne Martin . She is quite unprepared for the horrors of Fenn Street School . Charles Bolton's ' Godber ' takes centre stage in this Esmonde / Larbey penned episode . Fine if you like him ( I don't ) . The ideal place for him is Borstal , not Fenn Street . Funniest moment - Godber smashing Des ' guitar over Terry's head !
The Goodies In The Club	The Minister For Trade & Domestic Affairs wants the Goodies to recover compromising photos of her taken at the Playgirl Club . Tim goes undercover in drag . The Club is a veritable den of iniquity , with strip shows , saunas , massage rooms and displays of openly uninhibited behaviour . When Tim fails to report back , Graeme and Bill decide to rescue him . But the only way to get in is to pose as ' male bunnies ' a . k . a . ' Wolves ' . . . This satire on the so-called Permissive Society was made before the B . B . C . came to see ' The Goodies ' as a children's show . Its also one of the best episodes of Season 1 , despite boasting little by way of visual humour . A pre-'Are You Being Served ? ' Mollie Sugden plays the talkative Minister , with ' Carry On ' blonde bombshell Liz Fraser as the club's Mae West-style proprietor . Queenie Watts would later play Arthur Mullard's wife ' Lil ' in I . T . V . ' s ' Romany Jones ' and ' Yus My Dear ' . Tim gets to use his ' Lady Constance ' voice from ' I'm Sorry I'll Read That Again ' . Yes , the scenes in the Playgirl Club are sexist ( there's some nudity on display ) , and this has led to the episode being branded ' politically incorrect ' . U . K . Gold included it in a season of programmes called ' The Dog House ' . I can't help thinking that if it had been written by a woman though , it would today be regarded as a monument to female liberation . Funniest moment - Bill and Graeme attempting to identify the club's owner by the colour of her underwear ! Yes , that scene !
Before ' Rocky ' , There Was . . . ' Duffy ' !	Mr . Hedges is given the duties of Sports Master , and sets about attempting to teach 5C boxing . He isn't very good at it though , and Duffy almost decks him . Duffy turns down the chance to represent Fenn Street School in a forthcoming inter-school boxing match . He does not want nor need the adulation of others . So he thinks . A visit to a local swimming baths proves problematic , especially for Dennis , unable to afford a decent pair of trunks . Sharon and Maureen alter a women's bathing costume to fit him . He isn't in the water long , before he loses the garment . Duffy also has a problem - he cannot swim , and does not want his class mates to know . He confides this secret to Sharon , who tells the rest of 5C . This episode will bring back awful memories for anyone of a certain age who dreaded that regular school visit to the swimming baths . In my day , it was compulsory , and if you were unlucky enough to forget your costume , you were made to swim without it . It happened to me once , and even now I still can feel that terrible burning shame as I was made to jump into the pool stark naked in front of the entire class - with girls present . Eventually , Duffy learns to swim , and regains his status as the ' boss ' of 5C . He goes on to take part in the boxing match , representing Fenn Street School . He wins easily . But the schools then round on each other . . . Funniest moment - poor Dennis exiting the pool minus his costume . In the film ' Holiday On The Buses ' ( 1973 ) , Olive found herself in a very similar predicament .
When Bill Became Randy !	The British Pop Charts are in a shocking state , being full of salacious rubbish aimed at sex-mad teenagers . Sensing a gap in the market for wholesome family entertainers , The Goodies audition for top impresario Isabel Chintz ( Barbara Mitchell ) , under the name ' The Cherubs ' . She hates them , so they go on the top-rated ' Maxie Grease Show ' , singing a mawkish song entitled : ' Mummy , I Don't Like My Meat ' . They win - and Isabel is back on the scene . But she only wants Bill . The little bearded bird watcher is given a new name - ' Randy Pandy ' - and sex god image and before you can say ' How's About That Then ' the groupies are all over him . Its up to Tim and Graeme to save their friend before he does something foolish - like actually making a record . . . Originally intended to be part of Season Three , this was one of the first episodes to dispense with the trademark speeded-up film sequences . The ' Maxie Grease Show ' is a spoof of the dreadful ' Opportunity Knocks ! ' , starring Hughie Green . Barbara Mitchell's gum-chewing Aussie sounds an awful lot like Germaine Greer in her ' Super Groupie ' phase . The notion that Radio One would ban pop records for being rude was amusingly far-fetched at the time ; a decade later , D . J . Mike Read banned ' Relax ' by Frankie Goes To Hollywood . Some good gags at the expense of early ' 70's Britpop , including a Jimmy Saville impression by the late John Peel , and armed security guards outside the ' Top Of The Pops ' studio at B . B . C . T . V . Centre . The Goodies appeared on the real thing the following year when they brought out ' The Inbetweenies ' . Funniest moment - The Goodies making Granny cry !
" Look ! I'm Beautiful ! "	Tim has been putting on weight , and resembles a Christmas pudding on legs , so he tries to slim with the help of Radio 2 D . J . Terry Wogan's ' Fight The Flab ' campaign . Housewives are taken to an exclusive health farm and put through a strict regimen of exercise and starvation by smirking attendants . When Tim returns to the office , he resembles Marilyn Monroe in her prime . Graeme joins Radio 2 after Wogan is sacked and supplies voices for all their programmes including ' The Archers ' ( a mistake here . Its a Radio 4 show ) and ' Square Table ' . Tim enters the ' Miss Housewife Of The Year ' beauty contest , but Graeme tells his listeners the criteria for the contest has changed - instead of beautiful , thin girls , they now want fat , ugly ones . Which means Tim has to slip back into his old gluttonous ways . At the Albert Hall , the contest goes ahead , with three milkmen making up the panel of judges . Tim wins , but the contest has been fixed . The contestants are furious . Cut to the chase . . . One of the weaker Season Five episodes , but still full of laughs , ' Radio 2 ' sees the Goodies taking the Michael ( Aspel ) out of beauty contests and the shameful exploitation of the obese by slim , healthy people out to make a fast buck . Politically correct this ain't , particularly as the finale has the large ladies chasing our heroes Benny Hill fashion ( ' Yakety Sax ' is even played just before the end credits roll ) , flattening them with their massive torsos and knocking them down like skittles . Michael Aspel notches up his second appearance in the show , his first was in ' Kitten Kong ' , and gets a massive cheer when he walks on stage . Graeme gets full rein to display his talent for mimicry , including a stunningly accurate Terry Wogan ( whom he later played in ' Politics ' ) , the cast of ' The Archers ' , Jimmy Saville , Emperor Rosko and the late Alan ' Fluff ' Freeman . Jimmy Young , however , is played by Bill Oddie . Note the ' I'm Sorry I'll Read That Again ' graffiti on the wall of the Radio 2 building . It was , of course , the name of the famous B . B . C . radio sketch show that starred John Cleese , Jo Kendall , David Hatch and . . . um . . . Tim Brooke-Taylor , Bill Oddie and Graeme Garden ! Funniest moment - Graeme using a ventriloquist's dummy to do an impression of Tony Blackburn . " I like bubble gum music . " , says the dummy , " Particularly Little Jimmy Osmond ! " . The jeers from the audience suggests they were about as fond of Osmond as they were of Blackburn .
" Who Has Short Hair And Goes Round Hitting People ? "	The police recruit the Goodies to help them change their image . Tim , Graeme and Bill become ' hippy ' policemen - wearing sunglasses , handing out flowers , and generally being nice to people . But the new image doesn't sit too well with Commissioner Butcher - he has the Goodies arrested , and put on trial . . . The sight of spaced-out policemen dancing in slow motion , uprooting ' No Bathing Allowed ' signs , and skinny-dipping is the main image one takes away from this episode , also known as ' Give Police A Chance ' . It drew criticism at the time for portraying the police as thuggish and corrupt ; well , they had to be seen as such else they wouldn't have wanted a change of image , would they ? The late Paul Whitsun-Jones makes a suitably hard-faced police commissioner , continually shouting and hitting people over the head ; he's also to be seen in the ' Avengers ' episode ' Room Without A View ' and ' The Mutants ' adventure of ' Dr . Who ' . Roland McLeod also appeared alongside Tim Brooke-Taylor in ' Its Marty ' . Funniest moment - Butcher's reaction to a picture of Tony Blackburn ( I can't bring myself to write the word ! )
" Sing A Soppy Song In Voices So Pathetic . . . ! "	' Three Of A Kind ' crept into B . B . C . - 1's schedules in 1981 with very little fanfare , yet by the time of its third season two years later it was firmly established as one of the most popular comedy sketch shows on the air . Other than Lenny Henry ( familiar to viewers because of ' New Faces ' , ' The Fosters ' and ' Tiswas ' ) , the cast - Tracey Ullman and David Copperfield - had had little or no T . V . exposure , giving the show an unmistakable freshness . Various recurring characters developed ; there was Henry's Rastafarian rap artist ' Fred Dread ' , Copperfield's ' Medallion Man ' , all gold rings and sharp suits , while Ullman's upper-class trendy ' Ros ' gave the world the exclamation " Ya ! " . Alternative humour this wasn't ; even though Ben Elton and Angus Deayton were among the writers , some of the sketches ( such as ' Australian Blue Peter ' ) could have come out of ' Russ Abbot's Madhouse ' . One very funny item parodied the sickly pop group ' Dollar ' ( or ' Dollop ' as they were renamed , with Ullman as ' Thereza Bazar ' and Copperfield as ' David Van Day ' ) , another took off the American series ' Fame ' . After it ended , Henry landed his own show , Ullman went to the States , only Copperfield failed to achieve the expected solo stardom . ' Three Of A Kind ' glittered like a 500W light bulb in its short run , ensuring it is fondly remembered by a generation of thirty somethings .
Robert or Roberta ?	Robert , a young orphan , lives in the country with his puritanical Aunt , Belle Weston . She treats him as though he were a girl . He is kept away from school , made to wear Shirley Temple-type clothes , forced to play with dolls , and referred to at all times as ' Roberta ' . Whenever he misbehaves , he receives harsh punishment . Drake , an American , gets a job in the Weston house as handyman , and is appalled at Belle's inhuman treatment of the child . But he dare not tell the police as she threatens to notify the authorities that his work permit has expired . After making off with a valuable bracelet , Drake decides to blow the whistle on Belle . . . Based on a story by Charles Beaumont , this is a startling allegory of human sexuality . The boy is being forced to lead an unnatural life by pretending to be something he is not , and his protests fall on deaf ears . Given that this was made only two years or so after homosexuality was legalised in Britain , I'm sure it struck a chord with some viewers . George Maharis , who plays ' Drake ' , would have been familiar to television audiences from ' Route 66 ' . Barbara Jefford is outstanding as the nutty-as-a-fruitcake ' Belle ' , as is Kim Burfield as the tormented child . Adrienne Posta , cast as the unnamed girl whom Drake beds , was ' Rita ' in the 1971 film ' The Alf Garnett Saga ' .
He Was , Of Course , Extremely Dead . . .	Created by Tim Heald , Simon Bognor was an agent of a special investigations department of the Board Of Trade . If a newspaper editor was murdered or some bounders tried to kill a champion poodle or steal the formula for a new type of honey , Bognor was , despite being a bit dim , the man to sort it out . The poor man's 007 , you might say . He was happily married to the lovely Monica , though occasionally pretty women threw themselves his way . His boss was the gruff Parkinson . In 1981 , Thames T . V . turned ' Bognor ' into a twice-weekly series , starring David Horovitch . Three books formed the basis for the show's first ( and only ) run - ' Unbecoming Habits ' , ' Deadline ' , and ' Let Sleeping Dogs Die ' . A ' T . V . Times ' cover at the time showed Bognor in the distinguished company of John Steed , Callan , Simon Templar and Dick Barton . As it turned out , he was lucky to find himself mentioned in the same breath as Inspector Clouseau . Critics and public alike hated ' Bognor ' with a vengeance . In spite of scripts by reliable word smiths such as T . R . Bowen , the show failed to capture the books ' satirical tone , while Horovitch's deadpan performance won him few fans . Rare acclaim came from a ' News Of The World ' reader after an episode aired in which Simon was seen sporting a busted lip following a bruising encounter with thugs . In an era when television heroes were lucky to get a hair out of place , it was a most unusual sight indeed . Despite guest appearances from thespians such as Robin Bailey , Peter Jeffrey and Patrick Troughton , viewers did not give a tinker's cuss whodunnit . I . T . V . yanked ' Bognor ' from prime-time , dumping the remaining six episodes in a graveyard slot . Horovitch later played ' Detective Inspector Slack ' in the B . B . C . ' Miss Marple ' series starring Joan Hickson . It would be nice to see ' Bognor ' again , if only for that ' Avengers'-style title sequence - a catchy electronic tune by Mike Steer accompanied moving targets ( on which Bognor can be seen ) at a fun-fair rifle range . These images were later reproduced on the covers of the Arrow tie-in paperbacks .
Dreams Of Death	Opportunist Greg Richards is in a posh London restaurant with model Sue Tarleton . He wants her to pose for nude photographs , but she refuses . A nervous waitress warns Sue not to leave until 10 P . M . , and then to take a taxi home . Sue ignores the advice . Shortly afterwards , she is killed when scaffolding collapses on her . Greg seeks out the waitress , the shy Carrie Clark , to find out how she knew that Sue was about to die . Carrie has strange dreams in which she can sees someone's death before it happens . Greg marries her , and exploits her talent to save lives , in return for huge cash rewards . . . Scripted by Michael J . Bird and Robert Bloch , and based on a story by ' I am Legend ' author Richard Matheson , along with Bloch's ' The Indian Spirit Guide , this is one of the more ' Twilight Zone ' like episodes , based on the premise of a corrupt man getting his just desserts . Not particularly scary or suspenseful , its nonetheless enjoyable , boasting an interesting cast - Zena Walker , Justine Lord , Jan Holden , David Langton - as well as America's Michael Callan . In common with other ' Journey ' episodes such as ' Eve ' , there's a nice flavour of Swinging ' 60's London . Doubtless included as an cynical marketing ploy at the time , it now makes the series essential viewing for anyone interested in the era .
A Rose By Any Other Name	Steven Miller is puzzled to receive an invitation to a costume party from a man he has never met . Taking his vintage Bugatti into the countryside , he asks for directions to Meachum Hall , but the old man wanders off without answering . Miller finds the drive full of old cars , much like his own . Changing into a ' Jesse James ' outfit , he attempts to find out why Sir Robert Sawyer invited him . The other guests are a pretty strange bunch too ; the only welcoming face belongs to Rose , a beautiful young woman dressed as a butterfly . As the evening progresses , Miller learns that she is betrothed to John , a man she does not love . Rose sent the invitation . She begs Miller to take her away from the house . She seems genuinely frightened as though somehow sensing impending disaster . . . This was the first episode of ' Unknown ' I ever saw , repeated in a late night slot in the ' 70's , and it encouraged me to seek out the rest of the series . Based on a story by actor William Abney , its a ghost story with a difference - the protagonists died in 1929 ( the house was hit by lightning during a storm ) , but have mysteriously come back to life forty years later to recreate the tragedy . All seemed resigned to their fate , except Rose . Chad Everett is ' Miller ' , while a pre-'Day Of The Jackal ' Edward Fox is ' Sir Robert ' . ' Rose ' is played by the lovely Susan Brodrick , who later appeared in Hammer's ' Dr . Jekyll & Sister Hyde ' . A special mention for the late Norman Chappell as ' Friar Tuck ' ; this frog-faced actor graced many comedy shows of the ' 60's and ' 70's , including ' Some Mothers Do Ave Em ' ( he was the writer ' Mark Faraday ' in the ' Love Thy Neighbour ' episode ) . The ending , though touchingly done , does not make much sense . Why does Rose need Miller to get her away from the house ? Why does she not simply walk away from the place ? She is able to reach Loker's cottage without much difficulty later when she is dying , so why not go before ? Directed by Alan Gibson , later to helm the final ' Dracula ' movies starring Christopher Lee .
" When the chips are down , send for Alexander The Great ! "	Glen A . Larson was a humble scriptwriter back in 1968 , he went on to create or co-create ' Alias Smith & Jones ' , ' Knight Rider ' , ' Magnum P . I . ' , ' The Fall Guy ' , and the original ( and best ) ' Battlestar Galactica ' . This was one of his early scripts . Willard Knox , an S . I . A . agent , is arrested by the Petrovian Secret Police on charges of espionage . In his possession is microfilm containing The Miloslav Document , which Noah wants . So he asks Mundy to retrieve it . A heavily disguised Al infiltrates the maximum security prison where Knox is held , only to discover that the spy no longer has the microfilm . He smuggled it out , and refuses to say how unless Mundy helps him escape . During the break out , Knox is killed , but passes onto Mundy the whereabouts of the microfilm - it is concealed in a valuable ring belonging to Ambassaddor Marku's wife Trish . Far from being over , the mission is just beginning . . . A pleasing episode , with a good supporting cast including Mark Lenard ( best remembered as ' Ambassador Sarek ' ( Mr . Spock's Dad ) from ' Star Trek ' , and Taina Elg , who was handcuffed to Kenneth More in the 1959 version of ' The Thirty-Nine Steps ' . We never find out why the Miloslav Document is so important , but it hardly matters . Favourite moment - the prison break-out .
This Film Made The Headmaster Blush !	Over the years , many television comedians have tried to make the jump into movies , with varying degrees of success . Morecambe & Wise made three vehicles , but never seemed to find the right one . Peter Cook and Dudley Moore fared somewhat better with ' Bedazzled ' ( 1967 ) , but went downhill from there . More recently , Harry Enfield came unstuck in ' Kevin & Perry Go Large ' , and the less said about Rik Mayall and Ade Edmondson's ' Guest House Paradiso ' the better . In 1972 , Dick Emery starred in this racy comedy , written specially for him by his regular writers , John Warren and John Singer . It cast him as ' Charlie Tully ' , a Cockney con man with a unique talent for getting the rich to part with their money . They believe everything he says . With his friend Reggie Campbell-Peek ( Ronald Fraser ) , they swindle 500 , 000 out of an Italian millionaire by pretending to be representatives of the British Royal Family . Naturally , said millionaire is not happy and calls on the Mafia . Charlie is arrested at Heathrow Airport and months later emerges from jail to find Reggie has deposited the money in a Swiss bank . Before he can tell him more , he is killed when part of a building collapses on him . Not only is the Mafia after Charlie but also London gangsters headed by Sid Sabbath ( Derren Nesbitt ) , an outfit which , according to Charlie ' makes the Kray Twins look like The Beverley Sisters ' . Charlie tracks down four of Reggie's old girlfriends , each of whom has a portion of the name of the bank and account number tattooed on her posterior . Each murder attempt on Charlie is thwarted by the ' London Family ' , who want him alive long enough to find out where the money is . . . I have fond memories of the first time I saw this . It was December 1974 and , as a traditional end-of-term treat , we got a film at school . I don't know who selected this , obviously someone must have thought it would be cosy family entertainment . The draughty dinner hall was full of red faces ( mostly the teachers ) which got redder as the film , with its cartoon violence , female nudity ( including Liza Goddard ) and over-ripe innuendo , progressed . Of course we dirty-minded kids loved every wicked minute of it ! Warren and Singer's inventive script gives Emery full rein to display his talents for multi-characterisation ( old favourites such as ' Mandy ' , ' Lampwick ' , ' Hettie The Spinster ' appear . Pity room was not found for ' The Rev . Chislet ' and ' Bovver Boy ' ) , and is helped by Cliff Owen's glossy direction . Christopher Gunning's music is good too , at times you can pick out snatches of the ' Poirot ' theme to be ! The excellent supporting cast included Ronald Fraser , Pat Coombs , Derren Nesbitt , Cheryl Kennedy ( nice bum , Cheryl ) and Norman Bird amongst others . Yes , its dated and sexist , but still good fun . The only negative point would be the somewhat flat ending in which Charlie , dressed as a priest , tries to sell the Sistine Chapel to a couple of American tourists . I would have liked something more akin to the finale of ' The Italian Job ' . It is strange though that this film did not lead to others for the star . He resumed his television series , and stayed with it until his death in 1983 .
The Joy Of Six	This half-hour documentary was screened by Channel 4 following a repeat of the final ' Prisoner ' episode ( ' Fall Out ' ) in 1984 , and has never been rerun by the station or made available on D . V . D . This is strange , seeing how it features interviews with many of the people responsible for the show , such as producer David Tomblin , directors Don Chaffey and Pat Jackson , set designer Jack Shampan , actor Alexis Kanner , script editor George Markstein , and , surprisingly , Patrick McGoohan himself . The filmed interviews were linked by actor Saul Reichlin , occupying a ' Green Dome ' style control room . No attempt was made to analyse the series in depth or interpret its hidden meanings , instead the show's history was presented in a straightforward fashion . Particularly interesting was Markstein's assertion that ' No . 6 ' was always intended to be ' John Drake ' of ' Danger Man ' fame , despite McGoohan's frequent denials . The man himself was , as you'd expect , non-committal , cheekily signing off with ' Be Seeing You ! ' .
" They Used To Say A Good Spy Was A Pure Spy ! "	' Casino Royale ' holds the distinction of being the very first James Bond film ever to play on British television . It went out on Boxing Day 1973 , and I can remember being thoroughly confused by the thing . The plot kept jumping about from one place to another , a female character ( ' Lady Fiona ' ) who started out Scottish suddenly became French , and David Niven's Sir James Bond seemed to bear little resemblance to the dashing super-spy I read about in newspapers and magazines . Of course it later became clear that this was no bona fide 007 epic , but an all-star comedy spectacular along the lines of ' Those Magnificent Men In Their Flying Machines ' . Two years later , I . T . V . screened ' Dr . No ' - the first real Bond movie . ' Casino Royale ' begins with the heads of the world's intelligence services asking Sir James Bond to come out of retirement to help deal with SMERSH . He refuses , so they rather ungallantly blow up his house . M ( John Huston ) is killed , and Bond drives to Scotland to hand over his final remains ( a toupee in a box ) to his widow . What he does not know is that Lady Fiona has been replaced by Agent Mimi ( Deborah Kerr ) . The girls posing as her daughters are SMERSH agents too . Their job is to wreck Bond's celibate ( ! ) image . The plan fails and Bond returns to London , where he orders all existing agents to pose under his name to confuse the enemy . He then recruits Vesper Lynd ( Ursula Andress ) and gives her the job of getting the compulsive gambler Evelyn Tremble ( Peter Sellers ) to beat SMERSH agent Le Chiffre ( Orson Welles ) at baccarat . . . When reviewing this , many fall into the trap of comparing it to the Eon Bond films . Though based on Ian Fleming's first Bond book , it has little in common . Terry Southern was one of the many uncredited writers . Five directors were involved , the first being Joe McGrath , later to direct the cult classic ' The Magic Christian ' ( 1970 ) , based on Southern's novel . Taken on its own terms , it is a lot of mad fun ( almost Pythonesque in fact ) , and boasts stupendous art direction , photography ( by Jack Hildyard and Nicolas Roeg ) and special effects . Some scenes , like Mata Bond's excursion to Berlin , do not work , while others such as Evelyn Tremble's baccarat duel with LeChiffre , are ridiculously enjoyable . Welles would have made a great villain in a real Bond flick . David Niven is delightful as the retired master spy Sir James Bond , one wishes he had been in more scenes . Unlike Sean Connery's version , this one stammers , has an artificial kneecap , and hates women . Peter Sellers and Woody Allen are also on good form . The main problem is the fragmented plot , and the endless procession of irrelevant guest stars . Less would definitely have been more . Burt Bacharach's song ' The Look Of Love ' wouldn't have disgraced an Eon Bond movie . ' Casino Royale ' needs to be seen as a product of its era , when Bondmania ruled the world . A film of this calibre could not be made now . Despite being overlong and self-indulgent , it still contrives to be great fun .
" Its good , innit ! "	One of the reasons for the failure of the I . T . V . series ' Director's Commentary ' was that in taking the rise out of ' 70's television it was hardly doing anything new . Rod Hull got there first with the children's show ' Emu's Broadcasting Company ' , and its childish spoofs hit the bullseye far more often than Rob Bryden's poorly written and delivered sarcastic narration . Like Eric Idle's ' Rutland Weekend Television ' , ' E . B . C . ' was supposed to be the world's smallest television station , whose programmes were cheap rip-offs of other shows , such as ' Dr . Emu ' ( ' The Deadly Dustbins ' were more frightening than anything seen in the Graham Williams era of ' Dr . Who ' - were they the inspiration for the man-eating bin in 2005's ' Rose ' ? ) , ' Emu Trek : A Space Oddity ' , ' Grandstand Of Sport ' ( whose titles came courtesy of a man on a bike and another behind him on foot each carrying one half of a banner ) and ' The Eurovision Pong Contest ' . ' The Searching Beak Of Emu ' sent up the documentary format . In the first , broadcast on / 75 , Rod takes Emu to a Manchester supermarket , where the bird goes berserk attacking not only Rod but also customers and staff , much to the delight of those children present . A regular character was ' The Duchess Of Gladstone ' , played by the late Billy Dainty , and obviously modelled on The Queen just as Stanley Baxter's ' The Duchess Of Brendagh ' was . When we first see The Duchess , she officially declares a playground open by cutting a ribbon , then proceeds to run riot on the swings , roundabouts , slide etc . Hull himself played ' Uncle Albert ' , a Northern relative keen on doling out worthless advice to youngsters . Personally , I found Rod Hull funnier than the bird on his arm . Rubber-legged Emu , with his usual trick of attacking everyone and everything , got boring pretty quickly , the ' Parkinson ' interview excepted . But Hull was such a wonderful performer ( what a strange hairstyle the man had , a sort of three-sided fringe ) it compensated for this defect . For that marvellous comedian Billy Dainty , however , this was a tremendous comedown - playing second fiddle to an emu ( and a fake one at that ) , especially as he'd only recently fronted his own show on Thames Television - ' Billy Dainty Esq . ' . Still , it kept him on our screens . In the first edition , Bill tried to front a keep-fit programme , and Emu kept changing the ' exercise ' music , giving Dainty a golden opportunity to do some of his legendary ' eccentric dancing ' . While hardly great satire , ' E . B . C . ' was , along with ' Rentaghost ' , the best children's comedy series on television at that time .
What Was In The Tis-Tub ?	Well , which did you prefer ? ' Multi-Coloured Swap Shop ' or ' Tiswas ' ? To tell the truth , I never watched a complete edition of either , preferring to channel surf , but of the two , ' Tiswas ' was clearly the best . Its also the only programme I've ever liked with Chris Tarrant in . The Hee-Heeing Blonde One led a team of comics which included Lenny ( ' This Is Trevor McDoughnut ' ) Henry , John Gorman ( of ' The Scaffold ' ) and Bob ( Spit The Dog ) Carolgees . Sally James ( she of the ' almost legendary pop interviews ' ) was devastatingly sexy , even to us kids . ' Tiswas ' was like a children's tea party had been invaded by fifth-form students weened on Spike Milligan . Its anarchic sense of humour was refreshing . Everyone involved seemed to be having a good time . Must have been something in those condensed milk sandwiches . . . One of the funniest moments was when Chris and co . made Lenny the subject of a ' This Is Your Life ' spoof . They even managed to get his mother into the studio ! Tarrant and the gang eventually quit ' Tiswas ' to do an ' adult ' version - ' O . T . T . ' . Only Sally James stayed behind . She was wise to do so because ' O . T . T . ' was the P . I . T . T . S . Naked men dancing with balloons and Bob Carolgees saying ' s - - t ' . It managed to be childish in a way ' Tiswas ' simply was not . Many shows have tried to copy ' Tiswas ' over the years , but none have come close . Now , if you'll excuse me , there's a postcard I simply must walk through . . .
Sister Maureen ?	5C are thrilled to learn that Bobby Charlton is coming to the school . All except for Maureen , that is . Dismayed at Mr . Hedges ' impending marriage to Penny , she plans on becoming a nun . After Sharon spots her entering a convent with a suitcase , Mr . Hedges goes to see Monsignor Sopwith , to try and persuade him to talk Maureen out of making a hasty decision . . . When the cast of ' Please Sir ! ' were reunited in 1985 as part of I . T . V . ' s ' T . V . Weekly ' , the late Liz Gebhardt remarked on her physical resemblance to a stick insect . I always thought she looked remarkably frail . Indeed one of her later roles was as an anorexic in the A . T . V . daytime soap ' General Hospital ' . I'm sure this episode must have been among her favourites , it gives her a bit more to do than just weep . As it turns out , Maureen was only going to the convent to donate old clothes to charity . Roland MacLeod , who plays the ' Monsignor ' , was a familiar face to viewers through roles in such series as ' Marty ' , ' The Goodies ' and ' The Fall & Rise Of Reginald Perrin ' . His best scene is when he turns up at the school , as a last-minute replacement for Bobby Charlton , and proceeds to win the class over . Funniest moment - Potter attempting to teach 5C boys about car maintenance , using Mr . Cromwell's car as a guinea pig . Unfortunately , after removing the water pump , he finds he does not know how to replace it ! Spot The Mistake - When Maureen takes a collection tin into the staff room , she addresses Smithy as ' Mr . Price ' !
Who Were You With Last Night ?	Following a wild party , Mr . Hedges wakes up half-naked in a strange bed , and with a dreadful hang-over . He is in for a shock - the bed belongs to Connie Eversleigh , mother of Sharon . Hedges manages to get to Fenn Street School , but spends the day in a terrible state , unable to focus on the lessons . Some time later , he overhears Sharon telling Maureen her mother is ' in the club again ' . Assuming the worst , he prepares to take responsibility by proposing marriage . . . The late Diana Coupland guests here as Sharon's good-time girl of a mother ' Connie ' ; two years later , she would be cast as ' Jean Abbott ' ( no relation to Frankie ! ) in that delightful Sid James sitcom ' Bless This House ' . Subsequent appearances by Mrs . Eversleigh in ' The Fenn Street Gang ' necessitated a spot of recasting - the role went to Barbara Keogh . Its thanks to Hedges ' innate decency that there is a plot here at all , most men would cheerfully turn their backs on the situation . Anyway , its all resolved happily at the end , with Connie revealing that the only club she is is the Christmas club . Funniest moment - to alleviate the hang-over , Hedges is given tinted owl-like glasses - and for a moment is transformed into Elton John !
" I'm legless and I'm helpless , hysterical and breathless . . . "	" This programme makes me wish I'd never paid my licence fee ! " said one disgruntled viewer when this was first transmitted . Made by the same team behind ' A Kick Up The Eighties ' ; ' Laugh ? ' gave Robbie Coltrane one of his first series . Amongst the characters he played were smarmy quiz master ' Ted Todgers ' ( host of ' Lucky Bastards ' ) , the Orangeman ' Mason Boyne ' , the leader of an alien race ( the Nimmons ) out to conquer Earth , and an Edgar Lustgarten-style criminologist . Another cast member , Louise Gold , had performed on ' The Muppet Show ' and would go on to play ' The Queen ' in ' Spitting Image ' . Amongst the sketches were ' The Master Of Dundreich ' , a film serial spoofing Robert Louis Stephenson's ' The Master Of Ballantrae ' , while in ' Blue Movie Buff Of The Year ' contestants were tested on their knowledge of soft porn films . ' Laugh ? ' was not well received , and has been virtually forgotten . However , it paved the way for the more successful ' Naked Video ' . Elaine C . Smith appeared briefly in one episode .
" I thought the moon was on fire ! "	' Chalk & Cheese ' was a Thames sitcom that reunited ' Some Mothers Do Ave Em ' producer Michael Mills with its star Michael Crawford . It was penned by Alex Shearer , whose other credits include the Peter Davison show ' Sink Or Swim ' and ' No Job For A Lady ' starring Penelope Keith , and which grew out of a one-off pilot - ' Spasms ' - shown on / 77 . Robin Hawdon played ' Roger Scott ' , young and upwardly mobile ( now there's an expression you do not hear used much these days ) with Jonathan Pryce as ' Dave Finn ' , a loudmouthed hippie . The two men meet in a hospital maternity ward , where their wives are due to give birth . They compare their respective views on everything under the sun , and unsurprisingly have little common ground . Thames decided to make ' Spasms ' into a series , but when Pryce refused to return , offered the role to Michael Crawford . Sporting a mop of curly hair and a beard , and with an annoying habit of constantly chewing gum , Crawford's ' Finn ' was worlds away from Frank Spencer . The opening titles were done in the same format as ' Some Mothers ' - with the credits inside a little yellow strip running along the bottom of the screen . The first episode restaged ' Spasms ' ( ' do not worry if you feel you have seen ' Chalk & Cheese ' before ' said ' The People ' newspaper , ' you probably have ! ' ) . The next had Finn moving in next door to Scott ( one of those great coincidences that you only ever find in sitcoms ) . They could have called the show ' Love Thy Neighbour ' had not the title been used already . ' Sit Vac ' was the third to be broadcast . Scott is interviewing applicants for a top job , and is amazed when Finn - wearing what looks like an old wedding suit and carrying a bag-full of dirty magazines - turns up and seriously expects to get it on account of him being Scott's neighbour . Roger tries to tell Finn what the job involves , and indulges in a bit of play acting with him pretending to be a salesman and Finn a potential customer ( fans of ' Some Mothers ' will recall a similar incident in the very first episode ) . Miss Foster , Scott's sexy secretary ( Judy Buxton ) has her bottom groped by Finn - and she does not appear to notice , let alone mind ! When Roger loses his temper , Finn storms off . A noticeably calmer Roger turns up at Finn's house later that day - the living room is decked out with cardboard cut-outs of ' Batman ' and ' Superman ' and photos of Brian Clough - and offers him the job of driver . No sooner has Finn been given responsibility than he proceeds to abuse it by smothering his car in decals of the ' Dave Loves Rose ' variety . The episode ends with Finn taking Roger to the airport and , pressed for time , drives like a maniac . The police give chase . The dialogue is good , and both Hawdon and Crawford are excellent , although the situations by which the two men came together week after week were fairly contrived ( such as their wives simultaneously throwing them out of their homes one night after an argument ) . ' Finn ' is a stereotypical working-class character , being lazy , opinionated , and slovenly , but Crawford somehow makes him likable . Funniest moment - Finn asks Roger if he wants milk in his tea . Then , grabbing a baby's bottle , he squirts the contents into the man's cup ! Viewers were not keen on seeing Crawford playing a comedy character so different to Frank Spencer and so the show was cancelled after one season . A pity because it had a lot of promise .
" I had my mouth all set for apple pie ! "	Stan and Ollie turn up in Switzerland , of all places . Stan thinks that they will be able to sell mouse traps to the Swiss because there are more mice there than anywhere else in the world . The owner of a cheese factory offers to buy their stock , but pays with counterfeit money . Thinking they are rich , Stan and Ollie celebrate with a slap-up meal at a local hotel . Then comes the crunch - they are unable to pay the bill . The hotel owner sets them to work as dishwashers . In no time at all , most of the crockery is broken . Also at the hotel is an American composer , trying to write a new musical . His wife shows up and , in an effort to make her husband notice her , pretends to flirt with Ollie . . . One of the weaker Laurel and Hardy features , this still manages to be a lot of fun . Stan and Ollie have some great scenes together , such as their drilling holes in the cheese factory's wooden floor , playing a tune by popping soap bubbles coming out of an organ , and Ollie serenading the Della Lind character . Switzerland as depicted here is peopled by blonde girls in pigtails , and yodelling men in leather shorts with feathers stuck in their hats , but who cares ? ' Bonnie Scotland ' was hardly an accurate depiction of that country either . Funniest moment - a close run between Stan's attempts to get a barrel of brandy from a St . Bernard's neck , or his and Ollie moving a piano across a rope bridge , where they encounter a gorilla ( don't ask ) . Did I hear someone say dated ? Well , Stan and Ollie never needed to swear or fart to get laughs , did they , unlike today's ' comics ' . Altogether , a pleasant viewing experience .
Before ' K . 9 . ' There Was ' K . T ' .	Mild-mannered inventor Robert Sommerby lives in the country with his Aunt Millie , and a number of robots , one of which - ' Katie ' ( K . T . ) - is silver , talks like one of ' The Gumbies ' from ' Monty Python ' , and keeps leaving his arm behind on buses . The others could pass for human , though , such as Eric ( who sometimes walks around with a bag of frozen peas against his head to stop him overheating ) and Desiree , programmed to breathlessly declare her undying love for every man she meets . A couple of sinister foreign types are out to get hold of Sommerby's robot blueprints , and try every means at their disposal to get into his house . Every week they fail , but like Wile E . Coyote they never give up . ' Robert's Robots ' was Bob Block's follow-up to the children's comedy ' Pardon My Genie ' , and was every bit as funny . Nigel Pegrum , who played ' Eric ' , was familiar to children through ' Sing To The Animals ' and a couple of guest appearances in ' The Tomorrow People ' . The comic possibilities of robots was later explored in ' Red Dwarf ' .
A Little Case Of Kidnapping	This Stanley Greenberg penned episode has a disturbing opening sequence in which a young boy playing alone in woods is kidnapped . McGill is hired by Hornsby ( Michael Goodliffe ) , an ambitious politician , to find the boy , Stephen . Hornsby's interest in the boy's disappearance baffles Mac . McGill's investigations are hampered by the surly locals . They resent his presence in the village and beat him up the first chance they get . To cut the story short , Stephen is Hornsby's illegitimate son . Some of the villagers have learnt this , and are attempting extortion . Unless Hornsby pays up , the boy dies . Michael Goodliffe was a talented actor who sadly took his own life in 1976 . His other credits include ' The Avengers ' and ' Callan ' , as well as the films ' 633 Squadron ' and ' The Man With The Golden Gun ' . Barbara Shelley , who plays his wife ' Dolores ' , is well known to Hammer film fans through her roles in ' Dracula Prince Of Darkness ' and ' Quatermass & The Pit ' . In a smaller role is the late Eric Thompson , writer and narrator of ' The Magic Roundabout ' children's show . This was director Herbert Wise's only foray into I . T . C . land , he later made the memorable ' I , Claudius ' for the B . B . C . . Another solid episode . I don't know where it was filmed but it looks like the location used in a later I . T . C . show - ' Shillingbury Tales ' .
Dawson Gets Plastered !	It had to happen . Les is in hospital after his motorbike - which he calls ' Gladys ' - collides with a car . After the doctor ( Richard Morant ) and the stretcher bearer ( Gordon Rollings ) argue over the diagnosis , Les ' leg is encased in plaster and he is given a bed . He saved from the ordeal of having to listen to ' The Archers ' by the arrival of Roy , over friendly as ever , bearing fruit and nuts ( having been a health visitor and a coal miner in earlier episodes , here he is a male nurse ) . Roy makes no secret of his attraction to Les , and admits to having helped him out by donating a pint of blood . Les is horrified . . . It has been interesting to compare this show with ' The Galton & Simpson Playhouse ' , also released recently on D . V . D . The two are quite different . The latter being somewhat genteel , particularly with episodes such as ' Cheers ' . ' Weekly ' , on the other hand , is bawdier , boasting gay jokes of the sort no-one would dare make now . But when you have Dawson and Barrowclough together , it is impossible to find the material offensive . Richard Morant , who plays ' The Doctor ' , was ' Flashman ' in the excellent 1971 B . B . C . version of ' Tom Brown's Schooldays ' . I once got a charming message from Justin Rollings , son of the late Gordon , after I'd praised his father's work on another forum . Gordon Rollings is probably best remembered as ' Arkwright ' from the old John Smiths Beer adverts , but he appeared in countless films / T . V . shows of the ' 60's and ' 70's . That wonderful hangdog face brightened up everything he was in . Neil McCarthy is also no longer with us , but I fondly remember him as ' Mr . Bedford ' in an early episode of ' Some Mothers Do Ave Em ' . Georgina Moon , the sexy nurse , was ' Erotica ' in Frankie Howerd's ' Up Pompeii ! ' . Funniest moment - Les enjoying a friendly conversation with the man in the next bed . Then he finds out it is the same bloke who caused the accident that led to him being in hospital !
" I want to see me daughter ! "	Millionaire Chester Farson ( Gordon Gostelow ) dies from heart failure . Eldest son Gerald ( Terance Alexander ) keeps news of his death a secret , hiring Gray to impersonate the old man to avoid paying death duties to the Government . He neglects to tell sister Jane ( Justine Lord ) about the deception , instructing his servants to keep her away from the family home in case she unmasks the fake . Jane spots one of her father's priceless paintings - ' Property Of A Gentleman ' - up for auction in London , and denounces it as stolen property . She brings in McGill to investigate . Breaking into the Farson home , Mac finds Gray , a drunken Shakespearian actor , beginning to live the part . As the plot unravels , Mac is bribed to keep his mouth shut . But will he ? Wilfred Greatorex wrote this , although his name is missing from the credits . Presumably he was unhappy with the way it turned out . It is a decent enough story , based on an entirely believable premise . With Inheritance Tax having recently been made into a hot political issue by the Tories ( inspired by its scrapping in America by the thankfully-gone Bush administration ) , it is interesting to see that even in 1967 the rich considered the paying of ' death duties ' ( as it was then called ) to be grossly unfair . They firmly believe that the tax burden should be placed on those at the lower end of the social scale , and that the law should be toughened for those convicted of minor social security fraud . As ' George Malone ' ( Peter Kerrigan ) observed in Alan Bleasdale's ' The Black Stuff ' : " Stealing is only thought bad when you take a little from some , instead of a lot from many . " . The main weaknesses are the casting of Justine Lord and Gordon Gostelow . Lord's role looks as if it was written for Sylvia Syms . She is miscast as an English rose ( though looks stunning in some groovy ' 60's fashions ) . Gostelow , on the other hand , is delightfully eccentric as ' Gray ' ( he was dubbed for his brief role as ' Farson ' ) but there's a bit too much of him . The episode at times takes on a lunatic air reminiscent of ' The Avengers ' . Frank Gatliff as an ' auctioneer ' and Derek Francis ' ' doctor ' provide welcome support . However , this is not one of the series ' more successful episodes .
" Which way is this train going ? "	The final episode of ' Dawsons Weekly ' sees Les boarding a sleeper train to Scotland , equipped with skis . He asks the attendant ( Kenny Lynch ) where he can find ' crumpet ' . Alone in the dining car , he is approached by a mysterious , beautiful woman ( Sue Lloyd ) who , not to put too fine a point on it , offers him a good time . Les thinks his birthday has come early . But there is a problem - she is travelling with an elderly companion . She eventually knocks out her out with a sleeping draught . Back in his cabin , Les prepares for the night of his life . Stripping to his long johns , he puts on his leather jacket . Answering a knock on the door , he is horrified to find not the girl but a man ( Roy Barrowclough ) who got on at Darlington , and wishes to share the cabin . The man is openly gay , and clearly attracted to Les . . . The final episode of ' Dawsons Weekly ' is a little belter ; the prospect of sex gives Les full opportunity to indulge in his penchant for gurning , which he employed when in his ' Cosmo Smallpiece ' persona . Interestingly , he never thinks to ask the name of the girl he intends to sleep with . Clearly no gentleman ! Edward Sinclair , who plays ' The Steward ' is , of course , immortalized in comedy history as ' The Verger ' from ' Dad's Army ' , while Kenny Lynch , a . k . a . ' The Attendent ' , popped up a lot on Jimmy Tarbuck's shows . Though a ratings success , the show was savaged by the critics to such an extent Yorkshire Television decided not to recommission it ( critics had a lot more influence in those days ) . One wonders if the poor reviews were motivated solely by anger on the part on those still grieving for Tony Hancock . While no classic , I found myself laughing out loud far more than I have done with some of Les ' other stuff , such as ' The Dawson Watch ' . The scene where Les meets Roy is reminiscent of ' The Alpine Holiday ' from ' Hancock's Half-Hour ' in which Tony checks into a hotel and finds himself lumbered with Kenneth Williams ' ' Snide ' . Les returned to ' Sez Les ' , and later moved to the B . B . C . where he eventually replaced Terry Wogan as host of ' Blankety Blank ' . Funniest moment - Roy telling Les he has traced back his ancestry and discovered he has Scottish roots . " I'm a Gordon ! " . Les sneers : " One of the gay ones , no doubt ! " .
" There's Something Suspicious About A Man Who Keeps His Booze Under Lock & Key ! "	The negative response to the new B . B . C . series ' Ashes To Ashes ' ( good , but not a patch on ' Life On Mars ' ) has revived in this reviewer memories of when the fourth series of the sci-fi drama ' Blake's 7 ' aired . Like ' A . T . A . ' , Year 4 was initially met with hostility from fans . It was the first to lack involvement from its creator , Terry Nation , and a new producer - Vere Lorrimer - replaced David Maloney , who had left to produce a well-regarded adaptation of ' The Day Of The Triffids ' . The climax of the previous year necessitated the need for change , with ' Liberator ' gone , a ship had to be found for Avon and his crew . Also , Jan Chappell left , which meant ' Cally ' had to be written out , and a new crew member - ' Soolin ' - substituted . Dudley Simpson's closing theme was rearranged , and some impressive new titles by Douglas Burd ( including a new logo ) appeared . Over the course of three series , ' Blake's 7 ' had established a loyal fan base , and a regular audience in the region of ten million viewers ( achieved despite it often going out in opposition to ' Coronation Street ' ) . The net result of all these changes occurring simultaneously was to cause offence , and soon the letters pages of ' The Radio Times ' teemed with protests . One reader likened ' Scorpio ' to an ' animated door wedge ' , while another missed the ' subtle interplays of characterisation ' from the earlier series . ' Rescue ' begins where ' Terminal ' left off , with Avon and co . marooned on the artificial planet of the same name . Servalan has left a couple of booby-traps for them to fall into ; one of which kills Cally . Recovering very quickly from her demise , they face further perils from hostile snake-like creatures . Just when it appears they are doomed , a mysterious stranger named Dorian saves them . Dorian is a kind of intergalactic scrap dealer . The ungrateful Avon takes control of his ship , only to find it is on a pre-programmed flight course to Xenon . The only other person in Dorian's life is the beautiful but enigmatic Soolin . Searching the underground base , Dayna discovers a secret room inhabited by a hideous alien . The first twenty-five minutes of ' Rescue ' are indeed tremendous ; neatly dovetailing into the end of ' Terminal ' , it crackles along with great dialogue and some decent action scenes ( one thing ' Blake's 7 ' excelled at was explosions ! ) , but as soon as we get to Xenon we are plunged into a bland sci-fi remake of Oscar Wilde's ' The Picture Of Dorian Gray ' . ' Dr . Who ' fans who complained about Russell T . Davies paying homage to ' The Poseidon Adventure ' in ' Voyage Of The Damned ' need to realise that he was not the first writer on a sci-fi show to plunder the past in search of inspiration . The late Geoffrey Burridge gives a wonderful performance as ' Dorian ' , charming and sinister by turns , and you almost wish he'd been made a regular . Sadly , he died six years after this was made . The stunningly beautiful Glynis Barber does not get to make much of a debut , and would be severely underused for much of the early part of this season . Overall , a fair start to what turned out to Blake's final run . Incidentally , it went out in 1981 , the very year in which ' Ashes To Ashes ' is set .
" Where the liquor , Vicar ? "	The Reverend George Ffoulkes and his wife have a dinner engagement with The Bishop , meaning they require a baby sitter to take care of their quadruplets - Matthew , Mark , Luke and John . Unfortunately , the agency sends along Les . No sooner is he alone in the vicarage than he proceeds to help himself to drink , read aloud confidential letters from distressed parishioners , and put on a dog collar . When a neurotic young woman named Sandra Evans turns up on the rebound from a violent boyfriend , she mistakes Les for the real Ffoulkes . . . This was one of two ' Dawsons Weekly ' episodes later remade as part of ' Paul Merton In Galton & Simpson's ' in the late ' 90's . It is pretty good , though unlikely that anyone in their right mind would trust someone as dubious looking as Les to look after their house . Galton and Simpson had written a similar storyline for ' Hancock's Half-Hour ' . The excellent John Bird guests as ' The Vicar ' with Ann Beach as his wife . I do not know if it was intentional , but Bird is very much like the late Jess Yates , presenter of ' Stars On Sunday ' , whose nickname was ' The Bishop ' on account of his sepulchral manner . Sharon Duce , who plays ' Sandra ' , went to star in the fondly remembered ' 80's B . B . C . series ' Big Deal ' . George A . Cooper a . k . a . ' the reporter ' was ' Geoffrey Fisher ' in L . W . T . ' s ' Billy Liar ' . Funniest moment - Les , still pretending to be the vicar , calling upstairs to Sandra . " Get your clothes off and get in the bath ! I'll be up in a minute ! " . Then he realises two old ladies are nearby , listening .
" Squeeze me please ! I am hopping to be unrolled ! "	Vince Powell came up with the idea for this L . W . T . sitcom after his au pair innocently asked him one day if he had received any ' French letters ' for her . She was of course referring to mail , but to an English comedy scriptwriter the double meaning was unmistakable . ' Mind Your Language ' was set in an adult education centre where foreign students struggle to master the complexities of the English language . They include a sexy French girl , a Spaniard fond of saying ' Por favore ? ' a lot , a Mao-quoting Chinese woman , a hot-blooded Italian , a surly German woman , a fast-talking Greek , a head-waggling Indian lady , and a Chinaman who gets to his feet and takes a bow whenever asked a question . Later additions were a Swedish sex-bomb and a confused Hungarian . Presiding over this microcosm of international relations was well-meaning but naive English teacher Jeremy Brown , played by the late Barry Evans . The show provided a welcome return for the popular actor , who had been off British television screens since ' Doctor At Large ' in 1971 . Also around were Mary Whitehouse lookalike Zara Nutley as the fearsome principal ' Miss Courtney ' , Tommy Godfrey ( ' Arthur ' in Powell's ' Love Thy Neighbour ' ) as ' Sid ' the caretaker , and Iris Sadler as tea lady ' Gladys ' . ' Mind Your Language ' is often cited as an example of ' racist ' ' 70's British comedy . I personally think it is no more offensive than those American movies that depict the British either as plummy-voiced toffs or chirpy Cockney sparrows . The main source of ridicule in this show is the English language itself . Yes , the students were stereotypes , but British comedy has always been full of them - check out ' Fawlty Towers ' for yet more ' funny foreigners ' . Manuel could easily have been one of Jeremy Brown's students . Besides , the English characters were also stereotypes . The students themselves came across as altogether likable . This was never intended to be serious social commentary . My main bugbear is that the characters never developed from one episode to the next ; it would have been nice to have seen say , the students gradually mastering English , coming to understand each other's customs , maybe even getting married ( Danielle and Giovanni would have made a nice couple ) . Michael Grade axed the show despite its popularity , yet in 1986 it returned as an independent production , courtesy of one of its stars - Albert Moses . If he - an Asian actor - did not find the show offensive , why on Earth should anyone else ? Superbly parodied by L . W . T . ' s ' End Of Part One ' as ' Mind Your Foreigners ' .
" I'll have a pint of Appleyard ! "	Professor Loftus gives Duncan and Mike a severed human arm to dissect . Mike finds the job impossible as the very thought of it makes him queasy ( I cannot say I blame him ) . Later , at the canteen , he is unable to look at the food ( unappetising it looks too ) much less eat it . Duncan takes him to the pub where they each imbibe three pints of strong Appleyard cider . Returning to St . Swithins legless , they interrupt men putting in a radiator , and make off with their tools . They then terrify a female patient who thinks they intend doing a ' Jack The Ripper ' on her . . . Anyone who has over-indulged in the joys of cider will know exactly what Duncan and Mike are going through here ; that awful feeling of the world spinning round and round like a carousel , an ache in the guts , and a total inability to do even the simplest task successfully . Peter Greene , who plays ' Young Doctor ' , would return in later seasons in the more familiar guise of ' The Chaplain ' while Joy Stewart , cast as ' The Physiotherapist ' , is better remembered by fans as ' Sister Fowles ' . Martin Miller a . k . a . ' Professor Pearson ' - whose lecture Duncan and Mike gatecrash - was ' The Watchmaker ' in the ' Its Your Funeral ' episode of ' The Prisoner ' . Funniest Moment - Loftus asking Upton how he would deal with a bleeding patient . Mike stands there , frozen . Loftus counts down backwards , then says : " Time's up ! The man's dead ! " . It was the nearest the series got to the famous ' you , what's the bleeding time ? ' gag .
Paris - Cockney style !	The second episode of the second season of Douglas Livingstone's ' Born & Bred ' . Molly Peglar ( Joan Sims ) is planning a special Parisian night - complete with fashion show - at her East End pub ' The Crown & Sceptre ' . She hopes to impress enough people to give her a boost in her ambitions to chair the local Women's Committee . Ray and Marge Benge ( Gorden Kaye and Kate Williams ) are flattered to be asked to attend , only to then learn that she wants them only as domestic staff - her regular cook Mildred ( Mollie Maureen ) has walked out on her . Furthermore , as they are relatives , she does not intend paying them . Elsewhere , Frank Benge ( James Grout ) is scouring railway stations in an effort to locate his missing son-in-law Paul Redstone . He bumps into an attractive middle-aged lady named Mrs . White ( Hilda Fenemore ) who is engaged on a search of her own , to find her absent husband Freddie and find out why he ran off with the Guide Dog money . Frank likes her so much he suggests they have an affair , but she is not up for it . Said missing husband ( Milton Johns ) is to be found in Molly's pub ( posing as ' Mr . Green ' ) where he is painting the walls to resemble the Paris skyline . Molly becomes so fond of him she offers him the job of barman . On the big night , Mrs . White learns from Tommy Tonsley ( Max Wall ) that her husband is at the pub . Determined to get him back , she goes there . Pam ( Suzie Blake ) is meant to be one of the fashion models , but she hates the clothes she has been given and won't go on . The occasion looks set to be a disaster . . . One of the lovely things about this show was the naturalness of the humour . No out-of-place laugh lines , no big headed cast member trying to upstage the rest , and , best of all , no artificial sounding laugh track . Molly's growing fondness for Freddie is mirrored by Frank's interest in Mrs . White . The railway station scene has a nice ' Brief Encounter ' flavour to it . We are so used to seeing Hilda Fenemore as dowdy head-scarf wearing housewives it comes as a shock to see her , for once , playing a sexually desirable woman . As Frank , James Grout is , as ever , brilliant . Look at his pained expression when he comes home from work only to find newly-washed nappies all over the place . There appears to be little affection between him and his wife ( Gillian Raine ) hence his interest in the poetry spouting Mrs . White is entirely believable . Funniest moment - the hatch to the dumb waiter in Molly's pub opens to reveal not the expected dinners , but an embarrassed looking Ray , who had been attempting to fix the thing . Second funniest moment - Frank explaining to his baffled wife that ' Mr . Green ' is in fact Mr . White .
One Minister Too Many !	The Minister of Health is due to arrive at St . Swithins for a varicose vein operation , and wants to be treated like any other patient . Worried that an unfavourable impression of the hospital may jeopardise his chances of a knighthood , Loftus removes Bingham from his ward and places Duncan in charge . By a striking coincidence , a vicar by the name of the Reverend Ian Bridgenorth arrives at the same time for exactly the same operation . The staff mix him up with the Minister of Health , and the vicar finds himself getting the five-star treatment intended for the other man . . . A one-joke episode , though not without its amusing moments . Bingham does seem rather wasted here . His big moment comes when he puts the Rev . Bridgenorth in a wheelchair and pushes him to the research unit , believing him to be the Minister of Health . Joy Stewart shines for once as Sister Fowles , bellowing orders at Nurse Crumpton like an army sergeant-major . The Minister of Health is seen reading ' Diamonds Are Forever ' by Ian Fleming , the film version of which had only gone on release a short time before . ' The Rev . Bridgenorth ' is played by the late Robert James , a talented supporting actor who , amongst other roles , played ' Lesterson ' in the ' Dr . Who ' classic ' The Power Of The Daleks ' and a doctor in the ' Steptoe & Son ' story ' Upstairs , Downstairs , Upstairs , Downstairs ' . Eddie Malin , Hylda Baker's talkative cousin ' Walter ' in ' Nearest & Dearest ' , appears as randy patient ' Mr . Morgan ' . Funniest moment - the confusion about the Ministers ' food . The Rev . Bridgenorth is in bed praying . When he opens his eyes he finds his meal has been switched ( by Sandra ) , and thinks it to be the work of The Lord !
" Koch is a German ! "	St . Swithins gets its very own radio service . Loftus unwisely entrusts Waring and Stuart-Clark with the task of making it a success . Dick sees it as a golden opportunity to make a quick buck by incorporating local business ads into his ' History Of St . Swithins ' broadcasts , while Gascoigne writes a melodramatic play about Louis Pasteur . MacKenzie provides sound effects . It sounds like a recipe for disaster - and is . The patients get bored and watch old George Formby films on television . Until Nurse Sheila Reynolds saves the day by trying to chat up Duncan on air . Their saucy banter makes ' Radio St . Swithins ' a massive hit . Loftus requests further instalments . . . Pretty amusing episode , enlivened by David Kelly of ' Robin's Nest ' fame as a patient , and Alison King as the Duncan-fixated Nurse Sheila Reynolds , ( first introduced in ' When A Body Meets A Body ' ) , clearly in the mould of ' Dr . Mary Bingham ' from ' Doctor In Charge ' . Funniest moment - a drunken MacKenzie rambling on air about his marital problems !
Three Medical Men And A Baby !	Duncan finds a baby on his doorstep along with the morning milk . A note attached identifies it as ' Baby Duncan ' . He and Dick try to pilfer nappies from the maternity ward , but Sister Raeburn catches them and forces them to practice midwifery on a toy baby . Needless to say , they are not good at the job . Then Kate finds out and Duncan is forced to go on a quest to find the baby's real mother . . . We've been here before , haven't we ? A baby winds up in the care of confirmed bachelors , and just as they are getting the hang of its upkeep the mother returns and takes it back . The 1971 movie ' Steptoe & Son ' had a scene like this incorporated into its storyline , and ' Rising Damp ' did a plot along similar lines . David A . Yallop last worked on the show in its ' Doctor At Large ' days . His script for the opening episode of the second season of ' Go ' is amiable in spite of the over familiarity of the material . Sue Nicholls , years away from becoming a regular on ' Coronation Street ' , appears as ' Lynne ' , one of Duncan's ex-girlfriends and a suspect in the search for the mother . ' Sister Raeburn ' is our old friend Pat Nye , well remembered for battle axe roles in ' On The Buses ' ( ' The Visit ' ) and ' Please Sir ' ( ' Out Of The Frying Pan ' ) . One scene has not aged very well , however - an angry black father accusing his wife of adultery after finding a white child in place of his own . The new titles were an improvement on the previous season's ; instead of dull stills , we see X-ray photographs ( a skull , a knee , a hand , a chest , an elbow and a foot ) changing into the cast regulars . Funniest moment - Duncan and Dick admiring the baby when Kate creeps up behind them , and asks : " Whose baby is it ? " . Together , the two men proudly reply : " Ours ! " .
" Go and jump on a barbed wire trampoline ! "	Its Sunday , and Duncan is on duty at St . Swithins . Tired , hungry and depressed beyond measure ( its also his birthday , and everyone , Kate included , seems to have forgotten ) . Loftus cons him into paying for a ham salad , Dick is too busy chasing a young Australian nurse to notice his friend's's misery , and Gascoigne struggles to encase a man's leg in plaster . In short , a typical day at St . Swithin's . The penultimate episode of ' Go ' is a bit like the classic ' Porridge ' episode ' No Peace For The Wicked ' , in that its lead character desperately wants to grab some peace and quiet but keeps being disturbed . Robin Nedwell does a most effective job of conveying Waring's frustration at not being allowed to relax . Writers Rob Buckman and Chris Beetles had been doctors themselves and so , one presumes , they were able to draw on their own real-life experiences . With hardly a week going by nowadays without some trashy tabloid running scare stories about the N . H . S . being ' on the point of collapse ' , its interesting to look back and see that ' overworked and under-paid doctors ' are hardly a new phenomenon . Dick's attempts to chat up Nerida result in failure . The Australian nurse is going out with someone else , and treats Dick with undisguised contempt . This was the second time that this had happened in ' Go ' , the other occasion was when he powerfully desired ( and which man wouldn't ) Katherine Wright . One suspects that Humphrey Barclay was responding to criticism of the show's perceived ' sexism ' . In a funny sort of way , it paved the way for Stuart-Clark's decision to settle down and become a family man , which is how we saw him in ' Doctor At The Top ' . The lovely and funny Elissa Derwent , who appeared in an episode of L . W . T . ' s ' Billy Liar ' series , is given a surprisingly thankless role here as a student nurse . Funniest moment - Dick trying to chat up Nerida in a room full of used bedpans . His nauseous expression as he tries to woo the girl is hilarious . Thank goodness we still don't have Smellyvision !
Running Out Of Patients !	The students ( minus Hooley ) are allowed to examine patients in the Patrick Snooth Ward . And a right lot they are too . One is more concerned about his missing hat than his illness , another is a compulsive liar who makes his ailment sound worse than it is ( it is gout ) , another is concerned about sexual impotence . Upton gets Mr . Drobnic , an elderly Yugoslavian railway driver who speaks absolutely no English . Just as his attempts to communicate with Drobnic appear to be succeeding ( thanks to a pen and a sketch-pad ) at last , the patient takes flight in a motorised wheelchair . . . David Jason makes the first of a number of appearances in the ' Doctor ' series ; others include ' The Voice Of The Toad ' in the ' At Large ' episode ' Congratulations ! Its A Toad ! ' , ' Victor Bligh ' in ' Let's Start At The Beginning ' , and ' Manuel Sanchez ' in the ' At Sea ' instalment ' Go Away Stowaway ! ' . Quite a few ' Dad's Army ' actors appeared in this show - Arthur Lowe , John Le Mesurier , Harold Bennett . Here a moustache-less James Beck ( ' Private Walker ' ) plays ' Mr . Wale ' . It is little more than a cameo , but he does it in his inimitable style . Joy Stewart , who had been a ' Physiotherapist ' in last season's ' Its All Go ' , is seen here for the first time as the fearsome ' Sister Fowles ' ( though she is only credited as ' Sister ' ) . She would remain with the show until ' In Charge ' . Funniest Moment - Upton finds what he thinks he is Drobnic's wheelchair , and pushes it back to the ward . However , when Dr . Merriford ( Donald Bisset ) requests to see the patient , he sees a pregnant woman instead !
Enter Ffitchett-Brown	Recovered from chicken pox , Mr . Dix is back at Fenn Street School , and once more making everyone's life hell . A new teacher arrives - David Ffitchett-Brown , ex-army officer ( Potter takes a shine to him immediately ) , good-looking , trendy , and , best of all , unafraid of Dix . Noticing Dix continually picking on an obese pupil , David gets the headmaster to sign a note excusing the boy from P . E . Dix is determined that his authority should not be undermined , and heads for the staff room to have it out with the younger man . . . The late Richard Warwick was no stranger to fictional schools , having been one of the anarchic Fifth Formers in Lindsay Anderson's classic ' If ' in 1968 . His character in ' Please Sir ! ' is more like Richard O'Sullivan's ' Robin Tripp ' than John Alderton's ' Hedges ' . Unlike the nervousness displayed by Hedges on his first day , David glides up to the gates in a flash sports car , a pretty blonde at his side . The pupils take to him instantly , as do the teachers , who are glad to see Dix toppled . This is a good debut episode for the character , which makes it all the stranger why he was effectively sidelined from then on . The nadir of this Esmonde and Larbey episode is the scene where ' Elisabeth ' ( Linda Joliff ) spins a ridiculous romantic tale in class , which 4C sees through . The character tries to combine ' Sharon Eversleigh''s easy-going attitude to life with ' Frankie Abbott's ' penchant for exaggeration . Joliff is no Penny Spencer , however , and the studio audience do not sound very amused as she prattles on and on and on . Funniest moment - Potter attempting to do the high jump !
A Close Encounter At St . Swithins !	An important medical conference is to take place at St . Swithins , at which Sir Edmund Steele of Highcross will be present . Keen to make his lecture special , Loftus tells Duncan to find a patient with an unusual medical condition . Salvation comes in the portly shape of northerner Mr . Andrews , whose heart is on the wrong side of his body . En route to the conference , Mr . Andrews decides he has had enough of waiting and tries to leave . To make matters worse , Dick has picked up the wrong X-rays , instead of Mr . Andrews , they are of Loftus . The first of Steve Thorn and Paul Wolfson's ' Doctor On The Go ' episodes . These gentlemen don't appear to have written anything else for television , so one wonders if these names were in fact pseudonyms . The late Robert Dorning plays ' Mr . Andrews ' . He seems to have appeared in every comedy series ever made in the ' 60's and ' 70's , including Spike Milligan's ' Q6 ' the classic ' Hancock's Half-Hour ' episode ' The Reunion ' , as well as ' The Club Secretary ' in ' Bootsie & Snudge ' . He specialised in playing pompous old men . Well remembered as Maureen Lipman's mother in ' Agony ' , Maria Charles appears here as dotty ' Mrs . Button ' , who claims a U . F . O . landed on top of her marrows . When she hears about Mr . Andrews ' unusual physiognomy , she automatically assumes him to be an alien from outer space . Funniest moment - carrying a tray of food , Duncan backs out of a crowded lift . The doors snap shut , and the tray crashes to the floor !
" Are you Sir's Penny ? "	Mr . Hedges and Penny are thinking about where to live when they get married . Then fate takes an unexpected turn - Smithy keels over in the street , and is rushed to hospital . While he recuperates at home , the old teacher tells Hedges that he and his wife Madge and thinking of selling up and moving away . The possibility of married life in a charming little cottage becomes very real to Hedges . Penny doesn't see it that way , thinking the cottage will turn them both old before their time . Meanwhile , a bruised Dennis has been thrown out of his home by his violent father , and turns up at Hedges ' flat . . . When Erik Chitty died in 1977 , ' The T . V . Times ' ran a one-page tribute to this much-loved character actor , who specialised in playing crotchety old men . Difficult to imagine them doing anything like that now , wouldn't you say ? The highlights of this episode are the ' Billy Liar ' style sequences in which first Bernard and then Penny imagine life in the cottage . Hedges ' vision looks very much like a dry run for John Alderton's later B . B . C . series ' Woodhouse Playhouse ' .
Dick Enjoys The High Life !	The gang from St . Swithins are at a careers ' exhibition , urging future school-leavers to consider taking up medicine . Here they learn that Mike Sherman , head of the Charlemagne hotel chain , is looking for a resident doctor for his London hotel . The pay is good ( 7 , 000 a year ) , there's free accommodation and food , along with a car . The permanently broke Duncan Waring finds himself competing for the position with MacKenzie . In the end , neither of them gets the job . It goes to Dick Stuart-Clark . . . Gary Waldhorn , better known nowadays as ' David Horton ' from ' The Vicar Of Dibley ' , guests as ' Mike Sherman ' . Dick's departure from St . Swithins is not a permanent one . He finds the accommodation seedy , the car is on its last legs , and , worst of all , he is bored and misses his old friends . Of course it never occurs to him to use some of his 7 , 000 to decorate the place , buy a new car and throw the odd party for his chums . But hey , this is a sitcom we're dealing with here . Funniest moment - the closing credit scene where Duncan goes to give Dick the kiss of life , only for his friend to suddenly snap awake as soon as he realises what is about to happen !
Doctors - Pick Your Nurses !	Waring , Stuart-Clark and Mackenzie come up with the idea of a competition to see who is the best nurse at St . Swithins . There's just one problem - they do not have any prize money . Dick makes a deal with Nurse Reynolds ; in return for fixing the contest in her favour , she will hand back the cheque . Unfortunately , Duncan and Andy think he is up to his old tricks and talk her out of it . In desperation , Duncan is forced to resort to a spot of female impersonation . . . Where would British comedy be without the sight of a man in drag , eh ? Here its Robin Nedwell doing the honours , tottering about the place like Frankenstein's monster in make-up . Actually , I wish they had made a bit more out of this situation - it would have been fun to see Waring treated in the cavalier , sexist fashion he normally reserves for women . The only person to get the hots for Duncan in nurse's uniform is the reserved Sir Edmund Steele of Highcross . A fun episode this , the only one of the ' Doctor ' series penned by two women , Gail Renard and Brenda Crankmen . Our old friend Christopher Biggins crops up yet again , this time as ' Nurse Franklin ' . Funniest moment - Duncan , rushing to the scene of a gas leak , lifts his leg over a length of pipe , and in so doing exposes wrinkled stockings to put Nora Batty's to shame !
Have Faith , Duncan	Duncan plans on settling down with Kate , and demonstrates to Dick how he intends carrying her over the threshold . Unfortunately , he slips a disc , and is in agony . Dick hurts his leg . Despite repeated treatment from specialists , the injury shows no sign of healing . To make matters worse , news of how the injury occurred makes the doctors the laughing stock of St . Swithin's . At his wits ' end , Duncan calls on faith healer Mr . Krakow for help . . . The 1968 film ' Carry On Doctor ' cast Frankie Howerd as a charlatan who boasted of the power of the mind over matter , and its alleged superiority to conventional medicine . This episode has some similarities , except that we don't actually see the faith healer whom Loftus denounces as a ' quack ' . Though back pain is no fun for the sufferer concerned , its hard not to be amused by the spectacle of Robin Nedwell shuffling about like Quasimodo . Dick's leg injury doesn't affect his lifestyle too badly , as he spends most of his time sitting down anyway . Funniest moment - Duncan and Dick going to the faith healer , in the hope of a miraculous cure for their problems , only to witness his coffin carried out through the front door !
Man Overboard !	Duncan and Dick settle down to life aboard the M . S . Begonia . They find the crew to be a mixed bunch - Captain Loftus is a virtual replica of his St . Swithins counterpart , the Purser is a snob who grovels after Captain Loftus constantly , the entertainment officer a manic depressive , but there's some consolation in the shape of sexy nurse Joyce Wynton . Loftus intends throwing a cocktail party for the rich guests , including the loudmouthed American Mrs . Tranmere , and wants his crew to be on their best behaviour . Unfortunately , Duncan's present behaviour is far from his best - he is suffering from seasickness . . . Following the previous transitory episode , this Bernard McKenna and Richard Laing one gets the new format fully established . Vomiting is a regular occurrence in modern comedies , but it was rare in ' 70's shows . We're spared the sight of Duncan throwing up on camera - this was a family show - but thanks to good acting on his part Nedwell manages to convince the audience that he is ill . Funniest moment - Dick attempting to get Duncan ready by walking him round the deck . Pausing for breath , Dick watches Duncan stagger off . A second or two later , we hear a splash . A sodden Duncan reaches the party , leaving puddles in his wake .
Viva Upton !	Upton , Collier and Bingham must undergo a verbal exam to qualify for a Primary Fellowship - also known as ' the viva ' . Collier blows it before he even makes to the examination room ; he spills a drink over Professor Sinnott ( the examiner ) and is rude to the man when he refuses his offer of a refill . Bingham , predictably , sails through the whole thing , but what of Upton ? Returning from a fishing holiday , Mike gives a lift to a pretty hitch-hiker , but then his car won't start . With time running out , he must get back to St . Swithins at all costs . . . Sound familiar ? This episode basically rehashes the plot of the final episode of ' Doctor In The House ' , though with a slight variation - Loftus decides to conduct the examination over the telephone . Unfortunately , Mike is in a country pub , and the noise is so great he can barely hear the questions . One of the drinkers - seen playing a slot machine - is Stuart Sherwin , a regular on the B . B . C . children's show ' Crackerjack ! ' in the early ' 70's . Arthur ' Are You Being Served ? ' Borough is seen fleetingly during Upton's fishing trip . Funniest moment - Bingham's outrage over Loftus ' decision to test Upton over a phone line . He regards it as unfair to other candidates . Tired of his constant whining , Collier hits him , knocking him out of his chair . Bearing in mind that part of the exam involves the identification of organ specimens , Bingham does seem to have a point .
" Well ! Well ! Well ! "	Upton bumps into an old friend from his first year as student - Huw Evans . But gone is the boisterous , boozing rabble-rouser of old . The new look Huw is bearded , dressed scruffily , and preoccupied by some weighty problem . It turns out he is married to a former St . Swithins typist named Pippa ( ' she of the big . . . ' ) who is now heavily pregnant . Huw is involved in a road accident , and gets admitted as a patient . As Loftus , Upton and Collier attempt to put him back together , they endeavour to conceal from Loftus that Pippa is in the operating theatre , dressed as a nurse . . . Easily the least successful aspect of the first season of ' Doctor In The House ' was Martin Shaw's performance as ' Huw Evans ' . He just did not seem to work as well as the others . I do not know whether it is down to John Cleese's script , or whether Shaw had grown in stature as an actor since 1969 , but I was surprised to find myself warming to Huw here . As mentioned earlier , he had developed as a character , whereas his friends remained the same . Its not unknown for men to ' empathize ' with their wives as they go into labour , and this is the case with Huw . Huw knows who Bingham is , even though they never met in ' House ' . Don't laugh , but Christopher Biggins is one of the expectant fathers pacing nervously outside the maternity ward . Funniest moment - Upton's surreal encounter with Mr . Manderson , who claims to be able to cough up nuts and bolts !
" He was so piddled he went to the wrong hospital ! "	Upton is back at St . Swithins , and by an eerie coincidence , so is Professor Loftus , now Professor of Surgery and member of the Board of Govenors . This news is a blow to the fortunes of Dick Stuart-Clark , who had been running the hospital bar quite profitably . He had even managed to hide illegal alcohol in a bedpan cupboard , made to look like a storeroom for radioactive isotopes . Loftus discovers Upton hiding in said cupboard , but before he can take serious action , falls gravely ill . He requires an operation to unblock an artery . The team of surgeons includes Upton , Bingham , and an inebriated Dean . . . Its hard to believe that this is the first appearance of ' Loftus ' this season , despite it being the twentieth episode . Ernest Clark once again delivers an impressive performance , his deadpan face providing a marvellous counterpoint to the madness around him . He would become a permanent fixture in the L . W . T . ' Doctor ' series after this . With Upton's wanderlust apparently sated , it was back to St . Swithins , and how good to see the place in all its glory again . The seeds of ' Doctor In Charge ' were sown here . Spot The Mistake - Geoffrey Davies flubs a line , saying ' illugal ' instead of illegal , much to Barry Evans ' amusement . Funniest moment - a drunken Dean attempting to gatecrash Loftus ' operation .
" Oi ! Oi ! Oi ! "	Upton's newest patient is Victor Bligh , an elderly man with strange behavioural problems such as twitching uncontrollably , muttering gibberish , and blowing raspberries . Mike recommends him to a psychiatrist . Dick , now working at a psychiatric clinic , introduces Mike to Lionel Morris , who turns violent whenever anybody says the word ' nose ' . But Mike's encounter with Morris is nowhere near as bizarre as the one he has with eminent psychiatrist Sir Robert Joyce . Joyce thinks Upton is stark staring mad , no matter how much the young doctor protests to the contrary . . . Mental illness may not strike one as being a suitable subject for comedy , but this has not stopped people attempting to mine the vein for laughs over the years . Twenty-nine years before Jim Carrey's ' Me , Myself & Irene ' caused a furore over its comic depiction of a schizophrenic , this episode explored similar territory . When you have David Jason as the patient , however , you know that the caricature is never going to be particularly offensive . He had appeared in ' In The House ' as ' Mr . Drobnic ' in ' What Seems To Be The Trouble ? ' . This was his second contribution to ' At Large ' , the first being ' Congratulations ! - Its A Toad ! " . With his thinning patch of white hair , moustache and dirty raincoat , Bligh resembles Jason's ' Captain Fantastic ' character from ' Do Not Adjust Your Set ' . Freddie Jones is ' Sir Robert Joyce ' . a wild-eyed , bow-tied psychiatrist considerably madder than his own patients . His office is a masterpiece of design ; behind his desk is a disturbing mural of a foetus in a womb , the flowerpots contain microphones , and visitors are dazzled by flashing psychedelic lights . You half expect Steed and Mrs . Peel to appear . Hats off to Brian Bagge and Rodney Cammish . The scene where Upton and Joyce talk at cross purposes drags a bit , and makes the episode somewhat hard-going . Jason's reappearance towards the end thankfully gets it back on track . Graham Chapman later poked fun at psychiatry in the ' In Charge ' episode ' Hello Sailor ! " . Funniest moment - Mike's first meeting with Bligh .
" Call me Bunty ! "	Upton visits a local girls ' school - nicknamed ' the stacks ' by Dr . Maxwell - much to Sue's horror . The pupils are precocious young women with crushes on the good-looking doctor . Soon they are chasing him on bikes , undressing in a provocative manner in his clinic , sending him sexy messages , and turning up at the surgery in droves . Paul decides to exploit the situation so he can have Sue - by replying to the letters . An angry father turns up , demanding to know what Upton's intentions are towards his daughter . . . ' Doctor Dish ' sounds like one of those terrible low-budget British sex comedies of that time ( ironically , Evans himself was in one , called ' Under The Doctor ' ) . The schoolgirls are depicted as sex-crazed monsters , one step up from the ' St . Trinians ' versions . We're used to seeing nubile young women on television now , but in 1971 it raised a few eyebrows . The late Barbara Mitchell was best known as Frankie Abbott's hypochondriac mother in ' Please , Sir ! ' and ' The Fenn Street Gang ' . Funniest moment - Upton trying to walk down a corridor lined with girls .
" Only tell me when I'm wrong ! "	The job of junior houseman at St . Swithins is once more up for grabs . Professor Loftus decides to give it to his former student Duncan Waring . The previous incumbent , Mike Upton , joined the Merchant Navy to escape the attentions of Nurse Willett , to whom he drunkenly proposed one night . Back in Britain following a year-long course in America , Duncan is looking forward to seeing his old friends again . But they have decided to play a cruel trick on him . When he arrives , everyone pretends not to remember him . Even his old girlfriend Sandra Crumpton is in on the joke . . . Exhausted by the punishing filming schedule ( 29 episodes in one year ) Barry Evans made his final appearance as ' Dr . Mike Upton ' in a short ' Doctor At Large ' sketch shown as part of ' Mike & Bernie's All-Star Christmas Comedy Carnival ' on / 71 . Sadly , it no longer exists . The series should logically have ended with his departure . With recasting ruled out , the obvious solution was to replace ' Upton ' with a new character . Taking note of the fate of ' Please Sir ! ' the year before ( it sank with all hands on deck following the loss of John Alderton ) , the producers decided to bring back ' Duncan Waring ' from ' In The House ' . Robin Nedwell was a different kind of actor to Barry Evans . He was more extroverted , wore outrageous bow ties , and was particularly adept at physical comedy . You could not imagine Upton panicking on a railway crossing ( ' Honeymoon Special ' ) , mountaineering up the side of a building ( the ' Doctor On The Go ' episode ' Keep Your Nose Clean ! ' ) , or doing a frog impression to get out of the Royal Navy ( ' Hello Sailor ! ' ) . According to Roger Wilmut in his book ' From Fringe To Flying Circus ' , John Cleese found the ' Upton ' character difficult to write for . Whenever he wrote funny lines for him , the scripts would be returned with the comment ' Barry wouldn't say lines like that ' , hence Cleese had to create situations in which other people did or said amusing things , while Upton stood in the middle , smiling amiably . I think this is a bit harsh , but Cleese's view has to be respected . No disrespect to Evans ' memory , but in my view the ' Doctor ' series hit its stride with ' In Charge ' . The early episodes featured Mollie Sugden as Duncan's overprotective mother and Sammie Winmill as his sexy girlfriend Sandra . These characters would later be phased out . Written by Graham Chapman and Bernard McKenna , ' The Devil You Know ' is hardly a great example of the show , but serves its purpose in bringing Duncan back aboard , and establishing that Upton is no longer around . There is something of a ' Twilight Zone ' air , as Duncan is made to feel as though he never ever existed at St . Swithins . Funniest moment - relieved to find that Loftus remembers him , Duncan greets him like a long-lost brother - much to the stuffy Professor's embarrassment .
" The old bag has resigned ! "	A new Matron takes over at St . Swithins - the fearsome Miss Fox . Even Loftus is afraid of her . Knowing of her puritanism , Dick and Paul attempt to scare her away by sending her forged love notes purporting to be written by Bingham . Lawrence , meanwhile , is stung by Duncan's comments about his ability to chat up girls , and decides to prove him wrong by asking Sandra out to Matron's party . She accepts . When Duncan hears about this , he is stunned . On finding her in a compromising situation with his arch-enemy , however , Bingham cancels their date . One of the patients - farmer Mr . Prothero - has been bringing vegetables onto the ward to make him feel more at home . He even has a massive lump of manure deposited under his bed . . . A plot strand in the 1966 film ' Doctor In Clover ' concerned the attempts of Dr . Grimsdyke ( Leslie Phillips ) to rid St . Swithins of a dragon-like matron called Joanna Sweet , played by Joan Sims . This Chapman / McKenna penned episode is a carbon-copy of that situation , even down to the forged love letters . It was also the last episode to feature Sammie Winmill as ' Nurse Sandra Crumpton ' . Presumably the producers did not want Duncan tied down in a long-term relationship so early on in the series . The actress would next be seen on television in the first season of the children's sci-fi show ' The Tomorrow People ' in which she played Carol . William Moore , a . k . a . ' Mr . Prothero ' , went on to play Ronnie Corbett's father ( " Language , Timothy ! " ) in the 1980's BBC sitcom ' Sorry ! " . Funniest moment - Bingham's feeble attempts to ask Sandra out !
" I Was A Desert Rat , You Know ! "	The 1967 movie ' To Sir With Love ' starred Sidney Poitier as an American teacher attempting to educate unruly children in a rough East End London school . It may be coincidental , but the following year ' Please Sir ! ' was launched on I . T . V . John Esmonde and Bob Larbey originally took the idea to the B . B . C . , but on seeing that the character of ' Dennis Dunstable ' was educationally subnormal , they turned it down . The writers then approached the fledgling station ' London Weekend Television ' . Head of comedy Frank Muir also expressed reservations , but trusted the writers when they claimed Dennis would not be used as a figure of fun . Indeed he was not . Anyone trying to belittle Dennis would have to contend with the class ' No . 1 hard man - ' Eric Duffy ' . John Alderton was cast as the idealistic schoolteacher ' Bernard Hedges ' ( known as ' Privet ' by his class ) . Long before ' Basil Fawlty ' , Hedges had " Right ! " as a catchphrase . The actor's best known television role up to that point was ' Dr . Richard Boone ' in the A . T . V . soap ' Emergency Ward 10 ' . Deryck Guyler was originally supposed to play ' Mr . Cromwell ' the dithering headmaster , but on finding it hard to cast the role of ' Potter ' the caretaker , producer Mark Stuart suggested that Guyler be given the role . It worked out for the best ; the pompous , war-obsessed ' Potter ' , forever grovelling in Cromwell's presence , proved to be one of the show's most popular characters . One criticism was that the actors playing the pupils looked too old . Its a fair point - Peter Cleall , a . k . a . ' Duffy ' was five years younger than Alderton ! One should remember that there were strict Equity rules regarding the use of child actors at that time and besides , you could say the same about the cast of the film ' Grease ' ! The first episode opened with Hedges ' first day at Fenn St . School . He finds the teachers incompetent and the children , particularly Class 5C , out of control . It sounds like the premise of a hard-hitting social drama , but Esmonde and Larbey were able to mine a rich vein of comedy . As well as Dunstable and Duffy , the pupils included flash Peter Craven , sexy Sharon Eversleigh , overwrought Maureen Bullock , and ( my favourite ) Frankie Abbott , a would-be hard case who turns into a mummy's boy when threatened ( the inspiration for ' Ralph Tanner ' in Esmonde and Larbey's later sitcom ' The Other One ' , possibly ? ) . ' Mr . Cromwell ' presided over a crack teaching force consisting of cynical Welshman ' Mr . Price ' , frosty ' Miss Ewell ' ( she and the headmaster had a thing going in the first two series ) , and the long overdue for retirement ' Mr . Smith ' . Hedges commanded respect from 5C , and he in turn often got them out of trouble . In a funny sort of way , he became a father figure . This was most apparent in the episode ' Situations Vacant ' , when he stood up to Dennis ' drunken , violent father ( the excellent Peter Bayliss ) . ' Please Sir ' proved a big hit for I . T . V . , ( unsurprisingly , its biggest fans were children ) alongside other L . W . T . shows such as ' On The Buses ' and ' Doctor In The House ' . The first series boasted forty minute long episodes , in common with other L . W . T . sitcoms of the time , but subsequent seasons adopted the standard twenty-five minute length . In 1971 , the inevitable feature film spin-off appeared - one of the better ones , it has to be said . After three seasons , Hedges married the lovely Penny and resigned from Fenn St . School . In his place came ' David Ffitchett-Brown ' played by the late Richard Warwick , an altogether trendier ( and less likable ) character . The pupils changed too , for the worse . The dimwitted ' Godber ' ( Charles Bolton ) made ' Abbott ' seem like Professor Stephen Hawking . The ratings went down and the show was cancelled . However , the old Fenn Street gang made a welcome reappearance in one of the last episodes ( ' Old Fennians Day ' ) . Eventually , they got their own show , which ran to three seasons . ' Please Sir ' was very much of its time , when school milk was free , pupils could not rely on parents to drive them to and from school , and the cane frequently used to punish bad behaviour . It should be seen not as a social document , however , but a comedy show and a good one at that .
" What Are We Going To Do Now ? "	The line between genius and madness is a fine one , and no individual epitomised these extremes more effectively than Spike Milligan . The ' Monty Python ' team freely admit drawing inspiration from his shows . I never saw ' Q5 ' alas , but the later series - beginning with ' Q6 ' - were a mixture of the brilliant and banal . Like the Pythons , if Milligan tired of a sketch he'd cut it short . False noses and boot polished faces cropped up a lot . Then there was the well-endowed Julia Breck , whom Spike delighted in undressing on air . Spike himself never seemed to be able to get through a sketch without giggling . Amongst the highlights were a spoof ' The World About Us ' about the ' Cock-a-knees ' ( Cockneys ) , the ' Good Samaritan ' read from a pulpit by a police officer , the infamous Pakistani Dalek sketch , ' The First Irishman In Space ' , ' The Smallest Police Station In The World ' and Adolf Hitler doing a George Formby impression . You had to love Spike to love the show - and I did .
" Does he have to do that every time I eat ? "	Two months after ' On The Buses ' notched up its sixth successful season on television , the gang were back , this time in the second of their big screen offerings . With the first being the most popular film release of 1971 ( had ' Diamonds Are Forever ' opened earlier , I suspect this might not have been the case ) , there just had to be one . Director Harry Booth returned to oversee the proceedings , once again scripted and produced by the Two Ronalds - Wolfe and Chesney . The title ' Mutiny On The Buses ' was chosen by the winner of a competition in ' The News Of The World ' . Pity the writers were not aware of it when they started work on the script . The idea of Blakey as ' Captain Bligh ' and Stan Butler as ' Fletcher Christian ' is most appealing . The plot ( such as it is ) revolves around Stan's accidental engagement to clippie Suzy . Stan cannot afford a place of his own , and Suzy is not keen on moving into the Butler household ( can you blame her ? ) , so the wedding is deferred . When Arthur loses his job , Stan gets him into the bus depot as a driver . As the slapstick comedy went over well in the first film , ' Mutiny ' offered more of the same - hence Blakey breaks a light fitting as he plays darts ( he is distracted by a sexy clippie ) , the depot catches fire , Olive races around on Arthur's motorcycle , a sewer worker is hit by a dartboard which falls off Stan's bus , Arthur reverses into a stop , the depot is engulfed by fire-extinguisher foam , and there's the hilarious finale in which a lion menaces Blakey and Stan drives through Windsor Safari Park with an excited chimpanzee on the wheel . One of the more unfortunate aspects of the ' Buses ' movies was the broadening of the humour , here we are treated to topless clippies exposing themselves to Blakey , Little Arthur taking a dump in his father's cap , and Big Arthur stepping in his son's wee-filled potty . ' On The Buses ' on television was a family show , but the movies were targeted at the young and dirty-minded . I saw ' Carry On Matron ' in 1972 and the house was full of sniggering teenagers , the sort who went to see ' Mutiny On The Buses ' and later , the ' Confessions ' movies . ' Mutiny ' also offers one of the first examples of ' product placement ' in a movie - Stan's bus is festooned with ads for Pontins holiday camp and the Ladbrookes betting shop chain . The next film ' Holiday On The Buses ' would mainly be set in one of Sir Fred's establishments . Brassy blonde Pat Ashton , who played ' Sally ' in the first film , returns as a different character - ' Nymphie Norah ' . She also appeared in two episodes of the series - as ' Doreen ' . ' Suzy ' was played by Janet Mahoney , also to be found in ' Carry On Loving ' and as ' Dawn Dailey ' the dancer in ' Doctor In Trouble ' . Released in the summer of 1972 , ' Mutiny ' was another big hit , though not on the same scale as its predecessor . Personally , I think its a better film , though ' Holiday On The Buses ' was the best of the trio . Ron Grainer's musical score boasted a catchy accordion and saxophone title theme - a big improvement over the dreadful ' Its A Great Life On The Buses ' by QuinceHarmon . Where do the three movies fit into the chronology of the show ? They don't . Arthur and Olive were childless on television , the buses were green instead of red , and the name of the company was ' Luxton & District ' not ' Town & District ' . So some time after the ' Gardening Time ' episode , we must assume that Stan returned home from the Midlands , Arthur remarried Olive , and the Luxton bus company underwent a makeover . Blakey was to eventually retire ( but that's another story ) .
" Call Me Madge ! "	There is a place for a junior doctor on the Board Of Governors at St . Swithins . Duncan wants the position so he can push for the building of a new research unit , but Bingham feels it should be his because he ( in his view ) is the best doctor in the hospital . Because the Board are a bunch of senile old fogeys , Dick tries to impress the Chairman by telling him Duncan's mother is a Countess . Unfortunately , Duncan's mother is currently at the hospital , being treated for a minor injury . She's a policeman's wife , a nice woman , but no Countess . Desperate to keep the Chairman and Mrs . Waring apart , Dick resorts to female impersonation . . . Just as Leslie Phillips put on drag for a scene in the film ' Doctor In Trouble ' , so then Geoffrey Davies follows suit here . Wearing blue eyeshadow , a blonde wig and in women's clothing , he bears an uncomfortable resemblance to the flamboyant Australian comic Bob Downe . He is able to use his knowledge of the Chairman's ' friendship ' with Lady Molly Cornford to his advantage . Surprisingly , the deception isn't exposed at the end , leaving Duncan to get onto the Board with ease . Meadows White plays ' Mr . Reeves ' , a role normally occupied by Harold Bennett . Presumably Bennett was unavailable . Funniest moment - our first sighting of Dick in drag !
A Tale From The Crypt !	Logan , Jessica and Rem discover six people held in suspended animation in an underground vault . They are there because each possesses the knowledge and abilities to rebuild a post-atomic holocaust world . Unfortunately , they have a terrible disease that can only be cured by vaccine from two phials . En route to the vault , Logan and his friends experience an earthquake and one of the phials is accidentally smashed , leaving enough vaccine for only three people . But which three ? One of the revived six thinks it should be him / her - and begins killing the others . . . Interesting sci-fi variant on Agatha Christie's ' And Then There Were None ' ( alright , that wasn't the name of the book , but I'm not brave enough to write it ) , based on a story by Harlan Ellison , though the script is credited to Al Hayes . Rem turns detective , and the only thing he lacks is a deerstalker and meerschaum pipe . Logan seems rather sidelined for the most of the episode , he doesn't even get to carry Jessica when she is wounded . One of the great things about viewing this series in the 21st century is being able to freeze the picture whenever Jessica's underwear comes into view , a pleasure denied to 1977 viewers . Anyway , frippery aside , its a good little episode , though no ' The City On The Edge Of Forever ' or ' Demon With A Glass Hand ' . The late Christopher Stone does a nice line in red herrings .
" Let's do it ! "	In the midst of the alternative comedy revolution of the ' 80's , along came Victoria Wood with this B . B . C . - 2 series . I have to admit to not being the world's biggest fan of Ms . Wood . I well remember her early television work such as ' That's Life ! ' in which she ( badly ) performed over-twee songs about acne and unrequited teenage love . My view of her changed , however , when she wrote and appeared in a television play with Julie Walters called ' Talent ' . I did not care for the songs but there were good one-liners . Next up was a short-lived sketch show for Granada called ' Wood & Walters ' . Though it boasted some witty items it was hampered by a patently obvious laugh track . ' As Seen On T . V . ' opened with a cringe-inducing title sequence featuring a ' Camberwick Green'-style version of Wood , whose arm falls off in the middle of her stand-up routine , backed up by a theme tune that sounded like the jingle to a ' 50's commercial for cocoa , and comic sound effects . It took a superhuman effort on my part not to switch off . I am glad I did not because then I would have missed what I regard as the best soap opera parody of them all - ' Acorn Antiques ' . Obviously based on A . T . V . ' s long running ' Crossroads ' , it skillfully ridiculed all the clichs - the wobbly sets , bad dialogue , actors not knowing their lines properly , cameras coming into shot etc . Even the closing credits in which the actors ' names could be seen sliding diagonally into view was mercilessly sent up . So effective was ' Acorn Antiques ' that the real ' Crossroads ' tried to change its image radically by introducing a new title sequence in which a car was seen driving up to the motel entrance . Wood spoofed that too ! I do not know whether ' Acorn Antiques ' was instrumental in bringing ' Crossroads ' down ( it ended three years after this series debuted ) but its hard to believe it played no part in hastening its demise . Other good sketches included some spoof documentaries ( one in which Wood played a naive young woman who wanted to swim the Channel turned out not only to be funny but also moving ) , and a sharp parody of daytime television . Wood's supporting cast included Duncan Preston , Celia Imrie , Patricia Routledge ( whose ' Kitty ' was the prototype for ' Hyacinth Bucket ' ) , Susie Blake as a snooty continuity announcer ( how I miss continuity announcers on I . T . V . ! ) , and of course the priceless Julie Walters . Jim Broadbent and the late Hugh Lloyd made occasional appearances . Some of the sketches fell flat but there were enough good ones to make this worthwhile . Amongst the hits was a hilarious ' Coronation Street ' spoof with Wood as the legendary ' Ena Sharples ' . When ' As Seen On T . V . ' debuted on B . B . C . - 2 , it looked doomed initially . Its main competitor on I . T . V . was an inexplicably popular crime show called ' Dempsey & Makepeace ' . Wood's show was trounced in the ratings for the first few weeks , but then an amazing thing happened . As word got out about ' A . S . O . T . ' , so ' Woopsey & Dingbat ' ( as T . V . critic Nina Myskow referred to it ) began to lose viewers . I . T . V . panicked , and it was later moved to a safe Saturday night slot . In an era where more and more comedians were resorting to swear words and body function jokes to get laughs , ' A . S . O . T . ' stood out like a sore thumb . It was funny without being offensive . Not to everyone's taste perhaps , but an enjoyable series all the same .
Bath Crystals Are Forever	Howard is short of money ( as usual ) and has taken to stealing from the Mountjoy's phone fund . Mary cannot complain as she has been doing the same thing ( without Trevor's knowledge ) . At the bank , Howard encounters a new manager - the hard-faced Mr . Scrimshaw . As Howard is 600 in the red , Scrimshaw wishes to cancel his bank card . The bounder falls back on one of his old ploys - a fake treasure map , purporting to show the location of an African diamond mine . Scrimshaw is completely taken in . With Laura away , Howard is free to use her house to embellish his con . Unfortunately , a pair of window cleaners inadvertently become part of it . . . Very good episode , with Garfield Morgan ( ' Haskins ' from ' The Sweeney ' ) as the gullible bank manager Scrimshaw . Sam Kelly ( ' Warren ' from ' Porridge ' ) plays ' Alf ' , while his mate is the late Larry Martyn , a . k . a . ' Mr . Mash ' from the first series of ' Are You Being Served ? ' . Funniest moment - the pregnant pause caused by Mary when she casually tosses the ' map ' pieces into the fire .
" And Its Still Goodnight From Him ! "	When ' The Two Ronnies Sketchbook ' was originally announced , you could almost hear the gasps of amazement from the media . In this age of ' Little Britain ' and ' League Of Gentlemen ' , went the cry , why would anyone by interested in two old men doing corny jokes from behind desks ? But the show astonished television executives by pulling in eight million viewers a week , a far better rating than those achieved by many modern shows . The reason was simple - Corbett and Barker were back , and doing what they were best at - interacting with one another . The sketches were shown intact ( although ' The Phantom Raspberry Blower Of Old London Town ' had a couple of instalments removed ) , and good many of them still were . Predictably , a couple of my favourites weren't included , such as ' The Bogle Of Bog Fell ' , ' The Sky At Night ' and ' Star Trek ' , but that was to be expected . They saved the best until last - ' Four Candles ' - and Ronnie Barker told us how unhappy he was with the pay-off , and went on to suggest an alternative . He was in poor health at the time of recording , but he and Corbett were still able to generate a good few laughs after all these years . Had he lived a bit longer , its more than likely we would have gotten another run of ' Sketchbook ' . On 25th December 2005 , a Christmas edition was transmitted posthumously - Barker having died two months before - and it was heartbreaking to see him wish viewers a Merry Christmas , knowing he was not around to enjoy it himself .
The Two Davids	The Tardis lands in Victorian London . It is Christmas . Hearing someone call his name , the Doctor rushes off , to find a young woman cowering in terror from something behind a locked door . A man in Dickensian clothes appears , announces himself as the Doctor , and takes charge of the situation . . . . Another Christmas , another ' Dr . Who ' Christmas Special . I'll start this review by stating what I did not like about this one . Firstly , the Cybershades were absolutely awful , reminiscent of the sticky tape and cardboard monsters of the classic series . It was impossible to be unnerved by creatures that looked exactly like what they were - blokes in gorilla suits wearing coal scuttles . Worse , there was no need for them to be there . Cybermats should have been used instead . Secondly , the mystery of the ' next Doctor ' was unnecessarily protracted . All the Doctor had to do was to whip out a stethoscope and listen to Lake's heart ( apparently such a scene was filmed but deleted from the finished broadcast ) to see if he was a Time Lord . Now we know David Morrissey will not be the eleventh Doctor - thank heavens for that . Colin Baker was wrong when he said the role of the Doctor was ' actor proof ' . Morrissey would have been an absolute disaster as a ' real ' Doctor . He was good as ' Jackson Lake ' in his scenes with Tennant though . Loved his ' sonic screwdriver ' ! The Cybermen seemed a bit wasted , getting to do little more than march about and look menacing . The real villainy came from sexy Dervla Kirwan as ' Miss Hartigan ' , easily the best female villain in the show's long history . She had joined forces with the Cybermen to help them construct a ' Cyber King ' , a giant-sized version who proceeded to stamp Godzilla-like on poor old London Town . Why did the Cybermen need children to work in their factory ? Surely adults could have done the job more efficiently . Watching this made me even more sorry that Tennant is leaving next year . He did wonders with what was basically an average script . It is going to be hard for whoever replaces him . An unpopular new Doctor could spell the show's end in 2010 . I hope not . The appearance of the earlier Doctors was nice , and there were some good jokes , but overall this was the weakest of the ' Dr . Who ' Christmas Specials , a damp squib after last year's hugely enjoyable ' Voyage Of The Damned ' . But ' The Next Doctor ' got eleven million viewers , overtaking ' Eastenders ' , so I'm clearly in a minority here .
Ken Archer Vs . The World	As the ' 80's arrived , and alternative comedy got into full swing , a number of sitcoms appeared that were darker than the chirpy fare served up by the B . B . C . and I . T . V . in the ' 70's . Carla Lane gave us ' I Woke Up One Morning ' , a powerful , bleak show about men struggling to beat alcoholism , ' Affairs Of The Heart ' starred Derek Fowlds as a man learning to cope with life following a heart attack , ' Dead Ernest ' was a ( not very ) good attempt at black comedy from the writers of ' Brass ' , in which Andrew Sachs ' character died and went to Heaven but refused to accept the situation . Beating them all to the punch was ' Time Of My Life ' , broadcast in early 1980 , written by Jim Eldridge , and directed by Martin Shardlow , who also helmed the first series of ' Only Fools & Horses ' and ' The Black Adder ' . Mark Kingston plays ' Ken Archer ' , 49 years old , gainfully employed by the same company for 33 years , and happily married to 23 years to Joan ( Amanda Barrie ) . One day , he is summoned to the office of his boss . " I don't quite know how to break this to you . You how hard it is to break bad news , such as you've only got two weeks to live , or you're pregnant , or you've been fired ? " . The truth dawns on Ken . " I've been fired ? " . His boss smiles . " Good man , I knew you'd spot it ! " . Things get worse . He goes home and the first thing Joan says as he opens the front door is : " Ken , I want a divorce ! " . It turns out she has been conducting a secret affair with her son's best friend Stephen , 20 years younger than her husband and with a face that - according to Ken - resembles King Kong's ! " So that explains those headaches you've been getting every night for the past few weeks ! " , shouts Ken : " Stephen's been getting you . All I've been getting is Patrick Moore and the Epilogue ! " . These events are the prelude to a series of catastrophes to befall our luckless hero . Over the next five weeks , he is mugged , taken hostage , forced to earn a living as a street busker , see his cheques bounce , is arrested , declared insane and sent to an asylum . Even his attempt at suicide comes to nothing . Nothing goes right for the guy . All this was a bit strong for a prime-time B . B . C . - 1 slot . Perhaps it would have looked more at home on B . B . C . - 2 amongst the likes of ' Butterflies ' and ' Roger Doesn't Live Here Anymore ' ( written by John Fortune and starring Jonathan Pryce ) . It drew complaints from viewers who felt we were being invited to laugh at a man in serious trouble , but Jim Eldridge pointed out that its main theme was survival against the odds , one man staying intact despite his difficulties . Magnificent performance by Mark Kingston as ' Ken ' , almost Hancockian in fact ( the show was produced by the legendary Dennis Main Wilson ) . Like Anthony Aloysius St . John Hancock , Ken Archer becomes convinced the world hates him , and so he fights back using the one weapon he has - sarcastic wit . Eldridge gave him some cracking one-liners . For example , in the opening episode , Ken's secretary ( Avril Angers ) says : " My husband is very fond of the tea the chimps drink ! " and Ken replies : " Judging from those pictures I've seen of him , I'm not surprised ! " . In another , Ken is with an elderly couple who are watching ' Pebble Mill At One ' ( a long-gone B . B . C . - 1 daytime show ) featuring Kenny Ball & His Jazzmen . The old man ( Leslie Dwyer ) is slightly hard of hearing . " Look its Kenny Balls ! " . " No , dear ! " , replies his wife , " Its Ball ! " . " Eh ? " . " Ball , dear . He's only got the one . " . " What ? " . The wife raises her voice : " I said he's only got the one ball ! " . The old man looks shocked . " Has he ? I didn't know that ? Poor man ! " . Victor Spinetti popped up in one episode as an Italian waiter convinced that Ken fancied him . " He peeench my bum ! " . Perhaps it was right to end this after only one run . After all , how many tragedies can one man endure in a short space of time ? But it was a good laugh , and its status as a forgotten show is - in my view - wholly undeserved .
Clive's Revels	A aircraft vanishes over an area of the Pacific known as ' Demon's Triangle ' . Amongst the passengers is U . N . I . T . agent Kelly , carrying in her signet ring a chip containing stolen U . S . defence plans . Sloane and Torque fly out to an island at the heart of the mysterious area where planes and ships disappear without trace . Kelly is alive , but in the clutches of the sinister Morgan Lancaster , descendant of the famed pirate Sir Henry Morgan . Lancaster has at his disposal a sonic device capable of ' snatching ' planes out of mid-air . He intends using it to hijack the latest American warplane , and sell it to KARTEL . Written by Jimmy Sangster , scriptwriter of the Bulldog Drummond spy caper ' Deadlier Than The Male ' and author of the ' Touchfeather ' novels , this is a fun episode , enlivened by Clive Revill's arch villain . Revill had appeared in the pilot ' Death Ray 2000 ' , though as a different character . Nice to see the underused Karen Purcill getting a bigger than average role .
" I think he's going to dust us ! "	Sloane goes to Santa Maria , Brazil , in response to a message from U . N . I . T . agent Jacobsen . He finds the man's corpse in a deserted laboratory . A sole locust provides the only clue . Suddenly , gun men appear . Sloane flees . As he drives off , more gun men block the road and prepare to open fire . Swerving , the car goes straight into the river . The would-be killers think Sloane has flipped and laugh . But a moment later , the car emerges from the water and drives to safety up the other side of the riverbank . Sloane gets the last laugh . A farmer toiling in the fields is attacked by a horde of hungry locusts . They are hybrids , produced as a result of mating ordinary bugs with a somewhat more malign strain known as The Devil's Locust . Anyone unlucky enough to be bitten by one dies within ten seconds . They are controlled by KARTEL agent Penelope Chandler , using an electronic device that can simulate the bug's mating call . Sloane goes to Whitley University to meet Dr . Chris Bishop ( Barbara Rucker ) , the country's number one entomologist and wouldn't you know it , a very attractive woman . Her mentor , Dr . Rand , was recently killed in a plane crash . Or so the world believes . In fact , he is alive and well and in the employ of Chandler , who intends to use the locusts to create famine by destroying America's wheat and grain supplies . . . One of the more outrageous episodes in the series , ' Lady Bug ' is also tremendous fun . In a nod to Hitchcock's ' North By Northwest ' , Sloane is attacked by a crop dusting plane , though the resolution is somewhat different . He survives by breathing air from one of the tyres of a tractor . Edie Adams is cast as ' Chandler ' , a lady with a fondness for chocolates as well as surrounding herself with brawny young men in swimming trunks . I have to say I found her more cute than menacing . Jessica Walter would have better suited the role . The business with the Director and Kelly's umbrella gun looks as though the producer realised they were under running and needed to pad the episode out a bit . Sloane's gadgets - where to begin ? Chased by KARTEL men , our hero lobs a dollar in their direction , exclaiming : " Keep the change ! " . The coin then emits an incapacitatory gas . Sloane's amphibious car was obviously inspired by Roger Moore's in ' The Spy Who Loved Me ' . Whether it also fires rockets we can only guess at . Kelly gives Sloane a tape recorder concealed in a watch . He also has a device for electrifying a door handle ( giving him time to search a room ) and a fake bunch of keys that , when touched , gives a nasty shock . At the end , he is seen chatting to the Director on a video screen inside a cigarette case . No wonder I like this episode ! When the locusts attack Chandler's plane at the end , some appear to have grown to giant-size . Either the hybrid's D . N . A . was unstable or else there was dodgy process photography here . I suspect the latter was the case . Pity . A possible follow-up in which gargantuan locusts attacked major cities would have been great !
" There's Only One Way To Find Out . . . Fight ! "	Once a rich source of popular television comedy , I . T . V . seems to have thrown in the towel . The jewel in its crown in recent years has been ' Harry Hill's T . V . Burp ' in which the eccentrically attired Mr . Hill pokes fun at the week's television . He would not be the first person to do this ; the B . B . C . ' s ' Saturday Night Clive ' had Clive James up to the same kind of mischief in the early ' 90's . Harry Hill is the nearest we have right now to a Spike Milligan or a Kenny Everett in that he also uses surrealism as the basis for his humour . Of course he is helped by the sad fact that British television in the Noughties is a bad joke , and thus a perfect target for comedy . Try watching a soap opera with the sound off ( the grimaces and leers of the cast are hilarious ) and you'll see what I mean ! Quiz shows and documentaries also come in for similar ribbing . One of my favourite moments was when Harry did ' If . . . British television continues to get worse ' in which he led an assault force against the television studios where much of the pap we have to endure is made . There's an unmistakable anger lurking behind the gags . Rather than get mad , Harry has decided to get even . He has fashioned a good show simply by laughing at the bad ones .
Sloane Hits The Right Note !	Sloane is on the trail of a Japanese mercenary called Tiger Person , who has recently joined a private army . After catching the secret agent having a drink with his girlfriend , Tiger Person attacks him , but Sloane retaliates in force , so the soldier flees from the scene . Sloane and Torque give chase but before they can capture him , he takes a drug designed to wipe out his memory . Around the same time , a safe belonging to a high-ranking U . S . General is broken into and a dossier stolen . Actually , the safe has been made to crumble to dust , courtesy of a new device that causes instant metal fatigue and which resembles a big tuning fork . The top expert in the country on such matters is one Carl Updike . Sloane goes to his office , only to find him unavailable . Before he leaves he plants a bugging device . Sloane overhears a worried Alice Baker - Updike's secretary - contacting a man over the phone . He tells her to go to a secret rendezvous with his helicopter . She does so , but the chopper pilot tries to shoot her . She is saved by the unexpected intervention of Sloane . The chopper is traced to a company used as a front by one General William P . McEvoy , known to all and sundry as ' Wild Bill ' . Booted out of the U . S . army for playing ' nuclear chicken ' ( I have no idea what that means either ) , he has joined forces with KARTEL and intends to use the metal debilitator to assist in the theft of an atom bomb from a research centre in Nevada . . . One of two ' Sloane ' episodes penned by Dick Nelson , whose other writing credits include ' It Takes A Thief ' and ' The Man From U . N . C . L . E . ' . He had previously been an actor , and played ' Dan Forrester ' in a Laurel & Hardy picture called ' Great Guns ' . Geoffrey Lewis , who plays ' McEvoy ' , appeared as a THRUSH agent in ' The Return Of The Man From U . N . C . L . E : The Fifteen Years Later Affair ' T . V . movie in 1983 . Don Bagley's incidental music comes perilously close to echoing Lalo Schrfrin's ' The Plot ' , used in countless ' Mission : Impossible ' episodes . The theme of renegade soldiers was also explored in ' The New Avengers ' episode ' Dirtier By The Dozen ' in 1976 , while the metal debilitator may or may not have been inspired by the spray used to destroy wood in ' The Avengers ' episode ' The Rotters ' ( 1968 ) . Poor Torque has his cybernetic hand disintegrated at one point . Sloane's gadgets - a fishing rod which doubles as a gun , and a cigar containing a chemical designed to render guns ( and bombs ) ineffective . This episode must have had quite a tidy budget , what with a helicopter and a tank popping into the storyline . Denise DuBarry , cast as the wonderfully named ' Corporal Comfort ' , looks good even in army denims .
" Robert's found out ! "	Picture the scene : you are sitting alone on a park bench when a woman sits down , and exclaims breathlessly : " Robert's found out ! " . What could she possibly mean ? Well , it would depend on who the woman was , who Robert was , and who you were . The possibilities are varied . This episode of ' The Galton & Simpson Playhouse ' is unique in that it consists of two short stories , both taking the above premise as a starting point . In the first , The Man ( John Bird ) and The Woman ( Frances De la Tour ) are having an adulterous affair , when her husband Robert finds out . It is especially embarrassing for The Man because he happens to be Chairman of The Marriage Guidance Council . The couple discuss what they intend to do about it . In the second , The Man and The Woman are parents of a boy called Robert who has discovered the facts of life a few years too early through from one of his school-friends . Bird and De La Tour are the main performers here , although that lovely frog-faced actor Norman Chappell pops up briefly . As one would reasonably expect , they both turn in fine performances . The owes a great debt to ' Lunch In The Park ' which was a ' Comedy Playhouse ' , broadcast on / 61 , starring Stanley Baxter and Daphne Anderson ( remade in 1997 starring Paul Merton and Josie Lawrence ) . The humour comes from the dialogue and the characters . Galton and Simpson were at their best writing two-handers , as ' Steptoe & Son ' proved . I personally thought the first story worked better than the second ( though the latter has a wonderful moment where The Man confesses to belonging to The Dennis The Menace Fan Club ! ) . It is not one of the more outstanding episodes of this collection though , for the simple reason that the others are funnier . Look upon this then as an interesting and unusual comedy experiment . Funniest moment - in Variation No . 1 , The Man Asks The Woman who it was who told Robert about their affair . " A clerk at the hotel ! " , she replies . " How did he know who you were ? Had you been there before ? " . " No " , says The Woman : " He's my brother-in-law ! " .
Briers Fancies A Bit Of The Good Life	In 1973 , Galton and Simpson wrote ' Casanova 73 ' for the B . B . C . This sitcom starred the great Leslie Phillips as ' Henry Newhouse ' , an advertising executive whom , despite being happily married to ' Carol ' ( Jan Holden ) has sex on the brain ( and one or two other body parts as well ) . The show detailed his numerous ( unsuccessful ) attempts to get ' with it ' , and become part of what he thought to be ' the permissive society ' . It was a very rude show for its time , and one person unamused by it was Mrs . Mary Whitehouse , who denounced it as ' filth ' . Lots of viewers ( mostly women ) were aghast at its sexism , and their complaints got it moved from its Thursday evening peak-time slot to a late-night one on Mondays , where it was quietly forgotten . But Ray and Alan had one script left over and , not wishing to waste it , turned it into a vehicle for Richard Briers ( then starring in the B . B . C . ' s ' The Good Life ' ) , shown as the second episode of ' The Galton & Simpson Playhouse ' . Henry Fairlane , middle-aged sales executive , has been happily married for ten years but is undergoing a mid-life crisis and fancying everything in the office in lipstick and a skirt . A colleague named Roger Grisham ( Henry McGee ) holds wife swapping parties every Friday , and invites him provided he bring along his wife as she is is his ' entrance fee ' . Henry is elated , but there is a problem . His wife is a right prude . So he tells her they are going to a friend's house-warming party instead . But events conspire to ensure that Henry's evening does not swing quite as planned . En route , he loses his wife , and turns up at the party all alone . . . When ' The Sun ' newspaper heard about this , it called for I . T . V . not to show it ! Yes , I know that's sounds incredible , but its true ! The puritanical article referred back to ' Casanova 73 ' almost as though it were ' Last Tango In Paris ' . Anyway , the programme was screened as planned , and if membership levels of wife-swapping clubs soared as a result it went unreported . Apart from the suggestion that Henry's wife may have had slept with up to four men that night ( blimey ! ) , it is fairly tame . You get more smut now on ' Big Brother ' . I was more shocked to see McGee playing what would today be termed a ' sex addict ' . Not the same man who was ' Mummy ' in the Sugar Puffs ' Honey Monster ' adverts , surely ? Linda Hayden , seen briefly as a secretary , appeared in two of Robin Askwith's ' Confessions ' sex romps , but is disappointingly fully clothed here throughout . Taken in the spirit in which it was intended - as a spoof of ' the permissive society ' - it is quite good fun . Funniest moment - Henry pounding on the door of Roger's flat . An elderly neighbour ( John Sharp ) tells him to be quiet . Henry explains he was trying to get in to the party . The man says he has been trying to do likewise for five years . We see why he was not accepted when his ugly wife ( PeggyAnn Clifford ) urges him to come back inside !
Whither Deirdre ?	The great Roy Kinnear stars as ' Richard Burton ' . No , not the Welsh film star who died in 1984 , but an airline pilot who goes home after a three-day flight only to find that his wife Deirdre has left him . He goes to pieces . He phones her mother Linda ( Fanny Carby ) , but is treated with contempt , and so begins calling other old friends in a futile search for solace . Everyone gives him the cold shoulder . When he gives his name to a disc jockey ( Alan Freeman ) , he is thought to be a time waster . Then Richard receives an unexpected call from one of Deirdre's old boyfriends ( John Clive ) . . . They say the best comedy often comes from tragedy . Well , this is not great as such but amusing all the same , thanks to Kinnear and the superb supporting cast . Claire Faulconbridge is seen briefly as a Young Conservative , who makes the mistake of knocking on Burton's front door ( he tells her and her colleague to ' Get Stuffed ! ' . I know how he feels ! ) . The actress had co-starred with Kinnear the year before in the sketch show ' N . U . T . S . ' which also featured Chris Emmett , Frederick Jaeger , Dave Evans , and Barry Took . Following a stint on ' Crossroads ' , she vanished seemingly into oblivion . Where are you now , Claire ? John Clive was the voice of John Lennon in the Beatles ' animated feature film ' Yellow Submarine ' , and later became a bestselling novelist . Funniest moment - Richard trying to gas himself in an oven , only to succeed in setting light to the cushion . He forgot that they upgraded to electric only the week before ! I want to end this review by stating what a pleasure it has been to see this series again after so many years . It was also sad because many of its stars are no longer with us . Did I hear a lone voice saying ' it has not aged very well ? ' . How well did you expect it to age ? Did you think Leonard Rossiter would be using a mobile phone in ' I Tell You Its Burt Reynolds ' ? Or expect to hear Arthur Lowe in ' Car Along The Pass ' grumbling about the credit crunch ? Go and have a lie down , mush .
Sci-Fi With A Positive Message	' The Martian Chronicles ' came out when U . S . T . V . sci-fi was reaping the ' Star Wars ' dividend with ' Battlestar Galactica ' and ' Buck Rogers ' . Based on the Ray Bradbury novel , it took a completely different tack , telling of the exploration and colonisation of Mars . Much of the book's poetry was lost in Richard Matheson's clumsy adaptation , but enough remained to make it rather more interesting than the latest skirmish with the Cylons or Draconians . In fact its almost on a par with the original ' Outer Limits ' . Rock Hudson starred as ' Colonel John Wilder ' , and his permanent look of horror as American culture swamped the planet was the best thing about his performance . ' Chronicles ' shouldn't be judged on the basis of its special effects , which is just as well , seeing as they're mostly terrible . However , the ' David Lustig ' sequence in Part Two , the hilarious Christopher Connelly segment and moving performance by Barry Morse in Part Three , make this an above average sci-fi series . Great music too !
Charades On Television	A sketch in ' Not The Nine O'Clock News ' had an out-of-work actor ( Griff Rhys Jones ) receiving bad news in the post . " Dear Sir " , it said : " We would like you to appear on ' Give Us A Clue ' . " . So horrified was the poor guy that he shot himself . What can one say about ' Give Us A Clue ' ? This Thames panel game was basically charades on television , with two teams of celebrities ( three men versus three women ) competing against one another to see who could come up with the outrageous mimes . It got going in 1978 , with Michael Aspel ( later Parkinson ) as host , Una Stubbs ( later Liza Goddard ) as one team captain , with a saluting Lionel Blair as the other ( my late father detested Blair with a vengeance , and hurled insults at the screen whenever he was on . ' Effeminate ' being a cleaned up version of his most frequently used one . My mother once pointed out that Lionel had fathered children , to which Dad sneeringly responded : " They're probably not his ! " . Ah , that man's rapier-like wit is sorely missed ) . Amongst the good sports ( or sad losers , depending on your view ) were Paul Henry ( ' Benny ' from ' Crossroads ' ) , Jon Pertwee , Joyce Blair ( Lionel's sister ) , Madelaine Smith , Michael Barrymore ( in the days when he was funny ) , Billy Dainty , Bernie Winters , Honor Blackman , Francoise Pascal , Gabrielle Drake , Roy Kinnear , Brian Marshall ( they were probably short of people that week ) , Alfred Marks , and Harry H . Corbett . The early shows included members of the public as team members . I do not know where they got these poor sods from , but they managed to be fairly useless . A man made a right berk of himself one night miming his own name . He had read the wrong side of his card ! Warren Mitchell went on once , and , slipping into his ' Alf Garnett ' persona , rebuked Una ( she had a charming habit of sticking her bottom in the air when miming - no wonder I loved the show ! ) in no uncertain terms . When Warren read the title of his next mime , the studio ( those privileged to see what it was ) erupted in laughter . It was ' Mind Your Language ' ! On a sadder note , the great Marty Feldman made one of his last television appearances on this show . Recently returned from the States , ( following his sacking by Universal studios ) , he looked haggard ( he sported a beard ) and unwell . Though Lionel introduced him as ' that genius of comedy ' , Marty's heart was just not in the game . He could barely raise a smile . It was sad to see him in such a dreadful state . One of the early shows featured Libby Morris ( forgotten now , but a very funny lady in her day ) trying to mime International Rugby League . I cannot do justice to her performance , but the harder she worked at it the more confused the team got . When she finished I had tears rolling down my face . Another wonderful performance came from the tough guy-actor George Sewell , who had to do ' The Virgin Soldiers ' . He got ' soldiers ' right , but just how do you convey virginity in mime ? He had a good go though , putting his lips to his fingers to denote innocence . ' Clue ' ran for years , surviving ( as previously pointed out ) a change of host and team captain . An attempt by the B . B . C . to revive it some years back as an early morning show did not work out . The early editions boasted a catchy but familiar sounding theme tune by the talented Alan Hawkshaw . I say familiar because it was the same as the B . B . C . ' s children's show ' Grange Hill ' ! I never found out how it came to be used on two shows broadcast at the same time on different channels . Thames later replaced it with an original composition by the equally talented Denis King .
" Joan ! The subject is closed ! "	I think its sad that this show has been so misunderstood . People who weren't even alive in the ' 70's will tell you with absolute authority that it was ' racist ' and ' should never be shown again ' . Yet how many of them have actually seen an episode ? True , ' Love Thy Neighbour ' was about a racist - Eddie Booth - but it was no more an endorsement of his ridiculous views than ' Fawlty Towers ' a televisual guidebook on hotel management . Jack Smethurst was superb as Booth , a walking contradiction of a man who purports to be socialistic , yet his attitudes are pure Enoch Powell . I used to live in a neighbourhood where there were a lot of West Indian families , and you should have heard the laughter coming out of these houses when this show was on . Before condemning it outright , critics should take the trouble to watch it and see who comes out on top every week . It certainly isn't Eddie . If anyone was foolish enough to laugh along with him , that was their fault , not the show's .
" Are Youse Paying This Bill ? "	Barbara has got the day off work , and plans to spend it at home looking after her cat ' Mr . Kitty-Kins ' . Billy takes her out for a meal in his office lunch break so he can ply her with wine , with a view to getting her in the sack . When he goes to pay , he finds he has left his wallet at home . With no money to pay for the meal , he tries breaking into Barbara's handbag but she hasn't brought it with her . What does Billy do now ? The ultimate nightmare or what ? You're in a restaurant with your best girl and cannot afford to even tip the waiter , much less pay the bill . The waiter here is played by the marvellous Bill Pertwee of ' Dad's Army ' fame ; he looks like Hitler but speaks in a Brummie accent . How the dilemma is resolved is fairly predictable , with Billy climbing out of the window of the men's toilet and dashing off home . Funniest moment ? The contrast between Billy's real predicament and the fantasy sequences where he imagines himself and Barbara in a posh Italian restaurant , replete with gypsy fiddlers . Sally Watts is unrecognisable as a sexier than usual Barbara .
" If there were any bullets in this rifle , I'd shoot myself ! "	It is C-Flight's third day at R . A . F . Skelton , and everyone is thoroughly browned off with Corporal Marsh , who makes Captain Bligh from ' Mutiny On The Bounty ' seem like ' Captain Birdseye ' . After mopping the latrine , the lads report to Squadron Leader Baker for their medical . Jakey intends failing his by pretending to be hard of hearing , and has even swallowed cotton wool so it will show up on his chest X-rays , but Baker knows what he is up to . Smith is passed fit for duty . Marsh's hostility towards Leckie increases to the point where the young Scot becomes depressed , even more so when subjected to Lilley's chatter about God . When he disappears , and bullets go missing from the Armoury , the others fear the worst . Marsh is horrified too as the suicide of a conscript will almost certainly cause him to lose his stripes . . . Another good episode . Brian Pettifer's ' Leckie ' is promoted to centre stage . We even get to find out that his first name is Bruce . It is good to see the actor is still around , his most recent T . V . appearance was as ' Andra ' in the ' Rab C . Nesbitt ' special ' Clean ' . It is of course in keeping with Marsh's character that he should be prejudiced against Scots , had Leckie been Welsh or Irish the results would probably have been the same . John D . Collins plays ' Squadron Leader Baker ' , who examines Jakey with the jaded air of someone wise to all the dodges . It is a pity that he is best known to viewers as one of the fugitive air-men from ' Allo , Allo ' , to which his main contribution was ' Hallo ! ' . His inept assistant ' Rankin ' is that marvellously lugubrious actor Derek Deadman , a . k . a . ' Ringo ' from ' Never The Twain ' . Funniest moment - Marsh attempting to explain Leckie's suicide to an officer , unaware that the very man is standing behind him !
The Second Day	Its C-Flight's second day at R . A . F . Skelton - the conscripts are made to rise at the ungodly hour of five-thirty , and enter a freezing cold washroom . Finding a flick-knife in Smith's pocket , Marsh threatens to put him on a charge . Smith claims it is his razor , and to prove his point shaves with it , resulting in nicks galore . Smith sells the Corporal a packet of lace hankies , which he gives to wife Alice . Following breakfast , the lads are packed off to Supply Stores to collect their kits . Returning to their quarters , Ken loses his , and frantically searches for it . It has been returned to Supply Stores , but L . A . C . Hodder refuses to hand it back - he is far more interested in girlfriend June . A furious Marsh demands a new kit for Ken . While Hodder packs one , Marsh finds a lace hankie on the floor , and wrongly assumes Alice is being unfaithful . . . A terrific episode , one that gives Marsh a chance to show a little humanity ( he sticks up for Ken when he loses his kit ) . Ken's display of concern for Marsh's wellbeing is both believable and touching . The late Clive Hornby , future ' Jack Sugden ' of the soap ' Emmerdale ' , appears as ' L . A . C . Hodder ' . Note the excited reaction of the studio audience when Ken catches sight of the R . A . F . Regiment quarters . Obviously there were one or two ex-R . A . F . conscripts with long memories present . We will see more of the drunken , violent Regiment in future episodes . Funniest moment - Marsh dispensing Lilley's kit . I cannot do justice to it here , but it is a wonderful scene and rightly earns Tony Selby applause .
I'm All Right , Stan !	Stan and Jack are horrified to learn of the imposition of strict new rules concerning the use of the canteen , and that one of the staff - Elsie - is to be sacked . Jack calls an official strike . On hearing he is to receive an generous productivity bonus , however , Jack tells everyone to go back to work . Angered by his U-Turn , Stan resolves to continue the strike single-handed - without union backing . As the night approaches , poor Stan is alone in the cab of his bus . But not quite as alone as he thinks , as Blakey has stayed behind to try and lure him out . . . As I've noted elsewhere in other reviews , trade unions were a familiar target in 70's sitcoms , often caricatured as cold , ruthless entities , run by small men with Hitler complexes who called for strikes whenever there was a football match on telly . This was because a lot of those shows were penned by Tory sympathisers , keen to play up the unpopularity of unions for all it was worth . The Boulting Brothers ' classic ' I'm All Right Jack ' in 1959 was widely credited with securing a Tory election victory the following year . This episode features surprisingly little union bashing compared to ' Love Thy Neighbour ' , ' The Good Life ' , and the thankfully forgotten ' Up The Workers ' ( which starred Lance Percival ) , concentrating more on Stan's one-man protest . Even so Jack is portrayed here as hard-hearted and callous , ending the strike as soon as he is promised a bonus , reinstating it the moment it is safely in his pocket . Stan is the only one in the depot with any real principles , being prepared to risk his job so that Elsie can stay . Perhaps the staff should have made him ' Shop Steward ' instead . Funniest moment - a lengthy scene in the middle of the story where Stan attempts to wallpaper the kitchen ceiling , and ropes Olive , Arthur and Mum in . The result ? A right old mess as you'd expect .
You've Met Dracula , Now Meet The Mummy !	Blakey's mother moves into the Butler household . She's only supposed to be there for two days , but proves reluctant to leave . Mrs . Blake is domineering , bad-tempered and vain . She has Mrs . Butler cooking her breakfast at 8 . 30 a . m . , polishing her shoes , taking her newspapers , and generally treats her like a dogsbody . Mum is frightened to throw her out for fear of offending Blakey . Matters come to a head at the bingo hall . Winning close to 100 , Mrs . Blake refuses to share the money , even though Mum paid for the winning ticket . . . Written by George Layton and Jonathan Lynn . Pat Nye's ' Mrs . Blake ' is a truly unpleasant woman , who treats her son as though he's still only four years old . One can easily see where Blakey gets his dictatorial qualities from . Doris Hare is magnificent in this episode , her timidity finally breaking through and turning into raw anger . Funniest moment - Olive relaying Mrs . Blake's complaint about her breakfast . OLIVE : She says it was only supposed to be a three-minute egg . MUM : Tell her it was only supposed to be a two-day visit !
Sheila's ( and Peter's ) Wheels !	In 1978 , the David Jason sitcom ' A Sharp Intake Of Breath ' confounded critics by topping the ratings , overtaking ' Coronation Street ' . In all honesty , the first run was the weakest , boasting a pair of unfunny episodes by Kenneth Cope and Leslie Duxbury alongside the much-better Ronnie Taylor ones . When it returned one year later , Jason said in an interview : " We've gotten together with our writer and tightened up the character of Peter Barnes . " . He was right . The second run was more consistent ( even though it was eclipsed by another returning programme , the start of the second season of ' Fawlty Towers ' on B . B . C . - 2 ) , and its popularity continued . I wrote in my diary at the time : " ' A Sharp Intake ' is definitely on the uptake ! " . The third season was curtailed due to Taylor's death . Rather than end the programme outright , A . T . V . hired a new writer - Vince Powell , responsible for hit sitcoms ' George & The Dragon ' , ' Love Thy Neighbour ' , and ' Mind Your Language ' . Unfortunately , his first script was a reworking of a ' Bless This House ' plot , entitled ' A Rolls By Any Other Name ' . In that Sid Abbott ( Sid James ) is entrusted with his boss ' new car , only to be arrested during a student protest ( in which daughter Sally has taken part ) . Powell must have assumed that ' House ' was never going to be seen again , hence it was okay for him to reuse the script ( ironically , it is ' Breath ' which is no longer seen by the public , thanks to Jason ) . In fairness , ' Wheels ' works well as a ' Breath ' script - there is a funny scene in a police station with Barnes trying to bribe a sergeant , but the shift in style was noticeable . Peter's whistling while playfully touching Sheila's bottom would later be adopted by Del Boy ( on meeting Marlene ) in ' Only Fools & Horses ' . A major blow to the fourth series was the departure of Richard Wilson . The actor had played authority figures in every episode up until then , and the show was just not the same without him . Funniest moment - Peter is handcuffed to the police sergeant . When the phone rings , he moves to answer it - and in so doing spills tea all over the other man .
" Here comes Rumbletum ! "	Stan and Jack are amused when Blakey gets an attack of ' gutsache ' , and has to see the new depot Nurse . Blakey is given some foul looking medicine ( he spills most of it down his uniform ) . Mary , young , blonde and Scottish , is looking for somewhere to live . Stan offers to put her up in his mother's front parlour . No sooner has Mary got her feet under the table than Arthur begins openly flirting with her . He even takes her to a movie . When he fails to kiss her goodnight properly , she looks upset . Things come to a head when Stan , while driving out of the depot , spots Mary chatting to Arthur , and brakes so hard he causes Blakey to get messed up all over again . . . A sweet little episode this , notable mainly for the appearance of Hal Dyer ( Michael Robbins ' real-life wife ) as the prim and proper Mary . For a while it looks as though Mary might have taken a shine to Arthur , but she finally admits to not wanting to get involved with a married man , and leaves the Butler household . Dyer would appear as ' Mrs . Coombs ' in ' Holiday On The Buses ' . Funnily enough , Blakey fell for a nurse in that film ( played by Kate Williams ) . Must be those uniforms they wear . Funniest moment - at the dinner table , Olive tries to mimic Mary's habit of eating soup with her little finger cocked !
" You silly bitch ! "	Peter is trying to teach Sheila to drive . She damages the car and he has to call the local garage . A pair of mechanics ( Alun Armstrong and Malcolm Storry ) turn up , take one look at the vehicle , and pronounce it as being not worthy of repair . When Peter calls at the garage days later to collect the car , he has to deal with Mr . Myers ( Richard Wilson ) who is completely unhelpful . Called away to deal with another problem , Myers leaves Peter to answer the phone - an irate customer venting his spleen . The car back on the road again , he resumes his wife's learning , but she is utterly hopeless and backs into an articulated lorry . When he gets out to deal with the angry driver ( the term ' road rage ' had not been coined then , but it existed believe you me ) , she drives off , forcing him to give chase on foot . . . The second episode of ' Breath ' will ring a bell with anyone who's been ripped off by garages ( I used to work in one ) , staffed by shysters who exploit their customers ' general ignorance of motor cars . The guy I was unlucky enough to have as my boss once overcharged a customer simply out of contempt for the make of car he was driving ! At the end , when Peter revisits the garage , Mr . Myers tries to flog him a new vehicle . Typical ! As ' Victor Meldrew ' of ' One Foot In The Grave ' , Richard Wilson would experience similar problems with mechanics . Interesting to compare this with another ' lost ' David Jason sitcom - ' The Top Secret Life Of Edgar Briggs ' . Briggs only reacted to events , here Barnes was responsible for them . Funniest moment - cleaning the windscreen , Sheila complains of one impossible-to-shift speck of dirt . Peter points out it is the other side of the tax disc !
" The Only Way I Can Stay Alive Is To Stay Dead ! "	' The Hanged Man ' , an eight-part drama series from Yorkshire Television , played like a British version of the American thriller ' Point Blank ! ' . The late Colin Blakely played ' Lew Burnett ' , owner of a construction empire he had built up from nothing . The story begins with Burnett - wearing a yellow hard-hat and council workman's jacket - driving a dump-truck along clifftops when , suddenly , the brakes fail , causing him to lose control and plunge into the sea . He survives with minor injuries , but now is seriously worried . This is the third such ' accident ' to befall him in recent weeks . Who wants to kill him ? In a voice over ( which would be repeated each week ) , he says : " The only way I can stay alive is to stay dead . So I can find out who's trying to kill me . And why . " . With the world believing him to have perished , Burnett is free to move like a wraith through the criminal underworld , looking back on his past life in a desperate gamble to find who hated him enough to destroy him . He questions suspects and , when necessary , gets rough with them . One was ' Turtle ' , a small-time crook played by John F . Landry , who got his own show a few years later - ' Turtle's Progress ' . All came well in the final episode of ' The Hanged Man ' with Burnett finally discovering the identity of his would-be killer . It was written by Edward Ward , a scriptwriter of some considerable reputation with episodes of ' Man In A Suitcase ' and ' The Main Chance ' ( starring John Stride ) to his credit . There was a book based on the show , and a long-playing record . In common with a lot of drama series of the period , it was a bit talky , but nevertheless gripping and well acted . It went out latish on Saturday nights , a good time for thriller shows . There was even a show called ' Thriller ' in that slot at one point . Dominating the show was the wonderful Blakely , giving a moody and intense performance as the revenge-seeking ' Burnett ' . My father though took a different view . After viewing the trailer , he said : " Its rubbish . All about a builder who gets involved in daring escapades ! " . Of course it was not like that . I would very much like to see it again . That's all I can remember about this . Except for one interesting bit of trivia - Alan Tew's powerful theme tune was later reused by ' The Two Ronnies ' as the intro to their ' Piggy Malone / Charley Farley ' serial ' Stop - You're Killing Me ' !
A Bore Is Starred !	A photographer visits Fenn Street School , and is so impressed by Potter he hires him to do the photo-shoot for a poster campaign for beer . Naturally the thought of fame goes straight to the school keeper's head . But the Chairman of the Board of Govenors informs him he will lose his job if he lends his face to commercial advertising . Potter is horrified - but what do about it ? A good Season 3 episode , this , giving Deryck Guyler the chance to play up Potter's obvious vanity . As soon as the photo-shoot is completed , he minces about the school in trendy sunglasses , and calls everyone ' sweetie ' , making him even more of a fool in 5C's eyes than he is already . Eventually , Hedges resolves the situation - by making Potter's picture impossible to identify . Funniest moment - Potter riding an escalator on the London Underground and seeing his face on every one of the advertisements !
70 Is A Dangerous Age , Adam	Simms is overjoyed to receive a postcard from Timothy Henshaw , a retired actor , now living at the Sweet Lawns ' home for senior citizens . With Adam in tow , he pays a visit , but Henshaw fails to recognise his friend , and doesn't even recall having sent the card ! Why are there corpses buried in the summerhouse ? Why are the residents virtual prisoners in the home ? And just what is Dr . Heason up to in his laboratory ? Dick Sharples is best remembered as the creator of the classic Thora Hird sitcom ' In Loving Memory ' , which might have made a suitable title for this dark tale . Dr . Heason is stealing the identities of dead old people to give to criminals , so that they will help him rob stately homes ! Some witty dialogue helps the improbable plot along , particularly the opening exchange between Adam and Simms . The valet's embarrassment at being pursued by the Hattie Jacques-like Matron is hilarious . No Georgina sorry to say , but glamour is provided by the voluptuous Cyd Hayman ( ' Nina ' of the wartime I . T . V . drama ' Manhunt ' ) cast as a nurse ! ' Dr . Heason ' is brought to life by Kenneth J . Warren , whom ' Steptoe & Son ' fans will recognise as ' Arthur ' from ' Cuckoo In The Nest ' . I wish I knew the name of the idiot who wiped this . I bet his first name was Stanley .
" My girlfriend likes to touch me a lot ! "	Whenever ' 70's sitcoms about race are discussed on retro programmes , one show that invariably gets mentioned first is ' Love Thy Neighbour ' , as though that's all there was back then . I shout at the screen : " What about ' The Fosters ' " ? The idea to do an all-black British sitcom came from Michael Grade of London Weekend Television . On a visit to the U . S . A . , he'd seen and enjoyed an episode of ' Good Times ' , and thought it would work well over here . It did . The late Norman Beaton played ' Sam Foster ' , the patriarchal head of a family living in a block of flats in London . He was married to the loving ' Pearl ' ( the late Isabelle Lucas ) , and the children were ' Sonny ' ( Lenny Henry ) who fancied himself as Britain's answer to Richard Rowntree , sister ' Shirley ' ( Sharon Rosita ) and little brother ' Benjamin ' ( Lawrie Mark ) . Carmen Munroe was their neighbour ' Vilma ' . The cast were great , particularly Beaton and Henry . Stand-up comic Lenny had won the talent show ' New Faces ' only a year or so before , and he fitted effortlessly into this sitcom , acquitting himself well opposite more experienced actors . No wonder he went on to greater success . Being a family show , ' The Fosters ' had to tone down the grittiness of the original . ' Good Times ' broke new ground with an episode in which one of the characters caught V . D . Nothing like that happened in ' The Fosters ' . Jon Watkins adapted the scripts , and later invented a few new ones . He had previously written for ' Bless This House ' , and it showed . I cannot recall the plots in any great detail , but do remember Irene Handl guested in one show as a dotty old lady who has used dog food to make shepherd's pie , which she then gives to The Fosters . Too embarrassed to refuse it , they sit down as a family - with the old lady present - to eat the pie . As he says grace , Sonny lets slip that he knows what she has done : " The Lord is my sheepdog , I shall not woof ! " . After only two seasons , L . W . T . pulled the pull on the show . Why is unclear to this day , as it was never out of the Top Ten ratings . Perhaps the characters were perceived to be a little too nice , the plots not daring enough . Who knows ? ' The Fosters ' , if nothing else , disapproves the myth that all ' 70's sitcoms were casually racist . If you're wondering about that summary , its a quote from the first episode , being Sonny's introductory line . He delivered it in such a cool , nonchalant style it won him a round of applause !
The One That Didn't Want To Get Away	There's a new arrival at Colditz Castle - Squadron Leader Tony Shaw ( Jeremy Kemp ) , a man whose flying exploits are legendary . When news spreads among the British prisoners , there is much excitement . The Germans keep him in solitary , fearing his reputation will inspire further escape attempts . But on Hauptmann Ullmann's ( Hans Meyer ) advice , Shaw is released . Lt . Simon Carter ( David McCallum ) offers to push Shaw to the top of the escape list , but the Squadron Leader refuses to go . Carter reminds him it is the duty of every British officer to try to escape , but he prefers instead to potter about the library , and join a class devoted to the study of Victorian literature , headed by Captain James Porteous ( Jim Norton ) . He too has had enough of the war , and will not co-operate with the escape committee . Major Mohn ( Anthony Valentine ) is deeply suspicious of Shaw , and suspects his visits to the library are not as innocuous as they seem . . . From the second series of the B . B . C . ' s ' Colditz ' . With Robert Wagner and Edward Hardwicke gone , there was plenty of room for development of existing characters , such as Carter and Brent , also the inclusion of a new German officer - the sneering Major Mohn , who was akin to the kind of Nazi to be found in old war movies and children's comics . I expect he was brought in to provide a contrast to Bernard Hepton's humane ' Kommandant ' . In the first episode to feature him - ' Arrival Of A Hero ' - Mohn gave everyone in the castle a sound reason to hate his guts - in a mere fifty minutes ! This David Ambrose-penned episode focuses on an aspect rarely covered in W . W . 2 P . O . W . yarns - those prisoners who for various reasons had decided not to dig tunnels or forge I . D . papers . They were not all cowards ( to be sent to Colditz , you had to have made three escape attempts from holding camps ) , many had had enough of risking their necks and wanted nothing more than to sit out the rest of the war . Having a hero as a reluctant escapee was a bold move on the part of the writer . As it turns out , Shaw's motives are more complex than they first appear . Shaw is played by one of my favourite actors , Jeremy Kemp . His credits are too numerous to mention , but he was ' Phil Bradley ' , one of the ill-fated heroes of ' Operation Crossbow ' ( 1965 ) . As ' Captain Porteous ' we have the equally excellent Jim Norton . ' Father Ted ' fans will recall him as ' Bishop Len Brennan ' . Of course there is nothing remotely funny about his performance in this . Another superb episode all round .
" George ! "	' George & Mildred ' was the first - and best - of the spin-offs from Johnnie Mortimer and Brian Cooke's ' Man About The House ' . Using the proceedings from the sale of their home in Myddleton Terrace , the Ropers ' move into a posh residential area ( ' all B . B . C . - 2 and musical toilet rolls ' , according to George ) , and find themselves living next door to snobbish estate agent Jeffrey Fourmile , his wife Ann and their son Tristram . George is like the proverbial fish out of water . Somewhat unbelievably , he gets a job as a traffic warden . The relationship between him and Mildred was much the same ; she craves physical affection , and poor George isn't able to provide it . Much of the humour came from George constantly embarrassing his wife in public , such as the time he took a bath in the lounge just as Mildred brought home friends for tea . Like ' Terry & June ' , it was cosy , predictable stuff , but highly amusing . Mortimer and Cooke wrote every episode , meaning that there was no dip in quality ( as was the case with ' Robin's Nest ' ) when new writers came aboard . The first season had a cracking theme by John Hawksworth but when it returned , Roger Webb supplied a bland tune which didn't suit the show at all . In much the same way that Yootha Joyce stole the show in ' House ' , little Nicholas Bond-Owen upstaged the adult performers as ' Tristram ' . Enormously popular , the show racked up huge ratings even on its repeats . Sadly , Yootha Joyce died before a final series could be recorded .
Eaten Alive By The Widow Twankey !	Another saucy romp with Henry Newhouse , the man who makes Dr . Dick Stuart-Clark from the ' Doctor ' series seem like a monk . It is morning , and Henry and Carol are both hung-over following a boozy charity event the night before . Carol wants to know where her husband disappeared to in the middle of it . " I was with Dick . " , he says , thinking on his feet . " Dick who ? " . Staring at the cup in his hand , he replies : " Dick Cupp ! " . Carol sarcastically responds with : " Does he have a brother called Sid ? " . He spins a yarn about how he met an old friend from Australia and went off to chat to him . In reality , however , he was with Gloria ( Maureen Lipman ) , a fire-eating stripper . They meet up again later that day in a restaurant . Then disaster strikes - Henry spots a nosey neighbour called Mrs . Kershaw ( Josephine Tewson ) dining with a friend and , borrowing Gloria's black wig - sneaks out of the restaurant in disguise . But he is sufficiently unsettled by Mrs . Kershaw's presence to want to visit her at home , and try to get her to keep quiet . The widow agrees to do so , provided he sleep with her . Emerging tired from her room some time later , he is about to leave when the old battle-axe admits : " I did not see you last night ! Never mind Henry , your secret is safe with me ! " . For once , the super-stud of suburbia has been outwitted by a female ! I am sure Maureen Lipman does not regard this as a career highpoint ( the role seems to have been written for the late Wendy Richard ) , but nevertheless she is great as the tarty stripper . Ditto Josephine Tewson as the dragon-like ' Mrs . Kershaw ' ( who looks uncannily like the show's fiercest critic Mary Whitehouse ! ) . ' Dad's Army ' fans will recognise the coffee-stall owner - it is ' Private Sponge ' ( Colin Bean ) . The producer of this series was Harold Snoad , later to make ' Keeping Up Appearances ' . That programme's theme tune was by Nick Ingham , who also worked on this . Funniest moment - after making love , Gloria comes over all religious . " I come from a family of Quakers ! " . He shoots back with : " Well , you've had your oats , haven't you ? " . Not the world's wittiest line , but impeccably delivered by Phillips .
Henry Gets Bugged !	Henry gets some disturbing news - his business partner Arthur Langham ( Michael Napier Brown ) suspects wife Connie ( Yolande Turner ) of having an affair , and has placed a tape recorder in his flat , hoping to identify her mystery lover . Said lover is none other than Henry himself . Packing off Arthur on a business trip to Africa , he sets about hunting for the recorder . With Connie's help , the flat is turned upside down . Nothing is found . Whenever Henry and Connie wish to talk , they have to leave the flat , and in so doing attract the attention of a neighbour ( Donald Morley ) . Henry tries to justify his presence by pretending to be a canvassing Tory candidate . When Henry is still there hours later , the neighbour grows suspicious . Exhausted and in despair , Henry returns to his office for an angry confrontation with Arthur . But the voice on the tape recorder is not the one he expected to hear . . . With Watergate very much in the news when this was made , the timing could not have been better . A year after this went out , Francis Ford Coppola made ' The Conversation ' in which surveillance expert Gene Hackman destroys an apartment trying to find a tape recorder . Was Coppola a ' Casanova 73 ' fan ? The mind boggles . There is a sub-plot about representatives from an African state threatening to cancel their account with Henry's company as their entrant in an international beauty contest got pregnant - Henry strikes again ! - whilst in London but nothing is made of it . Janet Davies - ' Mrs . Pike ' from ' Dad's Army ' - is the wife of the Langhams ' garrulous neighbour . Great performance by the late Donald Morley . His ' are you planning to set up committee rooms ? ' as he spots Henry outside Connie's flat late at night is beautifully delivered . Funniest moment - Henry realising Connie has not only been unfaithful to her husband , but to him too !
The God-Daughter !	A good one for Maddy Smith fans this . Made the same year she played ' Miss Caruso ' in ' Live & Let Die ' . I had the privilege of meeting the lady herself the year before . Actually , meeting is too strong a word - seeing would be nearer the mark ( and my goodness , there was plenty of her to see ! ) . She came to my town to be Guest of Honour at the Summer Carnival . My uncle , a taxi driver , was her personal chauffeur ( lucky devil ) for the day and took her through the packed streets in a limousine . I wanted to meet her but it was no use . She had loads of admirers - mostly men - and everyone wanted a glimpse of those famous . . . eyes . I got close enough to see she was stunningly beautiful - sexy , but with an air of innocence , with a face like that of a China doll . I got her autograph ( which sadly I no longer have ) but never got to talk to her . She returned to London and our lives took very different paths . Here she plays ' Tessa Finlay ' , Henry's god daughter . Tessa is about to be married to nerdy Peter ( David Simeon - later to grace the marvellous ' End Of Part One ' ) . Listening to her sing at his home , Henry mentally undresses her , picturing her in kinky clothes . Later , when the gathering is over , he dismisses Peter as an ' iron hoof ' . Finding a note in his pocket from Tessa , Henry suspects something is up . The next day , she turns up at his office . She confesses to being sexually inexperienced ( as is her husband-to-be ) and , fearing the honeymoon will be a disaster , wants ' Uncle ' Henry to take her virginity away . He suddenly turns puritanical and refuses to do the dirty deed . Tessa announces that unless he does it , she will sleep with the first lorry driver she sees on leaving the building . He agrees to her demand , but then finds that he cannot ( ahem ! ) rise to the occasion . After much debate , she agrees to stay chaste until the wedding . Like I said , there's plenty of Maddy here . She was not merely beautiful , but also a great little actress . Her scenes with Phillips have fire in them . It is good to see Henry showing a different side to his character - the heartless seducer suddenly develops a strong moral conscience . Funniest moment - the twist ending . Spotting nerdy Peter holding hands with his wife Carol , the penny drops for Henry !
G-d is Alive & Well & Living In A Sugar Cube !	I was not sure whether I would like this . I was possibly expecting another ' Zabriskie Point ' - loud , long , pretentious - but instead came away pleasantly surprised . It was one of several ' 60's films to depict ordinary people losing faith with the materialistic world and joining the counter-culture , others include Peter Sellers in ' I Love You Alice B . Toklas ' , Bob Hope in ' How To Commit Marriage ' , and a fair portion of ' The President's Analyst ' with James Coburn . But those were comedies , whereas ' Psych-Out ' is ( depending on your point of view , anyway ) not . The late Susan Strasberg plays ' Jenny Davis ' , a repressed young deaf woman who runs away from home to join up with her brother Steve ( Bruce Dern ) , who lives somewhere in the Haight-Ashbury district of San Francisco , calls himself ' The Seeker ' and annoys locals by making anti-Vietnam war speeches . Jenny throws in her lot with a struggling rock band , led by the aptly-named ' Stoney ' ( Jack Nicholson ) . They indoctrinate her into their way of life . " Money ? " , says Stoney , " You don't need too much of it around here ! " . Jenny is soon wearing colourful clothes and sharing Stoney's bed . Their relationship is platonic at first , but she eventually gives in . In an amusing scene in a scrapyard , Jenny finds her brother's car , but then she and the others are ambushed by local men , who try to rape her . One of the hippies has taken L . S . D . and seeing the thugs as medieval dragons , beats the life out of them . I do not know how accurate a portrayal of 1968 this was . The only hippies I encountered that year were those student teachers from the local tech who came to school once a month to teach art . My friends and I liked them because they looked nice , were more cheerful than the regular teachers , and if our work was not up to standard , did not yell at us . ' Psych-Out''s hippies are altogether in a different league , of course . But I liked the fact that they were not patronised . Indeed the non-hippies are the ' villains ' . Drugs are on show , with at least two major characters experiencing bad trips ; a man in an art gallery sees his friends as hideous monsters , and almost cuts off one of his hands with a power saw . The other is Jenny , given drugs without her knowledge by Dave ( Dean Stockwell ) . Alone in the street at night when the hallucinations start , she sees the whole world erupting into flame . The film is well made , with good performances , particularly by Nicholson . Even here you could tell he was a star waiting to happen . Bruce Dern's ' Steve ' is really creepy , his bad home life has driven him to drugs . You expect him to do something insane and sure enough , he does , committing suicide in front of his sister . The main flaw is the climax . Just how did Jenny get into the centre of a busy freeway whilst high on drugs ? The film ends so quickly you wonder if the final scene was lost . Music by ' The Seeds ' and ' The Strawberry Alarm Clock ' . The latter's ' Incense & Peppermints ' was re-used in the first ' Austin Powers ' movie . An interesting film , overall . Certainly not a commercial for recreational drugs use , the opposite in fact !
" Hear The Phantom Of The Opera Sing A Haunting Melody "	' Rentaghost ' was a children's comedy series by Bob Block , who also wrote the equally bizarre ' Pardon My Genie ' and ' Robert's Robots ' . It concerned an employment agency , run and staffed by three ghosts - trendy Fred Mumford , Victorian Hubert Davenport and jester Timothy Claypole . All used to ' teleport ' by pinching their noses ! Their landlord , and frequent victim , was Mr . Meaker . Each week , the Rentaghost gang would try their hand at something new - a taxi service , furniture removals , or entertaining hospital patients - usually with disastrous results . Mr . Claypole was always misinterpreting instructions - once , when asked to help Fred's parents move house - he did exactly that . Another story had Mr . Meaker turn into a budgie , and in yet another , his wife became a cocker spaniel . Whenever the doorbell rang , she barked ! Fred's parents didn't know their son was dead - he was killed whilst working abroad - hence on home visits , he had to throw Mother's dinners away ( ghosts don't eat ) . All very silly , but done with great panache . And it had one of the greatest theme tunes ever !
" A Very Tasty World ! "	The early-to-mid ' 70's saw a glut of movies predicting a pessimistic future for Mankind ; ' Soylent Green ' , ' No Blade Of Grass ' , ' A Clockwork Orange ' , ' Logan's Run ' , the ' Planet Of The Apes ' sequels and this , based on a Michael Moorcock novel . Jon Finch stars as Jerry Cornelius , Nobel Prize winner , rock star and secret agent , who embarks on a quest to free his beloved sister from the clutches of his evil brother Frank . The world Cornelius inhabits is the Swinging Sixties writ large ; recreational drug use , rampant sexual promiscuity , and lack of respect for authority are rife . Writer , set designer and director Robert Fuest had worked on the ' Avengers ' television series , and it shows . The sets are dazzling , the supporting cast good , and despite its pessimistic theme the film manages to be fun . Jenny Runacre steals the show as the bizarre ' Miss Brunner ' , a freakish mutation who absorbs the bodies of her lovers . You really need to watch this to believe it . Funny , stylish and erotic , its a genuine cult oddity .
" Its like Quatermass ! "	On September 9th 2008 , an amazing thing happened . I . T . V . actually broadcast a funny comedy show . Unfortunately , it happened to be thirty-eight years old . ' On The Buses ' was the first in a new series devoted to archive sitcoms . A short time ago , I wrote a review of the first episode in which I stated that ' Buses ' would be unlikely to ever be the subject of a ' Dad's Army'-style retrospective . How nice it feels to be proved wrong . The first half was a documentary , not dissimilar in style to the B . B . C . ' s ' Comedy Connections ' series , tracing the history of the show , beginning with creators Ronald Wolfe and Ronald Chesney . After having a huge hit with ' The Rag Trade ' ( co-starring Reg Varney ) , they proposed a sitcom built around bus men . But the B . B . C . thought it had limited scope for comedy , and passed on it . Frank Muir , head of comedy at the fledgling ' London Weekend Television ' , snapped it up . The show was a slow burner , but by the third series in 1970 had established itself as one of I . T . V . ' s biggest audience pullers , its popularity extending to the cinema , comics and board games . Seven seasons were made in a five year period . Interviewed were Wolfe & Chesney , Ursula Mohan ( who played clippie ' Joyce ' ) , George Layton ( who co-penned some of the later shows with Jonathan Lynn ) , and Anna Karen . Reg Varney appeared in fan club footage from 2004 . Their comments were interesting . There was a nice tribute paid to Bob Grant . Unfortunately , also around were June Sarpong M . B . E . , Ian Wright and Antony Cotton . Why ? Sarpong , who was born in 1977 ( four years after the show ended ) , acted as though she was an expert on old school comedy . Wright wondered aloud why ' Chalkie ' was not called by a different name , such as Derek . I yelled back : " Because ' Chalkie ' was a common nick-name for black workers in those days , just as ' Lofty ' was for a lot of white men ! " . The ' political correctness ' issue was brought up . Did anyone seriously expect Wolfe and Chesney in 1969 to be able to guess the shape of comedy in 2008 ? I got the impression none of this trio had ever sat through an episode in their lives , and were shown clips only minutes before commenting on the show . The tired old anecdote about how the ' On The Buses ' movie outgrossed ' Diamonds Are Forever ' was trotted out yet again . Hardly surprising , it opened in December 1971 , while ' Buses ' came out in July . Sitcom adaptations were timed to come out in the summer , so that in seaside towns they could act as a stand-by for holidaymakers if the British weather was poor . Anyway , apart from a few naff bits , the documentary was mostly interesting . We then moved onto a complete episode - ' Brew It Yourself ' from the third season . Stan's latest hobby is home-brewing - making his own beer in his Mum's kitchen . When first unveiled , it looks revolting , but he tries some and likes it so much he has glass after glass . When he goes back to the depot , he is incapable of driving . Thinking he has a perfect excuse for sacking Stan , Blakey prepares to administer a breathalyser test . . . A good episode ( though there are better ones ) . Funniest moment - Stan trying to hold his breath so the crystals in the breathalyser fail to turn green . The breathalyser actually breaks ( twice ) , and I am sure this was not meant to happen . Credit to Reg for not spoiling the scene by laughing . I . T . V . should now consider repeating the whole series ( though I doubt that they will ) . Further shows in the ' Comedy Classics ' will include ' Duty Free ' , ' Brass ' , ' The New Statesman ' , and ( and I am really looking forward to this one ) ' Doctor In The House ' . Let us hope that Sarpong and co . are mercifully absent from these .
Cold Turkey For The Butlers !	1971 saw ' On The Buses ' reach its peak in terms of popularity . Season 4 spilled over from the year before , bringing many fine episodes like ' Cover Up ' and ' Not Tonight ' . The release of the first movie , which became the highest grosser in the U . K . Season 5 appeared in the autumn , and was lapped up by a grateful public . To those perplexed by the popularity of this show , the answer is this - not only was it funny , but the characters were so well depicted the viewers came to think of them almost as friends . We have all met or know of a cheeky chappy like Jack , an over-protective parent such as ' Mum ' , and a frumpy housewife akin to Olive . Bossy authority figures such as Blakey continue to exist to this day ( unfortunately ) . The year was rounded off by this enjoyable episode , in which Arthur's mother and sister Linda come to stay with the Butlers for a week . Linda is attracted to any man she meets ; she immediately has the hots for Jack , and later Stan ( technically , this is incest , but we'll let that pass ) . At the Boxing Day Social , Arthur tries to keep Jack and Linda apart , and urges Olive to intervene . But she gets drunk and after a blowsy clippie shows interest in her husband makes an exhibition of herself . Taking Mrs . Rudge around the buses , Blakey is horrified to find Stan and Linda in one , the latter minus her tights . . . Helen Fraser plays lascivious ' Linda ' ; best known to comedy fans as ' Lil ' in the Lampwick sketches in ' The Dick Emery Show ' , and ' Dr . Mary Bingham ' in ' Doctor In Charge ' . Though she is excellent here , she went on to belittle ' On The Buses ' in an interview published in ' T . V . & Satellite Weekly ' in 2005 . " It was a terrible show . " , she said . " Goodness knows why it was so successful . " . And this from one of the cast of ' Bad Girls ' . Funniest moment - Olive getting drunk at the Social , and trying to show Arthur up by lifting her skirt . Good thing she remembered to put underwear on that morning . Complements of the season to all I . M . D . B . users ( even those who hate me ) , and , in particular ' Jackm-15 ' and ' Deathmark VIII ' . Keep those splendid reviews coming , fellers !
" The A-Team are back in business ! "	' Life On Mars ' starred John Simm as ' Sam Tyler ' , a detective who rather improbably is hurled back to 1973 as the result of a car accident , where he joins forces with the hard-as-nails ' D . C . I . Gene Hunt ' and his cohorts Ray Carling ( Dean Andrews ) and Chris Skelton ( Marshall Lancaster ) . The show's blend of nostalgia and fast moving action made it a huge hit , but after two seasons it ended ( Simm being keen to move on ) . The only way forward seemed to be to make a spin-off . But ' Ashes To Ashes ' was more of a carbon copy ; ' D . I . Alex Drake ' ( Keeley Hawes ) is shot at close range by a maniac , and blasted back to 1981 , where Hunt and the boys have relocated to London from Manchester . The show initially provoked criticism from ' Mars ' fans , many of whom were upset at the substitution of Tyler by Drake , and the changing of the time period ( I enjoyed the ' 80's , even though I despised Thatcher and Reagan ! ) . Hawes in particular was ( unfairly ) singled out for much of the blame for the show's perceived shortcomings . If ' The Sweeney ' was the template for ' Mars ' , then surely ' Ashes To Ashes ' must have been looking in the direction of ' The Gentle Touch ' , an ( altogether less violent ) I . T . V . police drama of the early ' 80's that starred Jill Gascoigne as ' D . C . I . Maggie Forbes ' . ' Ashes ' tries to replicate that earlier show's fiery combination of woman detective with a social conscience and uncouth male colleague . ' Drake ' came across as a right know-it-all in the early episodes ; sneeringly addressing Hunt and co . as ' imaginary constructs ' and even laughing when a dog died , but over time she has grown on me . Replacing Liz White's ' Annie ' we have the charmingly-named Monserrat Lombard as ' Shaz ' Granger , Chris ' girlfriend . I like ' Ashes To Ashes ' ( as I write it it is currently in his second and if the reports are correct final ) run , but it has unfortunately suffered from having to boldly go where its predecessor went first . I wish the producers had been a bit more adventurous . They could have retained the ' 70's setting ( Hunt seems a little uncomfortable in the era of Bucks Fizz and Rubik's Cubes ) , focusing the show more on Gene and the boys , and less on Drake . It is a little annoying to see Philip Glenister relegated to a supporting role in what is meant to be his series . I hope they will come up with an original conclusion rather than simply rehashing the ending of the last episode of ' Mars ' .
When Arthur Met Olive !	Arthur comes home drunk and gets a rocket from a curler-headed Olive . Its their wedding anniversary , and he has completely forgotten it . At the bus depot the next day , Stan accidentally ruins Blakey's uniform with a pot of paint . When the inspector boasts that he never used to wreck buses when he was a driver , Stan reminds him of the day Jack first joined the Luxton bus company . . . An enjoyable episode this , notably mainly for the flashbacks to 1963 , showing Stan and Jack meeting for the first time , and Olive meeting her future husband Arthur . . Blakey and Stan appear to have had a close friendship akin to the one Stan later had with Jack . Its only when Blakey ( or ' Cyril ' as Stan called him then ) gets promoted to Inspector does the animosity begin . Blakey is no longer ' one of us ' , but ' one of them ' . When Stan accidentally pours Olive's trifle over his new uniform , Blakey delivers the ominous warning : " You know , Butler , I think I'm beginning to hate you ! " . Arthur's first appearance in the Butler household is a real hoot : he has a full head of hair and claims to be a doctor . Olive is sporting a beehive hairdo . When Mum catches Arthur in bed with Olive ( he had wandered into the wrong bedroom by mistake ) , she insists that he do the decent thing and marry her daughter . Poor Arthur . No wonder he always looked so glum . Funniest moment - the aforementioned trifle sequence !
" I only came round for tea and toast ! "	Fed up at the constant bickering between Olive and Arthur , Stan resolves to do something about it . A marriage guidance councillor suggests Olive try a change of image to make her more sexually alluring . When Arthur comes home , he is astounded to find his wife , tarted up like Mae West , alone in the parlour , the lights off . He collapses with laughter . Stan next tries to make Arthur jealous by getting him to think she is having an affair . Blakey is the unwitting dupe in the grand scheme . . . George Layton and Jonathan Lynn were in great demand in the early ' 70's both as actors ( the former was a regular in L . W . T . ' s ' Doctor ' series until 1974 ) and writers ( penning ' Nearest & Dearest ' amongst other things ) . This strong episode puts the regulars to good use , particularly Michael Robbins and Anna Karen , and makes Arthur's abrupt departure the following year all the more credible . Future ' Coronation Street ' heart-throb Johnny Briggs is seen as a ' Jack The Lad ' window cleaner , who inadvertently blunders into Stan and Jack's plan . Funniest moment - Arthur finding Blakey in the parlour with Olive , and jumping to the wrong conclusion !
All Dressed Up With . . .	Stan and Jack plan a naughty night in with two sexy clippies whilst Mum , Arthur and Olive are at Aunt Maud's . There's just one snag - Arthur's motorbike is in urgent need of repair . In desperation , Stan smuggles into the depot the bracket used to hold the bike to the sidecar so that Jack can perform an impromptu welding job . But will the bracket hold ? ' On The Buses ' kicked off its fourth season with this amiable episode . By now the cast were well acquainted with their characters and viewers knew just what to expect . As a result of its success , the cast were invited onto other shows ; for instance , Anna Karen appeared as ' Olive ' on ' The Max Bygraves Show ' , while Stephen Lewis ' ' Blakey ' ( rather improbably ) sang a duet with Cilla Black on her B . B . C . - 1 series ! Mike Yarwood included ' Blakey ' as part of his repertoire for a time . Funniest moment - Stan trying to fit Mum's plant in the sidecar . Closing the door , he lops the heads off !
Love & Marriage	It is two weeks since the new intake of ' erks ' arrived at R . A . F . Skelton , and they have finally gotten used to their new environment . They do not like it , but have gotten used to it . They are allowed to attend ( except for Leckie , who is confined to barracks ) a local dance . But it proves a disappointment . The women there are unattractive . Jakey spots a stunning blonde sitting all by herself , asks her for a dance , and she accepts . Later they retreat to the bar for a quiet drink . What he does not know is that she is Alice , Corporal Marsh's wife . . . Good episode , with the ' erks ' mixing with the locals for once . Richardson describes Skelton as ' the place where ' The Quatermass Experiment ' started , a reference to the notorious B . B . C . sci-fi thriller that kept the nation in suspense . The scenes in this and other editions where Marsh is putty in the hands of Alice provide a nice contrast to those in the barracks where he comes across as a bawling bully . The attractive Lori Wells ( who reminds me very much of Tracy-Ann Oberman from ' Big Train ' ) appeared in other sitcoms over the years , including three roles in ' In Loving Memory ' . Funniest moment - a drunken Marsh thanking ' C ' Flight for listening sympathetically to his marital problems ( Jakey in particular ! ) .
Nailed !	Poor Lilley . He can do nothing right , and with every mistake he makes Corporal Marsh takes it out on the rest of ' C Flight ' by making them do extra ' Bull ' . The pressure he is under is enormous . Things come to a head when Marsh tells him to recite a dirty joke , and he refuses to do so . In fact he won't so much as utter a mild cuss . Furious , Marsh nails him to the floor of the ' erks ' quarters . Much as I love the show , I found watching this episode again a pretty uncomfortable experience . Lilley's good manners and sincerely held Christian beliefs predictably make him a prime target for a fascist like Marsh , but the others in ' C Flight ' , even the normally level-headed Ken , learn to hate him for all the extra ' Bull ' he has inadvertently inflicted on them . It is far worse than the pressure Leckie was under when he was thought to have committed suicide . My main reason for not laughing much was that it brought back memories of school . A friend in my class , Andrew Szabo , was a dead ringer for Lilley and whenever he entered The Registration Room in the mornings , another boy by the name of Barry Roberts ( I name and shame the little devil ! ) would imitate Corporal Marsh and call out : " Lilley ! Stand by your bed ! " . Poor Andrew suffered this every day for a full term . Kids , eh ? Lilley would appear to be the author of his own misfortunes ( all he has to do is say ' blimey ! ' ) but even so I could not help but feel sorry for him . He should never have been considered suitable for conscription . David Quilter makes his debut as ' Flight-Lieutenant Grant ' , who applauds Lilley for not naming his tormentor . Great performance by Gerard Ryder by the way . What a shame he left the acting profession ( according to ' The News Of The World ' ) to become a plumber ! Funniest moment - Jakey using a ballpoint pen to illustrate what he intends doing with his girlfriend Edna in her mother's front room !
Years Ahead Of Its Time	Long before the onset of multi-channel television , this short-lived sitcom provided a glimpse of things to come . Clifford Turnbull , a pompous ex-army major , is hired by Sir Zachary Stein , chairman of Pentagon Television , to boost the small station's flagging ratings . He tries to run it like a military operation - slashing budgets , sacking staff , stealing credit for other people's ideas and coming up with inane ones of his own . Everything he touches turns to disaster ; for example , a ' This Is Your Life'-styled show ends with the victim's family brawling live on air . He is not helped by the fact that the channel is virtually a talent-free zone . Michael Bates and Raymond Huntley headed up the cast , which included Liz Fraser , Jonathan Lynn and Roddy Maude-Roxby . Ken Hoare and Mike Sharland's scripts were more satirical than was the norm for I . T . V . sitcoms of the period , which probably explains why Yorkshire Television buried it in an obscure time slot . It developed a cult following ( it was rumoured Alan Bennett was a fan ) , but that was not enough to save it . The premise would later be revisited in Eric Idle's ' Rutland Weekend Television ' and ' K . Y . T . V . ' staring Angus Deayton . It would be fascinating to see ' Turnbull's Finest Half-Hour ' again after all this time , just to see how much of its prophecies have come to pass .
Only Cynthia Knows . . .	In 1979 , Dudley Moore starred in ' 10 ' , written and directed by Blake Edwards , about the angst of a man approaching forty . It was hugely successful and made him a star . But a decade earlier , he had starred in and co-written ( with Joe McGrath and the late John Wells ) ' 30 Is A Dangerous Age Cynthia ' , about the angst of a man approaching thirty . Nightclub pianist Rupert Street dreams of being both married and a successful composer . Rather improbably , his dreams begin to come true almost simultaneously . Firstly , he meets and falls for the stunningly beautiful teacher Louise Hammond ( Suzy Kendall ) . Secondly , some shady theatrical types - among them Jonathan Routh of ' Candid Camera ' fame - commission him to write a new West End musical ! In search of inspiration , Rupert and his friend Oscar travel to Ireland where from the lips of a dying man they hear the incredible tale of ' The Golden Legend Of Erin ' . It begins with the words : ' long , long ago , when there were still snakes in Ireland . . . ! ' . Rupert uses the story as the basis for his show . But , on returning to London , he finds his beloved Louise has grown impatient with waiting for him and moved out of Mrs . Woolley's boarding house . Desperate to find and marry her before his 30th birthday , Rupert hires private eye Herbert Greenslade ( the brilliant John Bird ) . . . The first thing to be said about this film is that its no ' Bedazzled ' . Dud may have been a better actor than Pete , but could not hold a candle to him when it came to writing . Allegedly a fair amount of autobiographical material went into the script . Dud originally wanted the film to centre on Rupert's music , his marriage was only included at the request of the producer , wishing to give the plot a romantic angle . No-one liked it when it came out - audiences were not used to seeing Dud without Pete . As well as being a Swinging Sixties romantic comedy , it also attacked the cult of celebrity ( as it looked in 1968 ) . Producer Walter Shenson had just made two films with The Beatles , and wanted something in a similar vein . Joe McGrath had worked with Moore on the ' Not Only But Also ' television series , and was the first director on the madcap ' Casino Royale ' spoof . To tie-in with its release in the U . K . , Panther Books brought out a strange novelisation by ' brilliant American humorist ' ( as it says on the inside cover ) Stanley Reynolds . I say strange because it seems to bear little resemblance to the script on which its based ! Moore here proved he could carry a film without Peter Cook , and the wonderful supporting cast includes Eddie Foy Jr . , Patricia Routledge , John Bird and ( in his last movie ) Duncan Macrae . Suzy Kendall ( then Mrs . Moore ) looks incredible in her ' 60's dolly-bird gear ! Its flawed of course ; Joe McGrath smothers the flimsy storyline with overdone ' Billy Liar ' style fantasy sequences such as the stock car race and Beethoven spoof . Some of the musical numbers ( ' The Real Stuff ' anyone ? ) are horrid . Its hard not to think : ' ego trip ' . But as ego trips go , its an engaging one , non-malicious , charming , and full of gentle nostalgia for Swinging London . Even if it wasn't like that , who cares ? They don't make ' em like this anymore . A must for Dudley Moore fans .
" You Knock-Kneed , Knackered Old Nose-Bag ! "	Brother and sister Nellie and Eli Pledge are joint owners of ' Pledge's Purer Pickles ' , based in Colne , Lancashire . They are complete opposites - she is a spinster prone to malapropisms ( " And what are you incinerating ? " ) , while he is fond of beer , betting and women . The workforce consists largely of smelly old men such as Stan and Grenville . Popping up every now and then are cousins Lily ( " Coooo-eeeee ! " ) and Walter , the latter particularly looking as though he's died but doesn't know it . And before you ask , yes , he's been . This popular Vince Powell and Harry Driver creation provided an excellent vehicle for Hylda Baker and Jimmy Jewel , who played a kind of Northern ' Odd Couple ' . Rumour has it they hated each other in real life . It hardly matters as their on-screen characters weren't fond of one another either . The show was a must for lovers of earthy Northern humour . ' Carry On ' star Peter Butterworth guested in the episode ' Now Is The Hour ' . Favourite episode - ' The Ghost Of Picklers Past ' in which a skull is found in the pickle factory . Great seance scene ! Second favourite episode - ' Cindernellie ' . You haven't lived until you've seen Walter as the Fairy Godmother !
" And The First Caller is . . . "	Before B . B . C . morning television was overrun with makeover and confrontation programmes , ' Open Air ' reigned supreme . Presented in the same infuriatingly cheerful manner as Noel Edmonds ' ' Swap Shop ' , it allowed viewers to express their opinions of television programmes on air , as well as chat to actors , writers and producers . Some were very forthright indeed , as the producer of ' Rockcliffe's Babies ' found to his cost when one woman angrily denounced his show as ' crap ' . Mike Shaft and Natalie Anglesey ( where are they now ? ) manned the phone lines , and this being the late ' 80's there was plenty on the box to get viewers steamed up , including ' The Singing Detective ' , ' The Monocled Mutineer ' , ' The Life & Loves Of A She-Devil ' and , of course , ' Spitting Image ' . The main presenters were Bob Wellings and the late Pattie Coldwell . Some of the viewers ' queries boggled the mind ; an old lady wondered if the winners on ' Bullseye ' got to take home a car each ; asked if the B . B . C . had plans to release ' Out Of Town ' on V . H . S . , Jack Hargreaves replied that it was unlikely seeing how the show originally went out on I . T . V . ; Sharon Gless ( from ' Cagney & Lacey ' ) was asked how ' Mary-Beth ' was keeping . " Tyne Daly is fine ! " , retorted Sharon . A caller objected to a showing of the movie ' Poltergeist ' on the grounds that it might encourage children to become ' possessed ' . ' Dr . Who ' writer Jane Baker was brassed off by a fan ( Chris Chibnall , later to write for the show ) who called one of her scripts ' routine ' . But it had its heart in the right place and it was fun seeing the likes of Michael Grade squirm as viewers vented their spleens . ' Open Air ' was axed in the early ' 90's to make way for the ghastly ' Good Morning With Anne & Nick ' . Pity . As programme standards decline on a weekly basis , we badly need something like it now .
" You've Done It Again , Haven't You , Whiskers ? "	The last ' Doctor ' film is basically a hybrid of ' Doctor At Sea ' and ' Doctor In Clover ' , as once again Phillips wants desperately to get married so he can qualify for a top medical job in America . He tries to propose to his girlfriend Ophelia , but gets knocked unconscious and becomes an accidental stowaway on the cruise liner she is travelling on . By 1970 the series was identical to the ' Carry On ' films in every respect , even Eric Rogers provided the music . That said , ' Trouble ' is enormous fun to watch . The cast are good ; Simon Dee is not at all bad as a vain television star , while Harry Secombe steals the show as the loudmouthed pools winner ' Wendover ' . The most interesting moment comes when Phillips has a brief chat with a nameless doctor played by Geoffrey Davies . Its never established but he's obviously meant to be ' Dick Stuart-Clark ' , the character he played in L . W . T . ' s ' Doctor ' series . The scene suggests that a movie version based on the television show was on the cards . Strangely , it never happened .
Carry On Sweating !	One type of movie we Brits used to do really well was the ' B ' movie . In the ' 50's and ' 60's , British studios churned out dozens of supporting features , inexpensively produced , often featuring actors of whom no-one had ever heard , and while being far from masterpieces they proved very enjoyable . ' Time Lock ' was one such picture . Based on a play by Arthur Hailey ( author of ' Airport ' ) , it tells the story of a little boy who accidentally gets trapped in a bank vault , and of the numerous attempts to rescue him . Robert Beatty heads the cast , which features a young Sean Connery as one of the would-be rescuers . What's surprising is that the picture was directed by Gerald Thomas , future ' Carry On ' director . He brings a Hitchcock-like feel to the story , and one wishes he'd made a few more films in this vein . ' Time Lock ' is above average , and worth catching if it comes round on television . The person who likened the film to ' Plan 9 From Outer Space ' deserves to be locked in a vault himself . The only thing they have in common is they are both in black and white !
Tell The Critics To Buzz Off !	1944 ; the Nazis are sending V-2's ( flying bombs ) to London . These have an unnerving tendency to fall silent just before they hit , meaning that no-one in the capital can be sure exactly where they will next strike . This is an impressive opening indeed , and would have been even more so had it not been lifted wholesale from the middle section of ' Operation Crossbow ' , made by M . G . M . four years before . Those gallant lads of the R . A . F . ' Mosquito Squadron ' swing into action . Headed by the wonderfully-named Squadron Leader Quint Monroe ( David McCallum ) they bomb the launching pads . But a surprise Messerschmitt attack results in Monroe losing his best friend ' Scotty ' ( David Buck ) . The Squadron Leader is given the duty of imparting the bad news to Scotty's widow Beth ( Suzanne Neve ) . Not only is she beautiful but apparently telepathic - as soon as Quint approaches she bursts into tears and runs from the room , and he has not said a word ! She recovers and then both are are going for long drives in the country in his sporty red M . G . Though the V-2 launching pads are now gone , the crisis is not yet over as the Nazis are busy developing V-3 and V-4 rockets , using Chavron Chteau in France as a headquarters , and the Mosquitoes are given the job of bombing the place . Obviously those fellers at The War Office are huge ' Star Wars ' fans because their favoured method involves dropping a bouncing bomb ( based on an idea by Barnes Wallis ) down a narrow tunnel . With only nine days to go , Monroe and co . begin training . They are not very good though ( The Force is never around when you need it ) . Just as they get the hang of things , disaster strikes . German planes attack an airfield , dropping a box that turns out to contain a roll of film ( someone says ' its a roll of film ! ' which is helpful to those of us who have no idea what a roll of film looks like ) . On it is footage of British P . O . W . ' s , some from the Squadron itself . The Nazis have placed the men in close proximity to Chavron , hoping to use them as human shields . Particularly worrying for Monroe is the fact that Scotty is among them . . . ' Mosquito Squadron ' was originally conceived as a sequel to the popular ' 633 Squadron ' ( 1964 ) starring Cliff Robertson . Presumably this was changed out of reluctance on the part of Oakmont Productions to pay Frederick E . Smith royalties . Like that movie , it has a paper-thin plot , one-dimensional characters , repetitive battle scenes , and good music . Some of the shots in the film ( those not from ' Operation Crossbow ' ) came from that earlier picture . McCallum was a hot property then thanks to ' The Man From U . N . C . L . E . ' , but somehow his popularity never translated into bums on cinema seats . The director , the late Boris Sagal , directed several ' U . N . C . L . E . ' episodes . Not being an expert on W . W . 2 , I cannot say with absolute certainty that this is embarrassingly inaccurate , but we do not see David McCallum sending text messages to The War Office , and that's enough for me . What it has going for it are a refreshing lack of forced jingoism , and the absence of an American star in the lead . I note that some of the sniffy reviews to be found here are by Americans . I presume they are unused to watching a war movie in which one of their countrymen does not save the day . You can summarise the plot thus ; Blighty is in peril , only the Mosquitoes can save us , and , after a long struggle , they do . That's about it . Characterisation is virtually non-existent , and the Nazis are treated basically as machine gun fodder . But it affords the same pleasure as an old ' Hotspur ' Annual . Some great British actors decorate this epic - Charles Gray , Robert Urquhart , Dinsdale Landen , McCallum himself , Nicky Henson , and there's a fleeting glimpse of future ' Doctor In The House ' star George Layton ! If all you want from a war movie is entertainment , and aren't too bothered by whether it sticks to the facts , give this one a whirl . I would sooner watch it than sit through all three bum-numbing hours of ' Saving Private Spielberg ' ( or whatever its called ) again .
" Holiday resort ? This is the last resort ! "	Following ' The Early Bird ' in 1966 , Norman Wisdom split with producer Hugh Stewart ( who went on to bring Morecambe & Wise to the big screen ) , and teamed with Robert Hartford-Davis and Peter Newbrook , later to make exploitation pictures such as ' Incense For The Damned ' and ' Corruption ' . Norman's first work for them was a cameo as a boxing priest in the Michael Bentine comedy ' The Sandwich Man ' . ' Press For Time ' was the second Norman Wisdom film ( the first being ' Girl On The Boat ' ) to be adapted from a published source - in this case Angus McGill's ' Yea ! Yea ! Yea ! ' . I have never read it , so cannot comment . Norman plays ' Norman Shields ' , a Westminster newspaper seller . In a nod to the Peter Sellers comedies , he also plays a number of members of the Shields family , including the current Prime Minister , a doddery old fool obviously based on Harold Macmillan . The Tories are in power ( unlike the real 1966 , where Harold Wilson was residing at No . 10 ) . The P . M . pulls strings to get Norman a job as reporter on ' The Tinmouth Times ' , a local paper in a seaside town in the West Country . No sooner has he gotten off the train than he becomes embroiled in a war between ruling Labour Mayor Aldeman Corcoran ( Derek Francis ) and the editor of the ' Tinmouth Times ' , Tory M . P . Major Bartlett ( Derek Bond ) . Norman falls for glamorous reporter Eleanor ( Angela Browne ) , but she ( unsurprisingly ) is disinterested , reserving her charms for the Major . In anticipation of the Tory sex scandals of the ' 90's , the Major is also having it away with his secretary Ruby ( Tracey Crisp ) and rigs a beauty contest so that she will win . Of course Norman is having none of this and changes the result , favouring Corcoran's mousy daughter Liz ( Frances White ) . The trouble with the film is that the political satire sits uneasily alongside Norman's familiar brand of slapstick . Norman's plea for harmony from the major parties is , as you would expect , contrived , but there is a very funny scene at a council meeting , and the first speaker is the legendary Stanley Unwin , the man who raised gibberish to an art form . The seaside town setting , the cynical manipulation of the democratic system by self-centred politicians , and the trampling-on of local concerns were themes explored in an earlier British movie - Tony Hancock's brilliant ' The Punch & Judy Man ' . Other classic Norman ' moments ' include him flying backwards through the air when a bundle of newspapers comes his way , getting his bike caught on a light fitting , the destruction of a house on a newly-built estate , the afore-mentioned council meeting degenerating into a fight , and the collapsing of a stage full of local dignitaries . Best of all is Norman's commandeering of a double-decker bus in the pursuit of his stolen bicycle . The sped-up footage is accompanied by a jaunty Mike Vickers tune , features lovely old Gordon Rollings as the conductor , and must rank as one of the best scenes in any Wisdom picture . Norman dispensed with his regular supporting players Edward Chapman and Jerry Desmonde , bringing in the likes of Allan Cuthbertson and Peter Jones , but alas , time really was up . His next appearance on the big screen would be an Oscar-nominated supporting role in ' The Night They Raided Minsky's ' in 1968 . He tried his hand at a sex comedy a year later in ' What's Good For The Goose ' , but it was no use . The movie-going public had had enough . He then moved to television - ' Norman ' , ' Nobody Is Norman Wisdom ' and ' A Little Bit Of Wisdom ' , all for A . T . V . Though the last of these ended in 1976 , Norman has rarely been off the box since , thanks to the continued popularity of his films with successive generations .
The Schoolboy Spy !	If you were male , between the ages 9-12 , wore spectacles , and attended British schools in the late ' 60's / early ' 70's , the chances were you were saddled with the unfortunate nickname ' Joe 90 ' . Bullies relentlessly taunted poor kids with that moniker , at least until 1975 when the I . T . V . sitcom ' Get Some In ! ' began . Then they would be rechristened ' Matthew Lilley ' ( in honour of one of its characters ) . For the uninitiated , ' Joe 90 ' was a ' Supermarionation ' production made by Gerry and Sylvia Anderson , their first since ' Captain Scarlet & The Mysterons ' . Nine year old Joe McClaine is an agent for W . I . N . ( World Intelligence Network ) , run by Shane Weston . Joe's father , a brilliant scientist , has created a device called B . I . G . R . A . T . which stores brain patterns on computer tape and transfers them to people . Each week , in the course of an assignment , Joe would be given the brain patterns of either a racing driver , cat burglar , nuclear physicist etc . The thinking was that little Joe's age made him an unlikely ( and therefore useful ) candidate for the job of spy . The drawback was he would have to wear glasses at all times . If he lost these ( and frequently did ) , he would also lose the skill needed for the job . Little Joe had had a largely undeserved bad press over the years , reaching its height in when John Major was British Prime Minister . Barry Gray came up with a magnificently catchy theme , the sets ( particularly the spinning B . I . G . R . A . T . ) dazzled , and the writers came up with adventures far beyond the scope of many similar live-action shows . In one episode , Joe went into outer space and , in another , blew up a Red Chinese rocket base . Plots such as these were conspicuously lacking in say ' The Champions ' and ' Mission : Impossible ' . The sex factor was , of course , zero . Joe was too young for it , and no-one else seemed interested in it either ( though I thought there was something suspect about ' Uncle ' Sam Loover ) . It was slightly off in its timing . Spy shows were on the way out . Earlier that year , ' The Man From U . N . C . L . E . ' was cancelled , and ' The Avengers ' would not last much longer . Joe had just missed the boat . I have heard it said children did not take to Joe because he came across as too nice , too much of a daddy's boy . Fair comment . But , had he been presented realistically as a whining , farting , nose-picking brat , he would never have gotten on air . Not at that time , anyway . In the final episode , Joe celebrated his tenth birthday , ruling out the possibility of a sequel . As a title , ' Joe 100 ' did not have quite the same ring , being better suited as an I . M . D . B . user name . Gerry and Sylvia stayed with the world of international espionage for their next show - ' The Secret Service ' - in which the hero was an eccentric priest ( voiced by Stanley Unwin ) who spoke gobble-de-gook and shrank people . There was a fair amount of merchandising . Dinky produced a model of Professor McClaine's flying car and Uncle Sam Loover's . Joe had his own comic - ' Joe 90 Top Secret ' - which is best remembered today for giving the British public a foretaste of ' Star Trek ' . ' Joe ' enjoyed repeats throughout the ' 70's ( usually during school holidays ) and was seen on B . B . C . - 1 in ( ironically ) the ' 90's . If he was not as popular as ' Thunderbirds ' and ' Stingray ' , well , you cannot win them all . If nothing else , he meant that Michael Caine's ' Harry Palmer ' was not the only ' 60's secret agent to wear specs .
Tara Becomes Number Six !	' The Avengers ' often went in for gentle mockery of other spy shows . Sometimes it would be reflected in the story titles , such as ' The Girl From Auntie ' and ' Mission : Highly Improbable ' , while ' The Winged Avenger ' cheekily spoofed the ' Batman ' series . ' Wish You Were Here ' was originally titled ' The Prisoner ' , and was a send up of the famous Patrick McGoohan I . T . C . series . Tara's uncle Charles Merryvale ( Liam Redmond ) has been missing for a month . Actually , he is on holiday in a pleasant olde worlde style country hotel . But no-one can reach him there . She goes to see him . He tells her that he - along with a number of other guests - are prisoners . Whenever anyone leaves , a dreadful accident befalls them . To test his theory , she walks out of the door - only to be drenched by water from a window cleaner's bucket . She sends her clothes off to be cleaned , but they return damaged . Putting on a new outfit , she tries to drive off - her car won't start . Meantime , Mother wants Tara for a new assignment with Steed , so dispatches his incompetent nephew Basil Creighton-Latimer ( Brook Williams ) . He too is caught in the spider's web . The hotel is an upmarket prison for wealthy people so that relatives can take control of their business empires . Tara realises that no-one in the place can be trusted . . . Part of the fun of this episode is spotting the references to the McGoohan series - a man behind a stair rail which looks uncannily like prison bars , people riding bikes in good weather , Basil inflating a beach-ball ( the ' Rover ' balloon ) , blow-ups of monochrome photographs ( the ' SpeedLearn ' broadcasts in ' The General ' ) and Mother on a scales that resemble the see-saws used in the Village Control Centre . As Number Six did in ' Fall Out ' , Tara organises a break-out with help from fellow guests . Not surprisingly , the director , Don Chaffey , was responsible for several ' Prisoner ' episodes . The hotel manager , Parker , is played by the late Dudley Foster , an actor who specialised in charming villains , and who would have made an excellent ' Number Two ' . With Steed mainly absent , it is up to Basil to partner Tara . He does not get off to a good start - putting a golf ball into Mother's drink ! One wishes that the ' Prisoner ' allegory had been taken a lot further . Surveillance cameras in the guests ' rooms , for instance . Mother's contribution to the story is minimal . He rants a lot about double agents , but nothing is made of it . An enjoyable romp , all the same .
One Steed Too Many !	A peace conference is due to take place in a country house somewhere in England . Enemy agents Arcos ( Ray McAnally ) and Zerson ( Norman Jones ) want to sabotage it by creating a double of John Steed , who is there - along with Tara King - as an ' observer ' . Unhappy with the initial result , Arcos orders that the real Steed be kidnapped and brought to him at once . This is then done . But Steed manages to throw a spanner in the works - and suddenly the conference is awash with lookalikes of himself ( does not say much for the security there , does it ? ) who murder each other . Tara is confused , especially as a dead man with Steed's features was found in a hotel room . She joins forces with Baron von Curt ( Ian Ogilvy ) , a dashing Teutonic aristocrat with a fondness for the ladies and sword-fencing . . . Originally to have been filmed on location in Spain ( under the title ' Too Many Oles ' ! ) , this is a sprightly little adventure , benefiting from a great performance by Ray McAnally ( a fabulous actor who died well before his time ) as the villain , and a blonde Ian Ogilvy - a decade before inheriting Roger Moore's halo - as ' von Curt ' . One has to wonder whether the character was in any way inspired by ' Adam Adamant ' , the Victorian adventurer portrayed on B . B . C . - 1 a few years earlier by Gerald Harper ( and for whose series Brian Clemens had written ) . A running gag in the Thorson series was ' Mother ' ( Patrick Newell ) , the head of Steed's department , forever turning up in unusual locations , such as a swimming pool or the top of a double decker bus . Here he is in an underwater office ! Not to be outdone , the villains have an unusual base of their own - beneath an abandoned car in a quarry . Patrick Macnee gets the chance to have some fun playing evil duplicates of his character . The explosion at the end was stock footage - and looks it . I wonder which picture it came from .
Charlie Meets E . T . !	Finding an extra-terrestrial being in his back garden one morning , Charlie does what any right-thinking person in the same situation would do - he takes it to the Employment Exchange . Mr . Pugh thinks Charlie is playing some bizarre practical joke , but when the E . T . begins melting plastic objects such as pens and a phone , he is reduced to a gibbering , thumb-sucking wreck . Charlie and the E . T . head for the nearest park , where their attempts at communication are mistaken for busking . His hat full of coins , Charlie realises he is on to something . At the London Palladium , crowds of people queue to see a show , and are unexpectedly entertained by Charlie and the E . T . doing their plastic melting act . . . The late Charlie Drake belongs firmly in that category of British comedians whom you either love or hate . The naysayers bracket him in with Norman Wisdom as a typical example of a smug comic who played safe and never took risks with comedy , while his admirers hold him up as a fine example of a knockabout comic who could entertain millions without feeling the need to use profanity or expose parts of his anatomy . Personally , I belong in the latter camp , when Charlie was on the box you could not drag me away from it . Though he was no Chaplin , his slapstick comedy was consistently inventive and amusing . This was one of the last ' Worker ' episodes made , and though until recently I hadn't seen it for nearly forty years I was surprised at how much I remembered . The E . T . looks like what it was - a woman writhing around inside a white sack - but as this is a comedy I did not feel remotely insulted by the cheapness of the S . F . X . Possibly the plastic eating aspect was inspired by the opening episode of the B . B . C . ' s sci-fi drama ' Doomwatch ' , broadcast in January of that year . The ending - in which the E . T . falls in love with a pillow case on a washing line and changes itself into one - is curiously touching as well as absurd . Amongst the people lined up outside the Palladium is Marcia Warren , later to play the nosey ' Vera Botting ' in the William Gaunt sitcom ' No Place Like Home ' . Funniest moment - Charlie asks a young woman if the coat she has on is plastic . " Certainly not ! " , she snaps , " It is leather ! " . The E . T . soon exposes her lie , however , by melting it , leaving her fuming in her underwear !
" They all look like Winston Churchill ! "	After an insane woman patient accuses Paul of being the father of her baby , Collier decides to have a vasectomy , and manages to talk Duncan into having one too . Unfortunately , as he makes his way to the theatre , Collier is smitten by a beautiful young woman , and changes his mind . Duncan has the snip , but Paul is too embarrassed to let on he has not gone through with it . He takes a pot of Brylcreem along to the lab instead of a sperm sample , and eventually comes clean . Duncan is understandably furious . . . After three dismal episodes , something miraculous happened to ' Top ' - it became funny . This was down to the change of scriptwriter , temporarily replacing Leyton was that bearded birdwatching ' Goodie ' Bill Oddie , making a welcome return to writing duties . His last script ( co-written by Graeme Garden ) for the ' Doctor ' show was ' A Long Day's Journey Into Knighthood ' in 1972 . Bill seems to have a greater grasp of the characters , and comes up with some wonderful one liners . The cast are in good form here , particularly Nedwell , who is more like his lovable old self . The scene in the incubator room where he chats to newly-born babies is wonderfully touching . Layton gets to do far more than in the shows he authored . Even the starchy Stuart-Clark gets to display a wicked sense of humour . ' Marie ' , the mad woman who accuses Collier of being the father of her child , is played by Rynagh O'Grady , later to appear in ' Father Ted ' as bickering shopkeeper ' Mary ' . A pity that this was not used to open the show , instead of being buried away in the middle of the run . On the evidence presented here , Oddie should have written every episode . Funniest moment - the canteen scene where Dick uses the food off his plate to demonstrate to Mrs . Waring the principles of a vasectomy !
" They said it couldn't happen here . But it has ! "	The third episode of ' 1990 ' is a different kettle of fish ; it has more plot than the earlier ones combined . Charles Wainwright ( Ray Smith ) , a union leader , is sent to America by the P . C . D . to promote their cause , but instead makes a powerful speech roundly condemning them . The Home Secretary ( John Savident ) has Wainwright sent to an A . R . C . ( Adult Rehabilitation Centre ) for ' correction ' . Kyle helps his dissident friends break into the Centre to try to reverse the damage wrought by Dr . Gelbert's drugs , but to no avail . Wainwright's next appearance on television features a completely changed man ; denouncing his earlier broadcast , the union leader goes on to announce his retirement in favour of a P . C . D . - backed puppet . Like I said , quite different to the earlier Wilfred Greatorex-scripted editions . A sympathetic trade union leader was a rare sight on British television in the late ' 70's , as they were being demonised by the right-wing media at the time as ' the enemy within ' . Whenever you saw a photograph of say Len Murray in ' The Daily Mail ' , he was made to look like something out of ' Aliens ' . The writer here is Edmund Ward , who along with Greatorex wrote several fine episodes of ' Man In A Suitcase ' . His other credits include ' The Power Game ' and ' The Main Chance ' . Ray Smith is excellent as ' Wainwright ' , although it is hard to understand why he goes back to Britain after his American speech . Surely he would have guessed what the P . C . D . would do to him ? His recantation is difficult to accept too ; it is obviously coming from the lips of a man whose mind has been tampered with . The P . C . D . could have achieved the same effect by merely discrediting him , making it look as though he were on the take for instance . The idea of there being secret establishments for brainwashing political undesirables was first seen in ' The Prisoner ' . John Rhys-Davies , later to play ' Sallah ' in ' Raiders Of The Lost Ark ' , plays Wainwright's replacement . No much for the Delly Bird to do here , alas . No wonder Babs Kellermann left after the first season . It could not have been much fun playing a woman so completely devoid of personality .
The Forerunner To ' That's Life '	' Braden's Week ' was a Saturday night consumer affairs programme , hosted by the late Bernard Braden , assisted by Esther Rantzen and John Pitman . I viewed two episodes recently ( courtesy of the B . B . C . ' s Archive Trial ) , and could see how indebted ' That's Life ! ' was to the earlier show . When , in the late ' 70's , an U . S . T . V . company ripped off the ' That's Life ' format ( even going so far as to hire a blonde female presenter ) , Esther responded with predictable fury . However , one viewer with a long memory rightly pointed out in a letter to ' The People ' newspaper that ' That's Life ' was not an original idea to start with . Following titles depicting the show's very ' 60's logo in various locations - accompanied by a jaunty Syd Dale theme - the urbane Braden introduced a vox pop sequence in which Esther pestered shoppers with inane questions such as ' What do you think of men with long hair ? ' , giving disgruntled pensioners a chance for fleeting stardom . Then a lengthy ( and somewhat more serious ) consumer report got underway . In the 1969 edition , it concerned a pools company that was raising money for Spina-Bifida but keeping as much as they could for themselves . As the item came to a close , Braden could hardly keep the emotion out of his voice . Humour was not forgotten though ; the 1968 edition featured a witty song from the late Jake Thackray on the subject of ' Miss World ' . Less successful though were the ' quickies ' - short comedy sketches featuring Chris Munds and the lovely ( and alas , also deceased ) Hilary Pritchard . A regular in the first series was Matthew Coady of ' The Daily Mirror ' . His monologue calling for the retirement ages of Members of Parliament to be harmonised with those of everyone else was put across well , but spoilt with a final comment about Sir Winston Churchill . The studio audience withheld its applause . Braden himself possessed a wry sense of humour , and certainly needed one when at the start of one edition he accidentally slipped while coming onto the set . To his credit - and ignoring the laughter of the audience and his co-presenters - he got on with the job . There was none of the boorishness that blighted Rantzen's show - no dogs saying ' sausages ' or rudely-shaped vegetables - in fact the programme had far more in common with the much-later ' Watchdog ' . ' Braden's Week ' would have lasted longer had not its host committed a serious error of judgement by starring in an I . T . V . commercial for margarine . As he was also fronting a consumer affairs programme , the B . B . C . felt that there was a conflict of interests and so , they fired him . Nowadays a presenter getting the push from one channel is no big deal - he or she can simply sign up with another - but then it meant that Braden was out in the cold . He next appeared on I . T . V . in 1976 in a short-lived game show called ' The Sweepstakes Game ' , obviously modelled on ' Celebrity Squares ' . It was beneath a man of his talents . A decade on , he fronted a new version of ' All Our Yesterdays ' for daytime television . Though it did not last long either , it reminded viewers of how a good presenter he was . Amusingly , the 1979 I . T . V . sketch show ' End Of Part One ' did a parody of ' That's Life ! ' entitled ' That's Bernard Braden's Show Really ' !
Not-So Lucky , Lucky Jim	Big things were expected of the talented Enn Reitel in the early ' 80's . This series cast him as Jim Dixon , an ex-University lecturer struggling to make it in Swinging ' 60's London . Dixon is no ' dedicated follower of fashion ' , as he wears glasses and tweed suits with leather elbow patches . The character was originally intended as a spoof of the ' angry young men ' of the late ' 50's . Ian Carmichael played him in a memorable 1957 film . Reitel was perfectly cast as the quick witted , face-pulling Dixon , Anthony Sher guest-starred along with Clive Swift , and the stunning Glynis Barber . It captured perfectly the heady flavour of 1967 , with opening titles played against footage of dancing flower-people , backed by an Alan Price song called " Where Do I Go From Here ? " . Dick Clement and Ian La Frenais's scripts , whilst hardly in the same class as their earlier stuff , were funny , which makes the show's failure all the more perplexing . Reitel went on to provide voices for I . T . V . ' s ' Spitting Image ' .
" You've all done very well ! "	I have to say that I was not a big fan of ' Are You Being Served ? ' when it first aired . I did not dislike it as such , its just that there were ( I thought ) better shows around at the time , such as ' Monty Python's Flying Circus ' , ' Dad's Army ' , ' The Goodies ' and ' Porridge ' . Its only in recent years that I have come to fully appreciate its charms . Set in the London department store of Grace Brothers , its staff included harridan Mrs . Slocombe ( Mollie Sugden ) , her assistant Miss Brahms ( Wendy Richard ) , both of whom sold ladies ' wear , and over on the men's wear section , there was effeminate Mr . Humphries ( John Inman ) , grumpy Mr . Grainger ( Arthur Borough ) , and ladies ' man Mr . Lucas ( Trevor Bannister ) . Presiding over this team was floorwalker Captain Peacock ( Frank Thornton ) , and jug-eared Mr . Rumbold ( Nicholas Smith ) . One of the store's owners was Young Mr . Grace ( Harold Bennett ) , who despite being older than Methuselah was a randy old goat ( I hope I'm like that when I reach his age ) . Each week , the store came up with some daft new sales gimmick , which usually resulted in the staff having to put on silly costumes . Mrs . Slocombe's frequent references to her ' pussy ' made the studio audience hysterical with laughter , as did Mr . Humphries ' oblique references to his homosexuality . Jeremy Lloyd and David Croft's scripts trod a careful line between family comedy and ' Carry On ' style smut . Among the numerous catchphrases the show spawned were : " Men's Wear ! " ( spoken by Mr . Humphries in a butch voice ) , " And I am unanimous in this ! " , " You've all done very well ! " ( delivered by Young Mr . Grace ) , and , of course , the classic " I'm free ! " . The show was a massive hit , spawning a feature film in 1977 , and was still running well into the alternative comedy ' 80's . It was good-natured fun , but not for everyone . The L . W . T . sketch show ' End Of Part One ' did an excellent spoof called ' Are You Being Stereotyped ? ' which subverted the show's theme tune , turning it into a critique . Yes , the characters were stereotypes , of that there's no doubt . But they were strong stereotypes , instantly recognisable from one another . And there's nothing really wrong with that . When John Inman passed away a few years ago , Stuart Jefferies wrote a damning article in ' The Guardian ' , the thrust of which was that ' A . Y . B . S . ' was representative of a style of humour that was ( in his view ) thankfully gone . Well , gone it certainly has , but I do not find that something to be glad about . As I write this , Jonathan Ross has just been suspended by the B . B . C . and Russell Brand has resigned over a so-called ' humourous ' phone call they made to the actor Andrew Sachs . We have now reached the stage where bullying can pass for comedy . I found astonishing the claim made by their supporters that they were ' pushing the boundaries of comedy ' . As Sid James used to say : " Knickers ! " . The comedy boundaries have been pushed far enough as it is . When John Cleese and Connie Booth created ' Fawlty Towers ' , they could not give two hoots about redefining comedy , they just wanted to make a funny show . And did . I'm sure Lloyd and Croft felt the same way when they wrote ' A . Y . B . S ' . The real comedy geniuses are not the people who push the boundaries , but those who work well within them . Like Benny Hill , ' A . Y . B . S . ' was a hit in America . I suppose the Americans liked it because of the very Britishness of the thing . It was seaside postcard stuff really . John Inman was spot on when he said : " Don't say rude words , let the audience think them ! " .
Steed & Tara Go Back To School	Grant , a British agent , snips through barbed wire and gains access to private property . He has not gotten far when a mantrap closes on his foot . As he tries to free himself , a poisonous snake slithers towards him , and takes a bite . Nearby three young people in strange yellow uniforms look on in amusement . So begins ' Invasion Of The Earthmen ' , officially the first ' Tara King ' episode . John Bryce , formerly a producer during the Honor Blackman series , was brought back to push the show in a different direction from that of the previous season , which was felt to have been extreme . Bryce produced a total of three episodes - ' Invitation To A Killing ' , ' The Great Great Britain Crime ' , and , of course , this one - before he was fired and Brian Clemens and Albert Fennell reinstated . The first two were remounted , shown under different titles , but ' Earthmen ' got off comparatively lively . It is therefore chiefly of interest as an example of how the series might have looked under a different producer . On the evidence of this , it seems Bryce was trying to bring it into line with the I . T . C . shows of that period , in particular ' The Champions ' . Steed and Tara find a brochure in Grant's room produced by the Alpha Academy - a school for young people of above average intelligence . It is run in militaristic fashion by Brigadier Brett ( William Lucas , later to play ' Dr . Gordon ' in the kids ' show ' Adventures Of Black Beauty ' ) . The Avengers show up pretending to be husband and wife , and wishing to enrol their ' son ' . Snooping around , Tara comes across a man in a spacesuit ( who looks like Humpty Dumpty ) floating about in mid-air . The Academy is secretly training an army who will then go into suspended animation and colonise other planets ( who they are expected to fight out there is never made clear ) . It comes as no surprise that this should be the work of Terry Nation , creator of ' the Daleks ' for ' Dr . Who ' . ' Earthmen ' could easily fit into the Jon Pertwee era of said programme ( come to think of it ' The Tomorrow People ' did a similar story called ' The Doomsday Men ' ) . As ' Tara ' , Thorson is a little bland ( she got better over time ) , and that blonde wig makes her look like ' Carry On ' star Liz Fraser ! ( special footage had to be added to explain why Tara had different coloured hair ) . Another user has commented on the similarity of the Alpha Academy uniforms to those worn in ' Star Trek ' . This must be a coincidence as the Gene Roddenberry-created show had not yet been screened in Britain when this was made . The Academy deserve reprimand for its truly shocking decor - a two-tone effect comprised of green and purple . Ugh ! Among the precocious youngsters are Lucy Fleming ( later to play ' Jenny ' in Nation's ' Survivors ' ) , Warren Clarke ( of ' Dalziel & Pascoe ' ) , and Christopher Chittell ( ' Eric Pollard ' of ' Emmerdale ' ) . The director , Don Sharp , was responsible for the Hammer Horror classics ' Kiss Of The Vampire ' and ' Rasputin The Mad Monk ' . An enjoyable episode then , but avoid it if you hate spiders ( Tara finds herself in a tunnel with loads of the things at one point ) !
An Overlooked Gem !	' The Night We Got The Bird ' turned up on Channel 4 one afternoon a few years ago . Never having seen it before , I tuned in . It was hysterical ! Brian Rix plays a nervous young man who marries Dora Bryan , formerly engaged to a disreputable antiques dealer played by Ronald Shiner , who'd died after being chased by the gangsters to whom he owed money . Brian and Dora's wedding night is disrupted by the presence of a caged bird which , little do they know , is the reincarnation of Shiner ! This bizarre story was partly scripted by legendary farce specialist Ray Cooney , and as you'd expect contains plenty of good lines and amusing situations . I burst out laughing when Irene Handl purchased a toilet seat made to look like a valuable antique mirror . The supporting cast are great too , amongst them Leo Franklyn , Liz Fraser , and of course the magnificent Irene Handl . Why this film isn't better known is a mystery . The same production team also made the army comedy ' The Night We Dropped A Clanger ' , with Rix playing dual roles .
Steed Does Some Spade Work !	Millionaire art collector Farrer ( Richard Hurndall ) informs his servant Zoltan ( John Hollis ) that men will soon will be coming to kill him . Handing over a priceless Oriental dagger , he tells him to take it to John Steed . Then he shuts himself in a glass coffin , his ' Last Will & Testament ' laid on his chest . Steed accepts the dagger not realising his life is in now great danger . It is none other than the legendary Falcon . Anyone who comes into possession of it dies . Fortune-hunters begin killing one another , each determined to have the Falcon . It is sought after because it contains the key to the whereabouts of the world's biggest black pearl . Steed and Tara must stay alive long enough to find out where it is . . . A homage to Dashiell Hammett's ' The Maltese Falcon ' which neatly manages to borrow its plot . The character played by the late Stratford Johhs is obviously based on Sidney Greenstreet's ' Kasper Gutman ' from John Huston's classic 1941 movie , while the late Ronald Lacey does a neat impersonation of Peter Lorre's ' Joel Cairo ' from the same film . Other familiar faces on view include swarthy Tutte Lemkow ( remember him as the cossack who drank poison intended for ' Inspector Clouseau ' in ' A Shot In The Dark ' ? ) , sinister Peter Swanwick ( ' The Supervisor ' from ' The Prisoner ' series ) , Ferdy Mayne ( the vampire Count in Roman Polanski's ' Dance Of The Vampires ' ( 1967 ) , and Richard Hurndall ( the gay antique dealer in the ' Steptoe & Son ' episode ' Any Old Iron ? ) . It is as you would expect tremendous fun , with the cast seeming to have a whale of a time spoofing film noir clichs . Writer Terry Nation must have been a classic movie buff , another of his ' Avengers ' episodes was ' Noon Doomsday ' and it meted out similar treatment to ' High Noon ' .
Keep Your Sunny Side Up !	Following the failure of ' The Magnificent Evans ' in 1984 , Ronnie Barker did one more season of ' Open All Hours ' , before writing his next sitcom himself ( under the pen name ' Bob Ferris ' , also the name of the Rodney Bewes character in ' The Likely Lads ' ) . Set in 1937 , ' Clarence ' was inspired by an episode of ' Six Dates With Barker ' , broadcast on I . T . V . on / 71 . Barker played ' Fred ' , a myopic removals man hired to carry out his business while the owner , the snobbish Mrs . Vaile , is away watching the Coronation procession . Of course everything he touches falls to bits . Mrs . Vaile's maid , Jane Travers , takes a shine to him however . This opener is a virtual remake of ' The Removals Person ' , though Ronnie altered the name of his character , added new lines and slapstick . Josephine Tewson reprised her role as the mousy ' Jane ' . This marvellous actress was a perfect foil for Ronnie , not just in this but in other shows such as ' Hark At Barker ' and ' His Lordship Entertains ' . Critics at the time were unimpressed , many predictably likened ' Clarence ' to the American cartoon character ' Mister Magoo ' . But there was more to the show than just slapstick . At its heart was a touching love story . Midway through its run , Ronnie announced his retirement from show business . Critics who had blasted ' Clarence ' suddenly changed their stance , thinking their earlier comments had upset Ronnie . There was another more important reason though ; he was in ill-health . Barring occasional guest spots on chat-shows and retro specials , this was indeed Ronnie's last comedy work . It was not a bad farewell either , if not quite up to the standard of ' Porridge ' and ' Open All Hours ' . Funniest moment - Clarence picking up Angela , Mrs . Vaile's horrid daughter , thinking her to be a standard lamp !
Click . . . click . . . click . . .	Enraged by a letter in a magazine alleging that junior doctors are under worked and overpaid , Paul decides to prove the opposite . He persuades Loftus to initiate a time and motion study . The doctors are made to wear pedometers in their shoes ( devices designed to record the distances they walk ) . Paul also writes to newspapers and medical journals backing up his argument , but unwisely entrusts the posting of said letters to Dick and Duncan . As Paul has been bragging about moving to America , his friends decide to play a joke on him - they send the letters to the wrong publications , hence a letter intended for the ' Old Codgers ' page in ' The Daily Mirror ' winds up in ' The Lancet ' . Paul is hauled up before the Board Of Govenors of St . Swithins to explain ' his ' actions . . . No guest-stars in this Garden / Oddie penned episode . It resembles an episode of ' The Goodies ' in that it too features one of the team going mad on some new idea . The bewildered looks of the patients as the doctors stride along the corridors making clicking noises with their feet is hysterical ! With N . H . S . doctors complaining recently about poor working conditions and low wages , its interesting to see that these concerns existed in 1972 ! Funniest moment - an old man in a dressing gown giving the doctors a V-sign as they click past him !
The Switched-On Thriller !	When producer Charles K . Feldman was asked why his 1967 film ' Casino Royale ' deviated so much from the source material , he replied that the Eon movies had already swiped most of it . He could have said instead that Jack Smight's ' Kaleidoscope ' , released the year before , was an even more blatant steal of Fleming's first book . Warren Beatty plays ' Barney Lincoln ' , an American playboy who devises the perfect ' get rich quick ' plan . Breaking into the Kaleidoscope playing card factory , he carefully marks the printing plates . The doctored cards head for Europe's top casinos . With the beautiful Angel McGinnis in tow , Lincoln is able to break the banks , and amasses a considerable fortune . But his unlawful activities bring him to the attention of New Scotland Yard . Inspector McGinnis ( Angel's father ) wants him to bankrupt the sinister head of a narcotics ring called Harry Dominion . The means ? A game of poker . Facing a lengthy jail sentence , Barney reluctantly agrees . As can be gleaned from the above outline , Robert and Jane Carrington's script is a more faithful version of Fleming's book than the 1967 all-star spoof . The late Eric Porter gleefully hams it up as ' Dominion ' , a villain straight out of Bond , particularly as he has a Napoleonic complex . There's a tense scene as he teases his men with the news that there is a traitor in their midst . Taking one of them to a cellar , he retreats as the unfortunate man is incinerated with a flame-thrower . Beatty has never been one of my favourite actors ( and no , I'm not just jealous of his legendary sexual conquests ) , but the role of ' Barney ' at least allows him to be funny and charming in a Cary Grant sort of way . As sexy boutique owner ' Angel ' , Susannah York makes the most of what probably was on paper a stock ' love interest ' character . For me the real star is Clive Revill as the steam engine-loving police officer McGinnis . an ' Avengers ' style eccentric to be sure . Murray Melvin is also good as sharp shooting ' Aimes ' . The fine supporting cast includes the late George Sewell , Yootha Joyce , Peter Blythe , and John Junkin . Jane ' Blow-Up ' Birkin puts in a ' blink and you'll miss it ' appearance . ' Kaleidoscope ' was one of those American-funded ( Winkast Productions also made Alistair Maclean adaptations such as ' When Eight Bells Toll ' ) pictures which exploited the Swinging London phenomenon of the time . Maurice Binder's title sequence offers a picture postcard view of the capital seen through the afore-mentioned novelty toy . Fortunately , arch scenes like the one in which Barney romances Angel in a field at night while she is perched on a cow are few and far between . Stanley Myers ' chirpy music keeps the proceedings nicely afloat , with a sitar accompanying psychedelic scene breaks of the sort later parodied by Austin Powers . The director , Jack Smight , later made the cult film of Ray Bradbury's ' The Illustrated Man ' . Unlike ' Casino Royale ' , there's no big torture scene here , although Barney gets his legs hit with a poker at one stage . Though not a spy film per se , this owes enough to the Bond series to make it required viewing for genre fans .
We Could Laugh Then , We Can Only Cry Now	With its wall-to-wall soaps , crass quiz shows , tacky news coverage and brainless reality series , the launching of Rupert Murdoch's ' Sky T . V . ' in 1988 led some commentators to gloomily predict the beginning of the end for British television . ' K . Y . T . V . ' was a retaliatory strike against this new threat ; by ridiculing Sky's output it hoped to stave off the tidal wave of ' dumbed down ' dross . The first edition featured the striptease game ' Gettem Off ! ' and a pop show hosted by Ernie Wise and Eddie ' The Eagle ' Edwards . A World War Two tribute had presenters who clearly had no idea what they were talking about , and reconstructions of famous wartime events done with shop window dummies . The series grew out of the Radio 4 comedy ' Radio Active ' with the same cast reprising their roles . Funny though it was it failed to have the intended impact . Terrestrial television eventually decided ' if you can't beat ' em , join ' em ' . ' K . Y . T . V ' . was British television's last scream of despair . Before the lunatics took over the asylum . . .
Dare You Enter The Crypt ?	As the 1970's got underway , horror movies became increasingly graphic ( and sexually explicit ) as audiences demanded more and more visceral shocks . Even Hammer had to move with the times , albeit half-heartedly . However , Amicus - their only major rival - chose to stay within certain boundaries . ' Tales From The Crypt ' was the fifth in a series of ' multi-storey ' pictures ; the others being ' Dr . Terror's House Of Horrors ' , ' Torture Garden ' , ' The House That Dripped Blood ' , and ' Asylum ' . The first boasted an original screenplay by Milton Subotsky , the second , third and fourth were derived from stories by ' Psycho ' author Robert Bloch . ' Tales ' , however , drew its inspiration from the notorious E . C . Comic of the same name from the 1950's . So gory were these that a media witch-hunt , led by a twisted self-publicist by the name of Dr . Frederic Wertham , got them banned . The comics are now regarded as classics of their kind . I loved horror comics as a boy . The sweet shop near my school used to sell them for the princely sum of ten pence each . If one bought an issue of say D . C . ' s ' Secrets Of Haunted House ' , everyone in the class would want to borrow it before the day was out . The gore content of this and other D . C . titles was tame but at least one story - ' Two Can Play At Treachery ' - gave me a sleepless night . The plots tended to follow the same pattern - a ghastly crime ( usually a murder ) is committed and the perpetrator becomes the victim of a terrible supernatural retribution . In 1982 Stephen King and George A . Romero paid tribute to the genre with the delightful ' Creepshow ' . ' Tales From The Crypt ' begins with five people being shown around some catacombs . Disregarding the advice of the tour guide , they wander off and get hopelessly lost . They find a strange crypt inhabited by a man in a monk's habit . ' The Cryptkeeper ' ( though he does not refer to himself as such ) tells them that it was fate that drew them there . One by one , they are told their futures , and yes , none of them are particularly pleasant , involving a maniac dressed as Santa Claus , a skeletal Hells Angel , a Valentine's Day card containing a dead man's heart , and a sadistic ex-army officer made to walk along a narrow passage lined with razor blades . ' Crypt ' is nowhere near as bloody as it could have been . This was quite intentional . Milton Subotsky and Max J . Rosenberg wanted their horror films to appeal to as to wide an audience as possible . It did not stop the film from becoming a big success at the box office , indeed at one point it was even outselling ' The Godfather ! ' . The Amicus pictures were able to attract some big-name stars , none of your talentless , screaming American teenagers here . ' Tales ' features Joan Collins , Richard ' Robin Hood ' Greene , Nigel Patrick , Ian ' The Avengers ' Hendry , Roy Dotrice , Barbara Murray , Ralph Richardson as ' The Cryptkeeper ' , with dear old Peter Cushing giving a touching performance as ' Arthur Grimsdyke ' . If you like your horror movies scary without being unduly repellent , you should seek this one out . A sequel appeared the following year : ' Vault Of Horror ' , and there was a ludicrous rip-off ( also directed by Freddie Francis ) called ' Tales That Witness Madness ' which really ought to have been called ' Tales That Induce Laughter ' . ' Tales From The Crypt ' is ideal Halloween material .
Jim Didn't Really Fix It . . . It Was Roger !	One afternoon at school , our history teacher - Mr . Devonauld - was late , so the class filled in time the way kids do normally when left to their own devices - hard studying . Actually , that last bit is not true . The room was full of smutty talk and flying chalk . One girl , though , was oblivious to the chaos . Her name was Karen , and she was writing furiously in her exercise book . When Mr . Devonauld finally showed up , the pandemonium ceased . Karen , however , kept on writing . He asked what she was doing . " I'm writing to ' Jim'll Fix It ' " , she said , seriously . He took the letter , and read it aloud . " Dear Jim , can you please fix it for me to meet Gary Glitter ? I was sad when he retired . Love , Karen . " . Sniggers ran round the class . Yes , Glitter was despised even in those days . Not up to speed on ' 70's British pop culture , he asked Karen who Glitter was . One boy had his answer ready : " He's a poof , sir ! " . The class erupted in laughter . I have recounted this anecdote because I think it illustrates just how popular the ' Jim'll Fix It ' television show once was . Children who wanted to meet somebody famous or get to do something extraordinary like parachute jumping were prepared to write in their millions to a Radio 1 disc jockey . I have always liked Jimmy Saville , despite him being a close friend of Margaret Thatcher . I am prepared to forgive this oversight in the face of all the charity work he has done over the years . ' Jim'll Fix It ' was not his first attempt at Saturday early evening light entertainment . A few years before , he hosted a Simon Dee-type chat show called ( what else ? ) ' Clunk Click ' in which guests included Uri Geller ( the infamous spoon bender ) , Freddie Starr , and Roy Wood of ' Wizzard ' . Gary Glitter also appeared , a fact that seems disturbing today . Actually , Jimmy was not the man who did the ' fixing ' . It was Roger Ordish , the producer . The fix-it's ranged from slapping Eric Morecambe to singing with a Welsh rugby team to appearing in a ' Dr . Who ' sketch with Colin Baker ( ' A Fix With Sontarans ' ) to eating a packed lunch on a roller-coaster to dancing with The Royal Ballet to meeting David Soul and Paul Michael Glaser . Each fix-it would be commemorated with a special badge that said : ' Jim Fixed It For Me ' . One or two viewers moaned in the letters pages of ' The Radio Times ' about the cost of some of these fix-it's , but in actual fact they were not really that expensive . If a boy wanted to go to Egypt , for instance , British Airways would be happy for him to travel free with them because it made good publicity for the company . Esther Rantzen must have liked Jim's show , because her series ' The Big Time ' ( which gave the world Sheena Easton ) was a prime-time imitation . My father badgered me to write to Jim , and I did . Unfortunately , my request to meet Sylvia Kristel , star of the ' Emmanuelle ' soft porn films , was never acknowledged . What can one say about this show ? It had a spectacularly long run , from 1975 to 1990 . A lot of fixing took place in that time . It was harmless Saturday night viewing , and preferable in my view to the singing and dancing crap we have on B . B . C . - 1 now . Last year , U . K . Gold made ' Jim'll Fix It - Now And Then ' ( wrong title . It should have been called ' Jim'll Fix It - Now , Then , Now , Then ) in which we got to see some of the children as they are now . It was nice to see them still in possession of their ' fix-it ' badges after all this time . Should it be revived ? Not without Jim , surely . Knowing of current tastes I suspect the fix-its's would have to be more outrageous , such as becoming President of the United States of America . Hang on , hasn't this already happened ?
Harold's Punctured Romance	' Cosmo-Bongo ' and his wife must have led very sheltered lives if they found this film ' horribly upsetting ' . Whether you like it or not , for millions of British working class people , this was their way of life ; cobblestones , tin baths , outside toilets and all . ' Steptoe & Son ' , while not a patch on the television series , is nevertheless above average for a ' 70's British film comedy . It centres around Harold's ( doomed ) marriage to vivacious stripper Zita . Naturally the old man doesn't take to her and the conflict between him and his son escalates into full-scale war . Carolyn Seymour is terrific as Zita . The film moves from comedy to tragedy and back again , Corbett and Brambell are on sparkling form , particularly when they debate the future of the baby they've found in their stable . Only the scene near the end where Harold is beaten up by drunken rugby players doesn't work . Favourite bit ? The old man bathing in the kitchen sink . You don't want to know where he puts the dish brush . Very funny and a useful social document of early ' 70's Britain .
Better Than ' Telly Addicts '	In 1976 , I . T . V . celebrated its twenty-first birthday , and ' Those Wonderful T . V . Times ' was one of several retrospective programmes . It was a daytime game show ( hosted originally by Barry Cryer and Madeline Smith , then Norman Vaughan ) in which two teams of celebrities ( including Mike Reid , Jimmy Logan , Fenella Fielding , Yootha Joyce and Nicholas Parsons ) viewed clips from old shows , and had to answer questions about them , as well as identify programmes by their theme tunes . I used to bunk off school on Fridays so as to catch this ( no V . C . R . ' s then ) . It afforded me an opportunity to see clips from programmes I had not watched in years , such as ' The Prisoner ' ( represented by the chess scene from ' Checkmate ' ) , and the title sequence of ' The Invaders ' . Then there were shows I had only heard about but never seen , such as ' At Last The 1948 Show ' or the Honor Blackman episodes of ' The Avengers ' . This series had a nice , friendly atmosphere , and did not hold the archive programmes up to ridicule , as ' Telly Addicts ' would later do . It really should have been promoted to peak-time . And should have lasted longer than two seasons .
The Big Day	The final episode of the second ' Shelley ' series ended with our hero marrying Fran . Quite a few sitcoms have featured ' wedding ' episodes - ' Father Dear Father ' , ' Man About The House ' , ' Doctor In Charge ' , ' Please Sir ! ' and ' In Loving Memory ' to name but a few . This one is structured unusually in that scenes of Shelley and ' Bunter ' getting ready are inter cut with those showing his final night as a bachelor . Nothing too extraordinary happens - the friends get drunk and philosophically discuss marriage . Mrs . H and Shelley's mother spend the night at Fran's Dad's palatial house in Shropshire . Isobel's liberal attitude to life and free use of language ( describing her son as ' a little sod ' at one point ) clearly embarrass the host . Had the series ended here , this would have made a good conclusion . Our unemployed hero is now in full-time work as an advertising copywriter , has a child on the way , and is married to boot . Fortunately , high ratings kept the show on air for most of the ' 80's and beyond . Good to see minor characters such as nosey ' Miss Radcliffe ' in attendance at the wedding . Not much of Belinda Sinclair though . Top marks for Peter Tilbury for managing to avoid all the clichs prevalent in sitcom weddings - Shelley does not get covered in paint or fall down stairs and the best man does not lose the ring down the toilet . Funniest moment - Fran tells Shelley in church " I love you " and his reply is " This is no time for sentimentality ! " . If I'd said that at my wedding , I'd have spent the honeymoon in Casualty !
" Its time to establish in-law relations ! "	Visiting a health shop , Shelley is appalled at the high prices of some of the items . Picking up a potato , he remarks : " What's this been grown in ? Yeti droppings ? " . The moment he and Fran have long dreaded has arrived . Travelling by train , they arrive at the country home / farm of Gordon Smith , Fran's rich Dad . He is a charmless snob who regards Shelley as a layabout even though he now has a job . Smith confides in his future son-in-law that he is stone broke , mortgaged up to the hilt . His farm produce is not selling too well . Remembering the health shop , Jim has an excellent idea . . . Chosen to open the second batch of ' Shelley ' episodes in 1980 ( the first having been interrupted by a ten-week I . T . V . strike ) , this is a good episode , boasting a fine performance from the late Frederick Jaegar as ' Smith ' , the father-in-law from Hell . Though its a little unbelievable that he does not lose his temper when Shelley unleashes his usual insults . Also in the house is Rowena Cooper as ' Mrs . Goddard ' , Smith's housekeeper , who has an annoying habit of never finishing sentences , rather like Ronnie Corbett in a legendary ' Two Ronnies ' skit . Funniest moment - Mr . Smith tells Shelley that when he dies , Fran inherits everything . " You couldn't give us an idea when that will be ? " , asks Shelley .
" What does ' thermatological ' mean ? '	The first episode of the second series of ' Shelley ' , though not broadcast as such due to the I . T . V . strike of 1979 . The last three episodes of Season 1 were appended to the beginning of Season 2 , making this in fact the fourth episode transmitted in 1980 . Confused ? Yes , well so am I . Shelley , now in work , looks for somewhere to live with wife-to-be Fran and their impending child . They come across a ramshackle house which they want to buy but cannot as they do not have enough money . A visit to the local Bank leads them nowhere - to get a mortgage you first need an account . Then two astonishing coincidences happen at once . Firstly , Fran finds a publisher for her novel , and secondly , Shelley receives a generous tax rebate from the Inland Revenue . If only real life were so easy , eh ? But they are still short of the necessary readies , until Fran's rich Dad agrees to pay 15 , 000 and Shelley's mum Isobel coughs up a similar sum . Isobel is played by Sylvia Kay , who was Christopher Blake's dimwitted mother in ' Mixed Blessings ' , and Jan Francis ' snooty mater in ' Just Good Friends ' . You can see where Shelley gets his rebellious streak from ; she openly grows marijuana plants in the kitchen . Nicholas Courtney , a . k . a . ' Brigadier Lethbridge-Stewart ' from Jon Pertwee's and Tom Baker's ' Dr . Who ' stories , appears as an officious bank manager who reacts as you would expect when Shelley attempts to simultaneously open a bank account and apply for a mortgage . Funniest moment - hearing a knock on the kitchen door , Isobel sees the shape of a policeman through the frosted glass . Panicking , she throws out her marijuana plants . It turns out to be her son . Furious , she calls him ' an evil little b - - - - - d ! " .
" And that's the best joke I know ! "	Hardly anyone remembers ' Carrott's Lib ' now , yet in its day this topical sketch show was every bit as funny as ' Not The Nine O'Clock News ' and the much-later ' Spitting Image ' . It went out late on Saturdays , and became a kind of ' alternative comedy ' successor to the ground-breaking ' T . W . 3 ' . There was plenty going on in the world then to get the comedic juices flowing ; Reagan , Thatcher , Brezhnev , The Falklands War , three million unemployed , Arthur Scargill etc . ' Red Dwarf ' creators Doug Naylor and Rob Grant were among the many writers . Linking the sketches was Jasper himself , guitar at the ready as though waiting for a song cue that never came , gleefully putting the boot into all and sundry . He got himself in hot water early on with a joke about deaf people . Responding to the criticism , Jasper said : " What I want to know is ' who told them ' ? " . Rik Mayall and Lise Mayer's surreal ' Dave : The Cardboard Box ' was a regular item in Series 1 . One very funny sketch was ' Perversion Street ' which linked a number of well-publicised scandals involving the ' Coronation Street ' cast . Chris Barrie was hysterical as ' Vera Duckworth ' ! But the show's biggest target were ' Sun ' readers , depicted as stupid and breast-fixated . In the final show of Series 1 , a gang of ' Sun ' readers in balaclavas took over B . B . C . T . V . Centre , demanding more bare bosoms on the box ! Judging from some of the shows on now , I think they must have succeeded !
" I think you're an infiltrator from I . T . V ! "	' Q5 ' ended in May 1969 . Five months later , ' Monty Python's Flying Circus ' debuted on B . B . C . - 1 . Spike Milligan must have watched with dismay as this imitator brazenly stole his thunder ( to be fair , the Pythons openly acknowledged their debt to the earlier show ) . In 1975 , with the team having moved onto films , Spike felt the time was right to do another ' Q ' . Reunited with producer Ian McNaughton , he once again came up with surreal comedy both brilliant and banal . Neil Shand is credited as co-writer , but its hard to ascertain his contribution , seeing as how much of the show feels improvised ( perhaps he was responsible for the filmed material ) . In ' The Groping Doctor Sketch ' , Spike plays a frustrated television director trying to make something out of a weak bit of material , and asks a member of the studio audience ( John Bluthal ) to help out . The result - chaos . The stranger turns up for the scene wearing ' comedy ' clothes such as a spinning bow tie . Julia Breck ( what a gal ! ) keeps coming on set dressed as a nurse ( her costume disappearing one bit at a time ) and uttering the line : " Physician feel thyself ! " in a manner reminiscent of Sheila Steafel . British film star Jack Watling ( whose credits include ' The Wooden Horse ' with Anthony Steel ) appears in a send-up of ' Colditz ' ; he along with the rest of the cast are imprisoned in the B . B . C . T . V . Centre and want to escape , which they do disguised as the casts of various series such as ' Coronation Street ' and ' Upstairs , Downstairs ' ( did no-one tell Spike that these were I . T . V . shows ? ) . Over footage of V . E . Day the theme from ' Crossroads ' is played . The Lone Ranger and Tonto square up to Marshal Matt Dillon of ' Gunsmoke ' on a golf course ( " me and my successful T . V . series are telling you and your even more successful T . V . series to get your balls off my green ! " ) . A commercial for Honson & Bodges cigarettes has Spike in a hospital bed , extolling the virtues of the brand on the grounds that he now has five days left to live , instead of merely four ! We see the contenders for the title of ' The Smallest Police Station In The World ' , Spike does a Marlene Dietrich impersonation ( and collapses in giggles half way through ) , the Governor of the Bank Of England throws himself out of a window wearing a Donald Duck mask , a yokel directs traffic using a false arm , and the picture of the Queen on a pound note comes to life ( its Jeanette Charles again , folks ! ) . All in a day's work for Milligan . The musical item is ' Mr . Skillicorn Dances ' , performed by Doggerel Bank . I could not work out whether this was bad poetry set to good music or good poetry set to bad music . Like I said , there's some brilliant stuff here and a fair amount of rubbish ( just like ' Python ' ) . If you get a chance to see ' Q6 ' then do so . It will never get a legitimate D . V . D . release in this country due to the presence of disgraced comedy star Chris Langham . Funniest moment - dressed as a policeman , Spike reads the parable of ' The Good Samaritan ' from a pulpit : " And they beateth out of him the crap . . . he put oil and vinegar on the victim's wounds , and he screameth saying : " Hast thou never heard of Elastoplast ! " . Great stuff !
Locked Out !	Mrs . Hollingbery is convinced Alf wants to molest her , so she locks him in his bedroom while he sleeps . The next morning , he wakes and finds he cannot go to the toilet . In desperation , he climbs out of the window and tries to do it in the garden . Various passers-by keep him from answering the call of nature . Mr . Johnson is concerned about Alf's state of mind and calls Rita in Liverpool . By the time she arrives he has gotten revenge on the landlady by trapping her in her upstairs flat . When the milkman turns up with a wad of money ( Else had won it by backing a horse called ' Chauvinist Pig ' ) , Alf is elated . To celebrate he takes his daughter , Marigold , Arthur and his Irish cousin to the pub . But Rita has invited Mrs . Hollingbery along too . . . A cracking episode of ' And In Health ' , even if Alf and Mrs . Hollingbery do behave more like Laurel & Hardy than Alf and Else ever did . Interesting to hear the shopkeeper ( Renu Setna ) address Marigold by his nickname , as until now only Alf had done so . The scene in the shop is wonderful , especially when Alf loses his rag on hearing the shopkeeper tell him Else owed money before she died . The presence of Una Stubbs is somewhat superfluous . With Dandy Nichols gone , I suppose it was inevitable we would get more Rita ( is it me or is Una prettier here than in ' Till Death Us Do Part ' ? Must be that different hairstyle ) . Funniest moment - Alf in his garden in his underwear , about to have a tinkle , only to find a neighbour staring at him over the wall !
Dennis In The Dock !	Left to his own devices one evening in the pub , Dennis falls in with a group of leather-jacketed hoodlums . After plying him with drink , they rob a chocolate machine . The police show up ( how efficient the boys in blue were back in 1971 ! ) , and arrest them . Poor Dennis goes up before the local Magistrate . But help comes from an unexpected source . Two of his former teachers , Mr . Price and Mr . Smith , are there , and Smithy's impassioned plea for clemency bores the beak so much he lets Dennis off with a small fine . . . There was two-way traffic between ' Please Sir ! ' ' s last season and ' The Fenn Street Gang''s first , with characters cropping up in both shows . While the former was struggling to cope without ' Hedges ' and ' 5C ' , the latter was coasting along nicely - mind you , most of its cast was from ' Please Sir ! ' , so this was not surprising . ' Price ' had previously worked his Celtic magic in ' Should Auld Acquaintance ' . ' Smithy ' alas was confined to this Tony Bilbow-scripted episode . Regrettably , ' Potter ' , ' Miss Ewell ' and ' Cromwell ' did not appear in the show . Chocolates machines ( along with cigarette machines ) were a common sight on Britain's streets in the ' 60's and ' 70's . They were abolished because people kept on robbing them ! A good episode , although Peter Bayliss seems a bit wasted here . David Janson , who plays one of the thugs , would go on to star in Esmonde and Larbey's ' Get Some In ! ' . The beak is Geoffrey Bayldon , who played ' Catweazle ' in the hit children's show for L . W . T . Funniest moment - Smithy's outraged face as the beak refers to him as a ' teddy boy ' !
" He must have walked out on himself ! "	Dennis has settled into his new flat , where he spends his spare time making model aeroplanes . One evening he receives an unexpected visitor - his father . Drunken Mr . Dunstable is on his own again , his wife having left him . With no money coming in , he is forced to take a job , that of ' tally man ' , or debt collector . One of the people on his list is Frankie Abbott's mother . He turns up at her home dressed as a Teddy Boy . They hit it off immediately , and arrange to go out on a date . . . A fun episode by Rowley and Baker , concentrating mainly on Peter Bayliss and Barbara Mitchell's characters . The former is wonderful as a kind of prototype ' Rab C . Nesbitt ' , while the latter - though attractive , is clearly insane - seems to have suffered every illness known to Man , including a few that Man has never heard of . Its an unlikely pairing to say the least ; in the ' Please Sir ! ' episode ' Panalal Passes By ' , she had been established as a dreadful snob , so what she sees in Dennis ' Dad we can only guess at . Some nice interaction between Dennis and Frankie here too , a pity we did not see more of it in the show . Funniest moment - when Mrs . Abbott calls on Mr . Dunstable , he hurriedly hides the pan he had earlier been washing his feet in . Alas , she steps in it . " For the goldfish ! " , he explains . " But its empty ! " , she points out . He replies : " The little sod must have escaped ! " .
" A lot of villains are having a tickle ! "	Duffy , Craven and Dennis are doing a decorating job for the London gangster Mr . Bowler . His trendy flat comes equipped with all the latest gadgets and labour saving devices , as well as blue movies on tap and lampshades bearing topless photos of his wife . Sacked from Luigi's restaurant , Frankie becomes a security guard at the boutique where Sharon works . Left to his own devices , he stupidly assists two men he believes to be suppliers . They are thieves , and make off with the shop's entire stock of expensive dresses . Concerned for her job , Sharon turns to Duffy . He and the others ( minus Frankie ) set about stealing the garments back . Unfortunately for them , the culprit is none other than Mr . Bowler . . . The final episode of the first series of ' The Fenn Street Gang ' introduces the character of ' Bowler ' , a small-time Cockney crook who fancies himself as an upper class toff . Played by George Baker , ' Bowler ' would return in Season 2 and went on to star in his own short-lived spin-off . This would be the last time Leon Vitali played ' Craven ' as Malcolm McFee returned for Season 2 . Louis Mansi , seen as ' Luigi ' , also returned , but as a different character - ' Guilio ' , boyfriend of Sharon's mum . The actor is best known for his role as ' von Smallhausen ' in ' Allo , Allo ' . While its true that this show - taken as a whole unit - came nowhere near the quality of ' Please Sir ! ' ' s first three seasons , I defy anyone to claim it was inferior to the fourth . Indeed the Gang was lured back to the school for one episode - ' Old Fennians ' Day ' - in a desperate bid to salvage the foundering parent show . Funniest moment - the Gang are passing dresses from Bowler's flat to Duffy's van by sliding them along a wire . An elderly couple - Molly Weir and Ken Parry - are on their way home from a spiritualists ' meeting when they see the garments floating about in mid-air and assume that they are ghosts !
You're In The Army Now !	Sacked from Archie's detective agency on account of the quality of his work ( ie . never having done any ) , Frankie decides to enlist in the military . His mother is horrified to learn that ' her little soldier ' intends on becoming just that . Seeing himself as the new Lee Marvin , Frankie reports to barracks , and starts throwing his weight about . Unfortunately , his cockiness soon vanishes when he meets the sadistic Corporal Elliott . . . A very funny episode by John Esmonde and Bob Larbey , and which with the benefit of hindsight can now be regarded as the ' pilot ' for their later hit sitcom ' Get Some In ! ' . There's Frankie acting in much the same swaggering manner as Jakey Smith , a vicious Corporal ( played by Tony Selby , who was ' Marsh ' in the other series ) , and amongst the squaddies is a young Scot ( shades of ' Leckie ' ) . Frankie's stupidity lands both him and the squad in hot water . During target practice , the Corporal is so fed up of his childish antics he commands the others to shoot him . Frankie is genuinely terrified . Luckily , the squad fire their rifles into the air . Dennis and Maureen are the only other gang members to appear in this episode . Funniest moment - Frankie being arrested by M . P . ' s for going A . W . O . L . As they drag him away , he squeals : " But I've a 48 ! I haven't been here a week yet ! " . One of the police points out that the ' 48 ' referred to hours , not days .
" I never had that fight with Sean Connery ! "	Invalided out of the army , Frankie is unemployed , and takes to the streets in his ' private eye ' gear . After seeing Craven driving his new scooter , Frankie is jealous . Attempting to steal a car , he crashes it . Put on probation , Frankie is asked the whereabouts of his father by an inquiring officer . Even Frankie himself does not know . Overhearing his mother tell her friend Shirley the truth , Frankie sets off to the Labour Exchange where Mr . Abbott works . . . Written by Frankie's alter-ego David Barry , this is one of the best episodes of the show . Predictably , it focuses mainly on Frankie and his appalling mother , with minor contributions from fellow Gang members Eric , Craven , and Dennis . But it does not get boring . On the contrary , Frankie's character is explored with a depth unseen before on screen . It appears that Mrs . Abbott's insanity started when her husband walked out on her , and she inadvertently passed it onto her only child . When Frankie tries to find his Dad , he is shocked at what a pathetic figure he is and rushes to his friends for sympathy . He even owns up to being a liar . Needless to say , his reformed character does not stay reformed for long . That Barry could write a script equal - if not better - to many of the Esmonde / Larbey shows is really quite an achievement . Spot the mistake - Shirley accidentally referring to Vera Abbott as ' Barbara ' , the real name of the actress playing the role . Funniest moment - Frankie receiving his new scooter . To his horror , he turns out to be a child's one !
" I'm listening to the twaddle you're talking ! "	Of all the ' Shelley ' episodes I have reviewed , this was the most difficult to do because nothing much actually happens in it . There are no subsidiary characters , just the three main ones . Shelley and Fran are in their bed-sit as usual . She is engrossed in a dog-eared copy of George Orwell's ' Keep The Aspidistra Flying ' while he - plainly lonely - tries to strike up a conversation with her . But her only responses are non-committal grunts . Shelley finds a book by Anthony Smith called ' The Body ' and begins quoting useless facts , hoping to provoke a response . But gets nothing . Mrs . H comes in and Shelley tries to talk to her instead . She looks baffled as he reels off facts about the Human Body she had not previously been aware of . . . With only three characters , and the action remaining fixed in one room , everything is dependent on the script . Luckily with Peter Tilbury at the helm , you cannot go far wrong . Josepone Tewson's expressions are hilarious , particularly when Shelley tells her how long her intestinal piping would be if unrolled . Funniest moment - Shelley saying to Mrs . H : " Do you know that the Human Body is composed mainly of water ? " . Looking at her , he sarcastically adds : " Or in your case , tea ! " .
" We're The Young Generation & We've Got Something To Say ! "	No-one has ever tried to pretend that ' The Monkees ' were anything more than a pop group specifically created for a television show , and to sell bubblegum music to kids . That said , it should also be noted how talented Mike Nesmith , Peter Tork , David Jones , and Micky Dolenz were as comedy performers , far more so than the members of ' Herman's Hermits ' and ' The Dave Clark Five ' , both of whom tried and failed to reach the same audience . The show took its cue from the Beatles ' movie ' Help ! ' , with the band constantly running across rooftops , chased by screaming girls , and famous actors hamming it up for all it was worth in cameo roles . John Lennon likened The Monkees to the Marx Brothers , and its not hard to see why . The show caught the mood of the time ; it was colourful , daft fun , just what the world needed as the Vietnam war raged . And the songs were good too , particularly ' Last Train To Clarksville ' . Such was the show's popularity in Britain that it was being rerun long after the group disbanded .
How To Steal A Starfish	' Madame Sin ' was a late addition to the cycle of James Bond rip-offs that began in the ' 60's . It was the creation of American writer Lou Morheim and Barry Shear , the latter responsible for directing several ' Man From U . N . C . L . E . ' episodes . The script though was by Barry Oringer and David Greene , who also directed the stylish spy romp ' Sebastian ' with Dirk Bogarde . Robert Wagner is cast as ' Anthony Lawrence ' , an ex-C . I . A . agent down on his luck . He is approached in a London park by Malcolm De Vere ( Denholm Elliott ) who offers him a job . No sooner has he turned it down than two nuns appear , ostensibly collecting charity money , one of whom zaps him with a dandy sonic device . Lawrence is driven off in a fake ambulance to a rendezvous with a helicopter . When he wakes up , he is on the private island of the mysterious super-villain Madame Sin ( Bette Davis ) . The Madame has an underground laboratory in which scientists have perfected a means of mind control . She intends , with Lawrence's help , to abduct the commander of H . M . S . Starfish , Britain's newest nuclear submarine . To act as bait , one of Lawrence's old girlfriends Barbara ( Catherine Schell ) is around . . . Stylish romp , camp and fun . I suspect it was Anne Robinson's favourite movie once as the Madame seems to be the inspiration for her ' Weakest Link ' persona . Bette Davis goes through it all puffing cigars , wearing blue eyeshadow and what appears to be one of Ena Sharples ' old hairnets . The script alas does not give her any memorable lines , hence she never once exudes the menace required for the role . She was far more sinister in ' The Anniversary ' in 1969 . Wagner plays ' Lawrence ' in much the same key as ' Al Mundy ' , his character in ' It Takes A Thief ' . Denholm Elliott steals the show , and Gordon Jackson and Dudley Sutton also light up the screen . Gabriella Licudi ( ' The Liquidator ' , ' Casino Royale ' ) is one of the evil nuns . Enjoyable though this is , one wishes it had been made for the cinema on a bigger budget . It cries out for explosive set pieces but does not get them . Brian Eatwell's sets dazzle though , and it concludes with an original twist on the normal ' Bond ' style endings . It was intended as a back-door pilot for a series that was never made . Pity . I would have liked seeing Madame Sin going after the Russian Crown Jewels .
Loosely Based On The Life Of Margaret Powell	' Beryl's Lot ' starred Carmel McSharry as Beryl Humphries , a middle-aged housewife with time on her hands who , to the surprise of her friends and family decides to study philosophy at night school . It results in a change of attitude on her part to life , much to her husband's disdain , as well as new friends whom he doesn't warm to . Being the brainchild of ' Emmerdale Farm ' creator Kevin Laffan , there were bound to be soap opera elements inbuilt into this comedy drama series . The pub scenes were not unlike those in The Rovers Return . Robin Askwith ( in his pre ' Confessions ' days ) appeared in the first season as the Humphries ' lovelorn lodger . Sadly , this was to be the final work of that fine actress Barbara Mitchell , who played talkative busybody Vi Tonks . Her early death from cancer robbed showbiz of a great talent . The third season halved the length of the episodes and , predictably , the show lost some of its warmth and charm . But that theme tune . . . absolutely brilliant !
Fantasising Smalltown Boy	I was wary of revisiting this show , fearing it might not live up to my fond memories . I need not have worried . ' Billy Liar ' is still great fun , boasting superb scripts by Keith Waterhouse and Willis Hall , good performances by George A . Cooper , Colin Jeavons as the gloomy ' Mr . Shadrach ' , Pamela Vezey , Sally Watts and , of course , Jeff Rawle as ' Billy ' . An unexpected scene stealer was the late May Warden as ' Grandma ' , her unwanted reminiscences about her amorous past had me roaring with laughter . Its basically the same set-up as the book / movie / play - set in the fictional Northern town of Stradhoughton , undertakers clerk Billy Fisher is an incorrigible liar , a nobody who dreams of being somebody . His escapes into fantasy land provided much of the humour . I couldn't work out though why Shadrach didn't simply sack him , or why his soft , soppy girlfriend Barbara stood by him even when he was caught dating other girls . Amongst the guest stars were Roy Kinnear , Thora Hird , Lynda Bellingham , and Roy Barrowclough . Two seasons were made ( plus a sketch shown as part of I . T . V . ' s ' All-Star Comedy Carnival ' from Christmas Day 1973 ) . The first went out post-watershed , allowing for some ripe ( though tame by today's standards ) language from Mr . Fisher and the occasional flash of nudity . The second was screened in an earlier time slot ( possibly because L . W . T . saw that its main audience was young ) and not networked . Its dated of course ( check out the length of Billy's hair ! ) particularly the episodes referencing the hippie movement and kung-fu craze , but still very funny .
When Jason Was Breathless !	A . T . V . ' s ' A Sharp Intake Of Breath ' gave David Jason his first solo comedy hit following years of supporting roles in series such as ' Hark At Barker ' ( in which he played ' Dithers ' the 100-year old gardener ) , the ' Doctor ' series , and two failed attempts at a show of his own - ' The Top Secret Life Of Edgar Briggs ' and ' Lucky Feller ' . It grew out of a pilot , shown as part of ' The Sound Of Laughter ' ( I . T . V . ' s answer to the B . B . C . ' s ' Comedy Playhouse ' ) on / 77 . Jason starred as ' Peter Barnes ' , middle-aged , happily married , a good man in an insane world . His life was one disaster after another , whether it involved going to the doctors , teaching his wife to drive , getting a suit to go to a wedding , or going on holiday . Patricia Brake initially portrayed his wife ' Sheila ' , but after she went off to appear in Ronnie Barker's ' Going Straight ' , the role went to Jacqueline Clarke of ' Dave Allen At Large ' fame . Each week , the show opened with the title inside a deflating speech bubble , the air going into the mouth of a potato-headed man . Alun Armstrong and Richard Wilson cropped up each week in a variety of authoritative guises - doctor , mechanic , bank manager , head waiter , railway ticket inspector and so on . The humour largely arose from poor Barnes ' inability to cope with the horrors of bureaucracy . Whenever he asked somebody to do something , he would get a sharp intake of breath , followed by " Its more than my jobs worth . " . In a ' News Of The World ' interview published around the time of the third season , Jason said : " I love old Barnsey . He's such a fool . " . The show was devised and written by Ronnie Taylor , also responsible for the popular Leslie Crowther sitcom ' My Good Woman ' ( which also featured Wilson ) . Other episodes were penned by Leslie Duxbury and ' Randall & Hopkirk ( Deceased ) actor Kenneth Cope . When Taylor died suddenly , the third season was cut short . The series returned with Vince Powell inheriting the writing duties . Powell's first script was a rehashed ' Bless This House ' plot . The shift in styles of humour was noticeable . The Taylor-penned episodes were the best - in one , Barnes went to collect his car from a local garage , and almost had a nervous breakdown attempting to prove his identity . Jason's exasperated looks to camera were hysterically funny ! It would perhaps be stretching a point to describe this as ' satire ' - there were elements of slapstick involved - but it was fairly close in spirit to Monty Python's famed ' Dead Parrot Sketch ' . All over Britain you could hear the ' sharp intake of breath ' in playgrounds and workplaces , a sure sign the show had caught on . After a patchy first series ( further marred by annoying canned laughter ) , the second tightened up the character of Barnes and , with its witty Mel Calman cartoons and chirpy Ken Jones signature tune , brightened up Monday ( later Friday , then Sunday ) evenings for the best part of five years , ending abruptly when A . T . V . became Central T . V . In the early ' 90's , the newly-formed ' I . T . C . Home Video ' label wanted to release ' Breath ' on V . H . S . , but Jason , for reasons best known to himself , objected . His decision was especially perplexing when one recalls his apparent pride in the show at the time . Whatever his reasons , the prospect of ' Breath ' gathering dust in a vault somewhere for years while other inferior series come out on D . V . D . is depressing indeed .
Dumping Dad	By the time the third season of ' Steptoe & Son ' went on air , the programme had become a national institution . Harold and Albert are in the country when they espy a lovely old Victorian house . Harold wonders if it is the property of a millionaire . His enthusiasm for the place causes his father to be suspicious . He is right to be . It is an old folks ' home , which Harold intends putting him into while he goes off on a two year round-the-world cruise . The old man is understandably horrified . After a long argument , he finally moves in , and Harold goes home to prepare for the trip . Until a letter from the organisers puts him firmly in his place . . . A good start to the third series of ' Steptoe & Son ' , expertly mixing pathos and humour as usual . Harold comes across as pretty heartless here , attempting to talk his father into going into a home while of course the old man is having none of it . The shot of a tearful Albert sitting alone in his room is affecting . Naturally this situation is not permanent ( there would have been no series otherwise ! ) , with Harold's plans wrecked before they have a chance to come to fruition . Peggy Thorpe-Bates plays the ' Matron ' . Fans of ' Rumpole Of The Bailey ' will recall she played his fearsome wife Hilda ( ' She-Who-Must-Be-Obeyed ' ) in the early seasons of the hit Thames show . Funniest moment - on being told that five men and five women will be on Harold's cruise , Albert jumps to the wrong conclusion about what sort of trip it is going to be .
" Pommy beer is flatter than a witch's tit ! "	An Australian turns up at Oil Drum Lane , Shepherd's Bush , purporting to be Arthur , Albert's long-lost son . He has come to the U . K . to settle down , without actually doing any work . The big mouthed Aussie gets his feet under the Steptoe's table , takes money off them at every opportunity , and pushes poor Harold out of his room . He is also keen to go through the company's books . So depressed is Harold about the interloper he moves out , and into a seedy bed-sit . . . The final episode of the excellent Season 6 is a little belter , mixing comedy and pathos once again . Despite his numerous attempts to escape from the clutches of his father , Harold seems genuinely hurt by his father's transference of affection to Arthur . We never quite find out whether this is indeed the real Arthur , or merely an impostor . Albert seems prepared to take him at face value , without bothering to check the details of his story . The late Kenneth J . Warren appeared in countless British films and television shows of the ' 60's and ' 70's , usually as villains in spy dramas . Fans of ' The Saint ' will remember him as ' Warlock ' in the two-parter ' The Fiction Makers ' . Funniest moment - Harold angrily rounding on his father for having sired an illegitimate son : " You're worse than an Aberdeen Angus ! " .
" Its Bickerstaff's revenge ! "	Duncan , Dick and Paul wish to attend a rugby match between England and Wales at Cardiff Arms Park . For Collier , it is no problem , but the others fear their wives may not approve . Salvation comes in the unlikely form of Kenneth Bickerstaff , an old student colleague who has had the decency to drop dead whilst train spotting . His funeral will take place on the same day as the match . So Dick and Duncan tell Emma and Geraldine they are to attend , all the time planning to change their clothes and sneak off to see the game . But then an unexpected development occurs - Loftus wants to tag along . . . George Layton strikes again , but this script is markedly better than his previous three efforts . The earlier programmes had depicted Duncan and Dick as being under their wives ' thumbs , so its nice to once again see them up to mischief , even if their plan does go awry . After the funeral , Bickerstaff's mother invites them home for tea . Alas , the avocado dip gives them food poisoning , and they miss the match . Nevertheless , the sight of our heroes riding a hay cart and singing rugby songs is guaranteed to gladden the heart of any fan . Its the sort of thing they would have done in their student days . ' Bickerstaff ' sounds uncannily similar to ' Bingham ' ; he was an unpopular student , who had a braying laugh , and was regarded by the others as a bit of a creep . Bearing in mind that Bingham was originally planned to be a part of the revival , it seems unlikely that the script began life as ' Bye Bye , Bingham ' . The episode makes several light-hearted references to heart attacks . By a chilling coincidence , this was how Robin Nedwell passed on in 1999 . Funniest moment - at the funeral , Loftus and Duncan struggle to keep their bladders under control . Unfortunately , the vicar's memorial includes several references to rivers and streams !
The Sweet Smell Of Oblivion	Mention the now-defunct ' Granada Television ' to most people and the first thing they are likely to think of is ' Coronation Street ' . It also had a reputation for quality period drama series such as ' Country Matters ' and ' The Jewel In The Crown ' . It may surprise them to learn that the company was responsible for one of the weirdest series ever shown on British television - ' The Corridor People ' . Created and written by Edward Boyd , it starred the beautiful Elisabeth Shepherd as Persian villain ' Syrie Van Epp ' . Shepherd was originally to have played ' Mrs . Emma Peel ' in ' The Avengers ' , but the producers felt she lacked the light comedy touch they wanted , so she was paid off and the job went instead to Diana Rigg . Mention of ' The Avengers ' is important here because ' The Corridor People ' looks like an attempt by Granada to capitalise on that show's success . The larger-than-life villains , the absurd plots , the campy humour , all were replicated here . Van Epp is out to seize power , and the only people to stand in her way are the men and women of Department K of the Ministry Of Defence , led by the wonderfully-named Kronk ( John Sharp ) . Another investigator is Phil Scrotty ( Gary Cockrell ) whose office is dominated by a poster of Humphrey Bogart , and whom dresses like his hero . Other law officers are Inspector Hound and Sergeant Blood , played by Alan Curtis and William Maxwell respectively . The first episode opens with the kidnapping of a birdwatcher - Christopher Robin Vaughan ( Tim Barrett ) . He owns a controlling share in a cosmetics company , and Van Epp wants it . He initially refuses , so she resorts to seduction . He becomes so smitten he plans on giving the share to her as a wedding present . Van Epp wants the share because the company has ( accidentally ) developed a new brand of perfume that knocks out people for a period of 24 hours . Department K snatch Vaughan from Van Epp's grasp and when he refuses to co-operate - execute him . From the above outline it should be clear that this is not intended to be taken seriously . The emphasis is on humour throughout , and I found myself admiring its sheer nerve . Boyd's script has some good lines . When Van Epp tells someone " I am a hoarder ! " , he replies : " That's one syllable too many ! " . Surprisingly , she is amused rather than offended . As Van Epp , Shepherd is deliciously evil , purring like a cat throughout . I warmed to her straight away ! The investigators though are depicted as a daft lot - the young Windsor Davies is among them - and it is impossible to like or care about any of them . Tim Barrett ( known mainly for sitcoms such as ' Terry & June ' ) acquits himself well as the sexually repressed birdwatcher . Of course this is not in the same league as ' The Avengers ' ( nor ' Adam Adamant Lives ! ' for that matter ) because it lacks both excitement and charm . The original audience certainly thought so - it was axed after only four episodes .
" I've got hair on my chest and Susan's got boobs ! "	' The Fosters ' was the first British sitcom to star an all-black cast . A year after it ended , London Weekend Television gave us ' Mixed Blessings ' , written by Sid Green , a former gag man for Morecambe and Wise . The premise is this : university graduates Thomas Simpson ( the late Christopher Blake ) and Susan Lambert ( Muriel Odunton ) are in love and have secretly married . After the honeymoon , they face the unenviable task of informing their parents . Though both English , Thomas is white and Susan is black . Predictably , their respective new in-laws are not happy with the situation . Thomas ' mother , the dimwitted Annie ( Sylvia Kay ) , has a habit of saying the wrong thing at the wrong time . On meeting Matilda ( Carmen Monro ) and William Lambert ( Stefan Kalipha ) , she asks : " Were you ever slaves ? " . Another time , she innocently quips in their presence : " I believe in calling a spade a spade ! " . At which point , Thomas rolls his eyes in despair . Thomas and Susan initially live with his liberally minded Aunt Dorothy ( the priceless Joan Sanderson ) , before acquiring their own flat , where they are scrutinised by the local busybody , Mrs . Beasley ( the late Pauline Delany ) . Susan's job as a social worker provides their major source of income , until Thomas finally gets work . After three seasons , this popular series bowed out on a high note with Susan giving birth . Compared to ' Love Thy Neighbour ' and ' Till Death Us Do Part ' , this was very gentle stuff indeed . Though Thomas and Susan's families disliked one another , we saw little of the hatred which defined Eddie Booth's relationship with Bill Reynolds . They were affable old fogeys rather than ranting bigots . Racist language was conspicuously absent . After the initial episodes , the characters got used to one another , and the show settled into a cosy , domestic sitcom . The opening credits symbolised the format by featuring a wedding cake half white and half black . There were complaints , but by and large ' Mixed Blessings ' was regarded positively . I . T . V . even sold it to the West Indies . Which makes it all the more strange why it is rarely ( if ever ) mentioned on retro programmes . I can only assume that it is because it does not tally with the myth that the ' 70's was the golden age of the casually racist sitcom . The catchy theme song was sung by Christopher Blake , and written by Peter Davison , his co-star in the I . T . V . drama ' Love For Lydia ' .
When Thieves Collide !	Back in the U . S . A . , Mundy is approached at the airport by a sexy blonde who tells him that a man in a phone booth has a gun trained on him . She orders him to get on a plane bound for Geneva . He gives his would-be kidnappers the slip and reports back to Noah Bain . The S . I . A . chief has a new mission for him - to break into the safe of a man named Bjornsen and steal N . A . T . O . defence secrets before he can sell them to the highest bidder . In Geneva , Mundy meets the blonde again , and her boyfriend , George Palmer , also a thief . He is also planning on breaking into the same safe , but for a different reason - to steal a valuable necklace . . . Likable Bill Bixby guests here as ' Palmer ' , a fellow thief . The actor was best known at that time for the sitcom ' My Favourite Martian ' , and would go on to star in ' The Magician ' and ' The Incredible Hulk ' . The best moments feature Palmer and Mundy trying to out-con one another . At one point , Mundy even uses fake police to attempt to deport his rival ! There's no actual battleship here , only a model one in Bjornsen's villa , and this is where the valuables are . Favourite moment - Palmer and Mundy duking it out in a hotel room while the blonde ( never named , incidentally ) sits watching them , calmly eating an apple !
Ahoy There Shipmates !	Appearing recently on an I . T . V . - 1 documentary about L . W . T . ' s ' Doctor ' series , producer Humphrey Barclay said : " ' Doctor At Sea ' sank without trace . Nobody wanted it , nobody talks about it now . " . I think he was being unduly harsh . I like the show , and am happy to talk about it anytime to anyone . It followed the successful ' In Charge ' ( which ran for two seasons ) , and marked the first time the doctors left the St . Swithins ' hospital since ' At Large ' . Dick Stuart-Clark has messed up once too often , and Loftus finally gives him the sack . Duncan resigns in protest . They sign up as ship's doctors for a two-month voyage on the cruise ship M . S . Begonia . But there is a small detail they failed to check on . The captain is one Norman Loftus , twin brother of Professor Sir Geoffrey . This piece of invention enabled the writers to lose Loftus and yet keep him . The first episode ' Sir John & Baby Doc ' provides effective transition between the old and new series . Rather than just let Paul Collier and Lawrence Bingham be quietly forgotten , an issue was made of their leaving . A wonderful sequence has Duncan and Dick looking back at their student days . In reality , Richard O'Sullivan had left to take up residence with Paula Wilcox and Sally Thomsett in ' Man About The House ' , while George Layton became ' Bombardier Solomons ' in ' It Ain't Half Hot Mum ' . As the weeks rolled by , the doctors had to contend with batty passengers , sick crewmen , a snooty Purser ( superbly played by the late John Grieve ) , an Entertainments Officer ( Bob Todd ) whose moods swing alarmingly from depression to euphoria , and a stowaway ( David Jason ) . Duncan even got to lead a mutiny ! As Captain Norman , Ernest Clark was virtually indistinguishable from his twin , except for a beard . Elisabeth Counsell provided glamour as ' Nurse Joyce Wynton ' . Foreign locales featured in the show for the first time . With all these plus points , why isn't ' At Sea ' as well remembered as the others ? The absence of Bingham and Collier disappointed fans , no doubt about it , on top of which you can only do so many plots aboard a ship . The show got into trouble with the episode ' In A Little Spanish Town ' in which Duncan was falsely accused of rape . Whatever the reason , when the show ended , it was decided to send Duncan and Dick back to St . Swithins . Not as good as ' At Large ' or ' In Charge perhaps , but miles better than ' Down Under ' and ' At The Top ' .
To Sea Or Not To Sea ?	A fancy dress party to mark the end of the M . S . Begonia's voyage is interrupted by an emergency operation . The Purser , dressed as Hitler , gives blood . Duncan is fed up of being a ship's doctor . Falling out with Dick , he returns to St . Swithin's alone to plead with Professor Sir Geoffrey Loftus for his old job back , but finds the hospital cold and unfriendly . No-one remembers either him or Dick , and the new intake of doctors are creepier than Bingham . With time running out , the doctors must decide what to do with their futures . . . The final ' At Sea ' sees the welcome return of the Loftus we all know and love - Professor Sir Geoffrey . When Duncan gets out of a taxi , sees the hospital , and gives a big grin , the audience is grinning along with him . The unnamed doctor played by the late Christopher Mitchell ( better known as ' Gunner Parkins ' of ' It Ain't ' Alf Hot , Mum ' fame ) is Bingham to a tee , and one wonders if he was originally offered the role of ' Dr . Gascoigne ' in ' On The Go ' . Bingham has gone to Highcross . Why , the rotten sneak ! Professor Sir Geoffrey Loftus offers the doctors their old jobs back , but they elect instead to return to the ship , leaving the door open for a second season of ' At Sea ' . It never appeared , possibly as a consequence of the expense incurred by Dick and Duncan's Mediterranean adventures , the row over ' In A Little Spanish Town ' , or a feeling that the show simply was not as funny away from St . Swithins . Whatever , when ' On The Go ' got underway the next year , it saw the lads back on dry land . ' At Sea ' was an enjoyable series on the whole , if not quite up to the standard of its predecessor . George Layton and Richard O'Sullivan were missed , but John Grieve's ' Purser ' and Bob Todd's ' Entertainments Officer ' ( strangely absent from the final episode ) provided some compensation . Funniest moment - Dick , dressed as Dracula , asking the Purser if he like to donate blood ! Second funniest moment - Dick and Duncan conducting the interviews for their replacements on the ship . The successful applicant does a runner when they imply they are gay !
Harmless Fun From A More Innocent Age	' Here Come The Double Deckers ! ' premiered on B . B . C . - T . V . in 1970 and was repeated virtually every summer for years thereafter . Nobody objected because it was a thumping good show ; a high-spirited comic version of Enid Blyton's ' Secret Seven ' , replete with singing , dancing , and lots of slapstick . If anyone fell over , they'd never be hurt . The gang came in all shapes and sizes , so the viewers could find at least one kid to identify with . I used to wonder how the gang had gotten together , and why we never saw their parents . A show like this could never be made now . With the Government getting tough on obesity amongst children , Doughnut would be out for a start . Secondly , parents would be bound to object to the sight of children in an old bus , clearly in imminent danger from the exhaust fumes . As for Albert the road sweeper , he'd probably be targeted by a ' News Of The World ' style witch hunt . ' Double Deckers ' is a charming relic from a bygone era when kids were allowed to be kids .
" Four Away ! "	Albert makes a steak and kidney pie for tea . Alas , his culinary skills are hardly in the Delia Smith class , involving the use of a beer bottle as a rolling pin , and his dentures to make a pattern round the edge of the crust . Harold takes one bite , and encounters a tooth . It isn't his , either . Harold has purchased an old snooker table , and has it installed in the living room . It takes up so much room it is virtually impossible to have a decent game . Furthermore , Harold does not appear to be very good at it , potting the cue ball each time he attempts a shot . Albert , on the other hand , turns out to be a brilliant snooker player . As he loses game after game , Harold becomes angrier and angrier . Finally , he flips , and , after moving the table into the yard , insist they continue to play even in the middle of a storm . . . ' Pot Black ' was one of a batch of ' Steptoe ' episodes wiped by the B . B . C . in the ' 70's ( why , for heaven's sake ? ) , only to be later recovered , thanks to Ray Galton , who had the good sense to record them using an early form of V . C . R . Of all the recovered episodes , this is the one that I think suffers most from only existing in monochrome . The colours of the snooker balls cannot be seen , making the action around the table somewhat hard-going . What keeps it afloat are , as you would expect , the performances of the cast . As was the case with the later ' A Star Is Born ' , Harold embarks on a new hobby , only to be outclassed by his father . Funniest moment - faced with a difficult shot , Harold goes outside and leans in through the window !
" The gerboa . . . is an animal ! "	5C's imaginations are fired up by a wildlife documentary . Mr . Hedges suggest they ' adopt ' one of the animals at the local zoo . They choose a ' gerboa ' , a small , jumping rodent more commonly known as a ' desert rat ' . They christen it Norman . Naturally , Potter is not happy about the situation . The class grow to love the animal - Maureen even makes a woollen garment for it to wear in winter - but then Mr . Hedges receives bad news - ' Norman ' has passed away , and it falls on him to have to inform 5C . . . One of the great things about ' Please Sir ! ' was the quality of the writing . In many ways , it was more like a soap , with story lines carrying over from one episode to the next . Here Mr . Cromwell and Smithy are still not speaking to one another , a state of affairs begun in the previous episode when Smithy was relieved of his duties as ' Sports Master ' . Other sitcoms would have quietly ditched the idea . Despite the sad ending , the episode skillfully avoids sentimentality . To cheer up 5C , Hedges takes them round the zoo . Maureen and Mr . Hedges get to ride a camel ( providing her with a golden opportunity to wrap her arms round him ! ) , Abbott is menaced by a rhino , and Dennis walks out with a chimpanzee on his arm ! Funniest moment - Potter corrects Abbott's spelling after the latter has daubed graffiti , then realises that it is his own name !
" Who is Sylvia ? What is she ? "	Doris Ewell is invited by relatives to go and live in Australia . She accepts . To her amazement , Mr . Cromwell laughs when she tells him the news , so in revenge she snips off the heads of his flowers . 5C are besides with themselves with glee at the thought of ' Rotten ' Ewell emigrating . Even the teachers , particularly Mr . Price , cannot wait to see the back of her . Only Mr . Hedges , it seems , is prepared to express sorrow over her impending departure . . . Joan Sanderson takes centre-stage in this episode , and marvellous she is too , definitely one of the programme's major assets . We have all met snooty teachers like ' Miss Ewell ' at some point in our childhoods . However , the script allows her to become more sympathetic than usual , particularly when she cries after losing her cool with 5C . Funniest moment - it has to be Miss Ewell's doomed attempt to turn 5C into a choir . At one point , she ropes Mr . Hedges in . As he warbles " Who is Sylvia ? What is she ? " , his voice suddenly switches from baritone to soprano !
Before Daniel , There Was John !	The late James Mitchell is best remembered as the creator of ' Callan ' , a long-running television spy series that starred Edward Woodward . Not so well remembered is a quartet of novels he wrote featuring another spy - John Craig of ' Department K ' . These were ' The Man Who Sold Death ' , ' Die Rich Die Happy ' , ' The Money That Money Can't Buy ' and ' The Innocent Bystanders ' . The latter was filmed in 1972 , starring my fellow countryman , the late , great Stanley Baker . A scientist called Kaplan has escaped from a Siberian work-camp , and gone to ground in Turkey . Kaplan is close to perfecting a means of transforming arid desert into tropical rain-forests . U . S . Intelligence agency Group Three wants him but , fearing a security leak , cannot use its own men , so its head Blake ( Dana Andrews ) calls on Loomis ( Donald Pleasence ) of Britain's ' Department K ' . Loomis sends for John Craig , a tough , hard-as-nails agent who suffered torture on his last mission and is now considered expendable . He uses Craig as a decoy , while two other agents , Royce ( Derren Nesbitt ) and Benson ( Sue Lloyd ) carry out the assignment . Craig's first inkling that something is badly wrong comes when he visits New York and finds that the gun he had been promised by Loomis has not been provided . At the apartment block where Kaplan's brother's lives , he is brutally attacked . Then Group Three pick up Craig and subject him to a mock torture session . Craig is so psychologically disturbed that he cracks even though he is experiencing no physical pain . A Group Three agent ( Cec Linder ) comes up with an interesting analogy : " You can take a knife and sharpen it and sharpen it until it will cut anything , including silk scarves . Then one day you drop it on a stone floor . The knife still cuts , but the silk scarves are safe . " . ' Innocent Bystanders ' begins rather like ' A Day In The Life Of Ivan Denisovitch ' , but following a pitched gun battle moves to London . As Loomis and Blake stroll through the city , they exchange information , and this is intercut with shots of Craig and Benson firing at targets . This change in styles is rather disconcerting , but fun . Good editing by Alan Patillo , best known for his work on Gerry Anderson's television shows . As John Craig , Baker is reminiscent of another with that surname - Daniel . Like the most recent incarnation of 007 , Craig is good at his job , but not infallible . He was a karate black belt in the books but that is not mentioned here . The fights in this movie are Bond-like . I wish the producers had resisted the temptation to trendify Craig though . His white suits , long hair and ' Yosser Hughes'-style moustache would doubtless make this film a hilarious experience for modern audiences . Geraldine Chaplin is a surprising choice for the role of ' Miriam Loman ' , the American girl whom Craig kidnaps and takes with to Turkey . I say surprising because , how can I put this , she is rather . . . plain . The glamour is provided by Sue Lloyd as ' Benson ' . As ' Loomis ' , the late Donald Pleasence gives a chilling performance , even his request for gooseberry fool and custard sounds unnerving . Derren Nesbitt's ' Royce ' seems to have been modelled on ' Toby Meres ' from ' Callan ' . Like Meres , Royce is young , hot-headed , and keen to show his superiority over the older man Craig . Warren Mitchell plays another of his funny foreigners , an Australian barman named ' Omar ' , who habitually refers to Craig as ' pommy bastard ' . The director was Peter Collinson , responsible for the original ( and best ) version of ' The Italian Job ' . He keeps the whole thing moving nicely , sprinting from one exciting set-piece to another . This is not a Bond-style adventure as such ( no gadgets etc . ) , but John Keating's music at times evokes Bond . When Craig enters a bank vault , for example , you think that the title theme from ' Thunderball ' is about to intrude on the soundtrack . The song - ' What Makes The Man ? ' - is in the middle of the film , and would have worked had it not been ' sung ' by its lyricist , the late Norman ' Hurricane ' Smith , the world's worst vocalist . ' Innocent Bystanders ' is hard to come by , but for fans of Stanley Baker and ' 70's spy thrillers is worth seeking out . As are the James Mitchell books ( credited to James Munro ) . One wishes that they had also been filmed , with Baker again as ' Craig ' .
" But I'm Telling You The Plot ! "	The British public adored the late Kenny Everett , and it is not hard to see why . He was naturally funny , able to make the corniest of jokes ( and Barry Cryer and Ray Cameron supplied him with quite a few ) seem hysterical . After his massively successful Thames T . V . series came to an end ( Kenny was apparently unhappy at budget cuts , which amongst other things resulted in the removal of the ' Captain Kremmen ' cartoons . The sketches had to be done from then on as live action with himself playing ' Kremmen ' and Anna Dawson as ' Carla ' . Also it was put head-to-head with the B . B . C . ' s ' Top Of The Pops ' on Thursday nights ) , Kenny returned in triumph to the corporation that had once sacked him for cracking a joke about a transport minister's wife . His B . B . C . show was more or less the same except for the addition of a laugh-track . Instead of Arlene Phillips ' ' Hot Gossip ' , Kenny's new ace card was the stunning Brazillian-born beauty Cleo Rocos . Other girls in the show were Kate Rabette ( later to play ' Cissy Meldrum ' in the sitcom ' You Rang My Lord ? ' ) , Paula Wootton , and Lesley Ann Sommers . But Cleo made the biggest impact , particularly when as ' Miss Whiplash ' she was seen giving a chained Lionel Blair a taste of the leather lash . The quick fire bawdy humour was retained . Kenny's new characters included punk rocker ' Gizzard Puke ' , ' Julian Mince ' , a Hooray Henry of the first order , agony-aunt ' Verity Treacle ' , and the accident-prone D . I . Y . man Reg Prescott ( whose mishaps with saws and hammers were unusually gory for prime-time television ! ) , Marcel Wave , Morris Mimer and Cupid Stunt ( try saying that after a few drinks ! ) . A regular item of the 1985 series was ' Dallasty ' , a hilarious spoof of the U . S . soaps ' Dallas ' and ' Dynasty ' with Kenny playing most of the roles . One person who did not get the joke was Nina Myskow , then T . V . critic of ' The News Of The World ' and a vocal supporter of glossy U . S . soaps . Perhaps the last line in the closing credits had something to do with it : CREATIVE REALISATIONASSOCIATES PRODUCTION A later series spoofed the Australian soap ' Neighbours ' ( as ' Cobbers ' ) with the entire cast in swim wear , save for Kenny , who wore a suit at all times . Ray Cameron left eventually , and was replaced by David Renwick and Andrew Marshall , who came up with ' Bo Diddley Of The Legion ' . Another memorable sketch had Kenny as Rod Stewart , whose derrire keeps expanding to such an extent that he eventually lifts off . ' The Kenny Everett Television Show ' was a happy one . Stars of the calibre of Joanna Lumley , Richard Johnson , Billy Connolly , Pamela Stephenson , Cannon & Ball , John Wells , Terry Wogan , Tim Brooke-Taylor , Gareth Hunt , and Toyah Wilcox were keen to go on and join in the fun . Two hit records came out on the back of the show : the charmingly titled ' Snot Rap ' in 1983 and ' Snot Rap Part 2 ' in 1985 . In 1988 , Kenny quit to return to his first love - radio . Though he made guest appearances on various game shows ( and even fronted one of his own called ' Brainstorm ' ) , he scaled down his television work . He died in 1995 . Say what you will about Kenny , but British television was a far better place when he was around . After all , his show was ' all done in the best possible taste ! ' .
" I don't know what you mean , Miss ! "	The Goodies launch their own newspaper - The Clarion & Globe - with middling results . Bill's heart is just not in it . As ace reporter , he is hopelessly incompetent , missing major scoops such as a bank robbery , a fire and Prime Minister Harold Wilson streaking . Tim discovers that Bill is in love with the stunning Mildred Makepeace , daughter of a fabulously wealthy ( and notoriously miserable ) property tycoon . Mr . Makepeace has issued a public challenge - anyone who can make him laugh can have the hand of his daughter in marriage . Bill tries , and fails , so Tim and Graeme sack him . Who do they replace him with ? None other than the object of his desire - Mildred herself . . . Sometimes known as ' Fleet Street Goodies ' , this episode is less concerned with bashing the press , and more with Bill's infatuation with Mildred ( though its conveniently forgotten at the end ) . ' Mildred ' is played by the stunning Tessa Wyatt , later to co-star opposite Richard O'Sullivan in ' Robin's Nest ' . She gets some good scenes , notably her crude attempt to chat up Tim , which embarrasses him . ' Mr . Makepeace ' is Roland McLeod , who by now had guested in so many episodes as to be almost a regular . Karin McCarthy , who plays ' Katie Pimple ' , a thinly-disguised Katie Boyle , was appearing at that time in I . T . V . ' s ' The Squirrels ' , written by Eric Chappell . Several scenes - notably the ' Eurovision Raving Loony Contest ' - were used in a B . B . C . Horizon documentary about special effects entitled ' How On Earth Did They Do That ? ' . Funniest moment - Bill trying to commit suicide by laying in front of a moving buzz-saw . Tim and Graeme throw the controls into reverse , but then the buzz-saw gets loose and chases them !
The Last Dodo !	Tim and Graeme are members of ' The Endangered Species Club ' - a brigade of whiskered , upper class toffs who love to shoot anything that moves . So Bill sets up ' The Anti-Endangered Species Club ' , dedicated to the preservation of wildlife , and finds a Dodo , long thought to be extinct . The Dodo makes a nuisance of itself round the Goodies ' office by defecating and breaking wind constantly , so Bill places it in a special ' Dodo Sanctuary ' . Tim and Graeme help Bill try to get the bird to fly and , when their attempts fail miserably , resort to desperate measures . . . I was reminded of this recently when watching the I . T . V . sci-fi drama ' Primeval ' . The Goodies return to a subject they last tackled in the ' A-Hunting We Will Go ' episode from Season 3 - the sport of kings a . k . a . hunting . Once again its practitioners are depicted as drunken old fools who walk with a bow-legged gait and speak incoherently . Its interesting to see Bill showing an interest in birds , bearing in mind he's best known for wildlife programmes these days . The Dodo is about as convincing as ' Basil The Rat ' from ' Fawlty Towers ' , but blessed with a superb vocalization from Percy Edwards . It could not have been easy for him to imitate a long-dead species of bird . Funniest moment - the Dodo , at the controls of an airborne Sopwith Camel , striking back at the Endangered Species Club with bullets and bombs !
" Worms ? Full of protein ! "	Desperate for some good , old fashioned home cooking , the Goodies visit Uncle Tom's farm . From a control room not unlike the bridge of the U . S . S . Enterprise , Uncle Tom uses modern technology to carry out such traditional duties as mucking out the pigsty and milking the cows . The Goodies volunteer to help out with the chores , and discover Uncle Tom has been selectively breeding animals - his cows can produce milk on tap simply by pumping their tails , whilst his duck pies run about on tiny webbed feet . Determined to put a stop to this madness , the Goodies set about ruining his produce . . . The main difference between comedy past and present is apparent in this episode . The Goodies wreck a modern idea , simply because they prefer the traditional way . Today the reverse would probably happen . The recent debate about genetically modified food has made this a lot less dated than it should . As Uncle Tom , John Le Mesurier acts as though he's just walked off the set of ' Dad's Army ' , no bad thing it has to be said . Andrea Lawrence , seen as a sexy barmaid in a spoof beer commercial , played the same role in the original . Funniest moment - the Goodies serving customers with ' tampered ' food such as flying sausages and rock-hard steak !
That's All Folks !	Pet shop owner Graeme sells Tim a ' Barbara Woodhouse ' dog training kit , which turns him into a facsimile of the eccentric lady herself . But when Tim calls out " Walkies ! " in the park , his dog ignores him . However , passers-by respond to the command . Tim and Graeme begin a new business - to sell people who act just like animals . One of these is Bill , dressed as a cocker spaniel . As a result of the success of their business venture , real pets are no longer in demand , so Graeme sets up a new kind of restaurant - ' The Rumbling Tum ' - whose menu consists of dogs and cats . But the ' animals ' come to resent being treated badly , and turn on Graeme . Bill becomes a canine ' Spartacus ' . . . The final episode of the disappointing London Weekend series is a cracking return to form for the lads from Cricklewood , even if the basic idea seems similar to one they did two years earlier at the B . B . C . - the superb ' Animals ' . There's an oddly touching moment as Bill , in his dog guise , reminds his master ( Tim ) that he loved him once . The climax in which the ' animals ' chase Graeme is reminiscent of the finale of H . G . Wells ' ' The Island Of Dr . Moreau ' . Funniest moment - in the restaurant , Graeme offers Tim a Twiglet . As Tim takes a bite , Graeme tells him it is in fact a stick insect ! For the Goodies , this was indeed the end of the road . Disappointing ratings ensured they did not get another season ( perhaps a later time slot would have helped ) . ' Animals ' appears to suggest that they had overcome the teething troubles caused by the change-over , and were ready to roll again . I do not accept the oft-repeated charge that their humour became outdated . ' The Two Ronnies ' ran until 1987 , ' The Morecambe & Wise Show ' until 1984 ( only ending because of Eric's death ) and Alf Garnett was successfully resurrected in 1985 . There were plenty of juicy comic targets for the lads to aim at in the ' 80's - Ronald Reagan , Heavy Metal , the New Romantics , ' Dallas ' , ' The A-Team ' , and films such as ' Rambo ' ( one can easily visualise a ' Goodies ' version of ' Rambo ' - it would probably have been called ' Timbo ' ) . But they were not given the chance to lampoon the decade . That job went to a new show called ' Spitting Image ' . . . In 1984 , L . W . T . repeated ' The Goodies ' on Sunday afternoons , and the B . B . C . rather graciously included ' Kitten Kong ' as part of a retrospective in 1986 . More recently , ' Beanstalk ' was part of a 2004 Boxing Day comedy retrospective on ' Five ' , the lads reunited for ' The Return Of The Goodies ' one-off on B . B . C . - 2 a year later , followed soon afterwards by a timely reshowing of ' Winter Olympics ' . That appears to be it , folks .
Heavy Petting !	Miss Petting tries to interest 5C in dancing , but the only music they want to gyrate to is the latest Top 10 . As her depression worsens , Mr . Hurst tries to cheer her up by asking her round his place for dinner that evening . She accepts , only to then discover he is married . Daisy , meanwhile , is not having much luck with men either , and asks Miss Petting for advice . As the headmaster prepares to star in an amateur production of ' The Mikardo ' , he seems to be getting along well with Miss Petting . Talk of romance is in the air . Celia fixes a date for Daisy with a member of her family . Both women are in for terrible disappointments come the opening night . . . A better than average episode , thanks to Esmonde and Larbey's script which focuses on the previously neglected characters of ' Miss Petting ' and ' Daisy ' . Both are mirror images of each other ; plain , lacking in confidence , and unable to attract the opposite sex . Vivienne Martin's emotionally overwrought ' Gloria ' seems to be a prototype for ' Carole ' from ' The Brittas Empire ' . Eventually , both women are brutally let down . Miss Petting discovers Cromwell only wants her as a dogsbody , while Daisy's date turns out to be . . . a boy . Nice gentle pathos , not too overdone . Unfortunately , the episode ends before ' The Mikardo ' can get underway , so we can only guess at how well Mr . Cromwell's performance was received . Funniest moment - Miss Petting's bizarre singing voice which must surely rival Hyacinth Bucket's !
Nanny Knows Best !	The Goodies are out of work , with no offers of employment forthcoming . Then a creepy elderly couple hires them to act as nanny ( Tim ) , cook ( Bill ) , and gardener ( Graeme ) for one day . They entrust the Goodies with the responsibility of caring for Cecily , their niece . Cecily claims to be the heir to a vast family fortune her aunt and uncle are determined to possess . Even if it means resorting to murder . . . The only ' Goodies ' episode to give me nightmares ( Tim wasn't alone in having hysterics on seeing Cecily's last nanny reduced to a grinning skeleton in a rocking chair . Not even ' Psycho ' had that effect on me . ) . This is a delightfully demented episode , containing some terrific film sequences , most notably Graeme in the garden ( no pun intended ! ) , and Tim taking Cecily out to play . Ann Way was ' Mrs . Hall ' in the ' Fawlty Towers ' classic ' Gourmet Night ' , while Jill Riddick , who plays ' Cecily ' , was familiar to viewers as Wendy Craig's daughter ' Amanda ' in ' Not In Front Of The Children ' . Funniest moment - Tim running with a kite , and falling in the river !
High Noon For Price !	Terry's dad is out of jail following a six month stretch for armed robbery ( actually , he'd tried to steal a handbag in a busy high street ) . Terry boasts in a school essay that his dad intends beating up Mr . Price in revenge for him giving evidence at the trial . When Price hears of this , he is terrified . But he need not be . Mr . Stringer wants to go straight , and has forgiven Mr . Price , much to Terry's disgust . Back at Fenn Street School , Mr . Cromwell is having problems with an new intercom system . Price sends for an electrician . When he arrives , his surly manner convinces Potter he is really Mr . Stringer . . . Tony Bilbow picks up a thread begun in ' False Alarms ' . Barry is worried that he will lose face in front of his friends , but in a clever ending Price sustains a mild electrical shock whilst poking about in a fuse box . 5C thinks he has gotten his come-uppance . The late Jack Watson , who plays the electrician , appeared in numerous television shows and films , including the role of the sergeant-major in ' The Wild Geese ' . Funniest moment - Price's futile attempts to hide from the man he thinks is Stringer .
The barbarians are at the gates of Fenn Street . !	Hedges ' latest plan to turn 5C into towering intellectual geniuses is the creation of a library , open after school hours and supervised by Potter . The caretaker isn't keen on the idea though . With him out of the way , the class are free to use the place for non-curricular activities , such as smoking and drinking . The teacher works out what they are up to and leaves behind a message on the library tape recorder , promising to throttle them using the elastic from Maureen's knickers . Hearing this , they flee from the room . More trouble comes when Hedges finds the place vandalised , and wrongly assumes that 5C are responsible . Duffy and co . track down the real culprits - a gang of yobs from 5B , led by Graham Webster , out for revenge for having earlier been brutally evicted from the library by Duffy . With a visit from the Board Of Governors imminent , Hedges tries to get the room tidy in time . . . Very good episode this . I well remember my own school library and what a joy it was to be asked to help catalogue the books therein - it usually meant a welcome respite from normal English lessons . I took dozens of books home with me , most on the subject of space exploration and astronomy , causing my teacher to assume I would become a rocket scientist when I left school . Things did not work out quite as planned - I became a chef instead ! All the cast are put to good use here , particularly Deryck Guyler's ' Potter ' and his suspicions that 5C might be smoking ' that Carnaby rubbish ' ( cannabis ) . I would love to know how 5C managed to smuggle the crates of beer into the school though ! Funniest moment - Hedges ' blustering attempts to keep the bigwigs out of the library . Second funniest moment - the look on his face when his recorded message is replayed in front of them !
" Show Us Your Belly Buttons ! "	Hedges is appalled by the poor quality of the sex education 5C is receiving . Price has been using rabbits to explain the subject , leaving the class either ignorant or indifferent . Frankie is among the former ; his mother has told him that the sex act involves the belly button ( navel ) . The teacher resolves to tell Frankie the truth , but Cromwell threatens to suspend him . After much wrestling with his conscience , Hedges does so . Cromwell tries to carry out his threat , but finds himself up against the rest of the teachers , including - surprisingly - Doris Ewell . . . I do not recall sex education classes taking place at my local school , if there were any , I could not have been there that day . It was a touchy subject , with some schools adopting a Victorian moralistic stance akin to Cromwell's . This is one of John Alderton's best performances as Hedges , as it brings him into conflict with the school system . While not actually losing his temper , he is plainly horrified at Price's primitive teaching methods . Episodes like this were never attempted again after Alderton's departure , which possibly explains why the show was cancelled when it was . Funniest moment - Potter stripping wallpaper from what he believes to be Hedges ' new flat . Actually , it isn't , and everyone else is next door !
Charity Begins At Fenn Street !	Fenn Street School has raised a surprisingly large amount of money for charity as the result of a sponsored walk . Mr . Cromwell plans to hand it over to a bigwig named Sir Giles at a special ceremony . Then disaster strikes - the money goes missing from Cromwell's safe . Being the sort of person he is , Potter immediately suspects a pair of Irish builders currently working on the premises . In actual fact , the thief is Terry , protesting at being made to walk such a long distance for no reward . But he loses the money too . . . Quite a good episode this ( penned by Rowley and Baker ) in which all the cast members are put to good use , even Mr . Hurst . There's a neat twist at the end too . ' Sir Giles ' is played by Lockwood West , father of Timothy . Overall it feels like a throwback to the style of earlier seasons , and suggests that the changes were at last starting to work . Pity it happened too late to save the show . Funniest moment - Miss Petting fainting as the money is discovered to be missing .
Much Better Than Expected	Usually in movie franchises ( particularly superhero ones ) the third film is the one where it starts to run out of steam . This was certainly true of ' Superman 3 ' and ' Batman Forever ' - though a very enjoyable movie - was not as good as the two preceding it . So it was with some trepidation that I sat down to watch ' Spider-Man 3 ' . The first two were excellent , so how would this compare ? Very well indeed , I thought . Picking up on a plot strand from the last one , Harry Osborn is told by the ghost of his dead father that Peter Parker killed him , and that he is Spider-Man . Harry decides to carry on the family legacy by becoming the new Green Goblin . Elsewhere , a criminal named Flint Marko breaks out of prison and takes refuge in a secret testing area where he is exposed to radiation . As a result , he now has the ability to turn his body to sand . I remember ' The Sandman ' from the comics so it was good to see the character being visualised so accurately , even down to the green striped shirt . Spidey's problems are not over yet . A strange creature from outer space attaches itself to Parker while he sleeps and creates a black version of his costume which , when worn , brings out the dark side of his character , enabling Tobey Maguire to have some fun with the role . Parker sees the love of his life , Mary Jane Watson , in a new musical play on Broadway , and makes plans to ask her to marry him . But that day will have to wait . . . These diverse plot strands converge at the end in a breathtaking finale . Its pointless describing the action scenes but needless to say they are exciting indeed . The giant-sized Sandman is a truly terrifying creation . As Spidey wryly observes : " where do these guys come from ? " . Tobey Maguire and Kirsten Durst turn in their usual fine performances . The presence of ' Gwen Stacy ' did startle me somewhat though . I found myself muttering : " don't go near any bridges ! " whenever she was on screen . Stan Lee makes his usual brief cameo - nuff said ! What makes these films special though is not so much the C . G . I . but the love and care with which Sam Raimi has brought to the material . You get the impression they are not made simply for the money . At times you can almost see the comic-book pages being turned . As someone who read the Lee / Ditko originals as a boy , I was pleased with this movie . I do not know whether any more ' Spider-Man ' films will be made , but if this turns out to be the last , the series has ended on a very high note indeed .
Gee Whiz !	U . F . O . buff Des Kinvig ( Tony Haygarth ) runs a shabby electrical shop somewhere in London . He is married to the dog-loving Netta ( Patsy Rowlands ) , and his best friend is Jim Piper ( Colin Jeavons ) , a wild-eyed loon who thinks the Government are covering up the existence of extra-terrestrial beings . One of Des ' regular customers is the beautiful but bad tempered Miss Griffin ( Prunella Gee ) . Unable to sleep one night , he takes his dog ' Cuddly ' for a walk , and encounters a flying saucer on the common . Aboard are weird-looking aliens along with - surprise , surprise - Miss Griffin , clad in sexy futuristic clothes . The ship has come from Mercury , the interior of which is hollow . The people there are descended from inhabitants of the lost city of Atlantis . Des helps them fix their ship , and it lifts off . So begins the first in a series of bizarre adventures for the electrician . . . ' Kinvig ' was the creation of Nigel Kneale , renowned as the author of the legendary ' Quatermass ' sci-fi serials for the B . B . C . In 1981 , he tried his hand at comedy - with somewhat patchy results . The idea for ' Kinvig ' was good , but alas he was not too hot at writing funny lines for the characters . The canned laughter did not help matters either . The series was shown on I . T . V . a few months after the B . B . C . ' s ' Hitch-Hiker's Guide To The Galaxy ' . But whereas that programme already had an established fan base , ' Kinvig ' was left to sink or swim . It was screened on Friday evenings , directly after a U . S . import called ' Spider-Man ' starring Nicholas Hammond . The ' Spider-Man ' audience could not get its head around ' Kinvig ' , while the kind of viewers appreciative of cult comedy would not have been watching at that time . One or two I . T . V . regions yanked the show from peak-time and dumped it in a graveyard slot . It was never repeated , but came out on D . V . D . a while back . I suspect that had Kneale not written it , it would not have seen the light of the day . The cast are wonderful , particularly Tony Haygarth ( remember him as the ball-scratching ' P . C . Wilmot ' from ' Rosie ' ? ) as ' Kinvig ' , with dear Patsy Rowlands as ' Netta ' , and the splendid Colin Jeavons ( hilarious as ' Mr . Shadrach in ' Billy Liar ' ) as ' Jim ' . Prunella Gee , one of the sexiest ladies ever to grace the television screen , looked fabulous in her revealing sci-fi outfits . Patrick Newell , ' Mother ' from ' The Avengers ' , popped up as ' Mr . Horsley ' of the Bingleton Borough Council , whom Kinvig and Jim suspect of being an alien called a Xux . Simon Williams , of ' Upstairs Downstairs ' , is virtually unrecognizable as ' Buddo ' . It was never made clear whether Kinvig's close encounters with Miss Griffin were real or imaginary , but I do not think it seriously hurt the show . Kneale's hidden agenda was to poke fun at sci-fi buffs and U . F . O . freaks . He was only partially successful . Watching the show again recently , I found it amusing rather than funny . Nevertheless , its a pity that it did not get a second season . ' Red Dwarf ' was not much better in its first year , but improved over time . Michael Grade - no lover of sci-fi as his axing of ' Dr . Who ' a few years later proved - was not prepared to give ' Kinvig ' a chance . A quick mention of Nigel Hess ' superb music , he also worked on ' End Of Part One ' and ' Whoops Apocalypse ' .
Enter : Maya	One of the aggravating things about ' 1999 ' Year 2 was how it began promisingly then went rapidly downhill . The opener - ' The Metamorph ' - was by Johnny Byrne , one of the show's key writers , and directed by the reliable Charles Crichton . Set some years after the events of ' The Testament of Arkadia ' , it begins with an Eagle scouting a volcano-infested planet in search of titanium . Having found it , the Alphans are elated , but then a crisis develops . A ball of light pursues and envelops the Eagle , spiriting it off to goodness knows where . Annette Torens ( Anouska Hempel ) , wife of one of the pilots , faints ( makes a nice change from Sandra ) . Down on the planet , in his underground lair , is Mentor ( Brian Blessed giving his usual understated performance ) , creator of the biological computer ' Psyche ' . To bring the dead world back to life , Mentor is kidnapping alien pilots and draining them of intelligence . He has such a fate in mind for the Alphans . But his vivacious daughter Maya ( Catherine Schell ) is not about to let him to do this . I like this episode as it does what it says on the tin . It is action-packed , colourful and entertaining . The absence of Barry Morse's ' Professor Bergman ' is noticeable ( it would have been like Leonard Nimoy quitting ' Star Trek ' after Season 1 ) though , along with Paul Morrow ( Prentis Hancock ) , and David Kano ( Clifton James ) . Instead of Morrow , we get the late Tony Anholt as ' Tony Verdeschi ' . Where was he during Year 1 ? The script originally mentioned Bergman as having died because of a faulty space-suit , but this was deleted . However , Michael Butterworth's novelisation retains the reference . Brian Ball's Powys Media novel ' Survival ' gives a different explanation for Bergman's disappearance - benign aliens took him ( though the Alphans think he is dead ! ) . As ' Maya ' , Catherine Schell is sexy and charming , even though the arrival of the character effectively moved the show away from science fiction and into the realm of comic-strip fantasy . How nice it would have been if they could have had her and yet retained Bergman . Barry Gray's lush orchestral sounds were replaced by Derek Wadsworth's more contemporary music , resulting in the show often sounding like ' The Protectors ' . So a thumbs-up from me for ' The Metamorph ' , but what a pity the show did not live up to this standard ( especially when Fred Freiberger - the Ronald D . Moore of his day - got his hands on a typewriter ! ) . Incidentally , this was later combined with ' Space Warp ' to make a ' movie ' entitled ' Cosmic Princess ' .
" I'm a lumberjack , and I'm O . K . . . . "	This was the Pythons ' first attempt at a movie - made when the series was still in production - and , while in no way comparable to later classics such as ' Holy Grail ' and ' Life Of Brian ' , its good fun , and a lot better than many of the films-based-on-T . V . sitcoms made around at that time . Playboy club boss Victor Lownes put up the money , thinking the film had the potential to be a cult hit in the U . S . A . But it was not . For one thing , it was badly promoted ( John Cleese remembers seeing a strange poster of a grinning snake with a hat on . Just the sort of thing calculated to set box-office tills ringing , of course ) and anyway the Americans were hardly likely to go and see a film based on a show which ( at that point ) they had not seen . ' And Now ' is an anthology of sketches from the first two ' Monty Python ' series . Unlike ' The Best Of Benny Hill ' ( which reused original television material ) these were remakes . They included ' Crunchy Frog ' , ' Upper Class Twit Of The Year Show ' , ' Marriage Guidance Councillor ' , ' The Lumberjack Song ' , ' Sir George Head ' , ' Hungarian Phrase Book ' ' Blackmail ' , ' Self-Defence Class ' , ' Nudge Nudge ' and ' Hell's Grannies ' . Some of the items benefited from the move to film , such as ' Funniest Joke In The World ' , while others fell flat , most notably ' The Parrot Sketch ' . Michael Palin was to have reprised his role as the disgusting ' Ken Shabby ' , but Lownes insisted that the sequence be dropped . Terry Jones ' Nude Organist is seen for the first time , he went on to become a regular feature of the series . The Pythons came to regard the film as an embarrassment as it was basically a rehash of old material , but it was successful in establishing that Python humour could work on the big screen . When they made ' Holy Grail ' three years later , they were much more confidant and self-assured . In the days before the availability of Python on video and D . V . D . this film was the only reminder of the group's genius . Now its somewhat redundant , but still worth viewing . Funniest moment - tough one , this . I'll go for Palin's rendition of ' The Lumberjack Song ' mainly because I love the shocked looks on the faces of the mounties as the full meaning of the lyrics hits home . Oh , and Connie Booth is sexy too ! One complaint though - how on Earth did they manage to leave out the ' Ministry Of Silly Walks ' ?
The Goodies Movie ?	Failing spectacularly in various bids for pop stardom , the Goodies become the super-group of all time by stealing ideas from the likes of ' Wizzard ' , ' The Osmonds ' and ' The Rubettes ' . So successful are they that the Queen gives them O . B . E . ' s during a rainstorm at Buckingham Palace . A new dance called ' The Bounce ' is all the rage , and the Goodies run for Parliament as ' The Bounce Party ' , but are soundly beaten by a party which outlaws enjoyment . . . ' Goodiemania ' swept Britain in 1975 . After four successful series , and a regular spot on ' Englebert & The Young Generation ' , ' The Goodies ' suddenly crossed over from cult status to mainstream . With a new , post-watershed slot ( 9 p . m . ) , its ratings went into the stratosphere . ' The Goodies ' were voted ahead of ' The Two Ronnies ' and ' Morecambe & Wise ' in a newspaper poll to find the nation's funniest comedy team , while their books and records sold by the truckload . How did it happen ? Its been suggested that the cancellation of ' Monty Python ' the previous year helped . All the Pythoniacs who'd previously dismissed ' The Goodies ' as a kids ' show tuned in , and saw it wasn't really that much different . I think this explanation tells only half the story . The fact is the fifth season was simply brilliant . ' The Movies ' , ' Kung Fu Kapers ' , ' Bunfight At The O . K . Tearooms ' , ' The End ' and ' Scatty Safari ' are outstanding examples of the show . ' Goodies Rule-O . K . ? ' was a fitting climax to a wonderful year for the team . It wasn't the first Christmas special they'd made ; ' The Goodies ' Travelling Five-Minute Christmas ' holds that honour , but was the first not to be Christmas-themed . It has no unifying plot , it simply moves from one bizarre happening to another , any one of which would have made for a typical episode - the overall effect is akin to watching one of those compilations made from the ' Carry On ' films . As a result , ' O . K . ' never enjoyed the popularity as say , ' The Goodies & The Beanstalk ' . In fact I remember it being repeated only the once . A number of gags about Harold Wilson ( the then Prime Minister ) resulted in ' O . K . ' looking dated only a short time after its original broadcast ( he resigned in 1976 ) . Even so , there's a lot of fun to be had here and it provides a tantalizing glimpse of what a ' Goodies ' feature film might have looked like . Funniest moment - it has to be the Goodies ' battle with Dougal from ' The Magic Roundabout ' ! Amazing , even after all these years !
" Yo , Biggles ! "	Cards on the table time - I have not read the ' Biggles ' books by Captain W . E . Johns . I remember seeing them on sale in the children's book department of W . H . Smiths back in the 1970's , but never plucked up the courage to actually buy one . I was more into the ' Nick Carter - Killmaster ' novels . I assumed the ' Biggles ' books to be jingoistic relics from the days when England was alleged to have ruled the waves ( and skies ) , the sort of stories Grandad read as a boy . But that was then . Around the end of the decade , a feature film was mooted , starring John Cleese in the title role . Though it would have been interesting seeing the star of one flying circus in yet another , it never happened . Dudley Moore's name next came up in connection with the project . Fine if they wanted to send up the character , but not for an allegedly straight adaptation . Appearing on Granada's ' Clapperboard ' to talk about the Robert Powell version of ' The Thirty-Nine Steps ' ( which he had adapted ) , writer Michael Robson stated that he was currently working on a screenplay for ' Biggles ' . As he said it , he looked faintly embarrassed . The problem in bringing ' Biggles ' to the Silver Screen was that the character ( indeed the genre ) had been sent up rotten over the years by , amongst other things , ' Monty Python ' , ' Ripping Yarns ' , and Russ Abbot . Just put a comedian in a World War One flying suit ( with goggles ) give him a handlebar moustache , make him talk thus : " Wizard Prang ! What larks ! Shot down two Fokkers over the Channel . One did a belly flop over the teddy bear ! " and the audience would be certain to die laughing . In 1986 , a ' Biggles ' movie finally appeared . The writers decided to bring in a sci-fi element in an effort to grab some of the ' Back To The Future ' audience . It starts in the then-present day with Jim Ferguson , an ad man based in New York , who is being stalked by a mysterious Englishman , Colonel Raymond , played by the great Peter Cushing ( in what turned out to be his last role ) . Ferguson keeps jumping back in time for no apparent reason , to 1917 , where he meets flying ace James Bigglesworth , or ' Biggles ' for short . Biggles has discovered that the Germans have invented a new sonic device capable of mass destruction . So back and forth goes poor old Jim . One minute he's in N . Y . extolling the virtues of T . V . dinners , the next up to his neck in blood and mud in W . W . 1 France , working alongside Biggles , who apparently is his ' time twin ' . In one amusing scene , Jim dresses as a W . W . 1 soldier and waits in his hotel room to be blasted back to Biggles ' side , but it never happens . A cleaner finds him the next morning and laughs at him . Neil Dickson is not on screen enough of the time to warrant his top billing , which is a pity as he's terrific in the role of ' Biggles ' . Most of the film is devoted to Alex Hyde-White ( son of Wilfrid ) as ' Jim ' . He's okay , but I wish that the focus of the story was more on the title character . The action scenes , while not as good as those of say ' Raiders Of The Lost Ark ' , are nevertheless exciting . One particularly good moment has a helicopter containing Biggles and Jim winding up in 1917 , where it comes in handy against the Germans . There's also a very emotional scene in 1986 where elderly Colonel Raymond is reunited with Biggles , the latter not having aged a day since they last met . Overall this is an enjoyable romp , but it is a shame that its makers did not have the confidence to make this a real ' Biggles ' movie , instead of trying to shoehorn him into a daft sci-fi story . Ironically , the 1917 scenes have dated far less badly than the 1980's stuff . The rock soundtrack was another mistake . The director was John Hough , whose other credits include ' The Legend Of Hell House ' and the Hammer movie ' Twins Of Evil ' , as well as episodes of ' The Avengers ' television series . ' Biggles ' was dumped on by critics and ignored by the public when it came out , but now seems quite charming . Interestingly , around the time of its release , I spotted a young boy coming out of a library with a heavy looking book - an omnibus edition of ' Biggles ' . If the film , for all its faults , inspired someone to seek out and read the original stories then it could not have been a waste of time after all . I may give them a go myself one day .
The Girl From Nowhere	At Dr . Denholt's clinic , suicide victim Jane Brown is resuscitated using an experimental drug . Her memory gone , she cannot tell anyone why she took her own life . All anyone knows is that she was found in a seedy hotel room , crouched before a gas fire . To remain alive , Jane must receive regular injections of the drug . Paul Amory is entrusted with the task of looking after her . As weeks pass , her intelligence levels increase , and fragments of her memory come back . He begins to fall for her . But , in Cambridge , she panics and , fleeing from Paul , attempts to gas herself again . There is a mystery here , one which Paul is determined to solve . . . Anthony Skene penned one of the best ' Prisoner ' episodes - ' A , B & C ' - which funnily enough also opened with a sheet-covered body taken to a laboratory and given an experimental drug . Remove the fantasy element and this psychological drama could easily have fitted into A . B . C . ' s ' The Human Jungle ' . Good central performance from Stefanie Powers as the child-like ' Jane ' . Its a pity that she did not get more decent roles , instead of being mired in the quagmire of ' Hart To Hart ' for years . Also in the cast is the late Alan McNaughton , who appeared in ' The Avengers ' and the Granada sitcom ' Yanks Go Home ' . Nice location shooting in Cambridge , and a pleasant soundtrack by Bob Leaper .
Dennis & His Dummy !	Albert Baker is trapped in a world of romantic fantasy . But his attempts to play the great lover backfire each time . Falling out with his current girlfriend , he walks home alone . In the display window of a London department store , he spots an unusually attractive dummy . It comes to life , and smiles at him . So smitten is Albert that he gets a job at the store as a dresser . He calls the dummy ' Eve ' , and in his imagination they act out every romantic situation imaginable . For the first time in his life , he is happy . But Mr . Royal , his boss , announces his intention to replace the store's stock of dummies , meaning that Eve is bound for the furnace . . . Adapted from the story ' Special Delivery ' by John Collier , ' Eve ' sounds like an ideal premise for a comedy , and indeed there is some amusement to be had in watching the Dennis Waterman character romancing Eve in soft focus and slow motion , but the episode also works as a study in psychology . ' Albert ' goes insane because his dreams won't come true , and his madness leads him to ( accidentally ) commit murder . When Eve comes to life , she is played by the beautiful American actress Carol Lynley , and though mostly mute manages to convey emotion using a variety of expressions and gestures . Dennis Waterman was a good five years or so away from ' The Sweeney ' and a decade before ' Minder ' . He is excellent as ' Albert ' , at times reminding one of Tom Courtenay's ' Billy Liar ' . That wonderful actor Michael Gough plays ' Mr . Royal ' . One question though - how did Albert manage to get Eve away from London without attracting attention ? The premise of shop window dummies coming to life was also explored in the ' Twilight Zone ' episode ' The After Hours ' , as well as the ' Dr . Who ' classic ' Spearhead From Space ' . ' Eve ' is more whimsical , but no less gripping , and ends on a tragic note .
Programmed To Kill	Inga Madison is the creator of ' Computex ' , a computer with the ability to think faster than the human mind . Her husband , Ralph , suspects her of having an affair with the handsome Stuart Crosbie , and hires a private detective to keep tabs on her . His worst fears are confirmed . Ralph uses Computex to devise an ingenious method of murdering Inga , in such a way that it appears accidental . When Inga next tries to enter the Computex building , the security system will short-circuit , causing her to be electrocuted . But something goes wrong . Ralph is killed instead . . . Computers with big egos were very much in vogue in late ' 60's film and television . Stanley Kubrick's ' 2001 : A Space Odyssey ' had HAL-9000 killing the crew of a ship bound for Jupiter ; ' Colossus : The Forbin Project ' warned of the dangers of entrusting nuclear defence systems to machines . Here ' Computex ' , ostensibly used to plot a murder , begins acting independently of orders . As one would expect , the technology now looks prehistoric , but its a gripping story all the same . Future ' Dallas ' star Barbara Bel Geddes occupies the role of ' Inga Madison ' . Sue Lloyd , of ' The Baron ' , is her associate ' Barbara Rossiter ' . Jack Hedley , who plays insurance investigator ' Adam Frost ' , was reunited with writer Michael J . Bird in 1977 for the romantic thriller ' Who Pays The Ferryman ? ' . Allan Cuthbertson , a . k . a . ' Ralph Madison ' , was in numerous dramas and comedies , usually cast as smooth villains , as well as appearing ( as himself ) in ' The Tommy Cooper Hour ' . Directed by Rex Firkin , future executive producer of ' Budgie ' .
Stalked By The Seaside !	Barbara King , a young American woman , checks in at the Beach Hotel , Hastings . Unfortunately , her hopes for a peaceful holiday ( she is recovering from a breakdown brought on by over-work and a failed romance ) fade almost immediately . As she sleeps , a mysterious figure in hat and glasses enters her room , and approaches the bed . By the time she has attracted help , the stranger is gone . Suspicion falls on Mr . Plimmer , a middle-aged man staying with his wife . But the Plimmers move out a day later . Barbara learns that the husband of the hotel's owner , Joan Walker , went insane years ago and had to be put away . Could he be lurking somewhere about the house , possibly hiding in the permanently locked room next to the linen cupboard ? Written by Alfred Shaughnessy , later to write for ' Upstairs , Downstairs ' , this is a suspenseful episode , benefitting from nice location work and good performances , especially the late Kay Walsh as the alcoholic landlady , and Geoffrey ' Catweazle ' Bayldon as creepy ' Mr . Plimmer ' . Its never explained though just what Barbara is doing in England in the first place . Patty Duke gives an adequate performance . Spot The Future Star ; ' Peggy ' the maid is played by Sally James , she of ' The Almost Legendary Pop Interviews ' from the ' 70's children's show ' Tiswas ' . Its tempting to think the Phantom Flan Flinger might be the stalker , but that theory does not hold water ( rather like the buckets Sally and Chris Tarrant used to wield ) . The denouement is not really much of a surprise ( not many suspects on view for a start ) , and the final wrap-up scene evokes ' Psycho ' . The title refers to the fact that Barbara is the last visitor of the holiday season .
Death Behind Glass	Jimmy Rintoul wishes to become a composer , but his prospective manager , the trendy Rollo Verdew , has no money to promote him . Noticing Jimmy's dead butterfly collection ( he kills them by means of a jar he calls a ' killing bottle ' ) , an evil idea forms in Rollo's mind . He invites Jimmy to stay at his wealthy brother Randolph's country house . Randolph is somewhat unbalanced . He will kill anyone - or anything - he knows has been cruel to living things . Rollo is gambling on Randolph losing his mind on seeing Jimmy demonstrating the killing bottle . With him put away for life , the estate will be entirely his . . . Based on a story by L . P . Hartley , this tale of murder , madness , and greed is pretty offbeat . It never occurs to Randolph that murder is in itself an act of cruelty . The ending - in which Rollo has a change of heart following a hastily blurted-out ultimatum from his girlfriend - is rather unconvincing . As I have not read the original short story , I do not know if Julian Bond was faithful to it or not . There's no American guest-star in this episode . Roddy McDowall was familiar enough across the Atlantic ( in films such as ' Planet Of The Apes ' ) to take the lead here , while future ' Doctor In The House ' star Barry Evans plays the naive ' Jimmy ' . William Marlowe steals the show as the deranged ' Randolph ' , a man outwardly normal until he sees cruelty displayed towards animals or even insects . The scene in which Jimmy puts the butterfly in the killing bottle as the others look on is disturbing even now .
The Jerry Crown Affair !	London-based private detective Jerry Crown is handsome , intelligent , and a wow with the ladies . About the only thing he is not is rich . Joyce , his present girlfriend , works as secretary to a fabulously wealthy American widow by the name of Leona Gillings , a devout believer in the supernatural . Leona wishes to communicate with her late husband Howard , but is fearful of being taken for a ride by the numerous fakes and fraudsters purporting to be mediums . Jerry accompanies her to a sance , and exposes a carefully worked-out scam . Leona is impressed with his shrewdness , and soon the couple grow very close . But Jerry is a bit of a fraud himself , seeing Leona as his meal ticket . Even Joyce is disgusted by his deceit . Then Jerry meets his match in the shape of Miss Sarah Prinn , a genuine spiritualist . . . The name ' Robert Bloch ' has become ( for obvious reasons ) synonymous with that of his most famous novel ' Psycho ' . He also penned a number of original screenplays and television scripts ( including the ' Catspaw ' episode of ' Star Trek ' ) , of which this is one . It was directed by Roy Ward Baker , one of Hammer's best directors . Two years later , they worked together again on the Amicus multi-storey horror picture ' Asylum ' . Tom Adams , future star of ' The Enigma Files ' , plays Jerry Crown , a private eye bent on fleecing his rich client . Adams brings to the character the same laconic style he brought to the role of secret agent ' Charles Vine ' . I could have cheerfully watched him all day exposing fraudulent spiritualists . A series starring Adams as ' Jerry Crown ' would definitely have been welcomed by me . Of course , the conclusion of this story made such a notion impossible . Julie Harris , who plays ' Leona ' , was no stranger to tales of the supernatural , having appeared in Robert Wise's classic ' The Haunting ' in 1963 . Estelle Parsons , a . k . a . ' Miss Sarah Prinn ' , starred opposite Boris Karloff in Michael Reeves ' cult classic ' The Sorcerers ' two years earlier .
A Portrait Of Evil	Wartime London . Crichton , a young serviceman , rushes home to tell fianc Alison Benedict the good news - he has obtained leave and a marriage licence . He finds her in bed with an American . Shocked , he runs off . Moments later , the house is partially destroyed in an air raid . Years pass . The rebuilt property is sold to Jon Holden , an American artist , and his girlfriend Kit Beaumont . Jon becomes fascinated by a portrait of a beautiful woman on the living room wall . It is of the late Alison . Though dead for twenty-five years , her presence can still be felt there . Jon finds a scarf impregnated with her favourite scent . Kit cuts herself on a nail sticking out of a wooden box - it had been taken out a short time before . She slips on the stairs and takes a nasty fall . Are these merely accidents - or deliberate ? Jon himself undergoes a change of personality , becoming moody and withdrawn . He spends his time sketching Alison . Despite never having met her , the likeness is uncanny . . . The late Robert Lansing stars as ' Jon Holden ' . He would go on to be ' Control ' in the ' 80's action show ' The Equaliser ' starring Edward Woodward . His girlfriend , Kit , is played by the scrumptious Gabrielle Drake . I do not know whether it was deliberate or not , but here the actress looks dowdy , a contrast to her later role as ' Lieutenant Gay Ellis ' in Gerry Anderson's ' U . F . O . ' . Maybe that silver suit and purple wig helped . Amongst the cast is John Fraser as their friend ' Derek ' . Fraser appeared in countless films and television shows over the years , amongst them the ' Dr . Who ' story ' Logopolis ' ( Tom Baker's final story ) as ' The Monitor . Future ' Eastenders ' star Gretchen Franklin plays the housekeeper Mrs . Barrett . Don Chaffey achieves some disturbing imagery , such as the blood from Kit's arm dripping into a sink and slowly filling the screen . We never really get to see Alison . She's seen only from behind and her mocking laughter fails to evoke any menace . The pictures were by Brenda Dury . The ending can be seen coming a mile off . I was hoping that Kit would destroy the portrait and thus break Alison's hold over Jon . No such luck . An engaging instalment , all the same .
Beware ' The Whelp ' !	Teacher Craig Miller is surprised when his pupil Rodney Blake makes an unusually good sketch . The boy had previously displayed no artistic ability whatever . When Blake is attacked in class , he stares at his attacker in an unnerving manner - the terrified boy crashes through a window . Miller and another teacher , Jill Collins , explore Blake's background . His parents came from Australia , and adopted Rodney when they moved to England . Rodney is one of identical quins , each living with different families , each blessed with a remarkable talent , such as the ability to draw , or play the piano . A psychic link connects the boys - when one feels anger , they all do . Rather more worryingly , they are equipped with terrifying mental powers - they can make people believe they are seeing what is not really there . Steven , one of the boys , lives in the wilds like an animal , and terrorises the local community . He is thoroughly evil , and appears to be controlling his brothers . . . Unusually , this episode was adapted not from a short story , but a novel - and a rather good one - by Leslie P . Davies . Watching it now its hard not to be reminded of ' Village Of The Damned ' or ' The Omen ' - although that latter movie was a good six years in the future when this was made . Rather than turning out to be sons of Satan , the boys are the product of Nazi genetic experiments . Roderick and Barnaby Shaw play the quins ( with a little help from nifty camera trickery ) . Michael Tolan is the teacher ' Craig Miller ' . He was no stranger to sci-fi , having appeared in the ' Outer Limits ' classic ' The Zanti Misfits ' . Nanette Newman , very pretty but alas the worst actress of all time , is ' Jill Collins ' - her performance seems to be a dry run for the one she gave in ' The Stepford Wives ' . Good old Michael Ripper , a Hammer regular , plays ( what else ? ) a publican . Directed by James Hill , responsible for ' Born Free ' and one of the best episodes of ' The Avengers ' - ' A Touch Of Brimstone ' .
" We don't want you to spy . . . we want you to steal ! "	In a hotel in Lisbon , two sinister looking men enter an elevator , one with a briefcase chained to his wrist . When the doors open , a third man - wearing a mask and carrying a gun - backs out , the briefcase now in his possession . Another man , also armed , approaches him from behind . The would-be thief hands the case over before trying to make a break for it . He falls down the elevator shaft . Four S . I . A . agents have died while attempting to discover what is in the diplomatic pouch of a foreign power . Noah Bain decides to recruit from outside the organisation ; as a cop , he arrested notorious cat burglar Alexander Mundy , so he paroles him and installs him in a lavish house with three beautiful girls for company . There's just one catch - each room is fitted out with cameras and microphones , making sex impossible for Mundy unless he wants an audience . Aboard a plane , Mundy poses as a loud tourist . He douses the lights long enough for him to switch cases with the Embassy officials . They come after him , and , with guns blazing , chase him across the airfield . Mundy escapes by clinging onto the undercarriage of a landing plane . The pouch held photographs of S . I . A . agents ; obviously someone in the organisation has gone bad . Noah is more interested in the fact that Mundy's actions have triggered an international incident . He tries to have Mundy returned to jail , but with the help of glamorous S . I . A . agent Clare Vickers , the thief escapes and sets out to discover who the traitor is . . . Produced under the title ' Magnificent Thief ' , this is the pilot to the popular thriller series ' It Takes A Thief ' , which starred Robert Wagner as burglar turned reluctant spy ' Alexander Mundy ' and Malachi Throne as spy chief ' Noah Bain ' . It is one of those shows which although successful at the time appears to have been virtually forgotten here in the U . K . While ' Batman ' and ' Star Trek ' have been endlessly repeated since the 1960's , this has been left to gather dust on a shelf . One could be forgiven for assuming that the reason for this is that the show itself is not terribly good , but a viewing of the pilot immediately shoots down that theory . Directed by Leslie Stevens ( creator of ' The Outer Limits ' ) , with a script by him and Roland Kibbee , this is a stylish T . V . movie , rather like ' Mission : Impossible ' only more fun . Robert Wagner brings charm to the role of ' Mundy ' , an incorrigible rogue in the mold of Roger Moore's ' The Saint ' . As his boss , Malachi Throne is equally impressive . John Saxon is as menacing as ever as the ( disfigured ) villain . ' Clare Vickers ' ( if this had been a British film , just imagine what fun the hero could have had with a name like that ! ) is played by sex-bomb Senta Berger , whose other contributions to the genre include ' The Quiller Memorandum ' and the Matt Helm picture ' The Ambushers ' . In cameo guest roles are James Drury and Doug McClure ( stars of the Western series ' The Virginian ' ) as airport ticket officers , while a pre ' Airplane ! ' Leslie Neilsen deadpans as an S . I . A . security officer . Susan Saint James ( future ' MacMillan & Wife ' co-star ) is seen as a stewardess . Some good set-pieces include the briefcase theft , airport chase , and climactic shoot-out at Expo 68 . Its surprisingly violent for a T . V . movie too , with one of the bad-guys getting a javelin in the chest . But its Wagner's laid-back performance which makes the whole thing such enjoyable viewing . This was made as just the television spy craze ( which began with ' The Man From U . N . C . L . E ' ) was winding down , which meant that thriller shows were edging their way back to reality . The ingredients for a hit television show were put in place , and ' It Takes A Thief ' did not disappoint , running for three seasons .
Virtually Forgotten	' Virtual Murder ' crept into the B . B . C . - 1 schedules in the summer of 1992 where , unsurprisingly , it went unnoticed . A brave attempt to do an offbeat mystery series in the manner of ' The Avengers ' , it starred the late Nicholas Clay as Dr . John Cornelius , a brilliant professor who specialises in investigating baffling crimes ( such as someone using a sonic device to melt great works of art , or a man dressed as Santa dumping a skeleton in a police station ) , assisted by glamorous Samantha Valentine ( Kim Thomson ) . Cornelius got through six cases before the B . B . C . called time . Its cancellation was a great shame ; Clay and Thomson had sexual chemistry , the scripts were clever ( Philip Martin of ' Gangsters ' fame wrote one : ' Meltdown To Murder ' ) and guest-stars included Bernard Bresslaw , Julian Clary , Hywel Bennett , Richard Todd , and Tony Robinson . ' A Torch For Silverado ' featured the late Jon Pertwee in his last television role . To add insult to injury , this fine show has yet to appear on U . K . Gold , much less D . V . D .
Excellent Comedy	An egg-timer full of eggs . That was the curious image which opened ' After That , This ' week after week , and it set the tone for what followed . More whimsical than satirical , the sketches tried to ape ' Python ' slightly by dispensing with punchlines . In one , Bron disrupts a dinner party by pretending to be a cat . In another , Bird finds Bron dying of thirst in the desert and instead of going for help indulges in vacuous upper-class chit-chat . Another , told in the form of opera , has Bron's masseuse fretting that the client she has just made love to ( Fowlds ) might be her long-lost son . My favourite featured Bron as Fanny Cradock , playing at being a T . V . surgeon , with Bird as her inebriated husband Johnny . The humour was more sophisticated than what else was on offer at the time , and everyone played their parts brilliantly , particularly Bron , whose breathtaking talent for detailed comic characterisations was never used to better effect than here .
Eric Chappell's Forgotten Sitcom	" I hope ' The Squirrels ' never return . It drove me nuts ! " went a letter in ' The People ' newspaper in 1976 . I suppose it was inevitable that someone would make a crack like that , about a show with such a daft title . Writer / creator Eric Chappell described it as being about ' the paranoia and lust for promotion of white-collar workers in confined spaces . " . He based the show on his experiences as a travelling auditor with the East Midlands Electricity Board . It was his first sitcom hit , the pilot being screened just ahead of the first series of ' Rising Damp ' . Set in the accounts department of International Rentals , a television hire company , it focused on the lives of a motley group of characters ; ' Mr . Fletcher ' was the boss , splendidly played by Bernard Hepton ( his first T . V . role since ' Colditz ' ) as a bow-tied , bespectacled lecher , his underling was the nervous ' Rex ' ( the wonderful Ken Jones from ' Porridge ' ) , ' Harry ' ( Phil Silvers-lookalike Alan David ) was always on the make , and then there was ' Burke ' ( Ellis Jones from the children's sitcom ' Pardon My Genie ' ) who read Dracula comics when he was meant to be working . Being a ' 70's sitcom with an office setting , there just had to be a sexy secretary , and was - ' Carol ' ( Karin McCarthy ) , whom Fletcher was always lusting after . Rex was married to downtrodden but sympathetic Susan ( Patsy Rowlands - who was also in ' Bless This House ' when this was made ) . In one episode , Rex had to attend a company conference , which meant him spending time away from home . Susan dutifully packed his belongs , and then secretly followed him to ensure he got up to no naughty business . In another , Rex got so fed up that he resigned , before applying for a similar job . He later found that it was his old job he was applying for . In yet another , Rex meets an old friend and rival ( Philip Madoc ) whom has fallen on hard times and is forced to play ' The Sugar Balls Man ' for a breakfast cereal company . Wanting to get time off to watch cricket on television in another episode , Rex feigns illness , only to do the job too well - everyone back at the office thinks he has died . It was a standard sitcom , though good fun , boasting a good cast and some wonderful lines . When Harry complains about Rex's habit of having his hair cut on the firm's time , Rex responds : " Why not ? It grows on the firm's time ! " . The only annoying aspect was the obvious canned laughter - a problem that dogged all sitcoms made by A . T . V . After two seasons , Chappell relinquished the writing duties to others , such as future ' Grange Hill ' creator Phil Redmond , actor Kenneth Cope , and Alan Hackney . In 1991 , Yorkshire Television remade it as ' Fiddlers Three ' starring Peter Davison and Paula Wilcox , but it was nowhere near as good . Apart from the pilot , the show still exists , and may be seen by a new audience someday . I just hope no-one expects it to be anything like ' The Office ' . Why do I have the awful feeling that ' Fiddlers Three ' will see the light of D . V . D . first ?
' The Professionals ' Was The Real McCoy	Alongside ' The Sweeney ' , ' The Professionals ' is probably the best-remembered British action series of the 1970's . It was created by Brian Clemens , and followed hot on the heels of ' The New Avengers ' . Martin Shaw and Lewis Collins had appeared together in an episode ( ' Obsession ' ) . I was not immediately won over by ' The Professionals ' . I had the impression that Clemens had taken some left-over ' New Avengers ' scripts , scrubbed out the names ' Steed ' , ' Gambit ' and ' Purdey ' , and substituted ' Bodie ' , ' Doyle ' , and ' Cowley ' . Certainly the Russian agents in ' The Female Factor ' looked and sounded like they had come straight from that show . Even some of Laurie Johnson's incidental music sounded indistinguishable . I was not alone in my cynicism . A letter writer to ' The People ' newspaper soon after its debut claimed that ' Gordon Jackson was badly miscast ' and that the show was basically ' the poor man's Starsky & Hutch ' . The hit U . S . show starring David Soul and Paul Michael Glaser was declining in popularity in the U . K . as ' The Professionals ' debuted . I recall my school friends suddenly raving about this new show and going silent on the subject of Huggy Bear's pals . Despite initial misgivings , I stuck with ' The Professionals ' and am glad that I did because it improved as it went along . The ratings went up in spite of tough competition from B . B . C . - 1's equally violent ' Gangsters ' . Later on it would be pitted against the popular private eye drama ' Shoestring ' . The premise was this ; George Cowley ( Gordon Jackson ) is the head of C15 , an organisation set up to combat terrorism . His top agents are Bodie ( Lewis Collins ) and Doyle ( Martin Shaw ) . That was really all there was to it . The show boasted lots of exciting action ( violent even by today's standards ) , guest-stars such as a pre-'Not The Nine O'Clock News ' Pamela Stephenson , one of the best theme tunes ever , a pair of personable leads , and some pretty good scripts . Particularly memorable were ' In The Public Interest ' in which C15 investigates an ( unnamed ) city where a zero tolerance policy to crime has unfortunately given rise to massive police corruption ; and ' The Rack ' where C15's very existence is questioned , and Cowley has to make an impassioned plea to a court to preserve the anonymity of an informer . ' Heroes ' had witnesses to a robbery coming under threat from the underworld when a newspaper foolishly printed their names . One episode - ' Klansman ' - dealt with racism and was deemed too controversial to broadcast . Shaw and Collins made a good team , and Jackson gave solid support in what was basically a thankless role . The show predictably drew complaints on account of its violence , but fans seemed not to mind . Yes , it took a simplistic approach to serious issues such as terrorism , and there was virtually no character development , but it managed to be good entertainment . It ran for five years in all , totalling 57 episodes . ' The Two Ronnies ' did a funny parody called ' Tinker , Taylor , Smiley , Doyle ' in which Ronnie Corbett's ' Doyle ' got a new partner in the shape of Ronnie Barker's mild-mannered ' George Smiley ' . And , of course , ' The Comic Strip Presents ' gave us ' The Bullshitters ' ! Though repeats were blocked for many years by Martin Shaw , ' The Professionals ' is now to be found on ' I . T . V . - 4 ' ( with heavily edited editions going out in afternoon slots ) and before that , ' Granada Plus ' . Despite changing public tastes , its popularity has endured . With the arrival of ' Life On Mars ' on B . B . C . - 1 in 2006 , the genre of hard-bitten ' 70's crime telly was effectively exhumed . Viewers could once again see men being men , and women either being shot , beaten up or taken to bed . ' The Professionals ' though was the real McCoy .
The End Of An Era	Its 5C's last day at Fenn St . School and , as you'd expect , they can't wait to see the back of the place . Hedges asks Price to be best man at his forthcoming wedding and , in so doing , offends Potter , who had had his heart set on the job . To console the caretaker , Hedges offers him the role of Chief Usher , assuring him it is a more important responsibility . Hedges also manages to upset 5C when he says he plans to forget them . In revenge , they lock him in Potter's boiler room . As assembly gets underway , Hedges attempts to signal his predicament by tapping on the pipes . . . The final episode of Season Three effectively marked the end of the show's golden era , and though the gang resurfaced in the ' And Everyone Came Too ' Christmas Special ( in which Hedges finally married Penny ) , the movie , the fourth season episode ' Old Fennians Day ' ( with Carol Hawkins replacing Penny Spencer as ' Sharon ' ) , and the spin-off series , things would never be the same at Fenn Street School again . The climax is virtually identical to the finale of ' To Sir With Love ' ( Hedges is given a present by his class , and meets one of the new intake ) , though without the sentimentality . Funniest moment - Hedges emerging from the boiler room smack in the middle of Mr . Cromwell's address to the school !
What Did You Do In The War , Mr . Potter ?	Potter is a member of the local Old Comrades Association , where he bores everyone by blathering on about his war experiences . The only reason he gets selected to lead the forthcoming veterans ' parade is that no-one had the nerve to blackball him . Exactly how true Potter's experiences are will soon be put to the test as his old commanding officer at El Alamein - Bell - shows up at Fenn Street School , demanding to see him . The caretaker is terrified , and with good reason . Bell is the only man alive who knows that he panicked under fire and fled . . . A good Esmonde / Larbey episode , reminiscent of the ' Dad's Army ' story ' The Two And A Half Feathers ' ( in which Corporal Jones ' honour and integrity was under question ) . Luckily for Potter , Bell only wants a regimental photo , nothing else . Very little of 5C here ; they appear briefly in a short scene with Smithy but that's about it . Ffitchett-Brown leaves to take up teaching in Africa . He had not been in the show for very long , and no attempt whatever was made to develop his character or even replicate the relationship Hedges had with the original 5C . Apart from occasionally goosing Doris Ewell , he might as well not have been there . Joe Gladwin - ' Stan ' from ' Nearest & Dearest ' and future ' Last Of The Summer Wine ' cast member - is one of the veterans . Funniest moment - Potter proudly marching at the head of the veterans ' parade , before leading them down a cul-de-sac !
" Who's that walking across my sky ? "	A regular feature on ' The Benny Hill show ' for years were ' spoof outtakes ' - moments of television when things would , for whatever reason , go wrong . A door refusing to open , an actor fumbling his lines , a bit of scenery collapsing , that sort of thing . These ' quickies ' were very funny and hugely popular . Then , in 1977 , London Weekend Television broadcast ' It'll Be Alright On The Night ' which was more of the same . Only with a difference . The outtakes were real ! Taken from the archives of motion pictures , news broadcasts and television productions , ' Night ' was a glorious celebration of disaster , boasting clips that would become classics . The girl singer whose mermaid costume slips in the middle of her number , exposing her naked breasts . ' John-Boy Walton ' exclaiming excitedly : " They're gonna hang him by his balls ! " ( I wonder what the original line was ? ) . ' Grandma Walton ' spilling soup over the cast . A trailer for ' Bouquet Of Barbed Wire ' ( a notorious drama about incest , starring Frank Finlay ) being overlaid by one for ' The Muppet Show ' ( how hard it was to tell the difference ! ) . A trailer for ' Within These Walls ' ( a British drama set in a women's prison ) interrupted by a commercial featuring singing , dancing puppets called ' The Yogurt Kids ' . A Irishman gives an interview to a reporter , but talks so fast no-one understands a word he says ! An actor filming a scene in a fake WW2 plane is thrown when someone walks in front of the backdrop supposed to represent the sky ( hence the quote above ) . An American reporter talks to camera , unaware that behind him a man is exposing himself on air ! Denis Norden introduced the programme in his usual urbane manner ( though I could never work out why he had an empty clip board on his person ! ) . The show proved a big ratings success for I . T . V . and further shows were assured . Amongst the best of the later outtakes : ' Professionals ' Martin Shaw falling out of the back of a moving van ! Peter Sellers giggling when someone farts in a crowded lift in ' Revenge Of The Pink Panther ' . A lengthy local news item in which a man revisits the area where he planted some trees a decade earlier , and fails to recall the exact spot , then breaks his spade ! My favourite though was the young American girl who , when asked for her opinion of Christmas , replied : " I think they should have it every year ! " . As Richard Littlejohn would say , you could not make it up !
The Gang's All Here ! ( Well , Almost )	Its Cromwell's maddest idea yet ; Eton has Old Etonians , so why not have Fenn Street School ' Old Fennians ' ? A special reunion day for former pupils is planned . A blue and green ' Old Fennian ' tie goes on sale , and teachers compete to see who can come up with the best school song . But on Old Fennians Day , only a handful shows up - amongst them Duffy , Sharon , Dennis , Craven , Maureen and Frankie . As the entries are performed , they respond with predictable derision . Finally , they unveil a little song of their own , sung to the tune of ' Deutchland Uber Alles ' . . . The return of the old 5C was welcome if not entirely unexpected . The new look show was losing viewers , and this was clearly an act of desperation . It was hardly the ' big ' reunion it should have been , however - the old 5C hadn't been away long enough for their return to seem special and besides , two of the ' old ' pupils had not been in the show before . Malcolm McFee , who played ' Craven ' , was unavailable for the first series of ' The Fenn Street Gang ' so his place was taken by Leon Vitali ( McFee returned for subsequent seasons ) . The sultry Penny Spencer , the original ' Sharon Eversleigh ' , was fired for asking for a pay rise . Her role went to the equally attractive Carol Hawkins . If nothing else , Tony Bilbow's episode showed up just how poorer ' Please Sir ! ' was without the old guard . The former 5C taking their places at their old desks is a great moment , and enabled them to effectively pass the baton to their successors . This is the best episode of Season 4 , and would have been better still had they managed to get John Alderton back . When Maureen looks at Hedges ' empty chair and wails - " That's where he used to sit ! " - the audience knows just how she feels . Funniest moment - the horrified looks on the teachers ' faces as the old gang perform their ditty !
Food , Inglorious Food !	Mrs . Savage is the chief cook at Fenn Street School , and the one thing that pupils and teachers can all agree on is that her food is absolutely terrible . The only person unaware of this is Mr . Cromwell , mainly because Potter has been substituting his meals with ones made by his wife Ruby . The wily caretaker has a scam going ; in return for keeping Mrs . Savage in the job , he gets free groceries . When Hedges ventures into the kitchens to confront the cook , she loses her temper and resigns . The new cook is far better . But once again Potter conceals the truth from the headmaster by swapping his dinner . Mr . Cromwell reinstates Mrs . Savage , much to the disgust of the school . . . I was lucky . The standard of food at my school was uniformly excellent . We did not have a ' Mrs . Savage ' slaving over our stoves . The lady herself is played by the late Pat Nye , the only woman who could conceivably have given Peggy Mount a run for her money in the ' battleaxe ' stakes . ' On The Buses ' fans may remember her as ' Mrs . Blake ' from the Season 7 episode ' The Visit ' . As well as being a bullying , bad-tempered cow , her lack of hygiene is deplorable . Note the scene where she shakes her hair all over the stew , before complaining there are hairs in it ! Jo Rowbottom is seen as sexy barmaid ' Elsie ' . A few years later , she would play James Beck's wife in the Ronald Wolfe & Ronald Chesney scripted I . T . V . sitcom ' Romany Jones ' . Funniest moment - Hedges and Price looking forward to a pie in their local , only to discover the new cook is none other than Mrs . Savage !
" June ! "	One of the most unfairly maligned programmes of all time , ' Terry & June ' was also one of the most popular sitcoms of the ' 70's and ' 80's . It started life as ' Happy Ever After ' , but when Eric Merriman decided he didn't want to write any more , it changed into this , hence the dropping of ' Aunt Lucy ' and the Fletcher's becoming the Medford's . Yes , it was cosy , domestic , middle-class stuff ; the plots ran the gamut of clichs from the boss coming to dinner , the vicar organising a jumble sale , and unwanted relatives coming to stay for the weekend . It was certainly not ' dreadful lazy comedy ' . As for it being ' not clever ' , it was not meant to be . It was funny and well performed , and that was enough ! I too loved the ' alternative ' boom of the ' 80's ( ' Spitting Image ' , ' Black Adder ' , ' The Young Ones ' etc . ) but also enjoyed conventional stuff such as this . If nothing else , it provided alternative comedy with something to be an alternative to . I found it sad though when the likes of Ben Elton took against both this and Benny Hill . Well , family oriented comedy has all but vanished from our screens , but where has it left us ? Take a look at the latest T . V . schedules . All soaps and reality dross . The few comedies left are aimed at teenagers , meaning they are jam packed with swearing , bodily function jokes , and explicit sexual references . And they are not remotely funny either . The ' alternative comedy ' boom was good in many ways , but had a dark side . It made conventional sitcoms appear old fashioned , drove away talented writers and performers such as Spike Milligan , and ultimately led to such unspeakable drivel as ' Little Britain ' and ' Tittybangbang ' ( heaven help us ) . If it ain't broke , don't fix it !
The Man With The Deadly Stick	This episode gave British viewers an early sighting of Felicity Kendal ( billed as ' Kendall ' ) , then aged 20 . As one of the millions of males who lusted after her when she scrubbed fireplaces in ' The Good Life ' , I have no hesitation in listing this among my favourite ' Suitcase ' adventures , and not just because of her . It was penned by Victor Canning , author of spy thrillers such as ' The Limbo Line ' and ' Castle Minerva ' . Kendal plays ' Marcelle Robart ' , a young , blind Frenchwoman , something of a recluse . In the teaser , she reads aloud from a Braille book , before hearing heavy footsteps on the stairs . The parrots shriek in their cages . An unknown intruder murders her stepmother ( Gillian Lind ) , and makes off with her jewellery . Noticing an ad in a local paper requesting information about the murder , McGill offers to take on the case . He is warned off by both the police and Henri Thibaud ( Marius Goring ) . Marcelle's only contact with the outside world comes with the special concerts she holds for her blind friends each month . Presents are given out . What she does not know is that they contain not soap , tobacco or chocolates but narcotics . . . As the blind girl , Felicity is terrific , both innocent and attractive . Marcelle's initial distrust of McGill soon turns to something resembling affection , though it is never overtly stated whether or not it has progressed beyond the platonic . Marius Goring , a marvellous character actor , played ' The Expert ' in the B . B . C . series of that name ( a British version of ' Quincey M . E . ' ) , and makes a suitably flamboyant villain , equipped with a cane that doubles as a shotgun . Keith Marsh , who plays ' Leon ' , is best known for comedy roles such as ' Jacko ' in ' Love Thy Neighbour ' . Michael Bates , future star ' Last Of The Summer Wine ' and ' It Ain't Half Hot Mum ' pops up briefly as ' Delacroix ' . Jeremy Summers , the director , worked on ' The Saint ' and ' The Baron ' , and directed a number of movies , including the Tony Hancock classic ' The Punch & Judy Man ' . If it strikes you as odd that Madame Robart's murderer chooses not to eliminate Marcelle also ( though blind , she is still capable of identifying the culprit , albeit by his footsteps ) bear in mind that she was crucial to the criminals ' operation . Without her , there would have been no special concerts . In the final scene , she is so horrified at having been exploited by drug dealers she contemplates a return to a life of solitude , but McGill urges her to live life to the full . In contrast to the series ' usual downbeat endings , this one offers hopeful optimism .
In Search Of Venus	This episode opens in 1944 , as British and German soldiers fight it out in San Vincenzo , Italy . Foley ( Harold Goodwin ) becomes fascinated by a painting he sees in a bombed-out art gallery , so he takes it . It is none other than Sandro Botticelli's ' Head Of Venus ' , and is worth an absolute fortune . In 1967 , art connoisseur Gilchrist ( Annette Carell ) is approached by Kershaw ( Bernard Lee ) , a seedy character who clings to the delusion that he is still an officer and a gentleman . He claims he knows where the painting is , and wants her to lend him 200 to buy it . Foley is now suffering from dementia and in a home for ex-servicemen . His ex-landlady sold the picture for next to nothing to a junk shop . Gilchrist decides to cut Kershaw out of the deal . She hires McGill to find the painting . . . Donald Jonson wrote several ' Danger Man ' episodes , including ' Colony Three ' ( which many believe inspired ' The Prisoner ' ) . This story could have started life as a ' Baron ' caper , but makes a good ' Suitcase ' adventure . The Botticelli - Head Of Venus actually existed ( exists ? ) , and remains missing to this day . If you have it in your attic , congratulations . The theme here is greed . What people are prepared to do in order to become rich . Bernard Lee , who plays ' Kershaw ' , was the first and best ' M ' in the James Bond movies . Priscilla Morgan , cast as ' Mavis ' ( his girlfriend and Foley's ex-landlady ) , is the real-life wife of actor Clive Dunn . Annette Carell a . k . a . ' Gilchrist ' ( it is hinted that she and Mac may have had an affair in the past ) , made her penultimate television appearance here - she died later that year . ' Prisoner ' fans will recall her as ' B ' from the classic episode ' A , B & C ' . David Garfield , seen as Gilchrist's butler , was resident gangster ' Ronnie Lynch ' in the later series of John Sullivan's ' Citizen Smith ' . Though the painting everyone is after ultimately turns out to be a fake , Mac gives it to Foley so that he can spend the rest of his days admiring it - the only pleasure he has left in his life , a nice gesture on Mac's part .
Wild Child	Sue Mandel ( Judy Geeson ) is young , beautiful , and rich . Also a bit of a rebel . Her father ( George A . Cooper ) becomes concerned about the company she has fallen into , namely a pair of upper-class confidence tricksters named Colin ( Peter Blythe ) and Charles ( David Cole ) . Pretending to be her friends , they are secretly breaking into her father's safe , and helping themselves to his money . Wishing to avoid a scandal , Mandel sends for McGill . The ex-American agent decides to play the con men at their own game , by romancing the girl from under their noses . The ploy works . Sue is genuinely fascinated by Mac . Sensing that the golden goose is slipping away from them , Charles and Colin challenge Mac to a no-holds barred game of poker . . . Ah , Judy Geeson . A lady I had a big crush on in my youth . She is gorgeous in this , whether it be in swim-suit or fully dressed . Sue knows that Colin and Charles are crooks , and doesn't care . All she is interested in is aggravating her father , who has been too busy making money to care about her . As cads go , Charles and Colin are like younger versions of the bad guys in ' The Rotters ' episode of ' The Avengers ' . Sue's dad is clearly of working class origin , which probably explains his distrust of anyone of higher breeding . It is never explained whether Charles survives the climactic fight with Mac . One of the great things about this show was that , like real life , problems would not be neatly tied up at the end of very episode . Though Mac has saved Mandel's money , Sue is not particularly grateful , running off somewhere else to do the wild child act all over again . Mandel's relationship with his daughter is no better than it was before . Jacqueline Pearce is seen briefly as ' Miss Brown ' , one of Colin's former victims . Best known for portraying ' Servalan ' in the B . B . C . sci-fi drama ' Blake's Seven ' , she would resurface in ' Suitcase ' ( in a much larger role ) in ' Somebody Loses , Somebody . . . Wins ? ' . Ian McCulloch , cast as ' Kemp ' , later played ' Greg Preston ' in the original ( and best ) ' Survivors ' . George A . Cooper , a . k . a . ' Mandel ' , is best known for comedy roles , such as ' Mr . Fisher ' in ' Billy Liar ' . John Clive , seen as the hotel receptionist , is also a noted supporting actor , and voiced ' John Lennon ' in the animated Beatles film ' Yellow Submarine ' . Terrance Donovan , father of Jason , also has a small role in this . McGill's trick with the coin was something I attempted on many occasions , but somehow never mastered .
" That'll teach him to call on Ash Wednesday ! "	A year after the excellent ' Holiday With Strings ' , Les Dawson was back for more Hancockian capers , courtesy of Ray Galton and Alan Simpson . Les goes to a psychiatrist as he is incredibly depressed . Also there are a man so shy he hides behind a newspaper ( only his eyes are visible through a hole ) , a mad Colonel ( Campbell Singer ) who keeps ripping pictures of stately homes out of magazines and a kleptomaniac ( Hilda Fenemore ) who tries to steal Les ' helmet . The psychiatrist ( Jack May ) asks Les why he is depressed , and he lists all the world's ills , including Gay Lib and Max Bygraves . But the session does not help Les - he leaves more depressed than when he went in . He goes back to his dingy rundown flat ( which resembles Rigsby's in ' Rising Damp ' ) and takes to bed where he chain smokes and eats constantly . When he finally gets up , he has to use a broom to clean the mattress . He gets a pair of unwelcome visitors - a vicar ( whom he gets rid of by tipping an ashtray over his head ) and an effeminate health visitor who has brought along a bowl of coq au vin . Yes , its Roy Barrowclough again . He would pop up in almost every episode , but as a different character presumably because each time they meet Les does not recognise him . Campbell Singer was ' The Lodger ' in the ' On The Buses ' episode of that name , while Jack May played ' William E . Simms ' in the ' 60's adventure series ' Adam Adamant Lives ! ' . Hilda Fenemore has played more housewives than I care to remember . Funniest moment - Roy climbs into bed with Les , and asks : " Do you like coq au vin " ( putting extra emphasis on the ' coq ' ) to which Les , misunderstanding him , replies : " Not if I can avoid it ! " .
Terror In An English Village	Dying peripatetic agent John Gilsen ( John Carson ) has information that could put one of the world's biggest drug networks out of business for good . Naturally , they are not happy about this , so their killers pursue him relentlessly across the globe . Peters ( James Villiers ) , the head of the network , comes up with a novel idea to smoke Gilsen out . He dispatches the champagne-swigging biker Lucas Guardino ( Derren Nesbitt ) along with other assorted hoods to Gilsen's home - a small English country village - to create an atmosphere of terror . Each night , locals are roughed up , property is damaged , and fires started ( sounds like my home town on an average night ! ) . The police force consists of one tubby bloke ( Norman Mitchell ) on a bike , so the bad guys have a field day . They then go one step further by hiring MacGill ! Mac's investigations draw a dead end , the locals are uncooperative . He does not know why his employers want Gilsen so badly , but when a Scotland Yard detective named Hedley ( Gerald Sim ) and C . I . A . agent Kane ( John Brandon ) show up in the area , he begins to have doubts about their motives . . . Another good Edmund Ward episode . Unusually violent for the time , with Mac on the receiving end of another beating and in the climax the locals turn on the gangsters , pulverising them ( nothing like a good old fashioned lynch mob when it comes to meting out some honest justice , is there ? ) . Peters , unlike your average drug pusher , enjoys a high standard of living - quaffing expensive food and drink while making philosophical speeches about the nature of drug addiction : " They ( the addicts ) are on a stupid trip to a dreamland that doesn't exist . And we sell tickets ! " . Another strong cast - John Carson was in ' The Gilded Cage ' episode of ' The Champions ' and the Hammer classic ' Plague Of The Zombies ' amongst other things , James Villiers was the ' Chief Of Staff ' in the 1981 Bond movie ' For Your Eyes Only ' , Derren Nesbitt was ' New Number Two ' in ' The Prisoner ' adventure ' Its Your Funeral ' , and Noel Howlett , well cast as a Vicar , went on to play ' Mr . Cromwell ' in the sitcom ' Please Sir ! ' . Larry Martyn ( credited here as ' Martin ' ) was ' Mr . Mash ' in ' Are You Being Served ? ' . Filmed in the village of Fulmer , some 2-3 miles from Pinewood . It was also seen in ' The Persuaders ! ' and the underrated ' Strange Report ' . Gerald Sim's ' Hedley ' reappeared in another ' Suitcase ' exploit - ' Burden Of Proof ' - also penned by Ward .
Target : McGill	Mac is leaving a pub in the company of his current girlfriend Moira ( Rosemary Nicols ) and his drunken American chum Willard ( Donald Sutherland ) when a car races by , and the driver calls out : " Mariocki , we are going to kill you ! " . Mac shouts back : " You crazy idiot . . . my name's McGill ! " . Later , Mac gets a phone call repeating the mysterious death threat . A suit that does not belong to him is delivered at his flat , the name ' Mariocki ' inscribed on the collar . Then he is sent a wreath bearing the inscription : ' Mariocki Midnight ' . So who is Mariocki , and why is Mac being threatened ? It could not come at a worse time for him as he is currently in a serious relationship . Perhaps the answer lies in the past ? 1967 was a good year for Donald Sutherland . He was one of ' The Dirty Dozen ' ( that year's biggest movie ) , and ' Kelly's Heroes ' and ' MASH ' were just around the corner . He appeared in a few I . T . C . shows , such as ' The Champions ' episode ' Shadow Of The Panther ' and no less than two editions of ' Suitcase ' ( he was also in ' The Superlative Seven ' from A . B . C . ' s ' The Avengers ' ) . Here he plays the drunken , snivelling Willard , who seems to be Mac's friend only to betray him to his enemies . Rosemary Nicols , later to play ' Annabelle Hurst ' in ' Department S ' , is ' Moira ' ( looking somewhat heavier and with a different hairstyle ) . The final shot of a tearful Moira running away from Mac's flat tells us their relationship is at an end . When Mac realises who his would-be killers are ( a gang of drug pushers he busted in Beirut in his C . I . A . days ) , we get a startling flashback . Had a second season been commissioned perhaps we might have seen an entire episode along similar lines . Robert Urquhart makes the second ( his first was in ' The Bridge ' ) of two appearances as seedy Fleet Street man ' Jarvis ' , only this time he is credited . It is excitingly done , smoothly directed by Charles Crichton , and features a nice car chase through the dark streets of London ( not quite ' Bullitt ' standard . but good enough ) . When H . T . V . showed ' Suitcase ' in a late-night Tuesday slot in the mid-to-late ' 80's , they pulled this episode at the eleventh hour to make way for an unscheduled rugby match . Unfortunately , it did not go out later in the run . A year later , one wet Sunday afternoon , I switched on the television expecting to find rugby and guess what was on ? This very episode ! And it was half way over to boot . Luckily when I . T . C . Home Video began issuing ' Suitcase ' in the early ' 90's , this was one of the first episodes they put out . Sally Geeson , future ' Bless This House ' star , has a cough-and-spit role as a shop assistant .
Caught in the web !	With space exploration becoming more and more commonplace , an international committee is set up to define legalities concerning the new territory . One such committee member is Dr . James Norbert ( Ray MacAnally ) , a brilliant American lawyer with a fondness for drink . However , a special interest group wants to delay the proposals by at least a decade , and to this end , blackmail Dr . Norbert with photos that show him , amongst other things , hitting a bartender , and in bed with a prostitute . Horrified that his daughter might see the pictures , he calls in McGill to find out who the blackmailers are . Mac travels to Manchester and begins searching for a bar that resembles the one shown in the photo . It turns out to be Gulliver's , run by sinister Joe Gulliver ( John Savident ) . McGill is warned to keep away from the place . On leaving , he is picked up by a limousine containing the urbane Simon Croft ( Simon Oates ) , who represents a consortium of financiers . He offers Mac a wad of money to keep his mouth shut . . . Written by Edmund Ward , this again has McGill caught in a crossfire of intrigue . If you thought the G20 summit a waste of time and money , what about the idea of a committee set up to determine laws for outer space ? Any excuse to have a junket these lawyers . The consortium's reason for wanting to delay the outcome is to give them time to get into a position whereby they can profit . You must remember that in 1966 the idea that bases could one day be put on the Moon or stations in orbit seemed not only possible but probable . It would make sense that someone would try and exploit the new territory , resorting to blackmail and physical violence . As ' Norbert ' , the late Ray McAnally gives his usual brilliant performance . Initially , the character refuses to comply with the blackmailers ' demands but , by the end , terrified of losing both his reputation and daughter's love , backs down . The last shot is of him gazing at a whisky bottle , the source of his troubles . Simon Oates , who plays ' Croft ' , starred in the sci-fi drama ' Doomwatch ' four years later . Ralph Michael , cast as ' Sir Giles ' , was ' The Dean ' in the sitcoms ' Doctor In The House ' and ' Doctor At Large ' . John Savident - nightclub owner ' Gulliver ' - is better known now as ' Fred Elliott ' in ' Coronation Street ' .
Appendicitis !	The students are attending a lecture on appendicitis given by Dr . Crowfoot ( John Warner ) , a man so clumsy as to give Frank Spencer competition . He is also unbelievably boring . Paul changes the time on the clock so that they can all leave early . Mike develops the symptoms of appendicitis , and requires an operation . Unfortunately , the surgeon is none other than Crowfoot . . . Another Garden / Oddie penned episode , enlivened by the presence of the underrated John Warner as the accident-prone ' Crowfoot ' , whom his students refer to disparagingly as ' Crowsfeet ' . The actor would go on to play ' Surgeon Lieutenant Wyckham ' in the very funny ' In Charge ' episode ' Hello Sailor ! ' . He also played Arthur Lowe's put upon neighbour ' Tolly ' in Roy Clarke's ' Potter ' . Harry Shacklock is seen as patient ' Mr . Wimberly ' , a role he reprised in episodes of ' At Large ' and ' In Charge ' . He must have had a thing about hospitals ! When laying the table in their digs , the students recreate the famous ' Dr . Kildare ' theme , complete with pauses ( which is where the credits would have been ! ) . Funniest moment - Crowfoot emerging from the operating theatre , and , finding one of his contact lenses missing , assumes he has left it inside Upton !
Kipper Ties & Stethoscopes !	The second episode of ' Doctor In The House ' was the first of many written by Graeme Garden and Bill Oddie . Garden , like Graham Chapman , was a qualified doctor in real life , and thus was able to draw on his own experiences . It was rare in 1969 to see a sitcom in which the cast was predominantly young , hence George Layton's description of ' House ' as ' the ' Friends ' of its day ' . Barry Evans and Robin Nedwell made a good double act . Ditto Geoffrey Davies and George Layton . Simon Cuff and Martin Shaw made their debuts here and , to be honest , did the show no favours . Shaw had the good sense to realise this and got out after one series , while Cuff left after two . The students came across for the most part as a bunch of drunken hooligans , constantly playing childish pranks such as stealing mascots and putting chamber pots on statues , thus incurring the wrath of The Dean and Professor Loftus . The issue of sex rears its ugly head for the first time . After settling down to life at St . Swithins , Upton goes to the Common Room where he is so appalled at the ungallant behaviour displayed towards a pretty nurse called Alice that he rounds angrily on his fellow students : " You silly bastards ! " ( strong language for that time ) . He takes Alice to his room to dry her dress ( Evans threw beer over it ) . But the others have put whips , bras and Briddock's rude pictures where they can easily be seen to make Alice think Upton is into B . D . S . M . Realising the students are only next door , Alice and Upton pretend to have sex . The voyeurs cannot believe what they are hearing . . . Lovely Julia Foster makes her only appearance in the ' Doctor ' series as ' Alice ' . Her other television roles include ' Moll Flanders ' ( 1976 ) , and the short-lived 1977 comedy thriller ' Wilde Alliance ' ( a show I liked a lot at the time ) in which she played Amy Wilde , wife of successful novelist Rupert ( John Stride ) . Funniest moment - the students , shocked by the sound of Upton cracking a whip , fall off the table on which they had been standing !
Students In Soho !	St . Swithins has lost at rugby ( again ) so the students decide to commiserate by going to a Soho strip-club . When they try to gain entry they are told by the doorman that they first have to apply for membership . Luckily who should happen along but Dick and he signs them in . Upton is furious to learn that Dick has used his name as an alias . The show gets underway . Upton is transfixed at the spectacle of undressing females . One stripper in particular , Rita , is dressed as a traffic warden , disrobing to the Beatles ' ' Lovely Rita Meter Maid ' . Suddenly , she faints . The students get her to St . Swithins , where she becomes an instant attraction for the randy doctors . Acting on a suggestion by Upton , Rita decides to become a nurse . . . It is never overtly stated but Upton's fascination with Rita seems to be that of the inexperienced male for the more sexually mature woman . Rits has been around the block a few times , and probably knows more about the human body than he does . His suggestion that she become a nurse may be motivated by his desire to keep her within his orbit . But she eventually decides to return to her original profession . One wonders if the role of ' Rita ' was originally intended for Diana Dors . Jan Rossini , who plays her , is very like Dors physically . Funniest Moment - when the stripper collapses , the club manager asks the audience : " Is there a doctor in the house ? " and the entire front row stands up !
Guarding Rufus	Another adventure for McGill , the ex-C . I . A . agent turned private detective . Mac's latest job comes from an unexpected source - the police ! They want him to keep London gangster Rufus Blake ( George Sewell ) alive for 24 hours so that he can testify against his brothers at the Old Bailey . Tired of being treated like a dogsbody , Rufus wishes to put them away for life , and help himself to the money they have stashed away in a Swiss bank . But Rudyard ( Robin Bailey ) , the Blake brothers ' crooked lawyer , has hired hoods to perform a job of murder . Rufus has refused police protection , which is how McGill comes to be his bodyguard . With all the hotels under surveillance , Mac takes Rufus to several locations in London , including a botanical gardens . . . One of my favourite ' Suitcase ' episodes , despite the absurdities in the plot . You would think Mac would take Rufus to the quietest part of London and keep him there for a day , but if that had happened it would have been a dull story , hence the pair behave like tourists . The police tell Mac not to use his gun if attacked . " Use your fists ! " , says one copper . What are the attackers likely to be armed with - peashooters ? Valerie ( Lois Daine ) does not know Rufus is a villain ( she thinks he is a commercial traveller ) even though the story of the Blake brothers ' trial has been in all the papers . The Blake Brothers are loosely based on the Krays , who would have still been at large when this was made . I wonder if they saw it and if so what they thought . Great cast including the urbane Robin Bailey as ' Rudyard ' ( totally unrecognisable as ' Uncle Mort ' from ' I Didn't Know You Cared ' ) , George Sewell's ' Rufus ' surely must have been the inspiration for ' Frankie Abbott ' from ' Please Sir ! ' ( he swaggers and brags about what a hard man he is , but as soon as a gun is pointed at him he crumples into a snivelling wreck ) , future ' Sweeney ' boss Garfield Morgan is one of the coppers , with James Grout and Mark Eden as two others . ' Monty Python ' fans will spot Carol Cleveland as ' Miss Dinsdale ' ( now there's a Pythonesque name if ever I heard one ! ) , Rudyard's secretary . The script was by Edmund Ward , who wrote several other episodes of this show as well as going on to create ' The Main Chance ' with John Stride and ' The Hanged Man ' starring Colin Blakely . The director , Gerry O'Hara , also worked on ' The Avengers ' and ' The Professionals ' . There's an amusing moment when Mac and Rufus attend an afternoon concert in which two old age pensioners are singing . The woman ( Grace Arnold ) is so hopelessly off-key the only way she'd have sounded on were if Les Dawson were playing the piano . The depiction of the police and London underworld is more ' Dixon Of Dock Green ' than say ' The Sweeney ' ( which was seven years away ) , but it is still good entertainment , particularly if like me you adore watching anything featuring Swinging ' 60's London in all its glory .
" I've got appendicitis ! "	The students are watching a drag act in a nightclub . Their exams are fast approaching , hence this is to be their last ' bit of fun ' before the rigours of studying set in . Studying in St . Swithins is not easy , however , with the students constantly dashing about , and sexy Helga proving a distraction . There is one bit of good news on the horizon , though - Loftus will be in Australia for the next three weeks , and therefore won't be on hand to supervise . So they think . Striding into the students ' bar , Loftus proudly announces he is sending someone else in his place , and will be able to do the exams after all . A wave of terror sweeps over Upton and co . . . The final episode of the first season of ' In The House ' provides an effective conclusion , with the students having to ( temporarily ) knuckle down and begin acting like prospective doctors . The finals would not be for another year , hence if the sitcom was a hit , the possibility for a follow-up series was there . As it turned out , this is exactly what happened . Michael MacKenzie had appeared in ' Getting The Bird ' as ' Second Medic ' . Here his character - if it is the same one - is named ' Mickleton ' . Two characters did not survive beyond the first season . ' Huw Evans ' , played by Martin Shaw , was one , and Yutte Stensgaard's ' Helga ' the other . Evans did however made a brief return to St . Swithins in the ' At Large ' episode ' Mother & Father Doing Well ' . Barry Cryer never wrote for the show again , although Graham Chapman stayed on board until the second run of ' In Charge ' , teaming up with first Bernard McKenna and then Douglas Adams ( for one episode of ' On The Go ' ) . During the studies , Dick suggests a mnemonic system as an easy way to remember medical facts . It would be employed again in the ' On The Go ' episode ' Learning By Heart ' . The drag act is Patrick Fyffe , who a few years later hit the big time as one half of ' Hinge & Bracket ' - as the waspish ' Dame Hilda ' . Funniest moment - Duncan nearly starting a fire in the examination room .
" I'll do the cooking ! "	Distracted by the noises of the hospital , Mike decides to move out and search for lodgings . His first attempt is a disaster ; a sexy young woman ( Clare Shenstone ) tries to seduce him by pretending to be ill so he can examine her . When her mother returns , she sees what looks like him trying to strangle her . His next port of call is no better ; the door is answered by a gay man who makes no secret of his interest in Upton . The next place he visits is inhabited by two dotty old ladies ( Betty Hare and May Warden ) . Upton is told he can have the room as soon as the previous occupant has left . He glances round and sees the bare feet of a corpse sticking out from under bedclothes . Panicking , he runs off to catch a bus . Things look up when he calls on Scottish widow Mrs . Muir ( Renee Houston ) . The room is spacious , cheap , and clean , everything he has been looking for . But he does not yet know there is a catch ; the other students are interested in it too . . . The fourth episode of ' House ' is pretty good , benefiting from a change of location ( not much of St . Swithins here ) , and a guest appearance from the talented Renee Houston , who was in one of my favourite movies : ' The Horse's Mouth ' starring Alec Guinness . Yutte Stensgaard , as ever , looks incredible , whether it be in the bath or stepping over the students in her night-clothes as they try to get some sleep . Funniest moment - the girl's mother searching Mike's belongings . Opening a box on top of the wardrobe , she shrieks as a skeleton falls out ! ( Although Graeme Garden was quoted as saying no gags from the movie were used , this one is similar to a famous scene where Dr . Simon Sparrow ( Dirk Bogarde ) gets on a bus with a package , which turns out to contain a skeleton . Perhaps Graeme thought the gag too good to leave out completely ) .
A Funny Thing Happened On The Way To The Cemetery	Upton and Duncan are fed up because the nurses won't go out with them . Collier suggests they buy a car - and knows where he can lay his hands on a cheap one . Unfortunately , it turns out to be a hearse . Parking outside the St . Swithins ' mortuary , Collier goes to fetch the others , but an over-efficient mortician puts a coffin in the vehicle . Not realising it is there , the students then drive off . When they discover they have an extra passenger on board , they think of ways to get rid of him . In the meantime , the mortician has phoned the police to report that a body has gone missing en route to the cemetery . . . Very funny episode by Graeme Garden and Bill Oddie . In many ways , this is a forerunner to the celebrated ' The Kipper & The Corpse ' episode of ' Fawlty Towers ' . Director David Askey milks every last drop of black comedy out of the ghoulish premise . On the down side , its a little uncomfortable to watch now , with the knowledge that neither Robin Nedwell and Barry Evans are with us any longer . Funniest moment - the ' corpse ' coming to life ! Actually , its only a curious poacher .
" I think we have made a hideous mistake ! "	While Loftus awaits to be officially confirmed for a knighthood , he receives some surprising news from his wife . She is bored at home and wishes to return to full-time nursing . He is dead against the idea , but she goes through with it anyway . Lady Cornford's daughter , Annabel , also wishes to be a nurse at St . Swithins . On her first day , she meets Duncan , and they are mutually attracted to each other . But she accidentally lets slip that she had dined with Loftus a few nights before . Duncan jumps to the wrong conclusion . A wicked rumour spreads round the hospital that Annabel and Loftus are conducting an affair . . . Angharad Rees had played ' Frances ' in the ' Doctor In The House ' episode ' Getting The Bird ' , here she returns as a different character . ' Annabel ' would make several appearances in the second season of ' Charge ' . This episode is more like a Whitehall farce , with misunderstandings piling on top of misunderstandings , angry wives , and pretty girls in their underwear . But its one of the best written episodes of the entire series , and the cast throw themselves into the piece with commendable enthusiasm , even if the notion of Loftus as ' Casanova ' is a little hard to swallow , and Richard O'Sullivan's ' Bingham ' is utterly wasted . Funniest moment - Loftus ' anger on finding Waring with Annabel .
" Bloody Loftus ! "	Following a party at Loftus ' house , Duncan wakes up in the spare room , naked except for woollen gloves and wellington boots . What has happened here ? As it turns out , those arch-jokers Dick and Paul have struck again . The Chairman of the Board tells Loftus that he is being considered for a knighthood . To boost his chances , Loftus commissions a new medical research unit , to be headed by Duncan . Bingham is livid , as he had proposed a similar idea a while back . But the unit is soon used for purposes other than than for which it was originally intended - doctors are sneaking into it to enjoy a crafty kiss and cuddle , while Paul is fermenting wine . . . This episode begins a story arc that would be resolved in the final instalment of Series 1 - ' Long Days Journey Into Knighthood ' . Sammie Winmill gets to a deliver a classic double entendre . Giving Duncan coffee , she says : " You should always start the day with something hot inside you . I do ! " . Her character appears to have been modelled on ' Nurse Sandra May ' from ' Carry On Doctor ' . Like Babs Windsor , Winmill is cute , blonde , and squeaky voiced , though not so well endowed . Note her excitement when Dick confides to her that it was he and Paul who undressed Duncan the night before . On hearing that it was only to put him to bed , she sounds disappointed : " How boring ! " . I think I detect the influence of Graham Chapman in that line . Though not formerly in this episode , Joan Benham is seen briefly in a fantasy sequence in which Loftus imagines his big day at Buckingham Palace . Richard O'Sullivan is on good form here . Bingham's fury at being passed over for the job of heading the unit is hilarious . Upton's fate is again mentioned , presumably for the benefit of those who had missed the previous episode . There's a good running gag in which the doctors are forced to retreat to a corner of the unit every time an alarm sounds , signifying a possible radiation leak from the X-Ray Department below . Funniest moment - Paul taking a sip of what he thinks is wine . It turns out to be blood !
Upton In Love	Mike Upton asks the attractive Valerie out on a date . They go to a park . Escorting her home , he is invited in for tea . But he has a shock in store - she is Professor Loftus ' daughter . Mrs . Loftus is polite to Upton , while her husband treats him disdainfully . Suddenly , talk of marriage is in the air , and the law is laid down to Mike in no uncertain terms - if he wishes to have Valerie as a wife , he must first give up any hope of being a doctor . Mike is so smitten by her he contemplates doing just that , much to his father's horror . Huw and Duncan do not like the situation either , and attempt to talk him into dumping Valerie . Eventually , the girl ends the relationship . Upton is naturally distraught . But , then , unexpectedly , she begins dating Huw . . . One of the better Season 1 episodes , signposting the direction the show would take in future , with less drunken revelry and greater emphasis on character and storyline . Alan Tew's theme tune appears in a mellower form during the park scenes . Difficult to see why Valerie ditches the clean-cut , clean-living Mike for the unlikeable drunkard Huw . The final shot of Upton alone on a park bench with Valerie and Huw kissing in the background is poignant . Lynn Dalby , who plays ' Valerie ' , was ' Hazel ' in the excellent Adam Faith series ' Budgie ' in 1971 . Funniest moment - Upton walking along the top of a wall in a park , before falling off and landing on top of a kissing couple !
" The idea for this story . . . "	At a lavish showbiz party in the late ' 70's , Roald Dahl approached film producer and television executive Sir John Woolf and made him an offer he could not refuse : " How would you like to make a series out of all my stories ? " . Sir John jumped at the chance . As well as a bestselling writer of children's books , Dahl was also known as the literary Hitchcock , the master of the suspenseful short story . The result was ' Roald Dahl's Tales Of The Unexpected ' , made by Anglia Television , which ran for the best part of a decade . Some of the stories had been filmed before as part of the U . S . series ' Alfred Hitchcock Presents ' . Nevertheless , the show proved hugely popular , attracting the likes of Sir John Gielgud , Joan Collins , Sir Bernard Miles , Sir John Mills , Derek Jacobi , Timothy West , Susan George , Ron Moody , Denholm Elliott , Joss Ackland , Brian Blessed , and American actors of the calibre of Telly Savalas , Joseph Cotton , Gloria Grahame , Janet Leigh , Julie Harris and Jack Weston . The opening titles were an unsettling blend of James Bondian imagery ( a gun , playing cards , a dancing nude woman ) and Gothic horror , backed up by Ron Grainer's carousel-style music . Dahl himself introduced the stories in Hitchcockian fashion . Ronald Harwood and Robin Chapman penned many of the scripts . Predictably , some stories worked better on television than others . ' Man From The South ' got the series off to a fine start , casting Jose Ferrer as a madman who tricks a young American tourist into a bizarre wager which , should he lose , means he forfeits the little finger of his right hand . ' Lamb To The Slaughter ' was about the only truly perfect murder ever conceived , whereas ' Neck ' had a rich husband revenging himself on his adulterous wife . Easily the worst episode , however , was ' Royal Jelly ' , the ending of which was not so much unexpected as unspeakable . Critics renamed the show ' Tales Of The Bleedin ' Obvious ' , yet many episodes did contain genuine surprise endings , such as ' Genesis & Catastrophe ' and ' Skin ' . When the production team ran out of Dahl stories to adapt , they turned to the works of other writers . Eventually , Dahl and his name disappeared from the show . Some of the later American-based episodes were a bit weak , often coming across as belonging to a different show entirely . As D . V . D . releases and I . T . V . - 3 reruns will attest , this show at its peak is still rattling good fun . By the way , the ' dancing nude woman ' in the titles was Karen Standley .
" I always wanted to do that ! "	Duncan is shocked to find himself overdrawn at the bank . The culprit - one Dick Stuart-Clark , stole Duncan's credit cards while he was drunk . Dick is being threatened by a bookie to whom he owes money . Andy is not exactly solvent either . Acting on a tip off from Gascoigne , the trio volunteer to be guinea pigs at a research clinic , for which they will be well paid . The experiment involves them being injected with a drug designed to relax muscular control , meaning they will temporarily lose control of their bodies . Back at St . Swithins , the doctors endeavour to carry out their duties but both Loftus and the patients are startled by their seemingly erratic behaviour . . . Selwyn Roberts only penned one episode of ' Go ' , but its a good one , affording Nedwell , Davies and Kane the chance to have some fun with their characters , twitching and jumping about like ' Carry On ' star Jack Douglas ' ' Alf Ippititimus ' after a rectal injection of chili . As you would expect , Nedwell is better at the physical comedy than the others . Funniest moment - Duncan throwing beer into Loftus ' face !
A Present For Loftus	While researching in the St . Swithins library , Duncan and Dick read in ' Who's Who ' that Loftus has been Professor of Surgery for nearly twenty years . Duncan decides to commemorate the occasion by giving him a special gift . He and Dick pay Lady Loftus a visit . Spotting them leaving his house , he asks his wife what they were doing there . She replies that they wanted to discuss the fund for the proposed library extension . He wonders why they did not see him first , he happens to be the fund committee's Chairman . Duncan asks Gascoigne , Kate and McKenzie to contribute to the cost of Loftus ' present , but none are keen to do so . The Professor has been getting up everyone's noses of late . Kate is riled because he told her off about wearing trousers to work , and McKenzie launches into a fiercely patriotic rant when Loftus complains about his kilt . Dick supplies the gift - a tape recorder of doubtful quality . It begins recording when the doctors run down Loftus in the Common Room . . . A very good Layton / Lynn penned episode . Ernest Clark is on fine form here , switching moods abruptly from angry to happy ( when Lady Loftus informs him of the surprise the doctors have for him ) . Jacquie-Ann Carr also impresses , particularly when she stands up to Loftus and calls him an ' old fuddy-duddy ' . She was a great asset to ' On The Go ' . John Kane's patriotic outburst is hilarious , but surprisingly fails to get the deserved response from the audience . Funniest moment - Kate telling Loftus she plans on coming to work in future in ' tassels and nipple pads ' . Following a beautifully timed pause , Loftus asks : " What are they ? " . Last night , I . T . V . - 1 made the ' Doctor ' series the latest subject of ' Comedy Classics ' . It was then followed by the ' Face The Music ' episode of ' In Charge ' . Chosen apparently because it was one of George Layton's favourites ( a pity the punchline was given away before it went out ) . As I have already reviewed the episode , I will place my thoughts here instead . Overall , the documentary was much better than expected . No Sarpong / Cotton / Wright for one thing . The appearance of Bill Oddie and Graeme Garden came as a pleasant surprise , and it was good to hear Layton and Geoffrey Davies paying tribute to Robin Nedwell . It was incorrect to say John Cleese and Graham Chapman left to create ' Monty Python's Flying Circus ' though . Chapman stayed , teaming up first with Barry Cryer , and then Bernard McKenna , David Sherlock , and Douglas Adams . Cleese returned to write for ' At Large ' . Layton revealed that Barry Evans had in fact been sacked ( due to erratic behaviour ) and had not left of his own accord , which I had long understood to be the case . ' At Sea ' and ' At The Top ' were skirted over , and ' Down Under ' not mentioned at all ( no bad thing ) . It was a lot of ground for a half-hour programme to cover , but I thought they managed it well ( though I would not have used the Sherrie Hewson stuff ) . And we got to see sexy Sammie Winmill !
" Is he the peeping tom ? "	Their adventures at sea over , Duncan and Dick return to St . Swithins . They are late for the interview as they came across a road accident . Duncan wanted to help , but Dick drove on . Loftus commends Stuart-Clark for doing so . The Board Of Governors does not remember them . Senile Mr . Reeves ( Harold Bennett ) thinks Duncan is the peeping tom who has lately been bothering nurses . Duncan gets his old job of junior registrar back on Loftus ' recommendation , provided he keeps out of trouble . But it looks a forlorn hope when Duncan comes to the aid of top footballer Billy Guest , who has been hurt in a car accident . Guest's bullish manager threatens to sue Duncan for exacerbating his star player's leg injury . . . This episode has something of a ' back to basics ' feel , reestablishing the St . Swithins ' setting , bringing back the ' Doctor At Large ' version of the Alan Tew theme , and restoring minor characters such as Harold Bennett's ' Mr . Reeves ' . Much as I liked ' At Sea ' , it was good to have things back as they were . We meet three new regulars ; ' Dr . Andrew Mackenzie ' ( John Kane ) is a Scottish ' Danny Hooley ' , while ' Dr . James Gascoigne ' ( Andrew Knox ) another ' Bingham ' . However , ' Dr . Kate Wright ' ( Jacquie-Ann Carr ) is a first for the show - she is immune to Stuart-Clark's charm , and being his boss , takes delight in ordering the lounge lizard to perform menial tasks such as checking the oxygen cylinders . Women's Lib had belatedly arrived in St . Swithins ! Stuart-Clark seems to have inherited Duncan's fondness for bow-ties ! Funniest moment - Duncan mountaineering up St . Swithins to persuade Guest to drop the lawsuit . The credit ' Action By Havoc ' also appeared on the early Jon Pertwee ' Dr . Who ' episodes . Note the cheer of the studio audience when Duncan's job is saved ! Brian Capron , who plays ' Guest ' , would become notorious years later for his role as serial killer ' Richard Hillman ' in ' Coronation Street ' .
" Tony Hates Virgins ! "	Duncan needs to pass a vital exam , which means he has to put in a lot of studying . But Stuart-Clark and MacKenzie lead such active social lives it becomes impossible for Duncan to work . Finding him on the London Underground , Kate takes pity and offers him a room at her flat . He accepts . Her boyfriend Barry shows up , and is not happy to find Duncan in residence . With the clock ticking away to Exam Time , Kate , Dick and Andrew must find another way to help their pal . . . A very funny episode , not in the least because of Robin Nedwell's mounting exasperation as his attempts to study fail miserably . Dick is fond of watching cartoons on the telly , while Andrew's life is one long booze-up . Duncan decides to use the system of mnemonics - using a meaningless phrase based on the first letters of the correct answer - to help him pass . The system was first featured in the ' In The House ' episode ' Pass Or Fail ' . Its when he tries to learn ' Touching Tits Causes Happiness ! ' that Kate's boyfriend loses his rag and throws him out . Kate in turn sends Barry packing , leaving the field clear for a Kate / Duncan romance . Funniest moment - Duncan chatting to Kate through her bathroom door , unaware that Barry has returned . " I come in there and scrub your back , non ? " , he says in a bad French accent . On realising Barry is standing behind him , Duncan jumps out of his skin . A perfect bit of comic timing !
" On the one hand . . . "	For the first time in his life , Duncan Waring is in love and seriously contemplating marriage . But then he and Gascoigne argue over a patient's diagnosis in front of students . Embarrassed , Duncan snaps and calls Kate a ' stupid cow ' . She storms off . So that appears to be that . Depressed , Duncan finds he cannot keep his mind on his work . . . The first season of ' Doctor On The Go ' concluded with this episode , which looked as though it might signal the end of the ' Duncan / Kate ' romance . During a heated row , Kate slaps Duncan so hard he winds up needing treatment in his own hospital . Its one of Jacquie-Ann Carr's best moments . Needless to say , the rift was not a permanent one , and Kate was back for Series 2 . Funniest moment - Duncan flung across the room like a rag doll . Wow ! That's some slap ! Is Kate bionic or what ?
The Tables Are Turned !	Duncan is in charge of a group of young male students , and plays the clown at every opportunity . He turns the operating theatre into a music hall with a constant barrage of jokes . But the smile vanishes from his face when he finds a gall bladder left over from what was supposed to be a tonsil operation . A terrified Duncan thinks his medical career may be over . In actual fact , he is the victim of a sick practical joke played on him by the students . Even Dick is not in on it . Several months before becoming a household name as teddy boy ' Jakey Smith ' in the I . T . V . sitcom ' Get Some In ! ' , Robert Lindsay made a guest appearance in this ' Doctor On The Go ' episode , as the mischievous Harrison . Even here his talent is unmistakable . Had Robin Nedwell refused to continue in the show , Lindsay would have made an ideal replacement . Gail Renard's script has a ' Doctor In The House ' feel , what with the trouble-making students and jolly japes . Without realising it , poor Duncan has become a ' Loftus ' figure to these fresh-faced youngsters . At the start of the episode , Duncan tells the students of the time he got Bingham drunk and put his leg in plaster . Fans will recognise the anecdote as being the plot of the classic ' Doctor In Charge ' story ' Honeymoon Special ' . Of course Duncan soon realises what is going on and manages to turn the tables on the students . Funniest moment - Dick posing as a patient needing a cyst operation . When the students examine his leg , it turns out to be false !
Hair Raising !	Mr . Hedges is out with Penny when he notices they are being followed by a strange character in a trench-coat and fedora , and sporting a most unconvincing moustache . It is Frankie , living out his fantasy of being the new Bogart . Abbott begins stalking Potter , and draws swastikas on his greenhouse tomatoes . The caretaker becomes paranoid , convinced that someone from the G . L . C . is after him because of the innumerable perks he has enjoyed over the years , such as putting the headmaster's new office carpet in his living room . Mr . Cromwell , meantime , makes a final , desperate effort to win back Doris Ewell . He begins wearing trendy suits , and - wait for it - a toupee . . . Maureen was not the only heartbroken soul in Fenn Street School in Season 3 . Mr . Cromwell saw his beloved Doris go to Mr . Sibley , the careers adviser . Unlike Maureen , however , the headmaster did not entertain thoughts of joining a convent . Instead he tried to get ' with it ' ! In the episode's funniest scene , he enters the staff room wearing a wig even more ridiculous than the one Captain Mainwaring wore in the ' Dad's Army ' episode ' Keep Young & Beautiful ! '
Frankie Says . . .	At long last , Duffy asks Sharon to go on a date . They go to a posh restaurant where they bump into - surprise , surprise - Mr . Hedges , Mr . Hodges and the rest of the Fenn Street School staff . Meanwhile , Maureen has taken pity on Frankie and agreed to a date . It is a disaster . Frankie is more interested in a pinball machine than the girl , and when a young man tries to rough him up , it is left to Maureen to defend him . As they walk home , Frankie is still doing his ' hard man ' act , but then Maureen calls him a sissy . To prove otherwise , he smashes the window of an off-licence . . . I was at school with a boy very much like Frankie Abbott . His name was Kevin Jones , and he loved to play at being ' Action Man ' in the playground , but whenever threatened by older boys he would run crying to the teachers . The main difference between him and Frankie is that the latter , though he gets on everyone's nerves , is still part of the ' gang ' . No-one seems to really dislike Frankie . Maureen would rather take responsibility for the broken window than see him get into trouble . Here we see the beginnings of the Sharon / Duffy relationship , which would develop over the course of the next series and well into ' The Fenn Street Gang ' . Terry Duggan , who plays the owner of the off-licence whose window Frankie has broken , is the husband of ' On The Buses ' star Anna Karen . Funniest moment - Craven has challenged Potter to put two full glasses on water on the back of his hands , to see if he can hold them there without a spilling a drop . Potter agrees . But then Craven rushes off , leaving the caretaker in a totally stupid situation !
Casino Capers !	Dave turns the students ' flat into a casino , and puts out leaflets advertising it as such . During a game of cards , Duncan is so hard up he gambles medical books instead of money . The leaflets attract the attention of local gangsters Malcolm ( Bernard Bresslaw ) and The Boss ( John Barcroft ) , and they warn the boys in no uncertain terms to jack it in . When the Dean finds out , he calls the students into his office , and lays down the law regarding gambling . Duncan and Mike are so short of money they get jobs at the very casino whose owner earlier had put them out of business . Mike is doorman , while Duncan is bartender . On their very first night , who should show up but those old hypocrites Loftus and the Dean . ' Carry On ' legend Bernard Bresslaw graces this Garden / Oddie penned episode as the thuggish ' Malcolm ' , who loves showing off his collection of scars . He played similar roles in movies , most notably ' Carry On Loving ' . Ernest Clark and Ralph Michael are particularly good here , sanctimoniously denouncing gambling then sneaking off to ' have a flutter ' . Their plans backfire when they first lose their money and then the police raid the place . Luckily , Duncan and Mike are on hand to show them a quick way out . Funniest moment - Duncan attempting to serve Loftus at the bar while keeping his face hidden . I must mention Yutte Stensgaard , who looks amazing dressed as a Playboy-style bunny girl !
An Outbreak Of Dix !	Fenn Street School's new P . E . teacher is Mr . Gregory Dix , who rules his class with a rod of bamboo . He enforces discipline to such an extent that even the teachers are terrified of him . Vain , arrogant , rude ( he openly sneers at Potter's war record ) , Dix canes anyone who dares disagree with him . Then he picks on George Duffy , younger brother of ex-pupil Eric , and the scene for a major confrontation is set . . . The children's comic ' Look-In ' carried a two-page strip based on ' Please Sir ! ' , and the departure of John Alderton and 5C must have been a nightmare for the writer , Angus P . Allan , especially seeing how the newer characters were dropped almost as quickly as they were installed . ' Herman ' , played by Brinsley Forde , was more visible in the strip than in the series ! ' Mr . Dix ' was written in too , before being dumped after only a few weeks . Written by film critic Tony Bilbow , this represents a return to form for the series following three dull episodes . The return of Peter Cleall as ' Duffy ' helps , as well as the fact that Glynn Edwards is genuinely menacing as ' Dix ' . The scene where he drives Potter to the point of tears is unexpectedly shocking , and for once the studio audience does not laugh at his discomfort . As it turns out , the Duffy / Dix dispute is resolved without a discourse to physical violence ( the teacher catches George's chicken pox ) , which is a pity in a way as it would have been satisfying to see the swine put in his place . Funniest moment - Duffy's opening monologue in which he describes the Fenn Street teachers to his brother . Not only funny , it works well as a restatement of the show's format .
Wedding Bells For Duncan & Kate ?	Duncan stuns his friends ( as well as Gascoigne ) by announcing his engagement to Kate . Dick sees a golden opportunity to clear his slate at the hospital bar by arranging a wedding reception . Andy does not understand why Duncan should want to get married , seeing how his own marriage has been a disaster . Gascoigne supplies Duncan with a load of unreadable books on married life . To escape from all this unwanted interference , Duncan and Kate decide to have a private ceremony at a registry office . But there's a surprise in store for their guests when they return to St . Swithin's . . . The final episode of ' Go ' and indeed the final episode of the L . W . T . ' Doctor ' series , seeing a resolution to the ongoing Duncan / Kate romance . Nice to see Peter Greene as the ' Chaplain ' again ; his last appearance was in the ' Doctor In Charge ' story ' The Garden Fete ' . Note the reference to Nurse Willett's ' little mistake ' ! I hope she knew who the dad was ! Though the the path was left clear for a further series , the option was not taken up , thus bringing to a close one of I . T . V . ' s biggest comedy successes . In the nine years since ' Doctor In The House ' began , the show had gotten through two leading men , several changes of setting ( including a stint on a passenger liner ) , numerous guest-stars such as Arthur Lowe , John Le Mesurier , David Jason , Freddie Jones , Patricia Routledge , William Franklyn and Bob Todd , a couple of ' Pythons ' and ' Goodies ' as scriptwriters , and , of course , countless pretty nurses . It had had a good run , so nobody was too upset at its passing . It also ended with its integrity intact , unlike ' On The Buses ' and ' Please Sir ! ' , both of which concluded with limp final runs . Besides , there were still repeats , and the ' Look-In ' comic-strip ran until 1978 . All was not over for Waring and Stuart-Clark though . Though L . W . T . had called time on their saucy exploits , they were still massively popular in Australia , which was why , two years later , they were recalled to duty for the spin-off ' Doctor Down Under ' .
Like Father , Like Son !	Gascoigne's fabulously wealthy - not to mention insufferably rude and pompous - father is at St . Swithins , being treated for a head injury . He manages to make everyone around him miserable , including Loftus , with whom his wife had once had an affair . He refers to James somewhat disparagingly as ' Florence ' . Stuart-Clark tries fleecing the old man with a gambling scam , but he does not fall for it . Whenever Mr . Gascoigne upsets anyone , he insists its ' for your own good ' . A brief return to writing duties for Graham Chapman , working in collaboration with the then-unknown Douglas Adams . Don't expect any Hitch-Hiker-style humour here , however ; its an enjoyable if standard episode , based on the old ' problematic patient ' clich , used countless times in the series before . Derek Francis is delightful as the bombastic Gervaise Gascoigne . Funniest moment - the look on Dick's face as the old devil turns the tables on his betting scam !
Art For Art's Sake	Hedges tries to interest 5C in art , and asks each pupil to produce a picture . Most are awful , particularly Duffy's ( of traffic lights ) , Abbott's ( a man hanging from gallows ) , and Dennis's ( of his Auntie Flo - it bears a startling resemblance to the children's T . V . character ' Tivvy ' ) . Mr . Dowling , the art teacher , is impressed by one picture , that of a naked girl . Miss Ewell is appalled when she sees it . Hedges then recognises the face ( he had obviously been looking elsewhere ) as that of Sharon . But who drew it ? Dowling takes the picture into class and , much to Hedges ' horror , shows it to everyone . Cue lots of wolf-whistles and jeers . The artist makes herself known - it is Sharon herself . . . Good second episode this , with the cast settling down nicely into their roles , though Frankie has yet to display his penchant for ludicrous macho boasting , and Potter has yet to fawn and grovel to Mr . Cromwell . Michael Burrell , good as the ' E . N . T Registar ' in the ' Doctor At Large ' episode ' Now . . . Dr . Upton ' , guests as the camp art teacher Mr . Dowling . Funniest moment - Frankie's desk gushing smoke ( he had earlier been having a crafty fag ) as he lifts the lid !
" You've got a potato in your shoe ! "	Hedges tries to interest 5C in politics by staging a mock debate in class , but Maureen is totally disinterested . Disillusioned with life , she has taken to dressing like an American hippie , and disrupts class by go-go dancing . She has fallen under the spell of a strange individual called ' Dorian ' , who urges her to reject society and its materialistic values . Hedges takes 5C to the local Conservative Club where , unsurprisingly , they fail to fit in . Potter is there too , attempting to boost his chances of membership . The following morning , the Club reports the theft of a valuable silver cup , and the finger of suspicion points at 5C . . . Another fine episode from Season 3 . With increasing numbers of young people ( particularly in the United States ) deciding to ' drop out ' of university and set up communes , its also interesting from a historical perspective . ' Dorian ' is never seen , and doesn't need to be . He does not have Maureen's best interests at heart . She thought she was stealing the cup as a political gesture . He just wanted to sell it for quick cash . With so many modern comedies firmly on the side of youth culture , its hard to believe there was a time when the opposite was the norm . Only ' Billy Liar ' in 1973 presented hippies in anything resembling a positive light ( ' Billy & The Cornish Split ' ) . Funniest moment - Hedges losing his shoe in the Con Club , and trying to get it back without anyone noticing . I don't care if Peter Sellers did do it better in ' The Party ' ( 1968 ) ! Second funniest moment - during the search for Maureen , Miss Ewell accidentally interrupts a heavy petting couple . The man can plainly be seen mouthing the words : " Eff off , you old cow ! " .
Dennis Does A Steptoe !	Its the start of a new school term . Due to a monumental cock-up on Potter's part , none of the classrooms has desks or chairs . Hedges has an even bigger problem - apart from Maureen , 5C has failed to turn up for lessons . He finds most of them in a caf , while Sharon is sunbathing on a boating lake . Being so close to their graduation , they do not think it worth it going to school anymore . Dennis has landed a job as a rag and bone man . Furious that someone should exploit ' child ' labour , Hedges heads off to Clarkie's yard to have it out with him . . . The penultimate series of ' Please Sir ! ' opens with a situation many pupils would have been familiar with . As soon as the end of a term was within sight ( say about one month ) , no-one could be bothered to go in . Those who did usually wound up playing chess and draughts , because the teachers had no work for them . The lovely Jill Kerman makes her debut as Hedges ' girlfriend ' Penny Wheeler ' . They are familiar to one another at the start . Fans would have to wait for the movie the following year to learn the full story of how they met . Bob Todd is seen as the ' boating lake attendant ' . He also played a bus conductor in the very first episode ' The Welcome Mat ' . Hedges ' encounter with totter ' Clarkie ' is especially interesting ; instead of uncouth and ignorant , he turns out to be rather intelligent . The curious title is the strange cry uttered by rag and bone men as they go on their rounds . Funniest moment - Hedges , in a boat , tries to get back to shore . The handle that works the paddles comes off in his hand . He throws it back to the red-faced attendant , who fails to catch it , and pitches headlong into the water .
" There's a banana sticking out of your pocket ! "	The Purser finds a pair of trousers on deck . Inside is written the name ' Manuel Sanchez ' . Checking the passenger list , he finds no-one of that name is officially aboard , hence the M . S . Begonia has acquired a stowaway . As a hunt gets underway , Dick goes back to his cabin . Manuel is hiding in the wardrobe . The Spaniard went to England to work but started pining for his fiance . Lacking the funds to go home to Tenerife , he hid himself away on the ship . Stuart-Clark took pity on him and has been stealing food . Duncan finds him too , and also begins stealing food . When the doctors realise what the other is up to , they pool their resources in order to get Manuel safely off the ship . . . David Jason plays ' Manuel ' . He had earlier appeared in the ' In The House ' episode ' What Seems To Be The Trouble ? ' as ' Mr . Drobnic ' , and in the ' At Large ' instalment ' Let's Start At The Beginning ' as the behaviourally challenged ' Victor Bligh ' ( we must not overlook his memorable contribution to that same season's ' Congratulations ! Its A Toad ! ' - he voiced the toad ! ) . He gives a wonderful performance as ' Manuel ' . Forget the comic accent , just check out his body language . Humphrey Barclay liked Jason so much he gave him his own series that year - the unfairly forgotten spy spoof ' The Top Secret Life Of Edgar Briggs ' . It does seem a little odd though for Stuart-Clark to be openly aiding a stowaway with no profit whatever to himself . Perhaps its the first sign of change in his character ( which would be completed by the time of ' Doctor At The Top ' ) . Funniest moment - Manuel repeatedly coming out of a wardrobe to make food requests to Duncan . Top marks for Bob Todd too for being such a good sport by doing the swimming pool gag .
" There is no such thing as a strike at sea ! "	Concerned at the number of chitties ( medical certificates ) being issued to the ship's crew , Captain Loftus orders that the practice must cease . Dick persuades Duncan that the chitties have been issued for legitimate reasons , namely that the crew really are ill . An angry Duncan protests against Loftus ' decision by organising industrial action , which in nautical parlance is known as a ' mutiny ' . . . George Layton and Jonathan Lynn deliver the goods once again ; a funny script which pits Duncan's ' Fletcher Christian ' against Loftus ' ' Captain Bligh ' . Of course the mutiny doesn't go smoothly , and Dick finally comes clean and admits he has been selling the chitties to the crew . Bob Todd is introduced as the permanently depressed ' Entertainments Officer ' . He appeared as a police sergeant in the ' In Charge ' episode ' Which Doctor ? ' . Funniest moment - the Entertainments Officer going for a dip in the pool , only to find out that it is empty ! There's a ' Billy Liar'-type dream sequence in which Duncan sees himself as the hero of a pirate movie and with Loftus as ' Long John Silver ' . The action is courtesy of ' Havoc ' , a stunt team who also worked on some of the Jon Pertwee episodes of ' Dr . Who ' . Ten lashes to the person who decided it needed to be shot through a red filter .
Stranded !	Captain Loftus summons Duncan to his cabin . He is fed up at both him and Stuart-Clark forever being late to return to the ship whenever it docks at some sun-kissed port . Dick uses the same excuse every time : " I was at my grandmother's funeral ! " . Actually , the doctors are always drunk and enjoying the company of the local girls . On their latest port of call in the Mediterranean , Duncan and Dick are left stranded when the M . S . Begonia sets sail without them . Dick uses what's left of his money to buy a small motor boat . En route it runs out of petrol . Dick thought it more important to bring along wine than a can of reserve fuel . So now they are stuck in the middle of the Med , their ship nowhere in sight . . . Gail Renard was the only female writer to work on the ' Doctor ' series , and her scripts are no less sexist than those of the men . This one is very good indeed , putting our heroes in a seemingly impossible situation . Nedwell and Davies quarrelling over whose fault it all is is hilarious . Its not quite a two-hander though , as we keep going back to the ship to see how the Purser is coping with the irritating Entertainments Officer , a man with a corny quip for every occasion . Captain Loftus ' dependency on Duncan for ' stomach mixture ' was also a story element of the film ' Doctor In Trouble ' . It does seem unlikely that the M . S . Begonia could locate the doctors so easily , but I expect that Renard had painted herself into a corner with this story . One of the few episodes to boast overseas location filming , by the way . Maybe the expense involved was a contributory factor in ' At Sea ' not being recommissioned . Funniest moment - spotting the M . S . Begonia , Dick goes to signal their position by waving an oar , and in so doing accidentally knocks Duncan into the drink .
" I want to see the Major ! "	Upton and Paul join Dr . Maxwell's practice , located in a shabby part of London . The retired army major has a beautiful daughter ( Zsuzonga , whom everyone calls Sue ) to whom Mike is instantly attracted . But Maxwell's patients , including a small boy , think that because Upton is young he isn't sufficiently qualified , and refuse his treatment . But the wily Maxwell comes up with a plan to get them to accept him . . . Arthur Lowe makes his debut as ' Dr . Maxwell ' , a gentler , less pompous version of ' Captain Mainwaring ' , with the delectable Madeline Smith ( who seems to have been in every British comedy series of the ' 70's ) as his receptionist / daughter . This episode is an attack on ageism ; Upton's youth is considered a handicap by older patients who prefer the firm touch of experience to youthful energy . Funniest moment - Mrs . Baxter telling Upton that her urinary incontinence is due to there being ' a maggot in her kidneys ' which got there from an apple she ate when she was a little girl !
" This isn't medicine ! "	Upton goes after a job at Dr . Whiteland's Harley Street practice . He turns up for the interview in casual clothes . Dick , who works there already , gives Upton his suit and tells him what to say . Dr . Whiteland turns out to be a snobbish elderly woman whose patients are mainly rich hypochondriacs . He gets the job but soon becomes bored as there is no real work for him to do . Paul is jealous at Mike's good fortune and turns up at the practice dressed as a smelly yokel . Furthermore , he has brought along a working class family - The Coates ' - all of whom are covered in lice and sores . . . Private medicine gets it in the neck in this Garden / Oddie scripted episode . Upton reveals himself to be a socialist , but to get the job has to pretend to be a Tory voter . This political stance fits in well with his later attack on the system . Rather than throw him out on his ear , Dr . Whiteland agrees with what he has to say , and tells him she has been simultaneously running a clinic in Brixton , as well as a drug treatment centre , a rare example of a comic character turning sympathetic . Ivor Dean , seen as Dr . Whiteland's butler ' Jarvis ' , was best known for his role as ' Inspector Teal ' in the Roger Moore ' Saint ' series . Funniest moment - Paul's yokel moment , which causes even Barry Evans to laugh !
Night Of The Croaking Terror !	Paul brings a sack of toads to Dr . Maxwell's surgery , intending to use them in pregnancy tests . But these all prove wildly inaccurate , mainly due to his ' toads ' being frogs , and male ones at that ! Soon the creatures are hopping all over the place , turning up in the bath , and laying frog spawn in saucepans and ice buckets . A visit from Dr . Mackendrick proves problematic - the ice in his whisky contains a tadpole . But how to get it out before he can swallow it ? It's fair to assume that David Jason doesn't regard this as a career highpoint . His contribution consists of ' yippit ! ' . Fulton Mackay was two years away from becoming ' Mr . Mackay ' in that timeless classic ' Porridge ' . Kate Williams would later play ' Joan Booth ' in ' Love Thy Neighbour ' . The funniest moment here however belongs to Arthur Lowe , as he attempts to get the ice from Mackendrick's glass without him noticing . If you don't laugh at this , you've no sense of humour .
" The wart ! Its coming back ! "	Upton and Paul notice that their surgeries are getting decidedly smaller . They have a rival - Audrey Watt - a local widow who claims to be a white witch , and is curing people with ancient remedies . Even Dr . Griffin is receiving treatment from her for his wart . Paul is horrified to discover that by creeping around her secret laboratory he has invoked an ancient curse . In desperation , he turns to the black arts to try and neutralise Audrey's powers . . . Patricia Routledge's ' Audrey ' isn't far removed from the spiritualist - Madame Fontana - she played in the classic ' Steptoe & Son ' episode ' Seance In A Wet Rag & Bone Yard ' . Interestingly , the script seems to infer that Audrey's mystical powers are genuine . Funniest moment - Paul thinking that he may now be impotent because of the curse . Mollie Sugden , who plays ' Mrs . Mollett ' , would reappear in ' Doctor In Charge ' as the mother of ' Dr . Duncan Waring ' .
From The Crypt To The Vault	Five men enter an elevator in a London building . Instead of taking them to the ground floor , it whisks them to a basement , where they become hopelessly trapped . While they wait to be rescued , they pass the time by telling each other their most recent ( and strange ) dreams . Rogers ( Daniel Massey ) tracks down his missing sister to a strange town and kills her . She had recently inherited the family fortune , which he wants for himself . But he did not know that she had become a vampire . . . Critchit ( Terry-Thomas ) , a man of fastidious habits and with an obsession for neatness , marries the lovely Eleanor ( Glynis Johns ) . His constant complaining about her untidiness drives her mad , and he winds up inside his collection of storage jars . . . Sebastian ( Curt Jurgens ) is a professional stage magician . After seeing the Indian Rope Trick for himself , he is impressed sufficiently to want it for his own act and resorts to murder . He now has enough rope to hang himself . . . Maitland ( Michael Craig ) comes up with the perfect insurance scam . He takes a drug designed to simulate a heart attack , and then arranges for a friend ( Edward Judd ) to collect the money , then go the cemetery where he is buried and dig him up . But the unexpected intervention of a pair of medical students causes him to lose his head . . . Moore ( Tom Baker ) is an artist who acquires voodoo powers in Haiti . From now on , anything he paints comes magically to life . Returning to London , he uses this ability to avenge himself on the three art dealers / critics who swindled him out of a fortune . . . One year after the financially successful ' Tales From The Crypt ' , Amicus were back with more weird tales from the E . C . Comics ' back catalogue , all vividly brought to life by a fine British ( apart from Curt Jurgens ) cast . With the likes of Arthur Mullard ( as a gravedigger ) , Tommy Godfrey , Robin Nedwell , Geoffrey Davies , and Terry-Thomas around , it is fair to say that this is hardly ' The Exorcist ' ( which also opened that year ) though . What it is is an entertaining horror picture boasting good stories and nice black comedy touches . The casting of Nedwell and Davies as medical students was in itself a joke , as they were known for their roles as ' Dr . Duncan Waring ' and ' Dr . Dick Stuart-Clark ' in I . T . V . ' s ' Doctor ' series . For copyright reasons , they had to be renamed ' Tom ' and ' Jerry ' ! ( why didn't Hanna Barbera kick up a stink about that ? ) . When Steve Coogan did a spoof of this movie for his ' Dr . Terrible's House Of Horrible ' show a few years back , it fell flat because the original was funny to start with . Logic occasionally goes out of the window . Why does Maitland so implicitly trust his friend to dig him up out of the grave ? Why does Rogers have a meal in a restaurant only a few yards from the spot where he just killed his sister ? Why does the air in Moore's safe take so long to run out ? Answers on a headstone please . The cast are , as one would expect , marvellous . Tom Baker is suitably menacing in one of his last roles before putting on his scarf and hat to become the fourth ' Dr . Who ' . Terry-Thomas is hilarious as the ever-so neat and tidy Critchit , a sort of English ' Felix Ungar ' from ' The Odd Couple ' . Distinguished thesps Denholm Elliott and Terence Alexander are also around . The late Daniel Massey appears opposite his real-life sister Anna , a neat bit of novelty casting Amicus pulled off again in 1975 when ' From Beyond The Grave ' teamed Donald Pleasence with daughter Angela . Getting top-draw actors to commit themselves to a few days ' filming worked a treat and was preferable ( in my eyes , at least ) to watching talentless teenagers pretending to be scared by a loony in a fright mask . ' Vault ' has for a long time played on television in a cut version , without the scene where Rogers is hung upside down by vampires who then drink his blood through a tap they installed in his neck . That was in the most recent version I saw ( on Film 4 ) , although the climax where the trapped men turn into walking corpses still is missing . The ending is never in any real doubt of course . Anyone who saw even one of Amicus ' earlier multi-storey horror pictures will be able to predict it well in advance . But if you like your horror slightly refined , and not just consisting of non-stop blood and gore , you should seriously consider opening this particular vault .
" Oh Arthur , Can I Take My Nightie Off ? " . " Zzzzzzzzzzzzz " .	British working class sitcoms were in vogue in the late ' 60's and early ' 70's , such as ' Steptoe & Son ' , ' Till Death Us Do Part ' , and , of course , this . Incredibly , the B . B . C . turned ' On The Buses ' down even though the writers had devised the highly popular ' The Rag Trade ' . London Weekend Television profited by their mistake . ' On The Buses ' boasted a terrific cast and ( for the most part ) very funny scripts . Viewers cheered as driver Stan Butler and conductor Jack Harper frequently got one over the pompous Inspector ' Blakey ' Blake . All over the country , his catchphrase " I ' ate you , Butler " could be heard in workplaces and playgrounds . And as for the sexy ' clippies ' . . . sorry , feminists , but they really did exist , I'm afraid . My favourite characters were the dowdy Olive and her grumpy husband Arthur . Even when the punchlines could be seen coming a mile off , they were usually delivered with panache and immaculate comic timing . Three movies were made , none as funny as the original , and a stage version in Canada in the late ' 80's . Its impossible to explain the show's appeal to young people , but it struck a chord with millions of viewers , and should not be dismissed lightly .
The Patter Of Tiny ( Badger's ) Feet !	Bingham wants to start a family , and asks Duncan to be godfather , but there's a catch - he hasn't actually told his wife . He pleads with Duncan to ask on his behalf . Reluctantly , Duncan agrees . Mary is horrified - she had banked on having a career . Duncan is caught in the crossfire as the Binghams argue in their living room . Soon Stuart-Clark and Collier are taking sides . The angry mood spills over into the operating theatre , as the doctors endeavour to perform an operation without actually talking to one another . Duncan looks for a way to resolve the dispute before someone seriously gets hurt . . . The final appearance of Helen Fraser as ' Dr . Mary Bingham ' . Married life does not appear to have changed her very much ; she still talks like a fluffy bunny , and calls Duncan ' Dunky ' . With Richard O'Sullivan about to leave , there was no way she could stay in the show . Had ' Man About The House ' not taken off , I think a spin-off featuring the Binghams would have worked . Funniest moment - Duncan and Dick confronting one another in a corridor like cowboys about to have a gunfight . Dick blows cigar smoke in his friend's face . Whether that was in the script or not I do not know but I wouldn't be surprised if it wasn't .
A Fete Worse Than Death !	Loftus asks Duncan , Paul , Dick and Bingham to come up with ideas for the 1973 St . Swithins Annual Garden Fete . Duncan wants a beauty contest , Paul wishes to do conjuring tricks ( as ' The Great Collieto ' ) , Dick ( rather bizarrely ) suggests a puppet show , and Bingham's big idea is . . . donkey rides . Duncan is horrified when he learns his current girlfriend Annabel is to be one of the beauty contest contestants . Paul's expertise at magic rivals that of Tommy Cooper . Bingham's donkeys turn up four days early ( which means he has to hide them in one of the lecture theatres ) , while Dick's puppet show turns out to be a sneaky ploy to sell beer . . . Almost every sitcom at one time or another has featured a plot about a garden fte , from ' Terry & June ' to ' Father Ted ' . This Phil Redmond scripted episode , though playing on familiar turf , manages to be good fun . Though referred to ( she's one of the contestants ) , Helen Fraser's ' Mary Bingham ' is not in this episode . The oft-mentioned ' Nurse Doreen Willett ' is again played by Andrea Lawrence ( last seen in the ' Doctor At Large ' episode ' Pull The Other One ' ) . Funniest moment - Loftus attacked by Mr . Punch !
Logan Runs Out Of Time	Logan , Jessica and Rem witness the arrival of a strange machine amidst some old ruins . Inside is a box containing a rabbit . The machine vanishes - taking Logan's gun with it - reappearing in the headquarters of ' The Sanctuary Project ' - a time travel experiment some 200 years in the past . Its creator , David Eakins , visits the future to meet Logan and his friends . But does not let on where he really comes from . Some time later , the Solarcraft arrives at ' Sanctuary ' , where the people live a simple , carefree existence , yet lack basic medical and scientific knowledge . It is not the ' Sanctuary ' Logan and Jessica are looking for . Eakins recognises the ' temple ' in which they worship as the Sanctuary Project headquarters . Within its computer banks is vital knowledge - details of how the Nuclear Holocaust started . Eakins confides to his friends that he intends returning to his own time , to try and prevent the wars from happening . Logan is faced with an intriguing dilemma - should he help Eakins change history , knowing full well that in so doing he and Jessica will cease to exist ? Penned by David Gerrold under the name ' Noah Ward ' , this excellent episode is unusually complex by the standards of ' 70's prime time U . S . television ; the ideas involved are fascinating , such as the ' Sanctuary ' community where the inhabitants are named after types of computer . The late Paul Shenar gives a fine performance as ' Eakins ' , one almost wishes he'd been written in as a regular . ' The Sanctuary Project ' headquarters looks not unlike a scaled-down version of ' Project Tik-Tok ' from Irwin Allen's ' The Time Tunnel ' . The final sting in the tale is both unexpected and flawlessly logical . Episodes such as this make you wish ' Logan's Run ' had lasted a lot longer .
Has Anyone Seen Kelly ?	I read recently on a ' lost shows ' website how many complete editions of Granada's T . V . ' s ' Clapperboard ' currently survive . The depressing answer was this - very few . It was a long-running children's programme about cinema . Screened on Monday afternoons , it began as an earnest look at film genres ( westerns , sci-fi , musicals , comedies etc . ) but as it progressed changed into something more akin to an Open University programme . Very few children would have known exactly who the programmes were about . One was devoted to the film music of Ron Goodwin , another to the work of Ken Adam ( set designer of the Bond films ) , others profiled cinematographer Freddie Young , Edward Fox , Jacques Tati , William Goldman , Frank Launder & Sidney Gilliat , Gloria Grahame , and Richard Attenborough . To tie-in with the television debut of ' Space : 1999 ' , Gerry Anderson was put in the spotlight . It is highly unlikely that such an eclectic programme would get on air today . The presenter , Chris Kelly , was in his thirties , and reviewed films in a laid back , confidant style akin to Barry Norman's , there was no attempt to pander to younger viewers . He was brave enough to put the boot into the film ' Grease ' for one thing ! You sensed he was having fun doing the show . Credit for its success not only belongs to him but to producer Muriel Young , herself a former presenter . When ' Clapperboard ' was axed in 1982 , it left a huge void in children's television , one that is still sadly waiting to be filled .
" Hullo ! Siadwel here ! "	' A Kick Up The Eighties ' and ' Laugh ? I Nearly Paid My Licence Fee ! ' laid the groundwork for this classic sketch show which , despite spawning two spin-offs - ' Rab C . Nesbitt ' and ' The Baldy Man ' - strangely seems to have fallen off the radar . The early editions opened with Andy Gray and Helen Lederer reading spoof news items similar to those of ' Not The Nine O'Clock News ' . Lederer herself wrote and performed monologues in which she played a tipsy bimbo . My favourite recurring character though was Siadwel , a geeky Welsh poet played to perfection by John Sparkes . In filthy anorak and N . H . S . spectacles , Siadwel regaled us with such stunning observations on life as : " Uncle Pob wouldn't put his dog in the kennels before going on holiday . He said it was cruel . So he drowned him . " . Sparkes eventually left to appear in Channel 4's ' Absolutely ' . Later programmes had Gregor Fisher as Gus , the boisterous newsreader of the Outer Hebrides Broadcasting Corporation ( O . H . B . C . ) . Some of the humour could be sick , such as the man accidentally decapitating commuters with a hedge trimmer . One particularly brilliant sketch featured the cast as ' The Broons ' , a comic-strip Scottish family well known to readers of ' The Sunday Post ' . Each show closed with Thatcher roaring like the M . G . M . lion . This was later changed to John Major issuing a mouse-like squeak ! Special mention should be made of David McNiven and his wonderful songs . ' Naked Video ' was , for my money , one of the best sketch shows the B . B . C . has ever made .
Ray and Alan's Funhouse	Its rare for writers ' names to be incorporated into the titles of their shows - even Johnny Speight never managed it - but by 1977 , Ray Galton and Alan Simpson had engendered enough respect and affection from within the industry and general public for it to occur . Their faces were to be seen in the opening titles , with Ken Jones ' brass-band signature tune incorporating the clicking of typewriter keys . The series got off to a magnificent start with ' Car Along The Pass ' , boasting Arthur Lowe in sparkling form as a pompous xenophobe trapped in a cable-car over the Austrian Alps with assorted foreign tourists . His opening line to wife Mona Washbourne summed up his character : " This is the worst holiday we have ever had . . . we have both spent over 18 each . " . With ' Dad's Army ' about to end , it looked as though Arthur had a potential solo hit on his hands , but it was not to be . None of the ' Playhouses ' made it to series form , some such as ' Naught For Thy Comfort ' and ' Variations On A Theme ' seemed written purely as stand-alone affairs . ' Swap You One Of These For One Of Those ' was a left-over from ' Casanova 73 ' ( hard to credit it now , but ' The Sun ' complained before its broadcast that wife-swapping was not suitable for television ! ) . Another outstanding show ' I Tell You Its Burt Reynolds ' featured Leonard Rossiter as a buffoon who becomes convinced he has spotted the macho movie star in a T . V . show . His madness escalates , and Rossiter turns in his best performance since Rigsby . ' Big Deal At York City ' was good fun too , with Warren Mitchell as a lucky soul who's had a good day at the races , only to be preyed upon by card sharks on a train . Neat twist at the end . The seven shows were as good as any of their past work , had high production values , and were wonderfully cast . ' The News Of The World ' invited readers to select the episode with the best series potential . What the result would have been we shall never know , because Alan Simpson retired suddenly , leaving Ray to team up with Johnny Speight . However , they reunited briefly in the mid-90's to update some of their material for Paul Merton . For a farewell , ' Playhouse ' was not at all bad . A D . V . D . release would be more than welcome .
' Monty Python ' Junior	If it were possible to go through the whole of ' Monty Python ' and take out the adult material , what you'd be left with is ' Do Not Adjust Your Set ' . This delightfully anarchic show was loved by British children in the late ' 60's ( I was one ) and gave Michael Palin , Terry Jones and Eric Idle useful television exposure . Like the much later ' Tiswas ' , it revelled in its own silliness . David Jason and sexy Denise Coffey provided support , as well as writing and appearing in a ' Batman ' spoof , made on film , entitled ' The Life & Times Of Captain Fantastic ' ( such was its popularity that it went on to be a regular item in the magazine programme ' Magpie ' ) . It is to their credit that they managed to hold their own in such esteemed company . When Michael Palin fell ill one week , Tim Brooke-Taylor ( dressed as a frogman ) from ' At Last The 1948 Show ' took his place . But the real stars for me were ' The Bonzo Dog Doo Dah Band ' . Their witty , tuneful songs ( such as ' By A Waterfall ' and ' I'm The Urban Spaceman ' ) made the show . Their lead singer , the late Vivian Stanshall , looked like a hippie version of Leslie Phillips ; he really should have done more in the field of comedy writing and performing . Terry Gilliam came aboard for the second season , providing animations ( including a superb one about Christmas cards ) similar to the ones he later did in ' Python ' . When Channel 4 repeated the Christmas Special ( ' Do Not Adjust Your Stocking ' ) in the ' 80's , David Jason , for reasons best known to himself , refused to allow his footage to be included . If you love ' Python ' , you should love this too . And remember : the evil Mrs . Black and her Blit Men are still lurking out there somewhere . . .
" Robert , will you let in some fresh air ? " . " No , Madam ! " .	Seeing as how no-one from the U . K . has commented on this wonderful show , I thought I'd be the first . ' Two's Company ' was a kind of British ' Odd Couple ' ; it starred Elaine Stritch as bestselling American writer ' Dorothy McNab ' , with Donald Sinden as her snooty , sarcastic English butler ' Robert ' . There was an occasional ' battle of the sexes ' feel to the show , but mostly it was culture-clash humour . It was rare to find an I . T . V . sitcom in the ' 70's that featured wit , as opposed to belly laughs . Some of Robert's put-downs were priceless ; he told an Australian home-help in one episode : " Regrettably , we have no billy cans for you to drink from . But if you like , I can always arrange a small saucepan ! " . Complaining about the number of parked cars outside her home , Dorothy is told : " I'll get the police to tow them away , Madam ! " . Despite their constant bickering , there was an unspoken bound of affection between Dorothy and Robert . There had to be , or else she could easily have fired him . ' Two's Company ' , whilst never a big ratings hit for I . T . V . , was nevertheless popular , and lasted several seasons . Greg Smith , producer of the ' Confessions ' movies , wanted to make a big screen version with Lucille Ball replacing Elaine Stritch , to make it saleable to the American public . It never got made . However , the format was bought by U . S . television , and reworked as the dreadful ' The Two Of Us ' , with an utterly miscast Peter Cook in the Sinden role .
Majestic Mayhem !	Eric Chappell said that he gave up writing sitcoms when the men in suits at I . T . V . began asking whenever he submitted new ideas for shows ' how is this relevant to the modern world ? ' rather than ' is it funny ? ' . This second episode of ' The Bounder ' is very funny indeed . It is Trevor and Mary's 15th wedding anniversary , and Howard - eager to disguise the fact he has not remembered it - claims to have booked a table for two at The Majestic . The thing is , he has not , and the trio inadvertently gate-crash a private function , a reunion of old Etonians . Howard tries to bluff his way out of trouble by pretending to be a rugby-playing student called ' Bodger Booth ' . He then begins complaining about the quality of the food ( giving him an excuse to taste the stuff ) to the head waiter , Wilson ( Ronnie Stevens ) . He is quickly rumbled however when Wilson calls Head Office , and Trevor and Mary suspect something is wrong when prawn cocktails vanish from their table . . . Some very good actors in this - Glyn Owen , Alan Curtis , Ronnie Stevens , and Dennis Ramsden ( ' Reggie Perrin ' fans may remember the latter as ' Dr . ' Baldy ' Hump ' from the first season ) , but as ever it is Bowles who shines . He is wonderful throughout . As Howard's lies spiral out of control , it is poor Trevor who gets debagged by the old Etonians , his trousers flung onto the floor as Howard and Mary dance . Funniest moment - Howard attempting to make off with a large platter of salmon , only to be unexpectedly called upon to give a speech to the gathering .
" Do you watch movies about gladiators ? "	' Airplane ! ' was released in Britain in the summer of 1980 to zero publicity . The poster I saw did not even make clear it was a comedy . I bought a ticket expecting a rip-off of the ' Airport ' disaster movies , and was astounded to find an uproarious spoof , the best film Mel Brooks never made . Loosely based on Arthur Hailey's novel ' Flight Into Danger ' , the film begins with an airplane crew succumbing to food poisoning mid-flight . The lives of the passengers therefore rest on two hopes : a ) finding someone who can fly a plane and b ) did not have fish for dinner . Enter nervous pilot Ted Striker . Incorporated into this premise are hilarious flashbacks to Striker's doomed romance with stewardess Elaine , these include spoofs of ' From Here To Eternity ' and ' Saturday Night Fever ' . The jokes come thick and fast , some don't work but most are on target . Jim Abrahams , Jerry and David Zucker were not the first to spoof ' 70's disaster movies ; James Frawley's ' The Big Bus ' beat them to it by about five years , but both films are excellent on their own terms . Robert Hays and Julie Hagerty are fine as the romantic leads , and words cannot describe the shock of seeing Leslie Nielsen sending himself up rotten as ' Dr . Rumack ' . He had appeared in a real disaster picture several years before - ' The Poseidon Adventure ' . Likewise those old-timers Lloyd Bridges and Robert Stack throw themselves into the fun , delivering the absurd lines with commendably straight faces . I do not think Peter ' Mission : Impossible ' Graves ' paedophile Captain Oveur would be considered amusing today ! Upstaging the cast though is ' Otto The Auto-Pilot ' - an inflatable doll who not only drives the plane but gets fresh with the stewardess . ' Airplane ! ' is widely credited with having destroyed the disaster movie genre , much as ' Blazing Saddles ' did with the Western . Actually , it had burnt itself out well before 1980 , as anyone who saw ' Beyond The Poseidon Adventure ' and ' Airport 79 : The Concorde ' will testify . All ' Airplane ! ' did was to hammer home the final nail in the coffin . With absolutely no sense of irony , B . B . C . - 1 chose as its big Christmas Day movie offering that year - Charlton Heston in ' Airport 1975 ' . Coming only a few months after the release of ' Airplane ! ' it was impossible to view this turkey with a straight face . One person who could not possibly have seen ' Airplane ! ' was Robert Butler . His 1997 picture ' Turbulence ' ( starring Ray Liotta ) was a virtual remake , minus the jokes . Funniest moment - the passengers lining up to slap a hysterical woman , many equipped with items designed to inflict maximum injury !
We Let People Into Our Secrets !	Those who praise modern comedies as ' dark ' and ' original ' tend to be shamefully ignorant of past achievements in the field . The 1973 B . B . C . series ' Black & Blue ' was an anthology of plays intended to showcase offbeat humour . The first of these was ' Secrets ' written by Michael Palin and Terry Jones , who won the assignment on the strength of their work on ' Monty Python's Flying Circus ' . This satire on the consumer industry starred Warren Mitchell as ' Cyril Rose ' , the owner of the ' Secrets ' chocolate factory . A crisis develops when three men fall into the mixing vat , winding up as part of the filling for the latest batch . Despite Rose's best efforts to stop the contaminated chocks going on sale , a small section of the population are unknowingly turned into cannibals . It looks like the end for ' Secrets ' , until . . . market research shows that customers preferred the chocks with the dead workmen in to the existing brand . Sales go through the roof . Bowing to demand , Rose tries to replicate the effect by putting dead animal carcases into the chocks , but the public are not so keen on those . Reluctantly , Rose does a deal with a local mortuary who then supply him with fresh human corpses . He makes no secret ( ahem ! ) of the fact that his chocks contain ' human meat ' . In fact he is soon paying people to volunteer to become part of the process , which they are more than willing to do as it has now become a prestigious way to die . As can be gleaned from the above outline , this ghoulish play has more than a touch of Python about it ; in particular , the ' Crunchy Frog ' sketch from the first series , and the notorious ' Undertaker ' skit from the final instalment of Series 2 . Warren Mitchell is excellent in a role very different to Alf Garnett ( ' Till Death Us Do Part ' was still in production at that time ) , while Clifford Rose's character seems to be a dry run for his later ' Kessler ' in the wartime drama ' Secret Army ' . I was only eleven when ' Secrets ' was transmitted and even then , I was shocked . I was not alone . The B . B . C . switchboard was jammed by numerous calls of complaint . When it came out on D . V . D . thirty years later as part of ' The Complete Ripping Yarns ' , I was amazed at how well it stood up . The play posed an intriguing ( and still relevant ) ethical dilemma ; if a demand for food containing human matter suddenly appeared , would it be met ? Palin and Jones conclude , rather gloomily , that it would . In 1988 , ' Secrets ' formed the basis for a less than wonderful film called ' Consuming Passions ' starring Tyler Butterworth and Vanessa Redgrave . The scriptwriters padded out the story with so many irrelevant sub-plots the original message was lost . Fortunately , the original is with us once again and we can see just how far ahead of their time Palin and Jones were . We may not have reached the stage where dead people are used in the manufacturing of confectionery , but one increasingly feels something similar might one day happen , justified by some idiot with a fat expense account claiming ' we're only giving the public what it wants ' . So , settle down in front of the box with a stiff drink and watch ' Secrets ' - a black comedy that manages to be both black and very funny . One word of warning though - don't eat chocolates beforehand .
A Spy Called B . O .	' The Liquidator ' was based on the first published novel by John Gardner , who'd later continue the literary James Bond saga . Its a lot more fun than his 007 books ( which to be honest are mediocre ) , and in 1965 was brought to the big screen starring Rod Taylor as ' Boysie ' Oakes . Its a splendid film which deserves to be released on D . V . D . in widescreen ( the copy I have was taped off T . C . M . ) , boasting a fantastic cast , exotic locations , and a nice line in humour . Peter Yeldham's script is faithful to the novel , and doesn't try to distort Oakes into a pseudo-Bond clone . You won't find any exploding briefcases or knives in shoes here . As Boysie , Taylor is great ( I disagree with those who claim he was miscast ) , and the title song by Shirley Bassey wouldn't have disgraced a real Bond movie . Its a shame that there were no sequels ( ' Understrike ' and ' Amber Nine ' were both crying out for celluloid ) . Like ' Where The Spies Are ' starring David Niven , this was to be a one-off outing for its leading character .
" We Want Information , Information , Information ! "	I did not see ' The Prisoner ' on its original broadcast , but discovered it through one of the many repeats it enjoyed ( usually in late-night slots on I . T . V . ) in the early ' 70's . I had no real idea what it was about and did not care . I could see it was something special . Once all the fuss had died down from the ' Fall Out ' screening , it was possible to judge the show on its own merits . Today I watch it at least once a year , and have yet to grow weary of it . It improves dramatically with each viewing , and as Western Governments seem hellbent on removing the democratic rights of individual citizens it has acquired a startling relevance Patrick McGoohan could never have foreseen in 1966 . So what was it all about ? An unnamed British secret agent ( Patrick McGoohan ) angrily resigns , but before he can begin the new life he has planned for himself mysterious forces spirit him off to a place known only as ' The Village ' . Here other ex-agents are given numbers instead of names , and their minds plundered for classified information using highly advanced technology . Escape is impossible . Strange balloon-like creatures called ' Rovers ' chase and suffocate the would-be runaways . The chairman of The Village is Number Two , who changes at regular intervals and is answerable only to the unseen ' Number One ' . McGoohan is magnificent as the caged ' Prisoner ' , and was ably supported by the magnificent line-up of guest stars in the series such as Leo McKern , Ronald Radd , Derren Nesbitt , Colin Gordon , Mary Morris , Peter Wyngarde , Anton Rodgers , George Baker , Guy Doleman , Kenneth Griffith , Justine Lord , and Alexis Kanner . Brilliant though this premise is , it was obvious it could not be maintained for a full season , hence only seventeen episodes were made . McGoohan himself wrote and directed a few . His script editor , George Markstein , knew that a place like The Village really existed once , and thus was able to draw on his not-inconsiderable knowledge . Perhaps the most pertinent episode is ' Free For All ' in which The Prisoner runs for office as the new Number Two . Here we see a press determined to print what they want rather than the facts , political candidates brainwashed by the state , saying nothing of any substance , and when The Prisoner attempts to change things for the better he is viciously beaten into submission . ' The General ' warns of the dangers of using machines as educational tools . McGoohan intended ' The Prisoner ' as a stark warning against over dependence on technology . The show ended with perhaps the most controversial finale in television history : ' Fall Out ' . Viewers were furious because they thought they had been cheated out of a ' proper ' ending . Personally , I think it is a marvellous climax to a memorable show . Remake ? Don't even suggest it . ( One thing did puzzle me though . How come an intelligent , much-travelled secret agent did not recognise he was being held captive in one of Wales ' top tourist spots ? ) Be Seeing You !
One Of The Best Spy Spoofs Of The ' 60's	Made on a budget which wouldn't have paid for one of 007's Vodka Martinis , this little-known British film is surprisingly good . Tom Adams , as agent Charles Vine , could have made a fine Bond ( one wonders if Vine effectively ruled him out as a candidate for the role ) as he projects more than the required level of machismo and charisma . The supporting cast , particularly Peter Bull as the scheming criminal ' Masterman ' , are impressive , while John Arnatt steals the show as Vine's boss Rockwell ; his explanation of events to Vine at the hospital is brilliantly delivered . The script's well-written , beginning with a teaser worthy of ' The Avengers ' , and climaxing with a multi-double cross shoot-out . Lindsay Shonteff pulls off some decent action scenes , using the city of London to good effect . If ' Licensed To Kill ' can be likened to any Bond film , its ' From Russia With Love ' , as once again agents of the East and West are played off against one another by a mysterious third party . Very underrated film .
" Humphrey , are you trying to wish me a Merry Christmas ! "	JIM HACKER : Bernard , Sir Humphrey is not God ! BERNARD WOOLLEY : Will you tell him or shall I ? When I first saw ' Yes Minister ' many moons ago , my initial reaction was : " This will never catch on . It is too good . " . Making fun of politicians on television was not new then , of course - ' T . W . 3 ' ( which Antony Jay contributed to ) did it two nearly decades earlier - but this was , I think , the first time anyone had done it on this scale , albeit with fictional rather than real ones . The premise is this ; the well-meaning but naive Jim Hacker ( Paul Eddington ) is appointed Minister of Administrative Affairs . Though he has sound ideas , such as cutting government waste and ending bureaucracy , he is undermined at every turn by Sir Humphrey Appleby ( Nigel Hawthorne ) . Jim is basically a figurehead , the real power lies with unelected civil servants . The show got much comic mileage out of the elusive gobbledegook spouted by politicians , and skilfully avoided naming Jim's party . but I think there was no doubt in anyone's mind as to which one it was . The superb titles featured caricatures of the cast done in his inimitable style by Gerald Scarfe . Ronnie Hazlehurst's theme was suitably bombastic , if a little similar to the one he did for ' To The Manor Born ' . Along with Jay , the other writer was Jonathan Lynn , an ex-cast member ( and contributing writer to ) L . W . T . ' s ' Doctor ' series . Together they came up with some outstandingly literate scripts , which were then impeccably delivered by the cast . Hawthorne's ' Sir Humphrey ' in particular was a marvellous comic creation , being charming and sinister at the same time . Hacker's habit of turning into Churchill regularly creased me up . Derek Fowlds likewise was hilarious as ' Bernard Woolley ' , who , while not actually stupid had an unfortunate habit of saying the wrong thing at the wrong time . The show caught on , won dozens of awards ( particularly for Hawthorne ) , and was a surprise hit in Australia . I suppose that it was because politicians are much the same wherever you go . I do not know how accurate this depiction of British politics is . If , as was alleged , Ministers are nothing more helpless puppets in the hands of skillful manipulators such as Sir Humphrey , then the democracy in which we live is a sham . This subversive ( not to say depressing ) message could not have hit home with the then-Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher , who pronounced herself a fan , and even participated in a specially-written sketch at which Mary Whitehouse was in attendance . Eddington and Hawthorne were not keen to do it , apparently , feeling she was exploiting the show's success . One of the best episodes was ' Skeleton In The Cupboard ' in which Sir Humphrey's involvement in an old scandal comes to light . It was fun to see the tables turned for once , as poor Humph breaks down in front of the Minister . In another , Jim and Humph were at a reception in the Middle East ( where alcohol is not allowed ) and kept sneaking off to a fake communications rooms to imbibe . But easily the best episode was ' Party Games ' , an extended special which finally propelled Hacker into No . 10 . Everything about it , from Jim using a minor issue ( the E . U . ' s renaming of sausages ) as a crusade to the blackmailing of potential Prime Ministerial candidates , felt right . Ludovic Kennedy obviously struggled to keep a straight face during the interview . Three seasons were made , followed by a sequel ' Yes , Prime Minister ' which was , in my view , not as good . Eddington and Hawthorne are sadly no longer with us , but fortunately the repeats are . Unlike other sitcoms of the period , this has not in any way ' dated ' . Its themes are as relevant as ever . With all the hoo-ha over honours recently , it seems strange no-one has questioned as to how Jay got a knighthood ( as well as co-writing ' Minister ' , he also penned speeches for Thatcher ) while Lynn did not . Surely he is just as responsible for the show's success ? Perhaps him being openly left-wing had something to do with it . I will leave the last word to an outraged ' Points Of View ' letter-writer . When the first season was being repeated , he / she wrote to Barry Took's show to complain , adding : " If this is the way the country is being run , I would rather not know about it ! " .
" You've Forgotten Your Balls , Sir ! "	Whenever ' Last Of The Summer Wine ' comes on television now , I cannot change channels fast enough ( If I see Howard and Marina riding about on bikes yet again , I will chuck a chair at the screen ) . It was very different back in 1976 , though . The show had been running for three seasons , successfully replacing Michael Bates ' ' Cyril Blamire ' with Brian Wilde's ' Foggy Dewhurst ' . No offence to Bates , but with Wilde the show seemed much funnier . Another great asset was John Comer as the henpecked ' Sid ' . ' The Kink In Foggy's Niblick ' begins with our heroes trying to keep fit by playing football . Foggy gets one of Compo's wellies in the stomach when it comes off during a particularly strenuous kick . He then decides football is not really his game after all , and challenges Sid the cafe owner to a round of golf , even though he admits he has not played since 1939 . Following a rummage round Foggy's dusty attic to hunt for some crooked golf clubs , they head for the course , Foggy looking ridiculous in traditional golfing gear . While the game gets underway , Compo sets about retrieving other players ' lost balls - cue some nice visual gags - so he can sell the things back to them . . . The idea behind this episode is simplicity itself , almost like something out of the ' Sykes ' show , and that is why it works . The humour is natural , not forced , and benefits from having a smaller cast . Recent ' Summer Wine ' episodes have featured almost as many characters as ' Gone With The Wind ' , with some doing little more than popping up , saying a line or two , and disappearing . There is also a predictable air about the newer shows . It is as though Roy Clarke presses a button on his computer marked ' Script For ' Last Of The Summer Wine ' and then goes off to mow the lawn while the printer spews out the pages . This was made before the show came to rely heavily on ' Some Mothers Do Ave Em ' style stunts , another nail in its coffin . Are we really expected to believe three old men could really roll down hill in barrels or fall off rooftops without sustaining serious injury ? In my view , the B . B . C . should put the show out of its misery , and repeat the older editions . They are a thousand times funnier . Funniest moment - Foggy's ball has landed in what appears to be a small stream . As he wades into the water and prepares to hit it , two cars shoot past , drenching him !
" Skirt is meat ! "	As the ' 60's progressed , a sea change took place in British film comedy . Norman Wisdom and St . Trinians were suddenly out-of-date ( though they kept on going for a few more years ) , and a new wave of Britcoms appeared , among them ' The Knack ' . Richard Lester had just made ' A Hard Days ' Night ' and brought the same mindset to this picture . Coming a year before Time magazine published its famous ' Swinging London ' article , it depicts a Britain on the cusp of a cultural and ( more importantly ) sexual revolution . As Spike Millgan later put it : " Queen Victoria died in 1960 ! " . It is arty ( shot in glorious black and white ) , sexist , often irritating , yet manages in its own way to say something serious about human relationships . Michael Crawford stars as ' Colin ' , a shy , repressed schoolteacher brassed off because his boarder , the good-looking ' Tolen ' ( Ray Brooks ) has a knack for ' pulling the birds ' . Tolen is the Russell Brand of his day ; girls are literally queueing outside his room at all times for sex . Tolen offers Colin a masterclass in the art of seduction . Tolen's attitude to the fairer sex is : " I see , I want and I take " , the sort of chauvinistic attitude probably responsible for Women's Lib in the first place . But even his powers are about to be tested to the limit when along comes Nancy ( Rita Tushingham ) a Northern lass newly arrived in London in search of lodgings . Nancy is immune to Tolen's ' Mr . Tight Trousers ' persona , and when he tries to get fresh with her she cries ' Rape ! ' . A number of reviewers have described the movie as ' dated ' . They are absolutely right . But it is fascinating for that reason alone . It is now a quaint museum piece , the sexual attitudes and mores of the era are on view and are fascinating . It may surprise some to learn that the play on which the film is based was written by a woman - Ann Jellicoe . Lester took the play and opened it out ( with help from screenwriter Charles Wood ) , turning it into a visual delight . Surrealism had finally joined the comedy mainstream . The jokes come at you so fast you need to be quick to pick them up . For instance , when Colin wonders whether to let his front room to a monk , we suddenly cut to a bus full of monks . When he gets angry and tries to keep Tolen out of the house by boarding up the front door , the film turns into a mini-lecture on carpentry . Throughout a Greek chorus of elderly people comment on events . " I know what she's looking for and its not the Y . W . C . A . ! " . Their remarks are much the same as you would hear nowadays . Being too old for sex themselves , they frown on the younger generation for being able to do it . Its these quirky flourishes that gives the film much of its charm . The famous scene where Colin , Nancy and Tom push a bed through the streets of London employs a style that was later used on ' The Monkees ' and ' The Goodies ' . The cast are excellent , in particular Donal Donnelly as an eccentric Irishman with a mad compulsion to paint everything white . Michael Crawford's ' Colin ' has all the naivety of his later ( better known ) role of ' Frank Spencer ' . Tushingham's innocent waif is appealing . As ' Tolen ' , all quiff and dark glasses , Ray Brooks is the epitome of ' 60's cool , a man who has women falling for him like dominoes . Watching this again recently , it occurred to me what a great vehicle for Peter Cook and Dudley Moore this would have made . The humour is broadly in line with what the duo were doing on ' Not Only But Also ' . You can easily imagine Cook as ' Tolen ' and Moore as ' Colin ' . Perhaps these characters inspired the ones they later played in ' Bedazzled ' . The film has its share of longueurs , however . Colin pretending to be a lion is something I think it could have done without . And Nancy's cries of ' Rape ! ' to passers-by have ensured it a high place on the ' it has not aged well ' movie lists . ' Comedy has a new freedom ' gushed Newsweek magazine at the time of its release . Absolutely . Rather than being brushed under the carpet , sex was now openly talked about on screen . There was to be no going back . Nudity and bad language would soon enter the equation . I must mention John Barry's marvellous score . He was on the top of his game here ( having just done ' Goldfinger ' and ' Zulu ' ) and the music perfectly accompanies the offbeat action . You will be humming that gorgeous title theme for days . If you want a British movie that has ' Sixties ' written all over it , look no further . It also manages to be a life-affirming , witty and accomplished piece of work .
The Many Faces Of Richard Lynch	Jeremy Mason , master of disguise , escapes from the maximum security prison in which he was incarcerated in for three months . KARTEL hires him to impersonate a U . S . general in order to steal a top secret laser satellite system known as ' Seeker ' . The one lead to Mason's whereabouts is his ex-girlfriend , a nightclub dancer . Sloane and Torque keep her under watch , waiting for Mason to make contact . They don't have to wait long . Mason wants revenge on Sloane for putting him behind bars , and KARTEL want ' Seeker ' to assassinate a visiting African Premier . Actor Richard Lynch specialises in creepy villains , and this episode gives him a good role , in fact one wishes it were a two-parter . The concept of ' Seeker ' is particularly interesting . Unlike the laser satellite seen in the Bond film ' Diamonds Are Forever ' , ' Seeker ' can destroy its designated targets by homing in on small magnetic discs . If one such disc is placed about your person ' Seeker ' will find and eliminate you no matter where in the world you are . I'd like to have seen more of ' Seeker ' in action . Nice moment when Sloane falls on the bonnet of a moving car and shatters the windscreen . Originally produced under the title ' Master Of Disguise ' .
The Zone Where Awfully Weird Things Happen !	I am too young to have seen ' Twilight Zone ' on its original transmission . I came to it in 1983 when , to tie-in with the movie's release , the B . B . C . ran repeats of the first series . I watched not really knowing what to expect . It turned out to be a stylish science fiction anthology series , mostly written by Rod Serling ( who also presented ) , and starring top-drawer performers of the calibre of Burgess Meredith , Robert Redford , Fritz Weaver , and Charles Bronson . The premise was that the ' Twilight Zone ' was this mysterious place where anything could - and frequently did - happen . Ordinary people suddenly finding themselves in extraordinary situations , such as falling in love with robots , revisiting their childhoods , travelling back in time , or meeting aliens . That is my favourite kind of science fiction . The stories varied in quality , but most were worth watching and even the weaker ones had merit . The show came about because Serling had achieved great success with plays such as ' Requiem For A Heavyweight ' and ' Patterns ' , and wanted to do a science fiction series because he thought the genre would give him greater freedom to express his ideas without network interference . Gene Roddenberry later felt the same way when he devised ' Star Trek ' . Check out episodes such as ' The Monsters Are Due On Maple Street ' ( a wonderful study in paranoia ) , ' The Invaders ' ( containing a bravura performance by Agnes Moorehead ) , ' The After Hours ' , ' And When The Sky Was Opened ' , ' Nightmare At 20 , 000 Feet ' to see fantasy television at its best . Aliens and monsters were only a minor part of the show . The real star was Serling's imagination . The show's title and creepy theme tune ( by Marius Constant ) have both entered popular legend . You only have to hum a few bars of the latter and immediately everyone knows what show you are referring to . It ran for five seasons in all ( the fourth being a misguided attempt to upgrade the format to hour-long shows ) , and returned to television in the late ' 80's . As was later the case with the ' 90's update of ' Outer Limits ' , the new show was only a pale shadow of its predecessor . Incidentally , the title of this review came from a sketch on ' The Lenny Henry Show ' , shown on the B . B . C . in 1984 .
" We'll meet again ! " , " Not at these prices , you won't ! "	The first episode of ' The Galton & Simpson Playhouse ' , an anthology of six one-off comedy plays made by Yorkshire Television in 1977 . ' Car Along The Pass ' got the series off to a cracking start . Arthur Lowe is ' Henry Duckworth ' , a pompous British tourist on a camping holiday in Switzerland with his wife , Ethel ( Mona Washbourne ) . When we first see him , he looks as though he has come straight from shooting grouse on the moors . As their cable car glides across the Swiss Alps , he gives vent to his feelings : " This is the worst holiday I have ever had in my life . . . we have both spent over 18 . 00 each ! " . He starts chatting to a German couple ( Anton Diffring and Maggie Wright ) . " Heinz Schtarmer of Baden-Baden ! " , the man introduces himself , to which the Englishman replies : " Henry Duckworth of Twickenham Twickenham ! " . The car breaks down in mid-air . While they wait for the fault to be rectified , Duckworth takes command of the situation , urging everyone not to panic , but the only other to do is ( to his embarrassment ) an Englishman ( Aubrey Morris ) . Henry's authority is challenged by Heinz , who claims to have flown for the Luftwaffe during the war . The Englishman disregards his superior rank on the grounds he was on the wrong side . When the suggestion is made to make the car lighter by throwing something overboard , Heinz immediately points at Duckworth . . . This resembled the classic ' Hancock's Half-Hour ' episode ' The Lift ' in that it too featured a pompous man trapped along with a diverse group of people . Similarities between ' Duckworth ' and ' Captain Mainwaring ' are clear for all to see . ' The News Of The World ' invited viewers to send in their suggestions as to which of the ' Playhouses ' most deserved to become a series . There is no known record of the result , but I would be surprised if this did not come in top place . With ' Dad's Army ' about to be demobbed , the role of ' Duckworth ' seemed a natural for Lowe . Unfortunately Alan Simpson retired and any hope of a spin-off series went by the wayside . However , Roy Clarke created a not dissimilar character for his underrated B . B . C . sitcom ' Potter ' . As ' Duckworth ' , Lowe is an absolute joy , grumbling about everything under the sun . Washbourne does not say much but her facial expressions are great . Witness her joy at being finally rid of her nagging husband at the end ( he goes back to the cable car to locate their missing passports and gets trapped again , only this time alone ) . Funniest moment - Duckworth sharing his food supplies with the tourists . After giving a tin of spaghetti to the Italian he has nicknamed ' Mussolini ' , he cries " Heinz ! " . Hearing his name called , the German responds with : " Ja ? " . " Baked beans ! " , says Duckworth , handing him a tin . Only Lowe could make a line like that funny . When he died in 1982 , I . T . V . repeated this as a tribute . They were right to do so as it encapsulates everything that was good about the legendary actor .
A Fool And His Money	Albert Cakebread ( Warren Mitchell ) , who describes himself as being in the ' eels ' business , loves a flutter on the horses . Following a successful day at York races , he buys drinks for strangers and boards a train . Three smartly dressed men ( Gerald Flood , Robert Dorning and Alistair Williamson ) watch him stupidly splash his winnings about , and plan to part him from them . Albert finds himself sharing a compartment with the would-be card sharps ( who pretend not to know one another ) , along with a Bishop ( Lockwood West ) and a mild-mannered businessman ( Robin Parkinson ) . They decide to while away the long journey by playing Poker . The Bishop does not really approve of gambling but agrees to act as Dealer . He passes the cards around one a time . " One for you , one for you , and another for you ! " . Albert impatiently tells him to get a move on or they will still be on the first hand when they arrive . The game gets underway . . . With his black-rimmed glasses , straw hat and long hair , ' Albert ' looks more like ' Worzel Gummidge ' than ' Alf Garnett ' . He shares Alf's love of drinking though . When we first see him at the railway station he is in high spirits , loading up an empty binoculars case with miniature bottles of brandy . He does not care who sees him chucking his money around . Galton and Simpson's plot could easily have come out of ' Sergeant Bilko ' - a card game , the sharps , the simpleton begging to be fleeced , not forgetting , of course , the tables neatly being turned at the end . Very good supporting cast too . You do not need to know much about Poker to be able to enjoy this episode . As was with ' I Tell You Its Burt Reynolds ' , this could never have led to a series , but as a one-off it is good fun . Funniest moment - asked by the Vicar what his religion is , Albert replies : " C of E . ' Catcher Of Eels ! ' .
David Vincent Has Seen Them !	Quite simply , this is the best show of its kind . Created by Larry Cohen ( maverick film maker responsible for ' Its Alive ! ' and ' Q - The Winged Serpent ' ) and produced by Quinn Martin , it features the most popular story in the whole of science fiction - the Earth under attack . Roy Thinnes plays architect ' David Vincent ' ( don't ask me why they felt the need to mention his occupation in the opening credits ) who is driving home late one night . Tired , he stops near a deserted diner and falls asleep . He is awoken a short time later by a strange whirring sound . He sees a saucer-like object touching down nearby . When Vincent returns to the same spot the next day with the police in tow , there is no saucer , only a trailer belonging to a honeymooning couple , and they claim to have seen nothing . Vincent notices that the name of the diner has been changed . So is he mad ? Or has someone tried to cover things up ? Late that night , he approaches the couple yet again . The man attacks him . Suddenly he begins to glow . . . So begins the opening episode ' Beachhead ' written by Anthony Wilson . Taut and intelligently written , it could easily have been an instalment of ' The Outer Limits ' ( and shared that earlier programme's composer Dominic Frontiere ) . Vincent learns that the invaders are here , refugees from a dying world , and they are out to conquer the Earth . His task is made harder by the fact that they can assume human form , so they can be anyone or anything . The only way to identify one is by their little fingers - they cannot bend them ! Kill an invader and it disappears in a fiery red ball of light . Each week , the intrepid architect followed the invaders across the country , thwarting their nefarious plots , which include turning insects into carnivores , sending the Earth off its axis by detonating an antimatter bomb , and attempting to sabotage a moon exploration project . He also hoped to be able to capture an alien and take it to Washington in order to prove their existence . Guest stars included Jack Lord , Peter Graves , Burgess Meredith , Michael Rennie , Roddy McDowall and a pre ' French Connection ' Gene Hackman . It anticipated the ' paranoid ' shows of the ' 90's , such as ' The X Files ' and ' Dark Skies ' . After an excellent first season , it returned for a second , but mid-way through there was a change in format . In ' The Believers ' , Kent Smith was introduced as ' Edgar Scoville ' , head of a group who also knew of the invaders ' existence , and provided back-up . Ratings fell and the show was cancelled without a conclusion . In Britain , ' The Invaders ' played in late-night slots on I . T . V . , but in 1984 B . B . C . - 2 screened the first of two bumper runs ( the other being in 1991 ) , and as had happened with ' Outer Limits ' , the show found a new audience . Most recently , it has been seen on ' Five ' at the ungodly hour of 4 . 00 A . M . In 1995 ' The Invaders ' returned in a two-part mini-series starring Scott Bakula with Thinnes reprising his role as ' Vincent ' . It was dire , looking more like an ' X-Files ' rip-off . Luckily , the original is on D . V . D . and has stood up very well . Just keep an eye out for anyone acting suspiciously in your neighbourhood with a stiff little finger !
" He went thataway ! "	Sloane and Torque are at a power station in Germany , investigating a tip-off about a possible sabotage attempt . All appears normal , until an engineer acts strangely after hearing a sequence of musical notes on his computer pen . He pushes the controls well beyond the ' safety ' level , and explosions start to go off . With Torque's help , Sloane saves the man's life . Power-crazed cosmetics manufacturer Edward Danton is using glamorous models to lure U . S . Generals into compromising situations - then brainwashing them into disclosing the launching codes of America's nuclear arsenal . Danton intends causing Armaggeddon by means of a pre-emptive nuclear strike against the East . Exciting second episode this , with the novelty casting of ' I Spy ' star Culp as an eccentric dog-loving villain . Sloane has a handy laser in his cigarette lighter . He gets away from the bad guys in one scene by hanging onto the skids of a helicopter , something we'll see him do again later in the series . Sexy Sybil Danning seen briefly .
" It is ! It is ! I tell you ! "	You know how it is when someone gets an idea , and - no matter how daft it may be - refuses to let it go ? ( I used to know an old man named Bert , who kept insisting Clint Eastwood was Stan Laurel's illegitimate son . " So that's why ' Dirty Harry ' is always scratching his head and crying ! " , I once told him ) . That was the basis for this hilarious ' Galton & Simpson Playhouse ' . Jim Knife ( the peerless Leonard Rossiter ) is watching television with neighbours one evening when he spots - or rather thinks he does - Burt Reynolds in an episode of ' MacMillan & Wife ' . Jim obviously knows nothing of Mr . Reynolds ' career . His only contributions to television in the early ' 70's were a few made-for-T . V . movies and a short-lived detective show called ' Dan August ' . ' Macmillan & Wife ' , by the way , starred Rock Hudson and Susan Saint James and ran ( incorporating a title change to ' Macmillan ' ) from 1971-77 . Naturally the neighbours think Jim is a nut . Rather than admit to being wrong , he becomes determined to prove otherwise . He phones ' The T . V . Times ' , ' The Daily Telegraph ' , then Universal / M . C . A . ( the studio responsible for the show ) , and , having gotten absolutely nowhere , the actor himself . Gillian Raine , Rossiter's real-life wife , co-stars . Roy Barrowclough is an out-of-work extra whom Rossiter insults at every opportunity . Patricia Hayes is good value as the senile old granny . Mishearing Jim , she thinks he is referring to Debbie Reynolds . O . K . , it is a one-joke show , but a very good joke . Rossiter turns in his best work since ' Rising Damp ' . You cannot help but laugh as the man falls to pieces before your eyes . Funniest moment - the neighbours drift off to the pub , leaving Jim to exchange insults over the phone with Burt Reynolds . " Don't you take that attitude with me ! " can be heard over the Yorkshire Television logo . Later remade in 1997 as part of ' Paul Merton In Galton & Simpson's ' . Merton alas could not hold a candle to Rossiter in the acting stakes .
" Come Along , Miriam ! Chop ! Chop ! "	I've never been fond of cricket , so I was tempted to give ' Outside Edge ' a miss . I only watched because of the presence of Timothy Spaull ( of ' Auf Pet ' fame ) and the scrumptious Josie Lawrence . I'm glad I tuned in because if I hadn't I'd have missed I . T . V . ' s last truly great sitcom , a delightful show centred around two cricket-mad men , Roger Dervish and Kevin Costello , and their contrasting wives , the prim and proper Miriam and larger-than-life Maggie . Shot on film , and without a studio audience to ruin the best lines , ' Outside Edge ' was satisfying on all levels . It didn't bend over backwards to be funny . The regular cast were perfect , in particular Robert Daws , whose ' Roger ' must rival ' Gordon Brittas ' as the sitcom character you'd most like to throttle . The show had its tragic moments too ; witness Maggie's sad pleas for pregnancy in the Corfu Xmas special . With more and more modern sitcoms relying on toilet humour for comic effect , it seems unlikely that we will get many more series of this ilk . More's the pity .
' The Memory Kinda Lingers '	Ten years after ' Monty Python ' , another sketch show revolutionised British comedy . ' Not The Nine O'Clock News ' was ' T . W . 3 ' with a harder edge . It didn't merely offend , but horrified . What became known later on as ' alternative comedy ' started here . Public figures such as Reagan , Thatcher and The Queen found themselves on the receiving end of some quite vicious ( but funny ) satirical jibes . Typical ' Not ' gag : " Peters and Lee ( a popular ' 70's singing duo ) split up today . Afterwards , he walked into a lamp post . " . Singer Lennie Peters happened to be blind . They showed no compassion , except when John Lennon died - the end credits of the next episode featured a Lennon song played over a black screen . Even the then-new medium of ' pop videos ' got it in the neck from a witty song entitled ' Nice Video , Shame About The Song ' . The cast were brilliant , Rowan Atkinson in particular , while Pamela Stephenson came as a shock to those of us used to ' glamour stooges ' . After three excellent seasons , ' Not ' ran out of steam in its final year . The last episode , in particular , was absolutely dire and a sad note on which to end a great show .
Would You Buy Tobacco From This Man ?	Along with ' Whose Line ' co-star Josie Lawrence , Paul Merton landed his own show on Channel 4 in the early ' 90's . It was a deliberate throwback to the madcap sketch shows of the ' 60's , such as ' At Last The 1948 Show ' and ' Marty ' . Merton would take a situation , such as a father telling his daughter she's adopted , turned it inside out ( he tells her she isn't ) , and by piling absurdity on absurdity , created an explosion of inspired comic lunacy . The sketches were linked by surreal monologues such as ' there's a time tunnel at the back of my fridge ' , delivered from a railway station tobacconist's . The show miraculously avoided lavatorial humour and brought back something that had been missing from television for some time - visual comedy . His ' Old Ladies ' Grand Prix ' wouldn't have have looked out of place in ' The Goodies ' or ' Monty Python ' . Sadly , it didn't enjoy the success it deserved , and apart from reruns from ' The Paramount Comedy Channel ' has more or less been forgotten . As Paul would say : " Work that one out ! " .
Kids Today Like To Have Their Own Way	Memories of this charming show were rekindled recently when I bought a video tape from a charity shop . Only five episodes were on it , but they were enough to make me realise that the overpraised ' The Simpsons ' was not the first series about an animated dysfunctional family . What I found refreshing is that the show is firmly on the side of Harry Boyle as he encounters - and is mystified by - modern youth culture . A similar show now would encourage the audience to laugh at Harry for being behind the times . The Boyle's next-door neighbour , Ralph , is a right-wing cretin who sees Communist conspiracies lurking under his refrigerator ( the inspiration for ' Jimmy ' in ' The Fall & Rise Of Reginald Perrin ' , perhaps ? ) . Though a cartoon , the show lacks the conventions of the genre such as chases , comic sound effects ( okay , there are a few but they're not very noticeable ) and frenetic music . In fact , ' Wait ' is better written than many live-action comedy shows . If you get the chance to check it out , do so .
" Papers Arrived Yet , Fawlty ? "	I missed the first three ' Fawlty Towers ' episodes on its original run ( I was hooked on the I . T . V . series ' Beryl's Lot ' ) so my first encounter with Basil was the fourth episode ' The Hotel Inspectors ' . Even now I can feel the pain in my side from laughing too hard . I spent the next few days telling everyone how great this show was . The real Basil Fawlty was the late Donald Sinclair , owner of ' The Gleneagles ' in Torquay . He was so rude that the Python cast , there on a location shoot , moved out ! Cleese remembered him when writing for the L . W . T . sitcom ' Doctor At Large ' . The episode ' No Ill Feeling ! ' is absolutely hilarious and it was clear that there was a series based around its setting and characters . ' Fawlty ' was not an immediate hit , possibly because many wrongly assumed it was going to be another ' Python ' . Fortunately , repeats came to the rescue . When the second series started in 1979 , it was eagerly awaited by the country . It goes without saying that ' Fawlty Towers ' is the most perfectly realised British sitcom of all time ; what other series could feature a patently unconvincing rat and still work ? It hasn't diminished with the passage of time either . Brilliant performances from the entire cast , great scripts from John Cleese and Connie Booth , and first-class direction by John Howard Davies and Bob Spiers . If only there'd been more episodes !
The Unlikely Lads	When I wrote my I . M . D . B . review ' A Forgotten Comedy Masterpiece ' two years ago , ' The Other One ' was just that - a sitcom no-one remembered or liked , not even it seems by one of its stars . Richard Briers ' unhappy memories may be attributable to the critical mauling it endured , rather than the show itself . Since then , other I . M . D . B . users have added their comments ( thanks , Michael ! ) , and - most surprisingly of all - the entire first series has been released on D . V . D . So what are my thoughts now ? Has ' The Other One ' aged well or were my earlier remarks misplaced ? The first episode begins at Heathrow airport . Nervous Brian Bryant is waiting to catch a holiday flight to Spain . He strikes up a friendly conversation with Ralph Tanner , a tanned , moustachioed sales rep ( and an incredible bighead ) . Tanner assures him that their plane will not leave without them , and orders more drinks . Needless to say - they miss their flight . Catching a later plane , they arrive at their Spanish hotel hours later to find their rooms have been reallocated . Forced to share what looks like a glorified broom closet , they try to make the best of a bad situation . Brian wants dinner at the hotel , but Ralph insists that they go to what he calls a ' gut ' Spanish restaurant , one not in the travel guides . They wander into a building where people are eating and drinking , and sit down , awaiting service . It happens to be someone's house ! When the owner , Rafael , returns , he finds the situation funny , and , instead of turfing them out , lets them stay . As soon as Ralph and Brian leave , Rafael and his family burst out laughing . Brian thanks Ralph for providing him with one of the best days of his life . Ralph is touched . A friendship has just been forged . . . ' The Other One ' is a serial , not a series . You really need to see this opening episode in order to appreciate the rest . Ralph is one of nature's confidence tricksters , who fancies that he knows everything about everything , when in fact he does not . There are similarities between him and ' Frankie Abbott ' from John Esmonde and Bob Larbey's ' Please Sir ! ' . Brian , on the other hand , is weak and easily misled . He accepts everything Ralph says without question . According to Esmonde and Larbey , at the recording the audience were uncomfortable at the spectacle of the normally squeaky clean Briers playing an obnoxious character . Its one of his finest ever performances in my view . We have not seen Michael Gambon in much comedy , and on the evidence of this its a shame . He could easily have made ' Brian ' boring ( even though he's supposed to be ) , but to his credit , makes him amusing and touching . ' Sue Bainbridge ' the courier is played by Jill Kerman , who had appeared in the third series of ' Please Sir ! ' as ' Penny Wheeler ' , Mr . Hedges ' girlfriend . She susses Ralph out but does not warn Brian as he seems to enjoy his new friend's company . So my opinion has not changed one iota since . ' The Other One ' may not be forgotten any longer , but its still a comedy masterpiece .
" There's Only One Way To Get Out And That's To . . . "	John Esmonde and Bob Larbey's ' Get Some In ' was one of several military-themed sitcoms inspired by the success of ' Dad's Army ' . The main difference being that while the latter was about old men training for combat , the former concerned young men ( teddy boy Jakey , vicar's son Lilley , academic Ken , and Scot Leckie ) conscripted into the R . A . F . in ' 50's Britain . As someone too young to have experienced National Service , I shuddered at the horrors the conscripts were forced to endure , such as having their boots nailed to the floor ( whilst in them ) , cleaning the latrines and made to go on exhausting , cross-country hikes . As well as being verbally abused by Corporal Marsh , one of the most frightening characters to ever appear in a sitcom . ' Get Some In ' had the ring of truth about it . I expect the reason why it has never been repeated is because of Marsh's homophobic and bigoted attitudes . Ken isn't gay , but Marsh treats him as though he is , while Leckie is so fed up of the Corporal's constant derogatory references to his nationality he even contemplates suicide . Impossible to imagine these things happening in a modern sitcom . But the lads occasionally got their own back . In one episode , Marsh has been stealing coal from the barracks , leaving the conscripts to freeze in the middle of winter , so Leckie coats the anthracite with oil from the armoury . When Marsh next tries to make a fire , the grate blows up in his face . In another , Jakey sabotages one of the supports on Marsh's caravan , causing it to collapse when Marsh climbs into bed with his wife . So popular was the show that when Thames Television announced its cancellation , ' The News Of The World ' started a campaign for its return . It was successful ; unfortunately , it came back without Robert Lindsay , who had left to take up the role of ' Wolfie ' in the B . B . C . ' s brilliant ' Citizen Smith ' . Future ' Brush Strokes ' star Karl Howman replaced him . Talented though he is , Karl just wasn't ' Jakey ' , and the show suffered as a result . Even so , ' Get Some In ! ' remains one of I . T . V . ' s best ' 70's sitcoms , and a D . V . D . release is long overdue .
Could you live in a world without machines ?	1975 was a vintage year for British sci-fi television drama ; I . T . V . had ( and squandered ) the first season of Gerry Anderson's ' Space : 1999 ' , while over on the B . B . C . Tom Baker was well into his first season as ' Dr . Who ' , Terry Nation gave us ' Survivors ' , and then there was ' The Changes ' . Based on a trilogy of books by Peter Dickinson , this ten part children's series tells how a mysterious force causes everyone in the British Isles to suddenly go berserk , and destroy all machinery . Everything from phones , cars , television sets , cookers , even clocks gets wrecked by angry mobs . As panic grows , people flee the cities and take to the countryside . Schoolgirl Nicky Gore ( Vicky Williams ) becomes accidentally cut off from her parents - they were planning on going to France - and throws in her lot with a travelling pack of Sikhs . After overcoming a gang of racist youths , they settle in a small community run by Mr . Barnard ( David King ) , who has taken advantage of the crisis by setting himself up as some sort of overlord . He wants to have nothing to do with the Sikhs , whom he brands ' the devil's children ' . When they attempt to barter with him by setting up a blacksmiths and repairing broken tools , he callously breaks a newly-repaired fork and tells them to keep away . But then a gang of robbers ride into the village and suddenly Bernard finds his authority threatened . . . Shot on film in the West Country , ' The Changes ' was a gripping , well-written and thought-provoking series , unusually adult in tone . The decision to use all three books as story material for the series was undoubtedly a contributory factor in its success . What a pity that the B . B . C . did not do the same when they made ' The Tripods ' nearly a decade later . Anna Home both produced and adapted it ( she made Nicky the main character throughout . In reality she only appears in the first book ) . Vicky Williams , who plays Nicky , was seventeen at the time . She certainly does not look it ! Her performance is both natural and effortlessly charming . I was lucky enough to see ' The Changes ' when it first went out . The opening episode carried a warning beforehand about the content ' being unsuitable for very young children ' . And how right they were . In the space of a mere twenty-five minutes , the country is ripped apart by the forces of anarchy . We see mobs smashing cars , blowing up power stations , and generally turning against the modern world . When Nicky travels through the countryside , she is freaked out by the sight of electricity pylons . The explanation for the changes of course comes in the final episodes . A mystic ' stone ' dating back to the time of Merlin has been reactivated by an archaeologist , and it immediately restored the world as it was in medieval times . Special mention must go to Paddy Kingsland's distinctive music score . ' The Changes ' was repeated on U . K . Gold on Sky in 1994 , but has not been seen anywhere since . It is a pity because it has stood the test of time . A remake would certainly be worthwhile . With people more reliant on technology now than ever before , a world where machines are suddenly perceived to be ' wicked ' throws up all kinds of dramatic possibilities . And if nothing else , this series shatters the myth ( trotted out ad nauseaum on lazily researched retro programmes ) that British children's T . V . was boring before ' Grange Hill ' came along !
Presient Political Satire	I saw this on late-night television in the ' 70's , and as well as making me laugh out loud it also made me think . You cannot say that about modern British comedies . Rimmer is an enigma , not evil , just amoral . He could be George Spiggot from ' Bedazzled ' , making good on his threat to ruin the world . Cook might not have been much of an actor , but in this he's great . And what a stunning supporting cast ! Kevin Billington's contribution to the script is difficult to ascertain because it bears all the hallmarks of Cleese , Chapman and Cook , particularly with its sharp digs at the worlds of advertising , market research , public relations and politics . To give an example , when Rimmer reminds the Tory P . M . of his promise to increase pensions , he gets the the reply : " My dear boy , we normally say that the economy is in a ghastly mess , and blame it all on the last lot ! " . With Tory leader David Cameron currently trying to smarm his way into No . 10 , using similar tactics to Rimmer's , the timing for a D . V . D . release could not be better . Highly recommended .
" Dear Mister Echo . . . "	' The Young Ones ' polarised audiences when it first appeared in 1982 , if you were over thirty you regarded it , as Malcolm Allison did , ' utter rubbish ' , but if you were under thirty you loved it ! I have to admit I was not an immediate fan , but took to it after several viewings . ' The Young Ones ' was all about four students - hippie Neil , punk Vyvian , wide boy Mike , and hyperactive Rik , who never seemed to do any studying . They lived in a house where incredibly surreal things happened , such as the furniture talking to itself , or atom bombs dropping through the roof . The characters weren't likable , but then they weren't meant to be . Alexei Sayle cropped up from time to time as their landlord , Mr . Balowski . The humour was aggressive , violent , and very rude , more so than any show had been before . My favourite gag was when Vyvian leaned out of a moving train , only to be instantly decapitated . We then saw his headless body pull the communication cord , get out , and run up the track ! Some aspects have undeniably dated ; for instance , a ' Dallas ' spoof contained the credit : VITRIOL CONSULTANT - MISS NINA COW . This was a dig at the television critic Nina Myskow , who was one of ' Dallas ' most vocal supporters . The ' tampon ' gag in an early episode caused a sensation . Full credit for this show must not only go to the performers , but also to writers Rik Mayall , Lise Mayer ( whatever happened to her ? ) and Ben Elton ( who appeared occasionally ) . It is difficult to think of another comedy show that captured the spirit of the ' 80's so successfully .
Coogan's Latin Lothario	Back in the ' 70's , the B . B . C . used to screen music shows on Saturday nights based around popular singers such as Cilla Black , Lulu and Shirley Bassey . With their garish , tacky sets , outrageously attired dancers , unctuous guest-stars , cheesy songs , and unfunny links , they were absolute hell to sit through . ' The Tony Ferrino Phenomenon ' is a brilliant lampoon of these ; top marks to Steve Coogan and Henry Normal for capturing the look and feel of these shows . Some of the songs , such as ' Bigamy At Christmas ' , ' A Short Term Affair ' ( a duet with Kim Wilde ) and ' The Silence Of The Lambs ' , are so brilliant you wonder why they haven't been released commercially . Ferrino himself is a perfectly realised composite of several singers including Tom Jones , Julio Iglesias and Engelbert Humperdinck - his command of the English language is poor , and his disastrous attempts to flirt with his female co-presenter are hilarious . Sadly , unfavourable comparisons with Alan Partridge and Paul Calf resulted in Ferrino's early demise .
" The money's in , we're made of tin , we're here to give you more ! "	There are two ways to regard ' Head ' . Either it is a dazzling , mind-blowing collage of music , old film clips , psychedelia and T . V . sitcom-style comedy , or a plot less , pretentious , rambling mess . The truth probably lies somewhere in between . It is also one of the best movies of all time . ' The Monkees ' - Davy Jones , Peter Tork , Mickey Dolenz , and Mike Nesmith - had just finished their hit series , and wanted to do a movie . In collaboration with writer Jack Nicholson and director Bob Rafelson , they made ' Head ' . It begins at a bridge opening ceremony in San Francisco , where the Monkees gate crash the proceedings . Mickey jumps over the safety rail , plunging hundreds of feet into the water . Mermaids rescue him to the accompaniment of a gorgeous Jerry Goffin & Carole King composition called ' The Porpoise Song ' and visuals that make the Stargate finale of ' 2001 ' look drab by comparison . By now you will either have switched off in puzzled disgust or be completely captivated . More bizarre happenings unfold ; Mickey uses a tank to destroy a Coca-Cola machine in the middle of the desert ; the entire Italian Army surrenders to him ; the group are hired to play to play the dandruff in Victor Mature's hair for a television commercial ; an overweight waitress insults the group , describing them as ' God's gift to the eight year old's ' ; a surprise birthday party for Mike goes wrong ; the group are sucked into a vacuum cleaner , and to cap it all , are driven away inside a giant glass tank . You will either hate this or love it . I found it a refreshing change from mindless pop musicals of the ' let's do the show right here ' variety . The songs are good too ; ' Daddy's Song ' is superbly choreographed by Toni Basil ( later to appear in Rafelson's ' Easy Rider ' ) and boasts wonderful editing , with Davy's clothes changing colour at lightning speed . ' As We Go Along ' is a lovely Goffin & King number whose accompanying images carry a strong environmentalist message . Frank Zappa , Annette Funicello are just two of the guest stars to crop up . Did Victor Mature read the script before agreeing to do this , one wonders ? He's hilarious in it though . So mad there just has to be real genius behind it , ' Head ' is a little ' 60's gem and one worth revisiting time and time again . Shame it did not find an audience at the time . If only ' Spiceworld ' had been like this !
" You've Stood For It Again , Budge . "	When ' Budgie ' was repeated by Channel 4 in the mid-80's , a disgruntled viewer complained : " Blimey ! They've copied ' Minder ! " . He was wrong , of course . ' Minder ' debuted on I . T . V . in 1979 , a good seven years after ' Budgie ' ended . But it was easy to see why he made the mistake , as the two shows are very similar . ' Budgie ' tells the story of Ronald ' Budgie ' Bird , a small-time Cockney thief who dreams of making easy money without having to do anything drastic - such as working for a living . Most of his ' jobs ' take him within the orbit of Charles Endell , a kind of Glaswegian Al Capone , with whom he has an uneasy relationship . Budgie lives with model Hazel Fletcher , and their son Howard . He uses her as a doormat most of the time , but she stands by him no matter what . Each week , Budgie came up with what he thought was a surefire way of making ' readies ' , such as acquiring bootleg trading stamps , crates of ballpoint pens , and pornographic books , harbouring illegal immigrants , hijacking delivery vans , and even a prize greyhound called ' Glory Of Fulham ' . But his schemes fail - either because he has trusted the wrong people , or not thought things through properly . For instance , his trading stamp scam collapses when Charlie points out a flaw that a twelve year old would have spotted . Looking at ' Budgie ' now its hard not to be reminded of not only ' Minder ' but ' Only Fools & Horses ' . Like Delboy Trotter , Budgie is an incorrigible rogue . Few people have written for television as well as Keith Waterhouse and Willis Hall ( although two episodes were penned by Douglas Livingstone ) . Some of the stories may seem a little slow by modern standards , but this was how all shows were made then . Adam Faith is simply brilliant as ' Budgie ' , oozing charisma and charm ( who says pop stars can't act ? ) as is Iain Cuthbertson as ' Charlie ' ( later to acquire a spin-off series of his own ) . Lynn Dalby , whilst not the world's greatest actress , nevertheless evokes sympathy as Hazel , and guest-stars included Gordon Jackson , Alfie Bass , Kenneth Cranham , John Rhys-Davies , Jack Shepherd , John Thaw and Derek Jacobi . Georgina Hale is also impressive as Budgie's promiscuous wife Jean . ' Budgie ' was a big hit , and could easily have run to another season , but Faith wanted to end it on a high . It did - the final episode is incredibly moving . He later revived the character on stage in the ' 80's , with Anita Dobson replacing Lynn Dalby as ' Hazel ' . Now that the series is out on D . V . D . , I hope it attracts a new audience , if only to see what Britain in the ' 70's was really like . Forget ' Life On Mars ' - this is the real thing . By turns funny , dramatic , and tragic , ' Budgie ' is British television at its best - it set a standard that wouldn't be matched until 1983 and the arrival of ' Auf Wiedershen , Pet ' .
" Julie Andrews ! "	Stanley Moon , a short ( in more ways than one ) order cook in a London Wimpy bar , is suicidally depressed because he is infatuated with flighty waitress Margaret Spencer , and lacks the courage to ask her out . Then a mysterious stranger by the name of George Spiggot enters his life . Spiggot is The Devil , and in return for Stanley's soul gives him seven wishes . In the first , Moon is an intellectual ( a Welsh one at that ! ) , and tries to sweep Margaret off her feet ( and into his bed ) with clever talk . She cries ' Rape ' ! In the second , he is a millionaire who lavishes expensive presents on Margaret , to whom he is now married . But she is openly sleeping with everyone except him . The third wish sees him as a pop star whom the whole world adores . Alas ' Drimbl Wedge & The Vegetation ' are on the same programme , and Margaret transfers her hero worship to him . The fourth wish occurs when Stanley innocently wonders what Margaret is currently up to . He and Spiggot become flies who buzz around a morgue . The fifth has Stanley and Margaret passionately in love . But she is happily married to another Spiggot lookalike . Stanley details his sixth wish carefully . There must be no men in Margaret's life . He forgets to specify the sex and is turned into a nun . Which means he has one wish left . Or does he ? Though revered now , Stanley Donen's Swinging ' 60's Faustian comedy was a box office failure in its day . ' Beyond The Fringe ' and ' Not Only But Also ' won Pete and Dud many fans , obviously not enough to make the film a hit . In America , the advertising overemphasised Raquel Welch's contribution , a big mistake seeing how she is in it for all of three minutes . ' Bedazzled ' opened when the popularity of British comedies was in decline , with only the ' Carry On ' series and all-star romps such as ' Monte Carlo Or Bust ' ( featuring Pete and Dud , incidentally ) keeping the genre afloat . Donen's glossy direction underlined the satirical intent of Cook's witty script , the way he keeps the episodic plot under control is masterly . Sadly , he never worked with Pete and Dud again . The name ' Stanley Moon ' came from Sir John Gielgud , incidentally , while ' George Spiggot ' was the Moore character in the celebrated ' One Leg Too Few ' sketch in ' Not Only But Also ' . Another recycled idea was the trampolining nuns . Dudley Moore wrote the wonderful soundtrack . Often overlooked when assessing this film is Eleanor Bron , playing multiple versions of her character . Not only is she beautiful but a marvellous comedy actress . Two years before she had appeared as a Kali Priestess in The Beatles movie ' Help ! ' . Funniest moment - too many to name , but I can't watch Wish No . 5 without weeping with laughter . Stanley and Margaret want to commit adultery , but can't because their admiration for her husband is too great ! One of the funniest motion pictures of all time . Watch it and treat yourself to a Frobisher & Gleason Raspberry Flavoured Ice Lolly at the same time ! ( The 2000 Liz Hurley / Brendan Fraser remake was good fun , but not a patch on the original ) .
Quintessentially English !	Stephen Potter's witty books were unfilmable as they stood , so top marks to Hal E . Chester and Patricia Moyes for coming up with a workable script . ' School ' centres on one Henry Palfrey , one of life's failures , who enrols at The School Of Lifemanship in Yeovil to learn how to become a success . The scene where he gets his own back on the two shady car dealers who sold him a Swiftmobile ( Dennis Price and Peter Jones ) is marvellously satisfying . As Henry , Ian Carmichael is , as ever , simply sublime , and the rest of the cast ( Alistair Sim , Jeanette Scott , Irene Handl , John Le Mesurier ) are to die for . Best of all , Terry-Thomas appears in his finest movie role , as the caddish Ray Delauney . His mounting stress as Henry turns the tables is hysterical ! I can't think of a bad word to say about this film . Robert Hamer never managed to top ' Kind Hearts & Coronets ' but with this , he came tantalisingly close . Watch and marvel . If you don't like it , ' hard cheese ' !
Scientifically Impossible - But Who Cares ?	In their book ' Fantastic Television ' , Gary Gerani and Paul H . Schulman took ' Space : 1999 ' to task for its apparent contempt for the laws of physics , and made the somewhat extraordinary claim that ' these days audiences are used to heavy dollops of science with their science fiction ' . Really ? Well , I do not remember there being dollops of science , heavy or otherwise , in ' The Six Million Dollar Man ' or ' Planet Of The Apes ' . If every sci-fi film or television series had to be 100 % scientifically accurate , there would be some pretty dull stuff floating around . It was Gerry and Sylvia Anderson's follow-up to ' U . F . O . ' and in fact started life as an aborted second season . The premise was that a nuclear waste dump on the Moon had exploded , triggering a series of violent blasts that took it - and the men and women based on ' Moonbase Alpha ' - out of the Solar System and careering off into the unknown . The Alphans gave up any hope of getting back to Earth , and began looking for a new home . Martin Landau took up the lead as ' Commander John Koenig ' , the man responsible for making the important day-to-day decisions concerning the running of the base , while his then-wife Barbara Bain played ' Dr . Helena Russell ' , Alpha's chief scientific officer . Both had recently starred in the hit series ' Mission : Impossible ' . Landau was excellent , while Bain's performance has been the subject of much debate over the years , with many describing her as ' wooden ' . I certainly think the show would have benefited from a different actress in the role . Barry Morse played ' Professor Victor Bergman ' , a sort of father figure to whom everyone turned to for advice . He brought much humour and warmth to what otherwise could have been a stock role . There was hardware a-plenty ; the Alphans travelled from one part of the base to another in ' travel tubes ' and carried portable communication devices called ' commlocks ' . They also had cute looking ray-guns that resembled office staplers ! What should have been the second episode - ' Black Sun ' - unfortunately went out later in the original run , meaning viewers missed an important plot point - the Moon had passed into a region of space where the normal laws of physics did not apply , hence Dr . Asimov and all those sticklers for scientific accuracy were misinformed in their harsh criticism . ' Space : 1999 ' rightly took the view that entertainment should take precedence over authenticity . The first series rivalled ' 2001 : A Space Odyssey ' in terms of grandeur and spectacle . With the exception of ' Dragons Domain ' , it was a monster-free zone . Episodes such as ' Breakaway ' , ' Dragons Domain ' , ' Force Of Life ' , ' The Infernal Machine ' , ' End Of Eternity ' are worthy of the highest possible praise . Unfortunately , it never quite succeeded in emerging from ' Star Trek's ' shadow . Had Year 2 been made to the same standard as 1 , I believe this would have happened eventually . It was denied the opportunity to be a hit in Britain because it was not networked . However , it did well enough abroad for a second season to be commissioned . American producer ( and the man who assassinated ' Star Trek ' ) Fred Freiburger was brought in first as a head writer , then as producer . He knocked the series out of shape , pushing it down the same road as ' Lost In Space ' , with ludicrous monsters running amok . Out went Barry Morse and in came Catherine Schell as the shape-changing Psychon ' Maya ' . She was lovely but her presence unfortunately negated the need for any imagination in the scripts , as each time the Alphans faced a crisis they simply got her to turn into a monster . Tony Anholt's ' Verdeschi ' was another major error . Someone at H . T . V . ( my local I , T . V . region ) must have sensed Year 2 was a no-no - we did not get to see it until 1984 ! It is a little alarming to watch both seasons in conjunction . So different are they it is hard to reconcile them as being part of the same series . Nevertheless , Year 1 is the best remembered , and stands as one of Gerry and Sylvia Anderson's finest productions .
" Please . . . don't let me be the only one ! "	A Chinese scientist accidentally smashes a flask . Some time later , he collapses at an airport and dies . Within hours , the terrible plague he has inadvertently unleashed spreads across the world . Millions die . Only a handful survive - and they band together in an attempt to rebuild civilization . . . So began Terry Nation's gripping post-apocalyptic drama series ' Survivors ' . At the time of its original screening , I remember thinking : " What if this came true ? Could I live in a world without electricity and all the other comforts we take for granted ? " . The main characters were Abby Grant , a strong-willed middle-class housewife , Jenny Richards , secretary , and Greg Preston , engineer . Carolyn Seymour , Lucy Fleming , and Ian McCulloch , who played these roles , were excellent . Initially , the story lines combined action and adventure with thought-provoking drama . In the best episode of the series , ' Law & Order ' , a retarded man is put on trial for the murder of a young woman . His fate is to put to the vote . He is found guilty , and executed . Then its discovered that he was innocent . It remains the finest indictment of capital punishment I have come across . Another good episode was ' Something Of Value ' in which a petrol tanker becomes the centre of an ownership dispute . After an excellent first series , the show went slightly downhill in the second , as Carolyn Seymour was fired by the producer . Then Ian McCulloch left in the third , and when power was restored in the very last episode , the series came to an upbeat conclusion . If you've never seen ' Survivors ' , its well worth seeking out . With Bird Flu in the news a while back , the timing is right for a viewing . And it has one of the creepiest title sequences in television history !
" May God Forgive You , Because I Certainly Won't ! "	Funny how some old movies , dismissed as rubbish at the time of their release , can become important years later . ' Billion Dollar Brain , based on the novel by Len Deighton , was the third and last film in the ' Harry Palmer ' series , and once more starred Michael Caine as the intrepid Cockney spy . At the start of the picture , Palmer has left British Intelligence , and is working as a private detective . However , his past catches up with him . Palmer is hired to take a mysterious flask to one Dr . Kaaana in Helsinki . The flask contains ' eggs ' full of deadly viruses . An fanatical right-wing organisation known as ' Crusade For Freedom ' intends starting an uprising in Latvia as a prelude to a mass overthrowing of Communism . Agents get their orders from a super-computer known as ' The Brain ' . The man behind the crusade is ' General Midwinter ' , multi-millionaire , and a fruitcake of the highest order . One of his own men - Leo Newbigen - reprogrammed ' The Brain ' with false information , enabling him to pocket funds intended for the ' rebels ' . The parallels between this fictional spy story and the war in Iraq are startling - false information used to justify the invasion of a foreign country , rants about freedom and God which echo speeches made by Bush , Rumsfeld , Cheney and others , while Bible-thumping Midwinter wants to smash Communism at all costs , even if it means blowing up the world in the process . I'm not a big fan of Ken Russell , but here he's given decent material to work with , and the film is visually stunning . Great titles from Maurice Binder and music by Richard Rodney Bennett . Syd Cain designed the superb sets . Some nice touches of humour as well , such as the Beatles-obsessed Latvians . Those who've likened the picture to ' Austin Powers ' are fools . This is definitely not a spoof . Yes , Midwinter's plan is crazy , but then so is he . The first-rate cast includes Ed Begley as the ranting ' General ' , Karl Malden , Francise Dorleac ( her last movie role , sadly ) , and Oscar Homolka ( reprising his role from ' Funeral In Berlin ' ) , but of course , its Caine's picture . It was right to end the series here ; ' Billion Dollar Brain ' saw Palmer bow out on a high note .
" In Colour ! "	Two years after ' Airplane ! ' took off , Jim Abrahams , Jerry and David Zucker cast one of its stars - Leslie Nielsen - in this hilarious television series , a glorious take-off of old U . S . detective shows such as ' Dragnet ' . Nielsen played Frank Drebin , America's answer to ' Inspector Clouseau ' . It had the same style of humour as ' Airplane ! ' ; clever visual gags in the background , unnoticed absurdities , and recurring characters such as Johnny the shoe-shine boy who seems to know everything about everything . Guest-stars ( including William Shatner ! ) were killed off in the opening credits . ' Police Squad ' was the first U . S . sitcom since ' Batman ' to lack a laugh track . Many have lamented the fact that only six episodes were made , but I think it was about right . The concept could never have sustained a full 24-episode run . Five years later , ' Police Squad ' made a successful transfer to the big screen , when the first of the ' Naked Gun ' trilogy was released . Jim , Jerry , David , and Leslie had the last laugh .
" Nothing's Going To Change The Way I Feel About You ! "	You couldn't turn on a television in the ' 70's without seeing John Alderton . He was everywhere ; ' Please Sir ! ' , ' The Fenn Street Gang ' , ' Upstairs , Downstairs ' , ' My Wife Next Door ' , ' Wodehouse Playhouse ' , ' Thomas & Sarah ' and , of course this , in which he co-starred with wife Pauline Collins . They say opposites attract and it was true in the case of C . D . and Clara . He was a struggling actor , she a dizzy deb . This was not a kids ' sitcom . I cherish the scene where Clara made C . D . breakfast in bed and she put a button from her cardigan on his grapefruit because she'd run out of cherries ! Terence Brady and Charlotte Bingham had written for the pair before so knew what they were capable of . The resulting show was a sheer delight , a massive hit with the public and critics alike . Lindsay De Paul's catchy theme was the icing on the cake . Sadly , Alderton and Collins were not up for a second series , so Lisa Goddard and Donal Donnelly were brought in and the title changed to ' Yes , Honestly ' .
Wildly Funny	A middle-aged couple visit a posh restaurant . A sign reads : All Patrons Must Be Dressed For Dinner . A toffee-nosed waiter approaches , looks them up and down , before clicking his fingers . A tailor rushes over , takes the couple's measurements and leaves . " Your clothes will be ready next Tuesday . " , he tells them . A week later , the couple return to the restaurant wearing suits of armour . Elsewhere , a man in a sauna is astounded to see a London bobby stroll by , whistling . " Real peasouper , innit guv'nor ? " , he says amidst the steam . We cut to a newsroom . An anchorman sounds close to panic : " In Toyland , today , Mr . Potato Head went missing ! " . I've just quoted ( accurately , I hope ) three sketches from the Pythonesque comedy ' No Soap , Radio ' . It was a mixture of surreal sketches interspersed with more straightforward comedy narratives set in the ' Pelican Hotel ' . It should have attracted a loyal cult following , but didn't . Like ' Police Squad ! ' it was years ahead of its time . If anyone taped it at the time , congratulations !
" Are you a friendly carrot ? "	The first series of ' Rutland Weekend Television ' inherited the time-slot ( Monday , B . B . C . - 2 , 9 P . M . ) of the brilliant fifth season of ' The Goodies ' , and was just as funny in its own way . ' Monty Python ' had ended the year before , and its members were keen to try out different comedy styles . John Cleese made ' Fawlty Towers ' , Michael Palin and Terry Jones gave us ' Ripping Yarns ' , but Eric Idle chose to keep the spirit of ' Python ' alive by writing and starring in this sketch show . ' R . W . T . ' was the name of Britain's smallest television station , run by incompetent , talentless people , and the budgets were so low its output rarely rose above the fifth-rate . Programme ideas were cribbed from existing shows on other channels , such as ' Rutland Five-O ' , and if they did a musical of the ' On The Town ' variety , chances were it would be set not in New York New York , but Tunbridge Wells . In one sketch , Eric interviewed ' The Wittiest Man In The World ' who turned out to be anything but . ' The Old Gay Whistle Test ' had Eric as ' Whispering ' Bob Harris , introducing a rock band whose lead singer has died , yet still performed . My favourite items were the spoof documentaries - in one a farmer breeds beauty Queens , in another a British soldier continues to fight World War Two from The Isle Of Wight , a house is taken over by policemen , and squatters have to be sent along to evict them . Very Pythonesque . Ex-'Beatle ' and ' Python ' fan George Harrison made a memorable appearance in the Christmas Show ; after playing the opening chords to ' My Sweet Lord , he changes tack and belts out a spirited song about a pirate . Movies were spoofed too . ' Pommy ' told the story of a young man who goes deaf , dumb and blind after watching a Ken Russell film . Any similarity between it and Russell's own ' Tommy ' was , of course , intentional . Idle was given fine support by David Battley , Henry Woolf , Gwen Taylor , Terence Bayler , Bunny May , Carinthia West and of course , Neil Innes . The former ' Bonzo Dog Doo Dah Band ' member had appeared in the final season of ' Monty Python ' , and for ' Rutland ' he provided some superbly witty song pastiches . He later landed a show of his own , the criminally underrated ' The Innes Book Of Records ' . One sketch in the second series was ' A Hard Days ' Rut ' , starring ' The Rutles ' . When shown in the U . S . A . during an appearance by Idle on ' Saturday Night Live ' , it caused such a sensation that a full-length television movie was later made - ' All You Need Is Cash ' ( ' The Rutles ' ) . Flicking through the Sky channel network recently , I came across a few stations that reminded me strongly of ' R . W . T . ' . Eric's show was ahead of its time alright . The only thing he got wrong was that his presenters were mainly middle-aged , whereas today's are young and annoyingly trendy . If by some chance , you're reading this Eric , any chance of a D . V . D . release ? I hate the idea of my kids growing up not knowing who ' The Massed Flashers of Reigate ' were !
" How Now Brown Cow ! "	The 1990's saw a vogue for making motion pictures based on vintage television shows , ' such as ' The Fugitive ' , ' Mission : Impossible ' , ' Sergeant Bilko ' , ' Lost In Space ' , ' The Beverly Hillbillies ' and ' The Saint ' . Most ( though not all ) were not terribly good , for the simple reason that their makers were unable to recapture the ingredients which had made the originals so successful . A movie based on the British spy show ' The Avengers ' was announced as far back as 1987 , with Mel Gibson ( also said to have purchased the rights from E . M . I . ) as ' Steed ' . These rumours persisted well into the 1990's , when after the success of ' Basic Instinct ' , the role of ' Mrs . Emma Peel ' was tipped to go to Sharon Stone . What sort of movie would have resulted with these leads we can only guess at , but I am glad that it was never made . Jerry Weintraub , a self-proclaimed fan of the show , hired Don Macpherson to write a script that was true to the style of the original . It centred on a madman who has created a weather control machine , and plans to use it to blackmail the world's governments into paying him for their weather , or else he will condemn them to perpetual winter . It was a witty , imaginative , and outrageous piece of work . As ' Steed ' , Ralph Fiennes of ' The English Patient ' was cast , with Uma Thurman of ' Pulp Fiction ' taking up the role of ' Emma ' . Weintraub then pulled off another major casting coup - Sir Sean Connery . The former ' James Bond ' was hired to play the villain , necessitating a major rewrite . The character of ' Merryweather ' became ' Sir August De Wynter ' , who lives in a mansion called ' Hallucinogen Hall ' , and is so fixated by Emma he clones her . In a thrilling opening , the clone gains illegal access to ' The Prospero Project ' , which she destroys . The real Emma is naturally blamed , and Mother calls on Steed to investigate . The film had a decent budget , but was not on a level-playing field with say ' Star Wars ' or ' Harry Potter ' ; nevertheless , it boasts stupendous art direction , cinematography by by Roger Pratt , and music by Joel McNeely . Director Jeremiah Chechik skilfully recreated the look and setting of the series - Agatha Christie England - but mixed with a dose of Terry Gilliam's ' Brazil ' . There is humour , but not of the ' funny ha-ha ' variety ; for instance , the scene in the conference room in which Sir August's henchmen are kitted out in teddy bear costumes . This was intended to spoof similar scenes in Bond films such as ' Thunderball ' . Of the supporting cast , Eileen Atkins shone as the gun-toting spinster ' Alice ' . Comedian Eddie Izzard played ' Bailey ' , Sir August's ( mostly mute ) henchman , with Jim Broadbent delightful as Steed's macaroon-munching boss ' Mother ' . ' The Avengers ' was all set for a major launch as Warner Brothers top summer release , but then disaster struck . It registered poorly with a preview audience in Arizona ( why Arizona , for heaven's sake ? ) , causing it to be recalled for major edits . We shall probably never know the name of the man who butchered the film , but I suspect his first name may have been ' Sweeney ' . He took out major scenes , such as the ' Prospero Project ' opening , and Sir August's ' Frankenstein'-like creation of ' Bad Emma ' . Cut down from a two-hour running time to a paltry eighty-five minutes , ' The Avengers ' opened ( rather aptly ) in August to a universal drubbing from critics and public alike . The overkill of bad reviews was enough to destroy any chance the film had of becoming a hit . While the film had its flaws , it certainly did not deserve the opprobrium heaped upon it on its release . Yes , Fiennes and Thurman were not Macnee and Rigg , nor were they intended to be . This was a NEW ' Avengers ' , intended to be a film for the twenty-first century . Years after its release , the movie has a fan base , whose main aim is to see the original restored . Its worth remembering that Ridley Scott's ' Blade Runner ' was regarded as a boring flop in 1982 , now is thought of as a sci-fi classic . I hope that someday ' The Avengers ' can pull off the similar feat of being regarded in a whole new light .
Why Didn't Jeremy Paxman Sue ?	Watching I . T . N . nowadays one can't help but be reminded of ' The Day Today ' . Smug , patronising presenters , gaudy sets , cheesy links , gimmicky presentation , an unmistakable political bias , all were hilariously parodied by Armando Ianucci and Chris Morris over a decade ago . Morris himself is superb as the anchorman , the rest of the cast are fine too , particularly the underrated Rebecca Front . But it was Steve Coogan's verbally constipated sports commentator ' Alan Partridge ' who caught the public's imagination , going onto to appear in no less than two spin-offs . The bombastic theme music and flashy graphics of ' Today ' added greatly to its humour . My favourite sketch featured a convicted American killer wanting to die like his idol Elvis Presley - by gorging himself on hamburgers . It is to the credit of Ianucci and Morris that they didn't milk the concept for all it was worth - ' The Day Today ' ended after only one season . Luckily for us , Morris had another great show up his sleeve - ' Brass Eye ' .
First And Best Of The ' Matt Helm ' Movies	This was the last ' Matt Helm ' I saw ( the first being ' Murderers ' Row ) and I was surprised at how different it was compared to the others . Though a comedy , occasionally it gets rough . Take the hotel room scene where Matt is questioning Gail . Frustrated by her refusal to give a straight answer , he rips off her dress , leaving her fuming in her underwear . This scene is lifted almost verbatim from the novel , and isn't played for laughs . Paul Newman was originally offered the role of Matt , and one wonders if this wasn't a left-over from an early draft of the script . Its one of the reasons why ' The Silencers ' works so much better than the other films . We see something ( albeit only a little ) of the original character - a Government-sponsored assassin who'd kill in cold blood if he had to . Unfortunately , a change of writer and director for ' Murderers ' Row ' resulted in a shift in tone as the series lapsed into the quagmire of self-parody . Pity Oscar Saul didn't write any more ' Matt Helm ' scripts after this one !
" Mind my leg ! "	Six months after the pilot episode for ' A Sharp Intake Of Breath ' was broadcast on I . T . V . on / 77 ( as part of ' The Sound Of Laughter ' anthology ) , a full series appeared , with David Jason once more playing ' Peter Barnes ' , middle-aged , happily married , a good man in an insane world . Replacing Patricia Brake as his wife Sheila was Jacqueline Clarke , best remembered for her appearances on the B . B . C . ' s ' Dave Allen At Large ' . ' Your Life In Their Hands ' is therefore the earliest surviving episode ( the pilot unfortunately having been wiped ) . It begins when Peter refuses to eat the scrambled eggs Sheila has made for his breakfast . She thinks he must be ill . But it is really because she is not a very good cook . At her insistence , he goes to his local surgery , which is comfortless , noisy , packed to capacity . Peter sits between a man ( Malcolm Storry ) whose foot is in plaster ( which he accidentally treads on - twice ) and Arthur Clegg ( Alun Armstrong ) , a flat-capped Northerner who blathers on about the state of the N . H . S . and this surgery in particular . " By the time you get to see a doctor in this place , you forget what it was you came in for ! " . Peter remembers to tell the receptionist ( Margaret Courtenay ) he is there . The buzzer on her window is so loud it nearly gives him a heart attack . Worse , her window is low so he has to speak to her while crouched . If he is not ill before he certainly must be now . . . Peter and Arthur swap doctors - the latter does not like the one he has been given - and immediately Peter sees why . The doctor ( Richard Wilson ) is so inept as to make ' Doc Morrissey ' from the ' Reggie Perrin ' series look like ' Dr . Kildare ' . . . . Good opening episode , and one that has not dated ( apart from a fleeting reference to Hughie Green's ' Opportunity Knocks ! ' ) too much . Surgeries look much the same today ( and are if anything worse , with television sets blaring away constantly ) . As the moaning ' Clegg ' , Armstrong put me a little in mind of ' Figgis ' from ' Only When I Laugh ' , while Richard Wilson's doctor could have been a distant relative of ' Thorpe ' from the same show . Funniest moment - dropping his stethoscope , the doctor bends to pick it up - and his back locks !
The Men Who Put Cricklewood On The Map !	The Beatles broke up in 1970 , but another Fab Four were waiting in the wings to take their place - Tim Brooke-Taylor , Graeme Garden , Bill Oddie , and director Jim Franklin . They created some of the funniest and most memorable television comedy of the ' 70's . It was not their first series for the B . B . C . ' Broaden Your Mind : An Encyclopaedia Of The Air ' was . I never saw it ( my television set could not pick up B . B . C . - 2 in those days ) so had to contend with odd clips on the viewers ' request show ' Ask Aspel ' . In 1969 , ' Monty Python's Flying Circus ' was launched on an unsuspecting world , so instead of continuing with ' Broaden Your Mind ' the lads decided to create an entirely new show . The result was ' The Goodies ' . The idea behind the show was simplicity itself ; an agency composed of three men ( ultra-patriotic Tim , hippie-like Bill , and brainy Graeme ) who rode about on a three-seater bike and who did ' anything , anytime ' . That was all , but it allowed the writers freedoms they otherwise would not have enjoyed . The chief inspiration seems to have been the American series ' The Monkees ' . The wacky plots , ' Tom & Jerry'-style chases , catchy pop music , and cartoon violence were elements common to both shows . There was satire involved too . A regular feature in the first three series were the spoof commercials . In one episode , the Goodies tried to capture the Loch Ness Monster . In another , they went to the Moon where they encountered super-intelligent rabbits . In yet another , they set up a safari park whose main attractions were showbiz stars . In ' The Goodies & The Beanstalk ' , they spoofed the traditional British pantomime . Because ' The Goodies ' took the mickey out of ' 70's pop culture , some have mistakenly interpreted it as an attack on the decade itself . ' Star Wars ' , ' Close Encounters ' and ' Jaws ' were popular and thus ready-made targets for parody . ' The Goodies ' soon became a part of that very same pop culture , especially when they started having Top Ten hits such as ' Black Pudding Bertha ' and ' Funky Gibbon ' . The show boasted an impressive array of guest stars such as George Baker , Stanley Baxter , Bernard Bresslaw , Patrick Troughton , Beryl Reid , Liz Fraser , Mollie Sugden , Jon Pertwee , Joan Sims , June Whitfield , Ronnie Stevens , Jack Douglas , Alfie Bass , and Jane Asher . Celebrities of the calibre of Eddie Waring , Sue Lawley , Michael Aspel , Patrick Moore , Raymond Baxter , and most notably Tony Blackburn were happy to send themselves up . Because children loved the show , the B . B . C . got uptight over the content , most notably ' Rock Goodies ' in which they tackled punk rock , ' South Africa ' , and ' Royal Command ' which was broadcast in the Queen's Silver Jubilee year , and predictably upset rabid monarchists . ' Monty Python ' also featured near-naked girls , racial stereotypes , and bandied about words like ' poof ' . So did Spike Milligan on his ' Q ' series . The point is this - it was incredibly funny . Yet adults preferred the more anarchic ' Python ' . For my money , ' The Goodies ' was the more consistently funny ; ' Python ' ran out of steam after three seasons , ' The Goodies ' hit its stride with Season Five . After a decade on the B . B . C . , the Goodies defected to I . T . V . for a final ( disappointing ) run . They pedalled off into the sunset in 1982 . Since then , repeats have been noticeable by their absence . Unlike ' Porridge ' , ' The Good Life ' , and ' Some Mothers Do Ave Em ' , ' The Goodies ' was too much a product of its time period . But fond memories linger . Those of us who lived through the ' 70's will never forget ' those blokes and their bike ' .
" You have to make gravy . It doesn't just come ! "	I saw this many years after the television series and , initially , I didn't care for it . Then , as my memory of the series receded with the passage of time , I watched again , and found it absolutely hilarious . Based on the stage play by Neil Simon , it has not been ' opened out ' much for the big screen , and that's one of its strengths . Walter Matthau and Jack Lemmon are brilliant as Oscar and Felix , and the supporting cast are wonderful , particularly John Fielder as ' Vinnie ' . Even now , certain moments can reduce me to tears of laughter - Felix interrupting Oscar in the middle of a ball game with a dinner request , Oscar cracking up and chasing Felix around the apartment , the giggling ' Pigeon Sisters ' brought low by Felix's sob stories , and of course , the legendary cafeteria scene ( later ripped off by Nora Ephron's ' When Harry Met Sally ' ) . Razor-sharp dialogue too . When the boys think Felix has taken an overdose , Oscar says : " They could be vitamins ! He could be the healthiest one in the room ! " . Fantastic !
" My name is Ben Elton . Goodnight ! "	When Anne Robinson made that now infamous ' Room 101 ' appearance , she lambasted Ben Elton for ' selling out ' - becoming part of the showbiz establishment he had spent much of his career railing against in shows such as ' Filthy , Rich & Catflap ' - the Forsyths , the Tarbucks , the O'Connors etc . A clip from The Royal Variety Performance in which he urged the audience to cheer Her Majesty The Queen was screened , adding weight to her argument . During his ' Saturday Live ' days , Elton would have cut off his right arm rather than be complementary about the wealthy and privileged . ' The Man From Auntie ' ran for two seasons ( one in 1990 , another in 1994 ) and featured the man at his silver-suited , ranting best . Each week , there'd be a ' Farties Guide ' in which he took a wry look at aspects of modern life ( one very good item was about student digs ) , interspersed with fierce attacks on the British political system ( as expected , Mrs . Thatch and later John Major came in for the Elton treatment ) , topical gags , and surreal sketches in which upside-down shots of Ben's mouth were turned into such comic characters as a sex-starved student and a Mary Whitehouse lookalike . ' Mastermind ' was parodied ( Michael Portillo being depicted as a contestant ) and ' The Oprah Winfrey Show ' . But sketch comedy was not his forte ( he lacked the range to be an actor ) and it was the stand-ups where he came into his own . He got into trouble , however , with a witty monologue about contraception in which he used the then-taboo word ' fanny ' . Outraged viewers impatiently waiting for ' Question Time ' inundated the B . B . C . with complaints . Unlike Rory Bremner , Elton could make a political statement , no matter how basic , and still manage to be funny . One episode ended with a John Major lookalike catapulted into a canal . The huge cheer from the studio audience spoke volumes about the popularity of the Tories in the mid-90's , that is to say , not popular at all . Elton used up much of his stand-up material on this series , so it wasn't surprising that he cut it short after only two runs . By the time of ' The Ben Elton Show ' , Tony Blair's New Labour was in power and predictably , the fire went out of Ben's comedy . In recent years , he has concentrated on novels ( including the brilliant ' Popcorn ' ) and hit stage-shows such as ' We Will Rock You ' . Elton seems to have become a victim of his own success . Audiences don't laugh at millionaires . ' The Man From Auntie ' deserves to be remembered as a snapshot of a particular moment in British history . When the Royal Family was reeling from a wave of high-profile scandals , when the Major administration looked increasingly frail , when Ben Elton was a spokesperson for a lost generation . It seems unlikely but one hopes that in the unfortunate event of David Cameron becoming Prime Minister someday , Ben can find a way out of the television wilderness and back onto our screens to do what he is best at - bashing the Tories .
" Kippers , Cocoa & Your Mother's Bloomers ! "	Stan is unhappy when he learns he has a new conductor . He brightens up when he finds out it is none other than Iris ( Gwendolyn Watts ) from Basildon , a girl who , according to Jack , has worn out more drivers than the five o'clock rush hour ! Iris is not terribly good at the job - she puts make-up on when she is meant to be keeping an eye out for Stan when he reverses into the depot , for instance , thus causing him to back into a sign . However , like the gallant gentleman he is , he takes the blame . A grateful Iris asks Stan if he would like to take her out that night to the Red Lion . He says yes , then remembers he has promised to take Mum to bingo . In desperation , he pretends that his shifts have been changed . So off he goes with Iris . But Arthur spots them there and reports back to Mum . . . With Jack out of most of this episode ( only appearing at the beginning and the end ) , the underrated ( and sadly deceased ) Gwendolyn Watts is given the opportunity to shine in the role of ' Iris ' . Not only is she lovely , but an expert comedy actress . Check out her performance as ' Rita ' in the ' Billy Liar ' film if you do not believe me . Her facial expressions here are just wonderful . She would return later this season in ' The Darts Match ' and I only wish they had put her in a few more episodes . Note that in these early programmes the Butlers ' kitchen and dining area are separate , later shows saw them combined . This story establishes what would become a pattern , with Stan bringing home a pretty girl and his family , particularly his puritanical Mother and jealous Arthur , deliberately ruin his attempts at romanticism . Funniest moment - Iris letting out a high-pitched laugh on catching sight of Mum's bloomers on a clothes horse near the fire . " Are they yours ? " , she asks Stan .
Two Men And An Ampersand	Amidst the ' alternative ' comedy chaos of the ' 80's , ' A Bit Of Fry & Laurie ' arrived almost unnoticed . Unlike ' The Young Ones ' , it had no ambitions to ' tear up the rule book book of comedy ' , but simply to present funny , surreal sketches . ' Not Only But Also ' was undoubtedly an influence ; highlights included ' Its A Wonderful Life ' starring Rupert Murdoch , ' Kickin ' Ass ' , and the ' Tinker , Tailor , Soldier , Spy ' send-up with Fry as a Smiley-type intelligence boss who comes out with such cryptic phrases as : " You know I can't stick The Department up my arse , George . " . Another notable feature were the vox pop sequences . As a double act , Fry and Laurie were peerless . After three excellent seasons , the show moved to B . B . C . - 1 for its final run , which predictably became bogged down by guest-stars such as Caroline Quentin . The pair then split to pursue successful solo careers . It would be nice to think that they might come together again some day to give us more of their offbeat brand of humour .
" Has The Swine Finished ? "	Frankie Howerd was enjoying a career renaissance in the early ' 70's , thanks to ' Up Pompeii ! ' , going on to star in three feature length spin-offs , the last of which was ' Up The Front ! ' in 1973 . Also that year he starred in this curio , a delightfully old fashioned comedy thriller in the mold of ' The Cat And The Canary ' . Howerd plays Foster Twelvetrees , a ham Shakespearian actor invited to give a performance at the house of the sinister Henderson family . Somewhere on the premises is buried treasure , and someone is determined to find it - even if it means killing the others . . . As you'd expect in a Frankie Howerd movie , the double entrendres come thick and fast . But the reason why I've given this unusual British film a rating is because it expertly mixes comedy with terror . The shot of a defaced poster of Twelvetrees just before the opening credits is accompanied by a blood-curdling scream - perfectly setting the tone for what follows . The scene in the snake house , the live puppet show , and Twelvetrees almost being butchered with a meat cleaver by an insane old woman are unusually strong by comedy standards . Credit for this must not only go to the underrated director Peter Sykes , but writers Clive Exton and Terry Nation . The latter had written for Tony Hancock a decade earlier , as well as creating the Daleks for ' Dr . Who ' so he knew all about scaring audiences . The presence of Ray Milland adds class to the film and marks it out from the other British comedies around at the time . My favourite supporting character , though , is played by Hugh Burden , muttering ' swine ! ' under his breath each time he claps eyes on Twelvetrees . While ' Up Pompeii ! ' and its off-shoots have been available on D . V . D . for some time , this film surprisingly isn't . I would unhesitatingly recommend it to people even if they weren't fans of Mr . Howerd .
" Another key unturned "	Welcome to the most chilling science fiction movie you will ever see . ' Seconds ' is based on a quite plausible premise , that somewhere out there is an underground organisation known as ' The Company ' , which specialises in giving people new identities , fresh starts in life . Arthur Hamilton , a middle-aged businessman , is approached by a Company employee whilst commuting , and gets offered the chance to begin his life again . Trapped in a loveless marriage , and with nothing to look forward to save retirement , he opts to be reborn . After extensive plastic surgery , he emerges butterfly-like as ' Antiochus ( Tony ) Wilson ' , professional artist . Wilson is given a lovely home near the sea , a live-in manservant , and strikes up an affair with a beautiful neighbour , Nora Marcus . But he realises too late that his new life is just as empty , as meaningless as the one he threw away . Returning to The Company , he asks to be given yet another identity . Unable or unwilling to nominate another candidate for rebirth , he unwittingly signs his own death warrant . . . ' Seconds ' was directed by the late John Frankenheimer , then at the peak of his powers as a film-maker , with classics such as ' Birdman Of Alcatraz ' , ' The Manchurian Candidate ' , and ' Seven Days In May ' to his credit . He brings a Hitchcockian feeling of suspense to the early scenes , while the post-rebirth section could not have been bettered by Kubrick . James Wong Howe's cinematography is breathtaking ; the ' Company ' scenes are chillingly stark , while the infamous wine festival is soft focus . Speaking of which , the scene is carefully edited so that even though people are running around naked you never see anything explicit . Imagine what it might have been like had the film been made five years later . For Rock Hudson , the film was a welcome change of direction after those romantic comedies with Doris Day . He gives a moody , powerful performance which surely must rank as his best . According to Danny Peary's book ' Cult Movies 3 ' , the party scene where Wilson breaks down and pleads for the right to his identity hit the actor so hard he could not stop crying . Hudson's homosexuality was at that time one of Hollywood's best-kept secrets . The excellent supporting cast includes Salome Jens , giving a hypnotic performance as the free-spirited Nora , Will Geer as the president of ' The Company ' , and Murray Hamilton as ' Charlie ' , who by nominating his old friend Arthur Hamilton as a candidate for rebirth inadvertently sets in motion the wheels of his destruction . The most impressive performance comes from the late John Randolph as ' Arthur ' . He is simply brilliant , particularly when he realises he has nothing to live for , and one wonders why he did not bag an Oscar for best supporting actor . Lewis John Carlino's script is a little talky , but its ideas ( derived from David Ely's novel ) are solid . Who is to say that a story like this could not happen in real life ? How do we know there isn't a ' Company ' out there right now ? The late Jerry Goldsmith surpasses himself with a magnificent score , as bleak and foreboding as the film itself . ' Seconds ' also has the most horrifying ending of any film I have ever seen . A guaranteed nightmare inducer . Not a picture for those who like their science fiction drenched in C . G . I . , ' Seconds ' ought to be compulsive viewing for young people who think plastic surgery is the key to a better life .
Step Back In Time , Adam	Only Adam Adamant knows the whereabouts of an African leader named Hinkaya , currently somewhere in the U . K . A gang of assassins are on his trail . Adam is knocked out - and awakens in a 1902 hospital . He is confused - were his exploits in 1966 all a dream ? He meets up with Louise , his lady love , and starts to doubt his sanity . It is only when a doctor makes an error about Woodrow Wilson does the intrepid adventurer realise he has been had . . . Based on a story by ' Avengers ' supremo Brian Clemens , ' Reincarnation ' got the second ( and alas , final ) season of ' Adam Adamant Lives ! ' off to a rousing start . It is like ' Mission : Impossible ' insofar that it focuses on an attempt to extract important information from an individual by means of an elaborate scam . Clemens went on to write variants on the idea , such as the ' Avengers ' caper ' Pandora ' and the ' Protectors ' story ' Thinkback ' . The was selected in 1969 by Gerald Harper for his ' Star Choice ' ( a series in which celebrities chose episodes of their own work ) , and marked Adam's last appearance on the B . B . C . until 1991 ( when ' A Vintage Year For Scoundrels ' was shown as part of the ' One Day In The Sixties ' theme night ) . Despite the B . B . C . receiving many requests to repeat the show in its entirety , they chose not to do so . The arrival of colour television in 1969 effectively put Adam back in his block of ice . Of the ten missing ' Adam ' adventures , this is the one I would most like to see found .
One Of The Greatest U . S . Sitcoms Of All Time !	I saw ' The Odd Couple ' television series before the movie . I took to it straight away . Tony Randall played ' Felix Unger ' a man so fussy about his personal habits ( he insists on washing playing cards before they're used in poker ) that one day his wife decides she can take no more , and throws him out . So he moves in with friend ' Oscar Madison ' , a slobbish sports commentator . Naturally , their personalities clash , but they remain friends despite their constant bickering . Randall and Klugman were perfectly cast , and thanks to some top-notch scripts ( some by Garry Marshall and Jerry Belson ) were able to successfully develop the characters . Monica Evans and Carole Shelley reprised their movie roles as the cuckoo ' Pigeon Sisters ' - Cecily and Gwendolyn . My favourite episode was the one where Oscar tells the Pigeons the story of how he and Felix met for the first time - they were doing jury service , and after being trapped in an elevator with Felix for some hours the accused made a full confession !
" Now I Don't Believe You Wanted To Do That ! "	It seems like only yesterday that Harry Enfield was the brightest comedy star on British television . His appearances on ' Saturday Live ' ( as ' Stavros ' and ' Loadsamoney ' ) and ' Filthy , Rich & Catflap ' , as well as the brilliant ' Norbert Smith - A Life ? ' seemed to confirm him as the natural successor to the great Peter Sellers . In 1990 , he departed Channel 4 for the B . B . C . ' Programme ' was a traditional sketch show in which he played characters as diverse as the revolting ' Wayne Slob ' , the toothy ' Tim Nice-But-Dim ' , the irritating pensioner ' Mr . Don't Want To Do It Like That ' , the ' 40's public information film presenter Mr . Grayson , the over-excited ' Little Brother ' , the Alan Freeman-inspired D . J . ' Dave Nice ' ( Freeman could not have been offended . He later guested on the show ) and of course , one half of the decrepit and senile Old Gits . Within weeks of its debut , the show's catchphrases were being repeated in schools and workplaces all around the country . All of the characters had some small grain of truth to them ; haven't we all encountered someone as ghastly as ' Don't ' at one time or another ? Some fared less well than others ; ' The Double Take Brothers ' used to react with exaggerated excitement each time the unexpected occurred , and caused me to press the ' mute ' button on my remote , and the first series featured a superhero spoof which fell embarrassingly flat , but there were enough good characters for Enfield to develop over two seasons , and into the spin-off ' Harry Enfield & Chums ' . For instance , ' Little Brother ' mutated into the miserable teenager ' Kevin ' . Earlier I mentioned that this was a ' traditional ' sketch show . By that I meant the show owed a great debt to the late , great Dick Emery's long-running Saturday night series . By his own admission , Enfield was a big fan of Emery's , and intended ' Programme ' as a homage . Writers included Ian Hislop and Nick Newman , who had worked on ' Spitting Image ' , and Charlie Higson , later to create the popular ( but inferior , in my view ) ' The Fast Show ' . Special mention must be made of the fine supporting cast , in particular Paul Whitehouse and Kathy Burke . Many of the best sketches featured pairings either of Enfield and Whitehouse or Enfield and Burke . But it was with Whitehouse that Enfield really shone . Whether it was as idle garage mechanics ' Lee and Lance ' , ' The Old Gits ' or ' Smashie & Nicey ' , Whitehouse and Enfield were one of the funniest comedy teams I can recall seeing . Its not every day that a television comedy show panics a radio station into dumping its presenters , but ' Smashie & Nicey ' had that effect . With their cheesy patter , outdated fashion sense and over-reliance on the hit 70's record ' You Ain't Seen Nothing Yet ' by The Bachman Turner Overdrive , the aging disc jockeys were a stinging criticism of the old school of Radio 1 broadcasters . The consequences were devastating : Dave Lee Travis famously resigned on air . Simon Bates , Alan Freeman and even Gary Davies were shown the door . Luckily for Tony Blackburn , he'd moved on a long time before . In recent years , Harry Enfield has become the ' forgotten man ' of British comedy . His series for Sky Television - ' Harry Enfield's Brand Spanking New Show - was so bad even he admitted to never having watched an episode . It was recently confirmed he would be teaming up again with Paul Whitehouse for a new show . If it will be as funny as this one , I can hardly wait .
" Are We Going To See The Hippopotamus On Sunday ? " .	Not many British sitcoms have been inspired by novels . In 1976 , David Nobbs adapted ' The Death Of Reginald Perrin ' for the B . B . C . . He had Ronnie Barker in mind for the title role , but ultimately ( and rightly so in my opinion ) it went to Leonard Rossiter . ' Perrin ' is a serial not a series . The premise is this : middle-aged Reginald Iolanthe Perrin is stuck in a dead-end job ( marketing executive at ' Sunshine Desserts ' ) . After accidentally referring to his mother-in-law ( whom we never see ) in his wife's presence as a hippopotamus , his life changes . He fantasises about all the things he would love to do , such as making love to his secretary Joan Greengross ( Sue Nicholls ) on top of her desk , exposing himself to his neighbour , and standing up to his boss , the domineering Charles Jefferson ( known as ' C . J . ' ) , brilliantly played by John Barron . C . J . ' s office contains chairs that fart whenever you sit in them . Eventually , Reggie fakes his death by leaving his clothes on a beach . After attempting a new life in various guises , he returns to his old one as bearded ' Martin Wellborn ' , and remarries wife Elisabeth ( Pauline Yates ) . But he grows bored of ' Wellborn ' and reverts back to plain old Reggie . C . J . , angry at having been deceived , sacks him . The series struck a chord with the public , and soon its catchphrases ( ' I didn't get where I am today ! ' , ' Great ! ' ' Super ! ' etc ) were heard all over the country , in workplaces and playhouses . As a schoolboy , I identified with Reggie because I too was trapped in a cycle of boredom ( and my headmaster was a dead ringer for C . J . ) . The second season saw Reggie , fired from ' Sunshine Desserts ' , setting up his own company - Grot - which sells rubbish to the public . It takes off , making Reggie a multi-millionaire . But success brings him down and , this time with Elisabeth in tow , he discards his new life ( along with his clothes ) . The clamour for more ' Reggie ' led to a third and final season , in which our hero decides to create a better world by setting up a commune , run by his family and friends . Though it had its moments , it was the weakest of the trio , mainly because Reggie now had nothing to rebel against , and only when was he rebelling was he truly funny . The series ended with Reggie working for C . J . ' s twin brother F . J . at ' Amalgamated Aerosols ' , and planning to do the same thing all over again . . . I cannot praise this highly enough . Both the writing and acting were of a uniformly high standard throughout , with Rossiter's ' Perrin ' becoming one of the all-time great television comedy characters . That the series was being made at the same time as ' Rising Damp ' is nothing short of remarkable . It is hard to see any similarity between ' Perrin ' and ' Rigsby ' . The supporting cast - including Geoffrey Palmer as Reggie's mad right-wing brother-in-law ' Jimmy ' , John Horsley as the befuddled ' Doc Morrissey ' , Tim Preece as Reggie's wine-making son-in-law ' Tom ' , and Sue Nicholls as ' Joan ' were all great too . I cannot end without mentioning Ronnie Hazlehurst's theme tune . Great ! Super !
Dick Turns Surgeon !	Loftus invites Dick to a game of poker . Ignoring the advice of Nurse Wynton , Dick goes along . After being stung by insults from Duncan concerning his medical prowess , he decides to prove he is good at something , and cleans Loftus out . Duncan uses his day off to visit sunny Medeiros , where he is reunited with his old flame Rosita . They spend some time in each other's company , eating ice creams amongst other things , before he goes back to the M . S . Begonia . A terrible pain in his side strikes him down . Dick diagnosis the condition as appendicitis . As they are out at sea , the anaesthetist has no recourse but to operate . . . One of the best ' At Sea ' episodes , penned by Layton & Lynn . Some very good continuity , as events as far back as ' In The House ' are referred to . Duncan and Dick are at loggerheads for most of the time ; the latter wishes to remove his friend's appendix , but the former is horrified at the thought of Dick coming at him with a scalpel in his hand . " I have never lost anyone during an operation . " , Dick tells him . Duncan replies : " That's because you've never been allowed to do any ! " . Duncan's agony is matched only by Loftus ' - though it is down to gout , rather than appendicitis . Poor Duncan has to stagger round the ship , asking passengers whether or not they are medically qualified . He is relieved to find one such man - alas , he turns out to be a vet . Nice location filming here . Robin Nedwell clearly enjoyed himself on the shoot . As it turns out , Duncan has not got appendicitis after all , but food poisoning caused by one of Pedro's famous ice creams . Funniest moment - Duncan and Rosita running towards each other in slow motion . Then a waiter carrying a dinner tray blunders into their path , and the food goes everywhere ,
Henry Meets His Match	By this point in the series , complaints about the sexist content had reached such a level that the B . B . C . felt it had to take action . The show was pulled from its 8 P . M . Thursday evening slot , and moved to 9 . 25 on Monday nights , just after the news . Replacing it on Thursdays was a new quiz show hosted by Magnus Magnusson , entitled ' Mastermind ' ! The contrast between that and ' Casanova 73 ' could not have been greater . The first show to go out in the new time slot was in my view the funniest of the series . Henry has to act as one of the judges of the ' Miss Dairy Product 1973 ' beauty contest . As Carol notes , it is like putting a drunk in charge of a brewery . She wants to go with him , but as she has recently suffered chicken pox he refuses to allow this . At the event , Henry meets the compre ( Hugh Paddick ) and orchestra leader Ashleigh Thomas ( David Rayner ) , both camper than a row of tents . He is approached by an attractive young blonde called Inga ( Astrid Frank ) who is representing Germany . She offers to come to Henry's room that night . He does not need to be asked twice . But Henry does not get the evening of passion he expects . Inga insists on demonstrating her singing and dancing talents , including impersonations of Marlene Dietrich and Mary Poppins , and by the time she has finished he is too tired to make love . So she tries to wake him up by throwing ice cubes over him . He tries to make her the winner but the other judges are adamant it should be Miss United Kingdom . They too have been got at ! One thing I do not miss on television are beauty contests . Vapid , robotic females strolling about in swim-suits with fixed grins on their faces , quizzed by compres with a fondness for corny jokes . It was like staring into the window of a butcher's shop . When ' Casanova 73 ' was made they were still part of the television landscape . Astrid Frank , who plays ' Inga ' , is not only pretty but has a natural flair for comedy . Among the judges are a pair of familiar faces - Tommy Godfrey from ' Love Thy Neighbour ' and Michael Knowles of ' It Ain't Alf Hot Mum ' . Funniest moment - having failed to win , Inga is furious . She tears up the winners ' cheque , bends the ceremonial sceptre around the compre's neck , and punches Henry in the eye ! Score one for Womens Lib !
The Colditz Code	The 1970's were the hey-day of British wartime drama serials . ' Manhunt ' , ' Pathfinders ' , ' Secret Army ' , ' Enemy At The Door ' , ' Danger U . X . B . ' and , of course , ' Colditz ' kept viewers enthralled with well-crafted tales , some based on actual events . Major Pat Reid's ' The Colditz Story ' had already formed the basis for an excellent film in 1955 , starring John Mills and Eric Portman . In 1972 the B . B . C . decided to turn it into a series . Joining forces with America's Universal T . V . , they assembled a top-notch cast to play the P . O . W . ' s - future ' Dr . Watson ' Edward Hardwicke ( whose character was a thinly disguised version of Reid ) , Jack Hedley , Paul Chapman , Richard Heffer , Christopher Neame , Neil Stacy and ex-'Man From U . N . C . L . E . ' star David McCallum . Bernard Hepton played the Kommandant . Also in the show was Robert Wagner , whose first series this was following the cancellation of ' It Takes A Thief ' two years earlier . His character - Flight Lt . Phil Carrington - took centre stage here , having been confined to smaller roles in the preceding episodes . Released from solitary confinement , Carrington is placed in the British prisoners ' quarters ( America not having entered the war at this point ) . He claims to have only gone to Germany as an ' observer ' , and not to participate in the conflict . The others are repelled by his pro-Nazi views . Simon Carter calls him a ' German stooge ' , so Carrington hits him . When he is sent back to solitary , he seems pleased to go . He explains that he is writing a book called ' The Spirit Of Freedom ' and welcomes the chance to finish it without interruption . It is intended to show America a more positive view of Hitler . Reading a few chapters , the Gestapo are sufficiently impressed to allow him writing materials . In the meantime , animosity grows towards Carrington . Carter and the others kidnap him from his cell and beat him savagely until the guards save him . The book completed , Carrington submits it to the Gestapo for approval . But they discover that the text contains a secret code and worse , break it . His scheme to warn America about Hitler's invasion plans shattered , Carrington looks doomed . . . Brilliant episode , well written and acted throughout , particularly by Wagner , given a chance to flex his acting muscles after years of being typecast as playboy adventurers . But its McCallum's ' Carter ' who stands out , his growing resentment towards Carrington slowly turning to hatred . One surprising addition to the regulars is Jonathan Lynn , best known ( at that time ) for having played ' Danny Hooley ' in the second series of ' Doctor In The House ' . He provides some comic relief as a Jewish P . O . W . called ' Bergman ' . The Gestapo officers are portrayed by Peter Barkworth ( from ' Manhunt ' ) and a pre-'Sweeney ' Dennis Waterman . Marc Brandel , the writer of this episode , has some interesting credits to his name ; he wrote the source novel of an early Oliver Stone movie called ' The Hand ' , as well as instalments of ' Danger Man ' , ' Amos Burke Secret Agent ' , ' Barnaby Jones ' , and ( surprisingly ) an Elvis Presley picture : 1967's ' Double Trouble ' ! Because of copyright problems , ' Colditz ' is not yet ( and may never be ) available to buy on D . V . D . Its a shame because its a fantastic series which deserves to be seen by as wide an audience as possible . If you get the chance to view it , do so . ( In 2005 , I . T . V . made their own version , starring Damian Green . It boasted some authentic recreations of escape attempts , but was handicapped at being bolted to a silly Mills & Boon style love story . )
A Forgotten Classic	Possibly because it was the subject of a hate campaign in the ' 80's by the ' alternative comedy ' brigade , ' Terry & June ' is the better remembered of Terry Scott and June Whitfield's sitcoms . Yet ' Happy Ever After ' , which preceded it , was vastly superior , thanks to Eric Merriman and John Chapman's scripts . The presence of dotty Aunt Lucy and her talking bird in the Fletcher household also added greatly to the show . One episode landed the B . B . C . in hot water ; it featured Terry having a nightmare in which he imagines himself in a health farm run like a World War 2 P . O . W . camp . On the same night , B . B . C . - 1 screened the latest instalment of the American mini-series ' Holocaust ' , viewers complained that the sitcom was in bad taste . ' Happy Ever After ' was pulling in phenomenal audiences , but Merriman wanted it to end . The B . B . C . tried to continue the show , bringing in Christopher Bond as replacement writer . Merriman objected , hence the B . B . C . changed the show into ' Terry & June ' .
Jaw-Droppingly Funny	Any show which brasses off the editor of ' The News Of The World ' is OK by me . The furore that surrounded the notorious ' paedophilia ' special has ensured that ' Brass Eye ' will not easily be forgotten . What was amusing was the way Rebekah Wade missed the point ; it was not ' sending up ' paedophilia ' , you can't do that , but rather the lynch-mob mentality of publicity-seeking tabloid rags . The rest of ' Brass Eye ' was great too ; particularly ' Drugs ' . When Noel Edmonds uttered the phrase ' Shatner's Bassoom ' , I nearly died laughing . Top marks to Chris Morris for managing to trap so many D-list celebrities and charlatan politicians into making utter fools of themselves . As with ' The Day Today ' , the use of graphics and music is both clever and imaginative ; an image of Peter Stringfellow was mocked in the ' Sex ' episode . If ' Brass Eye ' still shocks nearly a decade later , it is a testament to the genius of its creator . And it proved that the success of ' The Day Today ' was not all down to Steve Coogan .
Crying Out For A D . V . D . Release	Its hard to remember a time when David Jason was not a major television star , but that time was the early-to-mid ' 70's . Having notched up supporting roles in ' Hark At Barker ' , the ' Doctor ' series , and ' Porridge ' , many reckoned he was a star waiting to happen . All he needed was the right vehicle . ' The Top Secret Life Of Edgar Briggs ' in 1974 was a very funny show which cast our man as an incompetent secret agent . Jason himself wrote one episode . Sadly , it was not networked by I . T . V . , and got dropped after only one season . Two years later , producer Humprey Barclay tried again , hiring Terence Frisby , author of the play / film ' There's A Girl In My Soup ' to pen a new series for Jason . The result was ' Lucky Feller ' . Jason was cast as ' Bernard Mepstead ' , nicknamed ' Shorty ' for obvious reasons , an accident-prone loser ( not unlike ' Granville ' in ' Open All Hours ' ) , who runs a small-time plumbing and all-purpose repair business with his brother , the noticeably better looking Randolph , in south-east London . Both live at home with their mother . Shorty is hopeless at chatting up girls , unlike Randolph , who rather like ' Jack ' in ' On The Buses ' , has a reputation as a lady killer . In the first episode , Shorty meets the lovely Kathleen Peake whilst travelling by train , and is smitten by her . There is a hilarious scene where he struggles to eat a tough-as-old-boots sandwich in her presence . Subsequently , Kath meets his family , and becomes besotted with Randolph . The rest of the series focuses on Shorty's attempts to woo Kath , while she chases his brother . There was a fair amount of visual comedy on display . The opening titles featured Shorty at the wheel of a three-wheeled car which endlessly circled a roundabout ( the theme tune was done in the style of ' 20's jazz ) . One memorable episode took place in a launderette . The washing machines went wrong , flooding the premises with soap suds . Another instalment had Shorty in a hardware shop , accidentally smashing a pane of glass . Glynn Edwards played Kath's crude Dad . Meeting Shorty for the first time , he asked him : " Are you a virgin ? " . Pat Heywood was good as ' Mrs . Mepstead ' , who thought Shorty was an idiot and treated him accordingly . Cheryl Hall , later to play ' Shirley ' in ' Citizen Smith ' , played the lovely ' Kath ' . Towards the end of the run , Kath suspected that she was pregnant , and when Randolph refused to marry her , agreed to wed Shorty . However , on discovering she was not in that condition after all , jilted him at the altar . The final shot in the last episode was of Mr . Peake's fist making contact with Shorty's jaw . Most critics were distinctly unimpressed by ' Feller ' . Margaret Forwood of ' The Sun ' wrote : " Its so full of pathos I can hardly bear to watch it . " . This was unfair . The pathos was mixed with comedy in roughly equal proportions . As had been the case with ' Edgar Briggs ' , I . T . V . did not network the show . I myself saw it on 6 . 30 on Friday evenings , a slot normally reserved for U . S . imports and programmes of local interest . It too failed to find an audience . Jason's next I . T . V . show would be the networked ' A Sharp Intake Of Breath ' , which got to No . 1 in the ratings . One wonders whether ' Lucky Feller ' and ' Edgar Briggs ' would not have done as much had they been accorded similar treatment . A decade later , with Jason a big star thanks to not only ' Breath ' but ' Only Fools & Horses ' , I . T . V . were interested in repeating ' Lucky Feller ' , but Jason , smarting from the show's failure , refused to permit it to be reshown . To date , it has yet to appear on D . V . D . Personally , I would jump at the chance to see this again .
When Phil Was Cool	I had the privilege of seeing Phil Cool at the Swansea Grand Theatre in 1988 . He was hysterically funny , like a human ' Spitting Image ' puppet . Over the course of ninety minutes he took off Larry Hagman , Mick Jagger , Neil Kinnock , Richard Burton , John Hurt , Terry Wogan , The Pope , William Shatner , Ronald Reagan , and , of course , Rolf Harris - all brilliantly accomplished impersonations . Cool was riding high on the success of his B . B . C . - 2 show ' Cool It ' . It was like a filmed version of his stage act , there were no sets and supporting actors , and there didn't need to be . Cool made it seem as though the stage was teeming with people . When he took off Quasimodo , you almost looked away in sheer terror . The rubber-faced impressionist's first television series was the obscure ' Rock With Laughter ' while his second was the deservedly-forgotten Chris Tarrant vehicle ' Saturday Stayback ' . He was given a break by his friend Jasper Carrott , who executive produced ' Cool It ' . I tuned in by accident one night , and could not stop laughing at the sight of Phil singing Simon & Garfunkel's ' Bridge Over Troubled Water ' in the style of Rolf Harris . Phil doing Billy Connolly scratching his bum with a stick of celery during one of Andy and Fergie's dinner parties also had me shrieking . Another skit had Prince Charles becoming the new lead singer of Dire Straits . Cool's humour reflected what was happening in the world at the time , with Thatcher in No . 10 , and Reagan in The White House . Cool's success did not last long . In the early 90's , he crossed over to I . T . V . to make ' Cool Head ' which , although it had its moments , was nowhere near as funny as its predecessor . Health problems and changing public tastes sealed the fate of one of the funniest impressionists I have ever seen . An appearance on the now-defunct afternoon chat-show ' Today With Des & Mel ' a year ago showed he still has got what it takes . In today's multi-channel television environment , is it asking too much that Phil Cool be found a niche somewhere ?
Unfairly Maligned - Even By One Of Its Stars	It saddened me to hear Patrick Macnee in a recent television interview dismissing ' The New Avengers ' as ' awful ' . I hate to disagree with the great man , but I thought it a cracking show , and a worthy successor to the original . Five years after ' The Avengers ' ended , Macnee was reunited with Linda Thorson for a French television commercial for champagne . It led to finance being found for a brand new series . Brian Clemens and Albert Fennell knew the show had to move with the times . It would have been foolish pretending it was still the ' 60's . The ' 70's flavour of ' The New Avengers ' is what die-hard fans most object to . But it is a different ' 70's to the one most of us remember . This is ' Avengerland ' ' 70's style . Joanna Lumley's high-kicking ' Purdey ' was easily the best ' Avengers ' girl since Diana Rigg's ' Mrs . Peel ' . Her haircut caused a sensation at the time . Former ' Upstairs , Downstairs ' star Gareth Hunt was brought on board to play ' Mike Gambit ' , a Bondish action man . He was good in the role , and one hopes that had a third season been made his character would have been developed . Gambit fancied Purdey ( and who can blame him ? ) but she chose to stay clear of an out-and-out affair with him . Steed became more of a ' Mother ' figure , but even so was still recognisably the star of the show . ' Dead Men Are Dangerous ' shined a light on his mysterious past , reintroducing an old enemy from his Eton days . Brian Clemens , Terence Feely and Dennis Spooner wrote some fine scripts . ' Target ' , ' Dirtier By The Dozen ' , ' Sleeper ' , ' Last Of The Cybernauts ? ' and ' Angels Of Death ' are on my list of all-time favourite ' Avengers ' episodes . When the first episode ( ' The Eagle's Nest ' ) went out , Peter Phillips , television critic of ' The Sun ' , tore the new show to shreds , and invited readers to send in their views . Four out of the five letters printed the following week agreed with him . The one dissenting letter said : " I found ' The New Avengers ' a refreshing change from sickening violence of the sort to be found in such shows as ' The Sweeney ' " . The correspondent was bang on the money . Public tastes had changed , this was the era of ' Starsky & Hutch ' and ' Kojak ' . Furthermore , I . T . V . sabotaged its chances of success by denying it a network slot ( though they allocated one to the horrendous ' Charlie's Angels ' . Funny old world , isn't it ? ) . Some of the later episodes , such as ' K Is For Kill ' and ' Complex ' were filmed abroad , and while noticeably different in quality to those shot in England , managed to be stylish and entertaining . After two seasons , it disappeared for good . A ' Sunday People ' article in 1979 claimed that a U . S . network had agreed to fund a third series , provoking the amusing image of Steed in stetson and six-guns , but sadly it turned out to be another false dawn . Whatever the show's faults , it was marvellous to have Pat Macnee back as Steed - even if only for a short time . There have been far worse ' comeback ' series , check out ' C15 : The New Professionals ' if you do not believe me .
" I want you to bump me off ! "	Mild-mannered Arthur Harriman is happily married to the lovely Kitty . Every Friday he brings her a bunch of chrysanthemums . But she gets bored of his dog-like devotion and , after a a blazing row , walks out on him . Depressed beyond measure , Arthur tries to kill himself - but realises he has no stomach for the task . Salvation comes knocking on his front door in the unlikely shape of Clive , an eccentric odd job man . Arthur hires Clive to be his assassin . Kitty unexpectedly returns , and Arthur changes his mind about dying . But he does not know how to get in touch with Clive . . . Broadcast as part of the London Weekend Television anthology series ' Six Dates With Barker ' ( a precursor to his later ' Seven Of One ' ) , this was an early teaming for Ronnie Barker and David Jason . On reading Bernard McKenna's script , Jason assumed that as the most interesting character was ' Clive ' , Barker would be playing the role . However , Barker insisted it go to Jason . Why ? He felt Jason would be better . This act of unparallelled generosity resulted in a sparkling black comedy . As Arthur goes about his daily business , he is subjected to various murder attempts - hydrochloric acid is put in his milk , a trip wire placed at the top of the stairs outside his flat , he is almost shot in a park ( an army of gnomes is blown to smithereens and ' The Last Post ' plays in their honour ) , and the rail around the balcony sabotaged - but manages to survive each time ( until the final scene , anyway ) . Joan Sims does seem wasted in the role of ' Kitty ' , but could not have been too upset because she later appeared with Barker in ' One Man's Meat ' , an episode of ' Seven Of One ' . Barker is excellent as ' Arthur ' , as you'd expect , but the acting honours go to Jason . In his flight helmet and granny glasses , ' Clive ' resembles John Lennon playing ' Biggles ' . Australian Maurice Murphy directs at breakneck speed , coming up with some wonderfully disturbing ( almost ' Pythonesque ' ) images , such as Arthur pouring acid-flavoured milk on his breakfast . As it dissolves , he quips : " Are they supposed to do that ? " . Murphy had previously worked with Michael Palin and Terry Jones on ' The Complete & Utter History Of Britain ' , and would later direct episodes of ' Doctor In Charge ' . Spot The Mistake : Arthur says he had cornflakes for breakfast , but we saw shredded wheat . In 1978 , ' The Odd Job ' was made into a film . Jason was back as ' Clive ' , but ' Monty Python ' star Graham Chapman took the role of Arthur . Expanded to three times its original length , it was nowhere near as funny . In 1992 , Channel 4's ' T . V . Heaven ' gave ' The Odd Job ' a welcome repeat . It had lost none of its offbeat charm .
" ! "	The second episode of ' Six Dates With Barker ' whisks us back to 1899 A . D . A madman in top hat and cloak is terrorizing law-abiding citizens , beginning with The Prime Minister no less , of the foggy , gas-lit streets of London . No it is not Jack The Ripper ( he's presumably on holiday ) but none other than ( gasp ) ' The Phantom Raspberry Blower ' ! Sound familiar ? It should . Five years later , the story was remade by ' The Two Ronnies ' . On the first edition of ' The Two Ronnies Sketchbook ' , Ronnie Barker announced that it would be shown , eliciting a cheer from a member of the studio audience . The fact that it was well remembered as late as 2005 tells you something of its tremendous popularity . It was written , of course , by the great Spike Milligan , meaning that there is an unmistakable air of Goonishness about the whole thing . A suspect in a photograph is identified by an arrow . When Alexander calls him in for questioning , we see a giant arrow stuck to his head ! When the Phantom visits Number Ten , he hands his calling card to the Prime Minister's butler . Aside from a picture of a raspberry , it is blank . " I'm never in ! " the Phantom explains . A character called ' Lady Penelope Berkley-Hunt ' appears in one scene . ' Berkley-Hunt ' is Cockney rhyming slang for . . . oh , work it out for yourself ! Barker takes up the main role of ' Inspector Alexander ' of Scotland Yard , a detective so brilliant he is able to interview a lady who has important information about the Phantom even though they are not in the same room . He suffers a nervous breakdown in the middle of the case and goes into an asylum , where he spends his time sitting in the grounds reading comics while dressed as Napoleon . In ' The Two Ronnies ' version , it would be Ronnie Corbett who played the role , with Barker as his trusty sidekick ' Sergeant Bowles ' . Barker himself extended the story to eight weekly episodes , but graciously did not give himself a credit , hence : ' By Spike Milligan & A Gentleman ' . Sexy Moira Foot ( ' Effie ' the whispering maid of Barker's previous series ' Hark At Barker ' ) pops up as both a newspaper vendor and Miss Maureen Body , the Prime Minister's ( ahem ! ) close friend . The late John Sharp is the butler . The raspberries were supplied by David Jason . Its daft , hilarious stuff , enjoyable even if you are overly familiar with the ' Two Ronnies ' version . In a nice touch , a raspberry appears at the very end , alongside the L . W . T . logo ! Funniest moment - Following a global pursuit of the Phantom , Inspector Alexander is seen sporting travel badges on his Long Johns !
" The worst is yet to come ! "	One of the most overused insults on internet film forums must be ' it was so bad it should have been on ' M . S . T . 3 . K . ' . I have always found that to be lazy criticism , rather like comparing something to the work of Edward D . Wood Junior , or branding a film a ' train wreck ' . Not only that , but it is inaccurate . What the forum users should instead say is " it should have been on ' The Worst Of Hollywood ' " . Before becoming a supporter of bad politicians , Michael Medved was the world's no . 1 aficionado of bad movies . His books ' The 50 Worst Films Of All Time ' and ' The Golden Turkey Awards ' made him a popular figure on the talk-show circuit . Channel 4's ' The Worst Of Hollywood ' ran for ten weeks , and included such classic clunkers as ' Eegah ! ' , ' Godzilla Vs . The Smog Monster ' , ' They Saved Hitler's Brain ' , ' Mars Needs Women ' and , naturally , ' Plan 9 From Outer Space ' . The curly-headed Medved introduced each edition to an audience , giving background information and plot details . The film would then be shown , with joke captions pointing out interesting features such as ' Immortal Dialogue ' and ' Stock Footage ' , along with some genuinely witty comments . Medved would reappear at the end , make further observations , then exclaim : " The worst is yet to come ! " . It was great Saturday night post-pub viewing , miles better than ' M . S . T . 3 . K ' which was , let's be honest , bloody awful . What on Earth gives a programme with tacky sets , shoddy spaceships , and badly designed ( and voiced ) robots the right to put the boot into old sci-fi movies ? Those idiots in charge of the Welsh fourth channel S4C cut the series short , with two films ( ' Robot Monster ' and ' Santa Claus Conquers The Martians ' ) going unscreened . " We are spared enough film in ' The Worst Of Hollywood ' series next week because its Christmas Eve ! " , said the smug announcer . So flaming what ? Comedy stops for nothing , mate . As for my fellow I . M . D . B . user's contribution , which is entitled ' Correction ' , exactly what is it supposed to correct ?
" We are controlling transmission ! "	' The Outer Limits ' is often mentioned in the same breath as ' The Twilight Zone ' as one of the peaks of ' 60's television science fiction , and with good reason . The shows have a good deal in common , both are anthologies based partly on published fiction and original works . Both were made in glorious monochrome , feature top-drawer actors of the day , and still stand up well nearly fifty years later . ' Limits ' was the creation of Leslie Stevens , but the man who produced the first season ( and wrote many classic episodes ) is most frequently credited with its success . He was Joseph Stefano , writer of the screenplay of Hitchcock's ' Psycho ' . Stefano was responsible for establishing that each episode should have a ' bear ' - his nickname for a monster . He also hired Conrad Hall to create the show's distinctive lighting effects , while the special effects ( good for the time ) were by Projects Unlimited . It goes without saying that a modern audience would probably find the ' bears ' hilarious , but the series did not depend entirely for its impact on monsters . In ' Limits ' you will find something closely approximating the poetry of science fiction . Each episode opened with the picture blurring , while an announcer warned that the set was now under ' their ' control . It was a gimmick designed to invoke comparison with the famous Orson Welles ' War Of The Worlds ' radio broadcast ( written by Stevens , incidentally ) which conned many into believing a real alien invasion was underway . Stand-out stories include ' A Feasibility Study ' in which an American town is transported to an alien planet , ' The Zanti Misfits ' sees the arrival on Earth of hideous bug monsters with human-like faces , ' The Bellero Shield ' has a devious woman attempting to exploit alien technology for her own ends , ' The Man With The Power ' features Donald Pleasance as a man able to destroy anyone at will , in ' The Production & Decay Of Strange Particles ' ( great title ! ) atomic power triggers terrifying transformations in people , ' The Galaxy Being ' ( the show's pilot ) sees a radio ham accidentally making contact with a creature from the Andromeda constellation , ' The Forms Of Things Unknown ' has David McCallum as the inventor of a ' time tilting ' machine constructed out of hundreds of clocks . Somewhat out of place was ' The Hundred Days Of The Dragon ' , a conventional spy yarn in which the Red Chinese kill the President of The United States and replace him with an impostor , but it was gripping nevertheless . The impressive list of guest-stars included Barry Morse , Robert Culp , Carroll O'Connor , Leonard Nimoy , Robert Duvall , Sally Kellermann , Martin Landau , Sam Wanamaker , Warren Oates and Cliff Robertson . Special mention must be made of Dominic Frontiere , whose powerful music underlined the show's atmosphere of mystery and horror . ' Limits ' proved a surprise hit , and plans for a second season was laid . But when the network announced a change of time slot , Stefano resigned in protest . A new producer - Ben Brady - was appointed . Fans do not hold the second season in high regard , but a number of episodes , such as the two-parter ' The Inheritors ' , Harlan Ellison's ' Soldier ' and ' Demon With A Glass Hand ' , are as good as anything to be found in the previous year . Unfortunately , the new time-slot lost ' Limits ' viewers and it was abruptly cancelled . It appeared on I . T . V . ( usually in a late-night slot ) in the mid-'60's , and in 1980 , B . B . C . - 2 ran both seasons ( often jumbling up the episodes in haphazard fashion ) in one bumper run where it acquired a new audience . As a result of the success of ' The X-Files ' in the 1990's , ' Limits ' was resurrected by cable television . Some of the original shows - including ' I Robot ' , ' A Feasability Study ' and ' The Inheritors ' - were remade . The special effects were predictably better but alas little else was . The nudity it could have done well without . Luckily , both seasons of the original are out on D . V . D . and serve as a timely reminder of the greatness of ' 60's science fiction .
When Bond Became Saintly !	In the early ' 70's , it looked as though the Bond movie franchise was doomed . Connery had quit for good following ' Diamonds Are Forever ' , and the hunt was on for a new leading man . On top of that , the series was widely perceived to be outdated . Clint Eastwood's ' Dirty Harry ' had arrived . Bond had to move with the times - or die . Roger Moore , fresh from the T . V . series ' The Persuaders ! ' landed the role of 007 . At the time I was horrified . Moore was too well known as ' The Saint ' - though the series ended in 1969 , it was still being shown in reruns . Could he cope with the challenge of Bond ? I need not have worried . He made the part his own very quickly . He is surprisingly good as a harder-edged 007 . The smirking Bob Hope wannabe of later films had yet to appear . Based on Ian Fleming's second Bond novel , ' Live & Let Die ' takes Bond into the orbit of the mysterious ' Mr . Big ' , who is funding SMERSH operations with pirate treasure . Tom Mankiewicz threw out most of the plot , and brought in a drug angle more in keeping with the times . If ' Diamonds Are Forever ' was ' Goldfinger 2 ' , then ' Live & Let Die ' is ' Dr . No 2 ' . The Jamaican setting , the murder of one of Bond's colleagues , the naive heroine , a deadly insect used as a murder weapon , Bond being assisted by a black man named ' Quarrel ' , all had been done before , and yet , strangely , ' Live & Let Die ' feels fresh and exciting . It was decided early on to distance the film from its predecessors , hence no briefing in M's office , or gadget lecture from Q . Even the villain's grand master plan is not particularly extravagant . Instead of blowing up the world , he wants to flood the market with free drugs . As was the case with 2006's ' Casino Royale ' , you don't feel as though you are being served up reheated left-overs . Yaphet Kotto is a fine villain , as are Julius W . Harris and Geoffrey Holder . I am not nor ever have been a fan of Jane Seymour , and her bland performance as ' Solitare ' is the film's only weakness . Compared to the tired runaround that was ' Diamonds Are Forever ' , ' Live & Let Die ' is bigger and better in every department . Just compare the boring car chase in the former to the thrilling speedboat chase in the latter . After a run of six Bond movies , John Barry was given a break from scoring , and ' Beatles ' producer George Martin took his place . Again I think this was to the film's advantage , as Martin's score has a more contemporary feel . The theme song by Paul & Linda McCartney became a worldwide hit . Its my all-time favourite Bond song . In short , ' Live & Let Die ' was the shot in the arm the Bond series needed , and made Moore a major film star . Next to ' The Spy Who Loved Me ' , its easily the best Bond film of the ' 70's .
" Dad , I've got it wrong again ! "	I once accompanied my late uncle on a Saturday afternoon shopping trip . As we strolled around the centre , we spotted a smartly dressed man carrying a handbag ( they were briefly fashionable in the early ' 70's . In the ' To Alf A Grandson ' episode of ' Till Death Us Do Part ' , Mike ( Tony Booth ) is seen with one ) . I was prepared to say nothing , but my uncle came out with out with " Hello , Honky Tonk , how are you ? " . The man ignored the jibe , and carried on walking . He was probably used to it . A few shoppers laughed . I for one was deeply embarrassed . That was one of many catchphrases employed by the popular comedian Dick Emery , whose B . B . C . - 1 show was a fixture of Saturday night television for the best part of two decades . He was not strictly speaking an impressionist , rather than copy famous people , he had his own repertoire of outrageous comic characters , among them the buck-toothed ' The Reverend Chislet ' , a bespectacled spinster called ' Hettie ' whose determination to get a man knew no bounds , ' Ton-Up Boy ' , the lovable old codger ' James Maynard Kitchener Lampwick ' , ' Gaylord Screwsby ' , the bovver boy ( often accompanied by his similarly attired father , played by Roy Kinnear , who would try without success to give his son a masterclass in crime ) , the upper-class tramp ' College ' , camp-as-a-row-of-tents ' Clarence ' , and not forgetting sex-pot ' Mandy ' ( whose favourite saying was ' ooh you are awful , but I like you ! ' ) . Each week , these characters inhabited sketches usually written by John Warren and John Singer , beginning with a vox pop scene on film , in which a typically B . B . C . interviewer ( the late Gordon Clyde ) stopped passers-by to ask questions . Encountering Mandy , he wound up being pushed backwards into a hedge . It is impossible to make grand claims for Emery's show as being groundbreaking , but it was certainly amusing in a seaside postcard sort of way . A lot of hard work went into the show , what with Emery playing most of the roles , and viewers appreciated it . My favourite sketches featured him as ' Bert ' , an incompetent D . I . Y . man who invited his best friend Wol ( Reg Lye ) to his house whenever he wished to show off his latest creations . Once , he converted his coal cellar into a men's drinking club complete with bar and pool table ( which naturally fell apart when they tried to play on it ) . Another time Bert built his own film studio . Pat Coombs was often cast alongside the comedian , as his curler-headed neighbour . All together now : " Oo-er ! " . Emery's show attracted impressive guest-stars such as Kate O'Mara , Yootha Joyce , and David Jason . ' Lampwick ' , the old codger with the throaty chuckle , lived with his beloved daughter Lil ( Helen Fraser ) and her husband Ernie ( Victor Maddern ) , whom he did not get along with . So popular was he that the B . B . C . at one point contemplated giving him his own spin-off series . However , in 1981 , sensing that the format was becoming stale , Emery turned the show into ' Emery Presents ' , a six-part comedy thriller serial , of which two ( ' Legacy Of Murder ' and ' Jack Of Diamonds ' ) were made , the last of these transmitted posthumously as the star died in 1983 . We shall never know whether or not he would have stayed successful or been consigned to the dustbin of history along with so many other old school comics . In recent years , edited versions of his shows have been appearing at odd times on ' U . K . Drama Daytime ' on Sky T . V . It would be great to see his entire output on D . V . D . Emery may not have been groundbreaking , but was in his own way influential . Publicising his new B . B . C . series ' Harry Enfield's Television Programme ' in 1990 , the star admitted to having been a huge fan of Emery's when he was younger ( preferring him to ' Monty Python ' ) , and confessed that his show was a carbon-copy of his idol's . Emery may have been awful , but we liked him !
" Mum , Can I Have A Dalek For Christmas ? "	' Dr . Who ' was the first television programme I got hooked on . It was 1968 , when Patrick Troughton was the incumbent . The story , a repeat of ' Evil Of The Daleks ' , was the most incredible thing I'd ever seen . Wild horses couldn't have dragged me away from the set at the same time the following week . Dalekmania had passed by then , so I never got my toy , but I did get a Dalek colouring book on Christmas morning , as well as that year's ' Dr . Who ' annual . As the ' 60's gave way to the ' 70's , my interest in the show intensified as Jon Pertwee and Tom Baker steered a successful course through the choppy seas of T . V . ratings . I started to lose interest in the ' 80's though , though that was probably my fault for growing up . When it ended in 1989 , I wasn't surprised . Now its back - and a whole new generation of children are just as excited about ' Dr . Who ' as I was back in 1968 - my enthusiasm has rekindled . We can all look back on the series as ' the classic years ' even though as far as I'm concerned they're not over yet .
An Everyday Story Of Two Men And A Frying Pan	It seemed strange that , after the witty satirical farce ' The New Statesman ' , Rik Mayall should choose to return to the ultra-crude , knockabout comedy of ' The Young Ones ' . He and Adrian Edmondson starred as ' Richie Richard ' and ' Eddie Hitler ' , two natural-born losers who when not railing against the world are at each other's throats . The show's violence is pitched at the level of ' The Three Stooges ' . It was at its funniest when the characters were in isolation ; in their disgusting flat , trapped on a fun-fair ferris wheel , or watching cricket whilst sunbathing on the roof of a shop . Here they could work off their aggression verbally . Steven O'Donnell and Christopher Ryan were hilarious as Richie and Eddie's deranged friends ' Spudgun ' and ' Dave Hedgehog ' . Mayall and Edmondson were right to limit ' Richie ' and ' Eddie ' to two seasons , but made a terrible mistake in bringing them to the big screen ; the result was the frightful and best forgotten ' Guest House Paradiso ' .
" I think we'd best leave this one open , John ! "	Reviewing archive television programmes , it is hard to avoid using the phrase " this could not possibly be made now " . ' Second Verdict ' , shown on B . B . C . - 1 in the summer of 1976 ( phew ! what a scorcher that was ! ) is a fine example of a programme that ' could not possibly be made now ' . Though screened in peak-time , it basically consisted of a pair of middle-aged men talking a lot while confined to one room . Can you imagine it being commissioned now ? Anyone foolish enough to entertain the notion would be told to go and have a lie down . The trick was that the men in question were Frank Windsor and the late Stratford Johns , reprising their roles as ' Det . Chief . Supt . Charlie Barlow ' and ' Det . Chief . Supt . John Watt ' from the crime dramas ' Softly , Softly ' and ' Z-Cars ' . Over six weeks , they re-opened the files of some of the world's most baffling criminal cases , such as the Lindbergh kidnappings and the murders of the Princes in the Tower by King Richard 111 . The ' pilot ' was a 1973 programme about Jack The Ripper . Though Barlow and Watt failed to work out just who did do it , it was fascinating watching them at work . They would state all the known facts , attempt to work out how the crimes were committed , usually with the help of specially staged reconstructions , and bring their not inconsiderable detective skills to bear by challenging the verdicts . It was like a television version of ' Sleuth ' . Johns and Windsor were a great team , and watching the duo spar was a treat . Sadly , the show had one major flaw . With the exception of the final episode - ' Who Burned Down The Reichstag ? ' - no actual second verdicts were forthcoming . The evidence was just not there . Johns said in an interview at the time : " I did not like the title . It was too limiting . I would have preferred ' Second Opinion ' . " . Another problem was that I . T . V . had a similar show on air at that time . ' Killers ' featured detailed reconstructions of notorious crime trials , with much of the dialogue based on transcripts . According to Brian Lawrence , television critic of The News Of The World : " ' Killers ' makes ' Second Verdict ' look sick ! " . Whatever its faults , the B . B . C . show worked as both history and entertainment . It still exists , and a D . V . D . release - though highly unlikely - would not go amiss . To leave it gathering dust on a shelf for all time would itself be a crime .
Wilder & Newhart - What A Great Team !	Sometime in the early ' 80's , an industrial dispute resulted in the last-minute cancellation of my favourite show ' Minder ' . In its place I . T . V . screened a U . S . T . V . movie I had not seen before : ' Thursday's Game ' . I watched mainly because it starred Gene Wilder and the equally wonderful Bob Newhart ( if you have never heard his comic monologues , you owe it to yourself to do so ) . Wilder is ' Harry Evers ' , producer of a daytime game show called ' Let's Chance It ! ' . The ratings are dropping so , expecting cancellation , he goes to see an employment officer ( Nancy Walker ) with a view to putting himself back on the job market . Initially , she tells him that getting a new job will be easy . She then finds out she has read the wrong resume . Reading the correct one , she does not look happy . Harry's worst fears are confirmed . He is unemployable . The highlight of Harry's week is his Thursday night poker game with his buddies , among them Marvin ( Newhart ) , owner of a successful fashion empire . One night , the game erupts into a fight when a losing player refuses to pay Harry what he owes him . Determined to keep the tradition of the wife-free Thursday night alive , he and Marvin begin going to theatres , cinemas , and bars . Marvin is also going through a mid-life crisis - he wants to divorce his much older wife Lois ( Cloris Leachman ) but is afraid to do so in case she tries to top herself . Harry approaches Ann ( Valerie Harper ) with a view to an affair , but cannot bring himself to go through with it . Then disaster strikes - his wife Lynne ( Ellen Burstyn ) finds out the game ended months ago , and thinks her husband is cheating on her . . . This was made in 1971 but went unscreened until 1974 , possibly to cash in on Wilder's popularity in the Mel Brooks movies , as well as Burstyn's role in ' The Exorcist ' . The studio executives who did not like it must have been watching with their eyes shut . ' Thursday's Game ' is a warm , funny comedy which encompasses adult themes such as marriage , divorce , redundancy , depression , adultery , and above all friendship . Unusually for a comedy of this kind , James L . Brooks ' script is not shot through with unrealistic one-liners , the humour arises naturally out of the characters and situations . Wilder is fabulous , only going over the top when he has to . When Harry is fired , he sits there stone-faced listening to the squeak of his chair before casually trashing his ex-boss ' office . Newhart's big moment comes when Marvin tells Lois he wants a divorce over dinner in a busy New York restaurant , and she suffers a bout of hysteria , predating the most famous scene in ' When Harry Met Sally ' by almost two decades . The chemistry between the stars is wonderful . Funniest moment ? Its when Harry goes to see his agent ( Rob Reiner ) and is stunned to find the man does not know who he is , despite him having been paid ten per cent of Harry's salary each month for four years . Harry's rage is hysterical to watch . At the end , Marvin , now a free man , goes off to Europe , and you find yourself almost wishing Harry would go with him . But Harry's loyalty to his family is too strong . ' Thursday's Game ' is hard to track down , but for fans of Wilder and Newhart or anyone just wanting a good laugh it is well worth the effort .
Birth Of A Comedy Classic	The B . B . C . ' s ' Dad's Army ' recently celebrated its fortieth anniversary . On February 28th 2009 , it will be the turn of I . T . V . ' s ' On The Buses ' . I sincerely doubt whether we will see any tribute shows of the ' Jonathan Ross Salutes Dad's Army ' variety ( some may think that a good thing ) , partly because it did not last quite as long , but mainly because of the I . T . V . sitcom's so-called dodgy reputation . Retro programmes equate it with ' Love Thy Neighbour ' and ' Mind Your Language ' for sexism and racism . I think this view is largely unfair , because it is based on the films rather than the series . People who have never sat through an episode will denounce the show as rubbish , when all they have seen is Little Arthur crapping on a potty in ' Mutiny On The Buses ' . Nick Hornby , author of ' About A Boy ' , branded the show in ' The Guardian ' one of the worst things about 1976 - even though it ended three years earlier . The first episode - ' The Early Shift ' - should be compulsive viewing for detractors . It begins with Stan Butler ( Reg Varney ) complaining about the new bus schedules , meaning he has to rise so early in the morning it is still dark , and even Tony Blackburn has not started broadcasting . Stan's mum ( Cicely Courtneidge ) puts sausages in his thermos flask , and warms his shoes in the oven , as Stan finds out when he tries to put them on . At the depot , Stan learns the canteen is not open until noon , hence he has to eat his grub in the driver's cabin with the engine running . Blakey ( Stephen Lewis ) objects , so Jack ( Bob Grant ) , Stan's conductor and partner-in-crime , initiates an unauthorised strike . Any ideas Stan might have about enjoying a morning lie-in vanish though when he gets a phone call from the strike committee ordering him to report to the depot at 5 . 30 A . M . for picket duty . Only four people are on the line the following morning - Stan , Jack , George ( a pre-'Love Thy Neighbour ' Rudolph Walker , in his one and only ' Buses ' appearance ) and Stan's mum . Spotting Blakey attempting to drive the bus out of the depot , Stan lies in front of it , and in so doing attracts favourable local news coverage . . . Its interesting to see some members of the cast before their roles had been properly defined . Olive , for instance , is a heavy smoker , not a compulsive eater . No jokes are made about her weight . Blakey does not use that moaning laugh so beloved of impersonators such as Mike Yarwood , nor does he say ' I ' ate you Butler ' ( that came in later ) . As Stan's mum is stage and film actress Cicily Courtneidge , who at that time was a big enough star to warrant second billing and appear with Reg Varney in the opening credits . She is rather good in the role of ' Mum ' , though in my view Doris Hare was superior . As previously noted , black actor Rudolph Walker plays ' George ' . This will come as a shock to the likes of Mark Lawson but neither he nor his skin colour are made fun of . He would not be the last black actor to feature in the show - Glen Whittier replaced him as ' Chalky ' . The depiction of trade unions is very much in keeping with that of sitcoms of the period , namely that they brought their members out on strike for no other reason than to watch football or go to the pub . Only Arthur ( Michael Robbins ) voices the view that they may have been ' infiltrated ' . Industrial disputes being the work of Communist agitators was an oft-repeated ( and inaccurate ) claim made by the Tories at that time . Trust Arthur to fall for it . The timing of this episode was perfect . It went out at the tail-end of the winter of 1969 , one of the coldest I can remember . Stan's complaints about the weather therefore rang perfectly true . Funniest moment - Arthur bragging that his union meetings ( he works in a railway station ticket office ) usually have every member present . " With you as Treasurer , I'm not surprised ! " , retorts Stan , infuriating his brother-in-law . The groundwork was laid for one of I . T . V . ' s biggest comedy successes . ( In my I . M . D . B . review of ' Shelley ' , I described the Hywel Bennett show as I . T . V . ' s second best sitcom , in second place behind ' Rising Damp ' . Having viewed episodes recently , I have changed my mind . ' On The Buses ' is funnier by far ) .
Criminally Underrated Show	Whilst Britain was mesmerised by ' The Fast Show ' , a vastly superior sketch show appeared on B . B . C . - 2 . ' Big Train ' was in the ' Monty Python ' mold , featuring sketches that started out as one thing before turning into something else , such as ' Alfred Hitchcock's ' The Working Class ' ' , a ' Saint ' style fight breaking out at a posh dinner party , or Chairman Mao leaping off his death bed to do a Bryan Ferry impression . The cast threw themselves into the thing with commendable straight faced enthusiasm ; Simon Pegg , Julia Davis and Catherine Tate later became major stars . My favourite , however , was Kevin Eldon . His ' Sir George Martin ' was staggering ! Mark Heap was also brilliant . This was Arthur Mathews and Graham Linehan's first series since ' Father Ted ' and alas suffered by way by comparison . The two shows are just as funny , but in different ways . It takes genius to make the notion of a ' stare-out ' contest funny . ' Big Train ' deserved to be a greater success ( a lot of it went over people's heads ) than it was . " Is that a reference to me not being married ? " .
" There are no curtains ! "	Granada's ' The Army Game ' was the first British sitcom with a militaristic theme , and ran from 1957-61 . Surprisingly , it would be fourteen years before I . T . V . attempted another . By then , the B . B . C . ' s ' Dad's Army ' was firmly established as one of the most popular shows on television , but you did not need a crystal ball to work out it could not last much longer . The mostly elderly cast was finding it harder and harder to continue working , and Jimmy Perry and David Croft did not want the show to fizzle out like a damp firework . Besides , they already had a replacement of sorts underway in the shape of ' It Ain't ' Alf Hot Mum ' starring Michael Bates . I . T . V . thought the time right to launch its own militaristic sitcom and over the next few years gave us ' Backs To The Land ' ( about land army girls ) , ' Yanks Go Home ' ( in which randy G . I . ' s invaded a tiny Northern village ) , and , of course , ' Get Some In ! ' , set in an R . A . F . base in Skelton in 1955 . John Esmonde and Bob Larbey drew inspiration from an episode of their series ' The Fenn Street Gang ' entitled ' The Thin Yellow Line ' in which loudmouth Frankie Abbott signed up with the army . Playing the brutal ' Corporal Elliott ' was Tony Selby . ' Get ' cast him as ' Corporal Percy Marsh ' , a man frightened of no-one except his wife Alice ( Lori Wells ) . He would put the fear of God into Richard Widmark's character from ' Take The High Ground ' , being a racist , homophobic bully . No sooner has he been introduced to his new intake than he proceeds to make their lives hell . Among the conscripts are teddy boy ' Jakey Smith ' ( Robert Lindsay ) , timid vicar's son ' Matthew Lilley ' ( Gerard Ryder ) , Scot Bruce Leckie ( Brian Pettifer - later to play ' Andra ' in ' Rab C . Nesbitt ' ) , and scholar ' Ken Richardson ' ( David Janson ) . Marsh initially only bullies the new boys because it is his job to knock them into shape , but when Ken accidentally causes the Corporal to lose a cushy posting to Hong Kong , the dislike turns to hatred . The scene is set for the rest of the series . Watching this in 1975 I was shocked . Although National Service had been abolished a decade earlier , a number of right-wing politicians were effectively campaigning for its return as a means of stamping out teenage delinquency . Even today , the comment ' Bring back National Service , that'll sort those ruffians out ' regularly appears on newspapers ' letters ' pages . Unlike the Walmington-On-Sea platoon , these are young men cruelly snatched away from their families and homes to spend two years of their lives in a horrible environment , making ' Get ' bleak by ' 70's sitcom standards . There is a poignant moment near the end of the first episode when Matthew tearfully recalls the life he left behind only that morning ( " Mother frying mushrooms and Father working on his sermon ! " ) which is spoilt slightly by the laughter of the studio audience . The cast are first-rate , particularly Selby as ' Marsh ' . So convincing was he as a hard case that , during the run of the series , he could not visit a pub without someone expressing a desire to beat him up . Robert Lindsay became a star as a result of this show , going on to appear in John Sullivan's ' Citizen Smith ' and Alan Bleasdale's ' G . B . H ' among other things . Unlike in later editions , the conscripts here do not manage to get their own back on Marsh . His final cry of ' I will kill you , bring you back to life , then kill you all over again ' ' is truly chilling . Esmonde and Larbey , like Perry and Croft , decided to tell the truth about this particular period of British history , and while this is commendable , is probably the main reason why the show is not repeated now . Marsh's cries of " Nance ! " and " Jockstrap ! " would most likely offend modern audiences . Funniest moment - Marsh asking Smith his name . When Smith tells him , the Corporal sneeringly responds : " Is that with one ' f ' or two ? " . Second funniest moment - Jakey giving instructions to the barber , only to lose most of his hair in one swift cut .
" Writers with luggage locker keys do it ! "	If ever there was a success story for the ' 70's , it surely was the career of actor John Alderton . After quitting the role of teacher Bernard Hedges in ' Please Sir ! ' in 1971 ( though he popped up in three early episodes of the spin-off ' The Fenn Street Gang ' ) , he went on to appear in a string of hit shows , including ' Upstairs , Downstairs ' , ' My Wife Next Door ' , ' Wodehouse Playhouse ' , ' Thomas & Sarah ' , and of course this . ' The Upchat Line ' was a witty seven-part Thames sitcom written by Keith Waterhouse , author of ' Billy Liar ' . The lead character , Mike Upchat , shares similarities with young Fisher , namely in that he has a weakness for girls , and for telling the truth . Upchat said he was a writer , but had had nothing published ( " My publishers are unreasonable . They won't publish a title unless there's a book to go with it . " . ) . He was homeless , and kept his few possessions in a luggage locker in Marylebone Station . Being blessed with ' the gift of the gab ' , getting accommodation for the night was a breeze for him . All he had to do was find a pretty girl , use his chat-up technique , and bingo , he'd be in her bed . In the opening scene of the first episode , he is seen leaving Buckingham Palace of all places . He goes to a party and after spending the night with Wanda Ventham , discovers that her husband - a Black Belt in karate - has come home unexpectedly early . In another , Upchat has the staff of a city department store believing he has worked there for years , whereas in reality he only started the job that morning . In yet another , he goes to hospital and everyone takes him for a doctor . The show depended for much of its appeal on Alderton's charm . Upchat could smooth talk his way out of any difficult situation , using lies to impress attractive women and , when in danger of being found out , using lies to get himself out of trouble . His lack of social responsibilities made his lifestyle one to be envied . Alderton played a similar character in ' Sprout ' , a comedy pilot from 1974 by future ' Shelley ' creator Peter Tilbury . Upchat's on-screen conquests included Gabrielle Drake , Sue Lloyd , Susan Jameson and Liza Goddard . Sexist ? Absolutely . But undeniably amusing . The catchy ragtime signature tune was by ' Wombles ' composer / performer Mike Batt . The humour was unusually sophisticated by I . T . V . standards ( hailing from the era of ' Oh No Its Selwyn Froggitt ' and ' The Rag Trade ' ) , and felt more like a B . B . C . - 2 series . Nevertheless , it was a ratings hit , and , by rights , should have run and run . But there were behind the scenes problems . Being a perfectionist , Alderton had a habit of refusing to do scripts he did not approve of , and would return for rewrites those he was unhappy with . When he did this on ' The Upchat Line ' , Waterhouse was livid . The author made his anger public : " He ( Alderton ) changed so much in one episode that I considered taking my name off it . " . His next words came as a bitter blow to fans : " I won't write for him again . I never realised how bloody awkward he can be . " . With Alderton out of the show , the search was on for a new ' Mike Upchat ' . Whoever took on the role needed to be funny , sexy and charming . They eventually settled on Robin Nedwell , then fresh from a long stint on L . W . T . ' s ' Doctor ' series in which he played ' Dr . Duncan Waring ' . As if in acknowledgment of the change in lead actor , the show was retitled ' The Upchat Connection ' .
The Original ' One Foot In The Grave '	In his excellent book on ' Dad's Army ' , Graham McCann wondered why the B . B . C . had never repeated Roy Clarke's sitcom ' Potter ' , which originally starred Arthur Lowe . I have often wondered the same thing . We've all met a Redvers Potter ; you'll find one in any pub , sitting alone , drinking whisky , nose buried in ' The Daily Mail ' , speaking to no-one except the barman , either to order drinks or huff and puff about how socialism has destroyed Britain . ' Potter ' was a perfect role for Arthur Lowe , officious , grumpy , xenophobic ( " I love everything French . . . except the French ! " ) , there were similarities with ' Captain Mainwaring ' , as well as ' Harry Duckworth ' from the classic ' Galton & Simpson Playhouse ' edition ' Car Along The Pass ' . In the first episode , Potter retires from the family sweet manufacturing company ( ' Potter Mints The Hotter Mints ' ) . On his final day , he is appalled to find that the new owners have taken the nameplate off his door and removed most of the furniture and fittings . Even some of the wallpaper is missing . Potter then berates a secretary for her modern dress sense and argues with the man in the boiler room for trying to make off with his office carpet . Rather like Victor Meldrew years later , Potter finds himself with too much time on his hands , so decides to meddle in other people's affairs . For instance , giving his long-suffering neighbour ' Tolly ' Tolliver a lift to the railway station - even though its not where he wants to go . Spotting a small crowd gathered in the street , Potter assumes an accident has taken place , and , taking charge , reroutes traffic and sends for ambulances . It turns out that the gathering is watching a local artist at work . To confound Potter's embarrassment , he then finds himself stranded in the middle of the road , surrounded on both sides by vehicles . Potter's wife Aileen is so fed up at being taken for granted she has become an alcoholic without him noticing . Possibly the show's only flaw was the use of a laugh track . Clarke's lines are not your usual T . V . sitcom lines and the studio audience seems unsure how to react to them , giving the impression the show is less funny than it is . I found myself laughing in places where the audience was silent , such as when Potter asked rhetorically over a drink : " Have you ever known a really exciting Tuesday ? " . ' Potter ' would have been twice as funny without the laugh track . Thanks to Lowe's acting and Clarke's scripts , ' Potter ' was a hit . After two seasons , Lowe sadly passed on , and the role went to that fine actor Robin Bailey . Bailey did his best but Lowe proved too hard an act to follow .
Cock Robin Strikes Again !	Having been both window cleaner and pop performer , accident-prone Timothy Lea ( Robin Askwith ) embarks on another of his brother-in-law Sid Noggett's ( Tony Booth ) daft , money-making schemes , this time buying Dumphrey's run-down driving school , which they rename ' Noglea ' . Unfortunately , they have a rival next door in the shape of the Truscott School of Motoring , run by pompous Henry Truscott ( Windsor Davies ) and his creepy minion Tony Bender ( George Layton ) . Timmy takes a fancy to the former's posh daughter Mary ( Lynda Bellingham ) . When not courting her , he is seduced by practically every female he meets , including his landlady ' Mrs . Chalmers ' ( Liz Fraser ) , her nymphet daughter ' Avril ' ( Maxine Casson ) and ' Lady Snodley ' ( Chrissy Iddon ) . The best place to see a ' Confessions ' film is the cinema . Rather like Bond movies , they lose something on the small screen . It is hard to explain their appeal to anyone who was not alive in the ' 70's . You had to be there . Yes , they're sexist , homophobic , racist etc . That's why we love ' em ! ' Driving Instructor ' is my favourite , mainly because of Windsor Davies ' Sean Connery impersonation and the irreplaceable Irene Handl as a senile learner . George Layton's ' Bender ' is not unlike Richard O'Sullivan's ' Bingham ' from the L . W . T . ' Doctor ' series , in which Layton played ' Dr . Paul Collier ' . Bill Maynard's fight with the Italian waiter ( John Junkin ) is a scream , as is Damaris Hayman's short-sighted golfer whacking Timmy's bare bum with a golf club , and there are good car stunts by Rocky Taylor . Ed Welch's title theme is great too . Funniest moment ? Lord Snodley ( Ballard Berkeley from ' Fawlty Towers ' ) catches Timmy making love to his wife , and sets his hunting dogs on him . Tally Ho ! Lynda Bellingham was then married to producer Greg Smith . In an interview at the time , Robin expressed a desire ( no , not that sort ) to direct a ' Confessions ' , but it never happened . I wonder what it would have been like . Given the storyline - rival driving schools competing for custom - it is kind of ironic that in the year this was released , the ' Confessions ' series itself acquired a rival - Stanley A . Long's ' Adventures Of A Taxi Driver ' starring Barry Evans and Judy Geeson . Actors such as Liz Fraser were poached . It proved equally popular . I do not think Greg Smith had cause for complaint though , seeing how ' Confessions ' was a carbon-copy of the ' Carry On ' movies to start with . Big hit though this was ( rightly so ) , the end was nigh for Timmy Lea . One more movie - ' Confessions From A Holiday Camp ' - and his ardour would be dampened forever . It was probably just as well . You could not imagine a ' Confessions ' movie being made in the 1980's . What would it have been called ? ' Confessions Of A Dole Signer ' ?
Love On The Dole - With a Phd	University graduate James Shelley is an unemployment statistic in Thatcher's Britain . With a difference . He doesn't work because he doesn't want to . With girlfriend Fran , he lives in Mrs . Hawkins ' boarding house in Pangloss Road . When not laying about in bed all day he is to be found either in the pub or else engaging in witty repartee with the harassed staff of the local Unemployment Benefit Office . The timing of ' Shelley ' was perfect ; as unemployment rose to three million in the early ' 80's , the character was seen by some as a champion of the underdog , a man who shrugged off the insults of toffee-nosed D . H . S . S . officers , and gave as good as he got . Hywel Bennett was outstanding as Shelley , and Peter Tilbury's scripts were a world away from normal I . T . V . sitcom fare . Belinda Sinclair made a good foil , often matching him insult for insult . When Fran departed ( along with Tilbury ) , the show declined in quality , despite first-rate scripts by Andy Hamilton and Guy Jenkin , as Shelley seemed lonely and down in the dumps on his own . It recovered some of its sparkle in 1988 when it returned as ' The Return Of Shelley ' , taking the opportunity to mock the ' yuppie ' phenomenon of the time . ' Rising Damp ' is rightly regarded as I . T . V . ' s best sitcom , but in my view ' Shelley ' runs it a close second .
" Tempting , isn't it ? "	1984 was a sad year for anyone who loved old school British comedy - Tommy Cooper died in April , Eric Morecambe followed him a month later , and as if that were not heartbreaking enough , in October Leonard Rossiter passed on . With the alternative comedy revolution gathering momentum , it looked as though the old guard's days were numbered . But not quite . They had a few tricks left up their sleeve . Thames ' ' The Steam Video Company ' owed a debt to A . T . V . ' s ' Carry On Laughing ' in that each episode spoofed a movie genre , mostly sci-fi and horror , with the same actors cropping up each week in different roles . The urbane William Franklyn was reunited with his ' What's On Next ? ' co-stars Barry Cryer , Anna Dawson , and Bob Todd , with Madeline Smith and , representing the new wave of comedy , Jimmy Mulville . The titles alone should give you an idea as to the level of humour : ' The Strange Case Of Dr . Jekyll ' , ' I Was Hitler's Bookie ' and ( best of all ) ' Amityville 2 - Luton Town 3 ' . Franklyn often broke out of character to address the audience a la Frankie Howerd . With Maddy Smith around , there was room for ' bust ' jokes aplenty . Dawson was the show's other regular ' sexpot ' . Bob Todd ( " I know who you are ! You're Bob Todd in a mask ! " ) , was cast as various monsters including a spider and a triffid . During the filming of the series Eamonn Andrews presented Todd with his famous red " This Is Your Life ' book . It came as a shock to the veteran comic , who had been told that Barry Cryer was the intended victim . Andrew Marshall and David Renwick's scripts were ( deliberately ) loaded with corny gags and double entendres , and even managed to sneak in jibes at the expense of other shows . For instance , ' 60 Minutes ' , the B . B . C . ' s massively unpopular successor to ' Nationwide ' , was parodied as ' Nationwide With The Furniture Rearranged ' . Franklyn did a brilliant impersonation of Barry Cryer in a spoof game show called ' Down Your Trousers ' ! , while Cryer's stunning ' Groucho Marx ' was a highlight of ' Creature From The Black Forest Gateau ' . ' The Mystery Of Plankton Lodge ' concluded with the entrance of a werewolf - except that it was really a were-Rolf - enabling Phil Cool to put in a guest appearance as Rolf Harris . Each edition opened with spoof trailers voiced by the legendary Bob Danvers-Walker , for years the voice of Pathe News . Only one series was made . Out of step with the times it may have been , but it was a laugh riot , with the cast appearing to be having a whale of a time . It had a sense of fun many modern shows would do well to emulate .
The Original International Man Of Mystery	For forty years , cult T . V . fans have been asking the question : " Who was Number Six ? " , referring , of course , to Patrick McGoohan's fantasy masterpiece ' The Prisoner ' . But in an earlier series , he played a character who was equally mysterious and enigmatic . The show was ' Danger Man ' and the character was ' John Drake ' . Throughout the series , we see little of Drake himself . We know he lives in London , at a fashionable mews address , drives a Mini Cooper , is fond of cigars and doesn't seem all that fond of women . Whenever one throws herself at him , such as the Jill Melford character in ' The Galloping Major ' , he keeps her at arms length . This self-imposed chastity endeared him to us kids , as it meant that the stories could not get bogged down in soppy romantic sub-plots . Like Bond , Drake loves gadgets - the ' From Russia With Love ' variety - radios in electric razors , microphones concealed in walking sticks , typewriters containing cameras and so on . Occasionally , Drake is called upon to impersonate an army major , butler , or schoolteacher , which meant his entire personality would go submerged . In this respect , ' Danger Man ' was the forerunner to the U . S . series ' Mission : Impossible ' , which also featured agents about whom the viewer knew next to nothing other than their names . The series was grounded in reality , unlike the later ' Avengers ' and ' U . N . C . L . E . ' . Each week , Drake would be assigned to rescue a captured British agent , locate stolen defence plans , or penetrate an enemy spy ring . McGoohan played ' Drake ' in a terse , arrogant yet oddly charismatic way , preempting Sean Connery's early performances as ' James Bond ' . ' Danger Man ' was produced in two batches - one transmitted in Britain in , and another from 1964-67 . Its the early half-hour episodes which work best for me , being more tightly written and directed . In these , Drake works for N . A . T . O . , and appears to be an American , but later on , he would be redefined as an Englishman attached to the British Secret Service outfit M9 . Of the hour-long episodes , I cite ' Colony Three ' ( the inspiration for ' The Prisoner ' ) , ' No Marks For Servility ' , ' Not So Jolly Roger ' and ' Whatever Happened To George Foster ? ' as amongst my personal favourites . ' Danger Man ' ended with a rousing two-part colour adventure set in Japan - ' Koroshi ' and ' Shinda Shima ' . Though not popular with many fans , for my money they rounded off the series nicely , and made one wish McGoohan had done more in similar vein before moving onto ' The Prisoner ' . ' Danger Man ' does not get repeated often because it was mostly made in black and white . Yet , for anyone who loves ' 60's action television , it is essential viewing .
My Daily Date With Marian	For those of us at home during the ' 70's for whatever reason ( illness , school holidays , power cuts etc . ) , ' Pebble Mill At One ' was essential viewing . Transmitted at one o'clock each weekday , it was a magazine show live from the foyer of the B . B . C . studios at Pebble Mill in Birmingham , and comprised celebrity chat , music , cookery , previews of up-and-coming programmes , film reviews ( Tony Bilbow had a regular movie slot on Thursdays ) , and travel reports . Something for everyone . I used to watch in the hope of catching a favourite star , and was rarely disappointed . One day in 1976 , Sid James was there to promote the new play he was starring in . As one would expect , he was pretty lively . A week later , however , he died . I had been lucky enough to witness his final live television appearance . On an earlier occasion , an actor appeared I had never heard of . He was called Tom Baker , and was announced as ' the new Doctor Who ' . This came as a shock ; I had no idea that Jon Pertwee was leaving . Baker seemed cold and unresponsive . It did not bode well for the show's future . As I now know , he went on to become the best Doctor ever ( at least until David Tennant came along ) . This being the ' 70's , we could expect real stars , not idiots famous for flashing their boobs on reality shows . Sophia Loren graced the ' Pebble Mill ' studio with her presence one afternoon , as did David Niven , James Mason , Peter Ustinov , Kenneth More , and director Francis Ford Coppola ( there to promote ' Apocalypse Now ' ) . Comedians Eric Morecambe , Charlie Drake , Roy Hudd , Billy Dainty , Jack Douglas , Les Dawson , and Arthur Askey also appeared . The studio audience knew how to behave themselves , meaning we got none of the cheering and whooping of today's daytime television stuff ( cough - ' Loose Women ' - cough ) . Bob Langley was the main presenter , a rugged he-man type who would have made a very good James Bond had he been an actor . He went on to write a number of fine thrillers . Then there was Donny MacLeod , a jovial Scotsman ( who sadly died much too young ) and Marian Foster , with whom I was hopelessly infatuated . The original theme music was great too ; a racey , jet-setting tune that made the viewer think something special was about to occur . More often than not , it did . So popular was the show it spawned a late night spin-off - ' Saturday Night At The Mill ' . During its run , a strike meant that no musicians could appear or perform . Not to be outdone , Langley encouraged the audience to sing the opening theme ! ' Pebble Mill At One ' enjoyed a good run , and even when it wasn't particularly brilliant , one could always amuse oneself staring past the boring guest at the road beyond , and playing ' Spot The Car ! ' ! Sadly , the B . B . C . sold off its Pebble Mill studio a few years ago , but memories of the show linger on . It certainly beat ' Metalwork ' with the grumpy Mr . Harris !
" Look's what crawled out of the cheese ! "	Billy Fisher , a bone idle young clerk at Shadrach & Duxbury's Funeral Emporium in the provincial Northern town of Stradhoughton , escapes from his humdrum life by retreating into a fantasy world of his own making , which he calls Ambrosia . Every person in Ambrosia looks like him . He has plenty of reasons for wanting to escape from reality ; his father ( Wilfrid Pickles ) is a bullying tyrant , his mother ( Mona Washbourne ) a right nag , and his grandmother ( Ethel Griffies ) , who lives with them , is senile . Billy's boss is the creepy Mr . Shadrach ( Leonard Rossiter ) , who organises funeral processions as though they were wartime bombing raids . Billy cannot open his mouth without uttering a lie . He is engaged to two girls ; the prissy ' Barbara ' ( Helen Fraser ) and loud Rita ( Gwendolyn Watts ) . They do not know of each other's existence , meaning he has to constantly ferry the engagement ring back and forth . The one bright spot in his life is Liz ( Julie Christie ) , a free-spirited young woman whom Billy is secretly mad for . The scene where she walks along swinging her handbag without a care in the world became an iconic moment of ' 60's British cinema . Believing he has landed a job writing gags for television comedian Danny Boon ( Leslie Randall ) , Billy hands in his notice . But his old life is not about to let him go so easily . . . One of the best British comedy films of the ' 60's ( and of all time ! ) , ' Billy Liar ' came out as the vogue for kitchen-sink dramas ( which included ' Saturday Night & Sunday Morning ' , ' A Taste Of Honey ' , and ' The Loneliness Of The Long-Distance Runner ' , the latter also starring Tom Courtenay ) was ending , and escapist entertainment ( such as the James Bond series ) making a comeback . It resembles a kitchen-sink drama for much of the time , but when we least expect it we are plunged into Billy's fantasy world . In the midst of having a shave in the kitchen , for instance , Billy suddenly turns into an armed soldier and wipes out his family . Then reality returns and the story continues as before . Moments such as that account for much of the humour , although it comes from other directions too , such as Billy and Arthur Crabtree ( future ' Likely Lad ' Rodney Bewes ) walking through the town centre and talking nonsense in broad Northern accents . ' Billy Liar ' started life as a book by Keith Waterhouse , became a play ( with Willis Hall's help ) , then a film , stage musical , and television sitcom . But its as a film which for me is its most enjoyable incarnation . Like John Schelesinger's previous movie ' A Kind Of Loving ' , it overflows with period interest . Godfrey Winn and ' Housewives ' Choice ' . Old buildings being demolished . The opening of a new supermarket . The Locarno dance hall . Milk machines ( I remember those ! ) . Old people shocked to find Pakistanis working on buses . From this film you get a strong sense of what the country was like in 1963 . Post-war Britain was coming to an end , and ' 60's Britain beginning to take shape . If all of this makes ' Billy Liar ' sound heavy-going , forget it . Its hilarious from start to finish . For instance , Billy's guilt at stealing money from his employers manifests itself in the form of a pseudo-crime movie with Billy as star , in which he goes to gaol and impresses the Governor by writing an expose of prison life entitled ' I Have Paid ! ' . I for one am glad that this film was made in black and white . Richard Rodney Bennett's music catches its mood perfectly . Tom Courtenay is the definitive ' Billy Fisher ' , a lying little swine ( as his dad refers to him ) but lovable . We the audience are his only friend , and are privileged to hear his innermost thoughts . His disappointment at getting the brush-off from Danny Boon is heartbreaking . You will cheer him on as he boards the train with Liz , intending to start a new life with her in London . Of course things do not go as expected and the finale is brilliant tragi-comedy . I won't bother to tell you how wonderful the supporting cast are . See for yourself . Leonard Rossiter does not get much to do but his performance as ' Mr . Shadrach ' is a little gem . He also appears in the film's funniest scene . I would not be so crass as to spoil it , but suffice to say it takes place in Shadrach's office , and involves a two-way radio . Watch it and weep with laughter . A film to watch over and over again . Oh , and the book's great too .
" We'll bring you something nice back ! "	Alf comes home from a hard day's work , expecting a hot dinner on the table . But he has a shock in store - there is nothing . Not so much as a sandwich . Else has decided to follow the miners by going on a three day week , meaning her husband gets no food . Alf cannot believe it . He tries to explain that the three day week was only brought about to punish the miners for going on strike a second time . His daughter and son-in-law don't seem particularly sympathetic to his plight , particularly Mike who is reading a book whilst laying on the sofa . As Alf pours out his heart to his family , it becomes clear he is the victim of a devious plot to get him to pay for a new fur coat for his wife . . . My favourite episode of ' Till Death Us Do Part ' , and the one that sums up the early ' 70's best . With the miners striking for the second time in three years , Prime Minister Ted Heath decided to economise on electricity by reducing the working week . It was the final nail in his political career , he was turfed out of office that same year . It was a stroke of genius on Johnny Speight's part to turn it into a script for ' Till Death ' . Alf's mounting anger is hilarious to watch , and Warren Mitchell manages to make you feel sorry for the bigot - particularly when he pleads with Rita for understanding of some of his more extreme views . But its Dandy Nichols ' episode . From the moment she gives Rita a sly glance as Alf comes home , she delivers a sublime comic performance , brilliantly manipulating her husband into doing what she wants . Unsurprisingly , it was screened as a tribute to the actress when she sadly passed on in 1985 . Funniest moment - Alf scattering salt on the dining table , and , picking up a knife , asks Else : " Well , where is it then ? My dinner ! " . " There ain't none ! " , she barks , " I'm on a three day week ! " . Classic stuff .
Has Steed gone mad ?	Steed prepares to leave for a well-deserved holiday . As he opens his front door , a man hits him in the face . We then see Steed doing the same thing all over again . Tara arrives and asks whether he enjoyed the holiday . Something is wrong . An examination of his car reveals it was recently in Europe , and he finds a photograph of himself with a beautiful young woman ( Kate O'Mara ) . Unable to account for two whole weeks in his life , he consults an eminent psychiatrist . All he can remember is the face of a Chinaman . Said face turns out to be the door knocker of a house in London , belonging to sinister hypnotist Kreer ( Roger Delgado ) . Steed's investigations are hampered by the fact that each time he makes progress , he wakes up back in his flat , with no memory of what had occurred earlier . With Mother away , it is up to Father ( Iris Russell ) to maintain the running of the Department ( only in ' The Avengers ' would ' Mother ' be a man and ' Father ' a woman - and a blind one at that ! ) . Father has no choice but to remove Steed from active duty . . . Poor Steed . Like Michael Palin in the ' Deja Vu ' sketch from ' Monty Python's Flying Circus ' he finds himself repeating the same actions over and over again . The villains - led by Duncan Lamont and Kate O'Mara - have an ulterior motive - they want to turn him into an assassination machine . Target ? Mother . Intriguing script from Tony Williamson and stylish ( as one would expect ) direction from Don Chaffey . This was the only appearance of ' Father ' in the series , very well played by Iris Russell , later to star ( as ' Mrs . Skinner ' ) in the children's sci-fi drama ' Timeslip ' . Pay careful attention to her dialogue - it is pretty naughty ! The character reappeared in the 1998 movie , played on that occasion by Fiona Shaw . ' Kreer ' is the late Roger Delgado , who menaced Jon Pertwee's ' Dr . Who ' two years later . Kate O'Mara gives Linda Thorson a run for her money in the beauty stakes . Episodes such as this prove that ' The Avengers ' was still punching its weight .
One Of The All-Time Bond Greats	Nowadays whenever a Bond film is trotted out on British television , the viewers ' usual response is ' oh god , not him again ! ' . It was very different in 1976 , the year ' From Russia With Love ' got its I . T . V . premiere . ' Dr . No ' debuted the year before to an audience of nearly twenty million . ' Bond ' on television in those days was an event akin to a Royal Wedding or the finale of ' Britain's Got Talent ' . Everyone watched . B . B . C . - 1 made no effort to complete - they ran John Huston's ' Moby Dick ' , starring Gregory Peck , for the umpteenth time . I had not seen the Connery Bonds before - my first taste of ' Bond ' on the big screen was ' Live & Let Die ' starring Roger Moore . ' Love ' begins with a nervous-looking Bond stalked through a garden at night , firing his Walther PPK at thin air . A blond man strangles him with a wire hidden in a wrist-watch . Lights snap on . Agents of S . P . E . C . T . R . E . ( the Special Executive for Counterintelligence , Terrorism , Revenge & Extortion ) appear . The killing has been carefully timed . The dead ' Bond ' is only a double . Psychopathic Red Grant ( Robert Shaw ) is specially selected for an important mission ; seething at the loss of their agent Dr . No , the organisation wants both to kill Bond and discredit the British Secret Service into the bargain . They use a beautiful young woman , Tatiana Romanova , by making it appear that she wishes to defect , bringing along a Russian cypher machine - the Lektor . She will only go if the agent sent to bring her back to London is James Bond . It is obviously a trap , but the chance of getting a Lektor is too good to pass up , so off Bond flies to Istanbul , taking with him a gadget-laden briefcase supplied by Q ( Desmond Llewelyn's first appearance in the role ) . This is a different Q to the stuffy , starchy character the world came to know and love . The film itself is quite different to its predecessor . Very Hitchockian , particularly the helicopter chase ( obviously inspired by the crop dusting plane scene in ' North By Northwest ' ) . Terence Young once again handles the directorial chores superbly , and gets first-rate support from editor Peter Hunt . As Bond , Connery is cool , elegant , sophisticated and slightly arrogant , you can see why even now his is still regarded as the definitive portrayal . The supporting cast are marvellous too , particularly Daniela Bianchi as ' Tatiana ' , Pedro Armendariz as ' Kerim Bey ' , Vladek Sheybal as ' Kronsteen ' , and Lotte Lenya as ' Rosa Klebb ' . S . P . E . C . T . R . E . boss ' Ernst Blofeld ' makes his debut , but is glimpsed rather than seen . The scene-stealer though is Robert Shaw as ' Red Grant ' . He looks as though he really could kill Bond . His fight with 007 aboard the Orient Express is still for my money the most impressively choreographed action sequence in the whole series . Having arranged Monty Norman's ' James Bond Theme ' for ' Dr . No ' , John Barry was promoted to composer , and turned in the first of several memorable scores . The title theme was by ' Oliver ! ' composer Lionel Bart , and sung by Matt Monro . Richard Maibaum's script is by and large faithful to Ian Fleming's book , with the addition of S . P . E . C . T . R . E . and a number of outdoor action scenes , including the speedboat finale . The structure is impressive ; the first part has the villains setting up the trap , the next sees Bond walking into it ( to obtain both the Lektor and the girl ) , and in the last he fights to stay alive as the jaws begin to close shut . When ' Love ' opened in 1963 , the world welcomed it with open arms , and Bond's future on the silver screen was assured . One year ago , ' Love ' secured the honour of becoming the first Eon Bond to be shown on the B . B . C . and how good it was to be able to watch one without all those annoying ad breaks , not to mention cuts . Alas I . T . V . continues to rape and pillage the 007 legacy ; most recently , the films were used as ' fillers ' on Saturday afternoons , a time usually reserved for children's movies and sports coverage . Bond deserves better .
Curiouser and curiouser . . .	One of ' The Avengers ' most endearing qualities was being able to take a clich and turn it on its head . This episode opens with Earle ( Anthony Bate ) and Gardiner ( Kenneth Cope ) , ostensibly New Scotland Yard detectives , searching for clues at the scene of a murder , a chalk outline of the victim on the floor . The owner shows up and asks who has been murdered . " You ! " , says Earle , shooting him . The man then falls neatly into the outline provided for him ! Steed is contacted by Sir Arthur Doyle ( ' The Rag Trade''s Peter Jones ) , an eccentric sleuth dressed like Sherlock Holmes . Tara does not look as though she is going to be much help on this case , confined to a wheelchair as the result of a skiing accident . Earle and Gardiner are blackmailing the rich into handing over priceless works of art , anyone failing to comply gets framed for murder . The duo are masters in the art of fooling the police through planting clues at the scenes of crimes . As ' Avengers ' episodes go , this is almost credible . No robot men , time machines or invaders from space , and all the better for it . Philip Levene penned a similar story the previous season - ' You Have Just Been Murdered ' . Though Tara is stuck in a chair for most of the story , she comes into her own at the end in a superb finale as Earle and Gardiner invade her flat . Peter Jones is wonderfully daft ( though underused ) as ' Doyle ' , and the whole thing is executed with panache by Don Sharp .
Think Marty !	The mid-to-late ' 60's saw a sea change in British film comedy , as it moved away from family entertainment and became more risqu . Television provided inspiration , with many films being either based on or inspired by popular shows . ' Every Home Should Have One ' grew out of the B . B . C . series ' Marty ' , and although made in 1970 is very much a ' 60's piece . Feldman proved here he had the talent to carry a film , supported by a first-rate cast including Judy Cornwell , Dinsdale Landen , and Penelope Keith . Alan Bennett puts in an uncredited cameo as a befuddled barrister . The film lampoons the glossy but shallow world of advertising , but also takes pot-shots at moralising politicians , clean-up television campaigners , and the permissive society in general . Particularly funny are Marty's outlandish dream sequences . Richard Williams provides some superb animations ( he also did the early ' Pink Panther ' film credits ) . Look upon this as a superior sort of ' Carry On ' and you'll enjoy it enormously .
Beware WormDoom Ltd !	Its time to speak up for one of the most underrated series in British television history - the final season of ' The Avengers ' , which featured the lovely Linda Thorson as ' Tara King ' . Chroniclers of the show's history favour Diana Rigg's stint as ' Mrs . Emma Peel ' over all others ( though recently revisionism has taken place , with some bemoaning the move into colour as a grave mistake ! ) . Poor Linda is seen by many as the reason for the show's cancellation . This is unfair . It was killed by bad scheduling ( pitted against the behemoth of ' Rowan & Martin's Laugh-In ' ) rather than the quality of the scripts or performances of the leads . The fact is that ' Mrs . Peel ' was a carbon-copy of her predecessor ( Honor Blackman's ' Cathy Gale ' ) , right down to the leather cat-suit . Rigg put her own spin on the character , admittedly . Tara , on the other hand , came as a breath of fresh air because she was young and inexperienced . Had another season been made , I am sure that her reputation would have grown ( the 1998 movie paid sly tribute to her with the character of ' Tamara ' , portrayed by Keeley Hawes ) . ' The Rotters ' was the only ' Avengers ' episode to be written by Dave Freeman , a comedy writer who worked on the ' Carry On ' series and sitcoms such as ' Bless This House ' . Experts on dry rot are being murdered by a pair of flat-cap wearing assassins from ' WormDoom Ltd . ' , named ' George ' ( Jerome Willis ) and ' Kenneth ' ( Gerald Sim - later to play the ' Rector ' in ' To The Manor Born ' ) . They have at their disposal a chemical capable of destroying wood instantly , and plan to unleash its spores from fake pillar boxes all over England unless their demands are met . As you can guess from that little outline , reality does not get a look-in here . Where else but ' The Avengers ' would anyone think of using dry rot as a weapon ? It is a cheeky little caper , full of the wit and charm one would expect of the series . ' George ' and ' Kenneth ' are a wonderful pair of killers - dreadful snobs and proud of it . When Kenneth callously shoots a butler , he sighs : " I do so hate the working classes ! " . Watch out for Eric Barker as ' Pym ' , a batty wood decay specialist who Steed tracks down ( appropriately ) in a belfry ! Like all the Thorson episodes , ' The Rotters ' is rattling good fun . Directed by the talented Robert Fuest , later to make the glorious ' Dr . Phibes ' movies with Vincent Price ( now why did Mad Vince never appear in ' The Avengers ' ? )
" May all your allergies be swiftly cured ! "	' On Her Majesty's Secret Service ' was a welcome change of pace for Bond following the gadget-laden ' You Only Live Twice ' . Most of the Bond knock-offs ( Matt Helm , Flint , U . N . C . L . E . ) had packed up and gone , leaving 007 as the sole survivor of the ' 60's spy boom . First-time director Peter Hunt had the best book of the series to work with , and wisely stuck to it , hence the film is the most faithful of the Fleming adaptations . Lazenby's performance has been the subject of much controversy over the years ; whilst lacking Connery's experience , he acquits himself impressively . His ' human ' Bond is perfect for this particular story ; Connery's Bond would have jarred with the realistic , darker tone of ' Service ' . Diana Rigg is brilliant as ' Tracy ' , the ex-wild child who eventually captures Bond's heart . The late Telly Savalas made a more believable ' Blofeld ' than Donald Pleasance , whom I found too hammy . The action scenes are perhaps the best ever seen in a Bond movie ; the pre-credit fight on the beach gets the picture off to a flying start , while the ski chase and bobsleigh finale are simply magnificent . Great cinematography from Michael Reed . John Barry outdoes all his other Bond scores here ; ' We Have All The Time In The World ' is a knockout . Hunt's decision to retain the book's downbeat ending ( Bond finds love , only to have it snatched from his grasp ) was also a contributory factor in its success . Despite the critical panning it got at the time , the reputation of ' Service ' has grown over the years , to such an extent that many include it on their list of all-time great Bond movies . I would go further . In my view , its the best Bond ever made .
Creepy Fun From Hammer	Not to be confused with the B . B . C . ' s ' Out Of The Unknown ' , this was Hammer's first - and best - attempt at a television anthology series . The eerie title sequence featured a silhouette creeping into a deserted fairground late at night , which suddenly lit up , an effect as startling as it was memorable . The whistling theme tune was by Harry Robinson . The series itself played like a British ' Twilight Zone ' ; in ' Eve ' Dennis Waterman plays a nerd who falls in love with a shop window dummy , ' Paper Dolls ' concerns identical boys linked by a psychic bond , ' Somewhere In A Crowd ' has David Hedison noticing the same five people present at major disasters , and in ' The Madison Equation ' a computer is used in a murder plot . It was unnerving rather than scary . Because it was funded by 20th Century Fox , each episode had to have an American guest-star , but this enhanced the show rather than detracted from it . There were some notable British performers involved too , such as Edward Fox , Allan Cuthbertson , Michael Gough , and Roddy McDowall . Only seventeen episodes were made , yet ' Journey ' continued to crop up irregularly on late-night British T . V . well into the ' 80's .
Not All Remakes Are Lousy	In the autumn of 1991 , B . B . C-2 enjoyed surprising success with repeats of Gerry Anderson's ' Thunderbirds ' . They followed this up with ' Stingray ' and ' The Man From U . N . C . L . E . ' , as well as several shows from the I . T . C . stable , including ' U . F . O . ' , ' The Champions ' and ' Randall & Hopkirk ( Deceased ) . It was to tap into this vogue for retro action telly that inspired ' Fast Show ' creator Charlie Higson to revive the latter . He made several changes , such as turning Jeannie into Marty's girlfriend instead of his wife , and giving a ghostly world for Hopkirk to inhabit , presided over by the all-wise spirit mentor ' Wyvern ' ( Tom Baker ) . When I heard that Vic Reeves and Bob Mortimer ( not my favourite comedians , I'm afraid ) had been cast as the leads , my blood ran cold . To make matters worse , they had ( so I felt ) been given the wrong roles - Reeves would have made a superb ' Jeff ' , while Mortimer should have been ' Marty ' . I was not really looking forward to the show . But I changed my mind after viewing the first episode . ' Drop Dead ' was loosely based on ' My Late Lamented Friend & Partner ' , but had more humour . Vic and Bob were better than expected , though not really actors as such . The gorgeous Emilia Fox more than made up for their shortcomings . She set the television alight as ' Jeannie ' . Guest-stars in the series included Sir Derek Jacobi , Charles Dance , Gareth Thomas , David Tennant , Hugh Laurie , and Jessica Stevenson . Thanks to the miracle of modern technology , the late Mike Pratt made a cameo in one episode ! I think what Higson really wanted to do was to essentially remake ' The Avengers ' . It explains why his version of ' Randall & Hopkirk ( Deceased ) has the the same quirky surrealism as Steed and Mrs . Peel's adventures combined with a solid dose of supernatural fantasy . After an excellent first series , ' R & H ( Dec ) returned a year later , but the stories were slightly less amusing and inventive . Viewers lost interest and it was regrettably cancelled . However , it can now be seen as having paved the way for Russell T . Davies ' successful 2005 revival of ' Dr . Who ' .
" You crazy idiots . . . the name's McGill ! "	When Patrick McGoohan abruptly left ' Danger Man ' in 1966 , the entire production team split in half - David Tomblin , George Markstein , and Don Chaffey followed him to Portmeirion to create the bizarre cult classic ' The Prisoner ' , while Sidney Cole , Barry Delmaine and John Glen set up a new show . Originally titled ' McGill ' , it was created by Dennis Spooner and Richard Harris , neither of whom had any further involvement . ' Man In A Suitcase ' was an unusual series from the I . T . C . stable , insofar that it had a hero who wasn't respected or admired , simply misunderstood . McGill had been a top U . S . agent who'd been sacked for his part in a spy scandal for which he was blameless , and had become a private eye based in London and Europe . Richard Bradford made ' McGill ' harder than the heroes generally found on television at that time ( he chain smoked for one thing ) while the scripts were of a high standard , particularly ' The Whisper ' , ' Variation On A Million Bucks ' , ' Dead Man's Shoes ' , ' Day Of Execution ' , and ' Web With Four Spiders ' . The guest-stars included John Gregson , Colin Blakely ( twice ) , Edward Fox , Simon Williams , Rodney Bewes , Stuart Damon , Judy Geeson , Jacqueline Pearce , Patrick Cargill and Darren Nesbitt . It is rumoured that some scripts were left overs from ' Danger Man ' . ' The Boston Square ' and ' Night Flight To Andorra ' look as though they could have fitted into that series , while ' The Bridge ' is more like an episode of A . B . C . ' s ' The Human Jungle ' . ' Jigsaw Man ' was the only ' Suitcase ' adventure to play for laughs . Unlike the bloodless fights seen in ' The Saint ' , ' Suitcase ' actually showed McGill getting hurt and , in a couple of instances , beaten senseless . By depicting the world of espionage in a realistic light , the show was slightly ahead of its time . It was a ' 70's show made in the ' 60's . Ron Grainer's theme tune is one of his best too ! Of all the I . T . C . action shows made in the mid-to-late ' 60's , ' Man In a Suitcase ' was the most deserving of a second series .
" This Never Happened To James Bond ! "	Charlie Drake's previous films - ' Petticoat Pirates ' ( 1960 ) and ' Sands Of The Desert ' ( 1961 ) failed to set the world on fire , but with ' The Cracksman ' he came up with a little beauty . He plays master locksmith Ernest Wright , who becomes the unwitting dupe in a series of robberies . As you'd expect from a Charlie Drake comedy , there's plenty of slapstick , but also an unexpected element of pathos - when Wright gets out of prison and his former friends shun him , its a genuinely moving moment . The gang's plan is a little unbelievable ; they seem prepared to wait years for Ernest to acquire a criminal record , but its done so well you don't really care . George Sanders is his usual smooth self as the gang's leader , while Nyree Dawn Porter shows a real flair for comedy . In addition , the script manages to squeeze in parodies of ' Dr . No ' and ' Birdman Of Alcatraz ' . The prison scene features Ronnie Barker as a prototype ' Norman Stanley Fletcher ' . A cracker of a comedy !
" I'm Not Here ! "	Channel 4's ' Drop The Dead Donkey ' was a classic sitcom set in an office that managed to be funny without any assistance whatever from Ricky Gervais . It centred around the day-to-day goings on at ' GlobeLink ' , a television news station owned by the mysterious Sir Roysten Merchent . Staff fears that the news will be dumbed down are confirmed when Sir Royston hires as its new anchorwoman the pretty but vacuous Sally Smedley . Immediately she clashes with veteran anchorman Henry Davenport , who calls her " Tightarse " . Then there's the appalling Gus Hedges , fluent in two languages - English and rubbish . " Let me drop some descaler into your think-tank . " is one of his many favourite sayings . And Joy Merryweather , a woman so bad-tempered as to be borderline psychotic . The show won plaudits at the time for being recorded close to transmission , so as to enable the writers to be topical in their humour . Unfortunately , this has resulted in the show now looking dated . ' Drop ' had the good fortune to be running during the dark days of the last Conservative administration , when John Major was in Downing Strret . The endless procession of political mistakes , cash and sex scandals were a godsend to Hamilton and Jenkin . One episode cast Stephen Moore as a thinly-disguised Steve Norris . However , the final series went out after Tony Blair's 1997 election win , and came across as strangely muted . ' GlobeLink ' was finally closed down to make way for a home shopping channel . A mercy killing . ' Drop ' was immeasurably funnier than ' The Office ' , and why it is not as well regarded is a mystery .
One Of The Best I . T . C . Shows	Monty Berman and Dennis Spooner followed up ' The Baron ' with this , a fantasy series about three superhuman spies which preempted ' The Six Million Dollar Man ' . It was a favourite of mine when I was a youngster , and I enjoy watching it still . Stuart Damon and William Gaunt had an unmistakable on-screen chemistry as Craig Stirling and Richard Barrett , while the luscious Alexandra Bastedo pouted her way through her role as Sharron Macready . The late Anthony Nicholls made a wonderfully gruff Tremayne . By far the best episodes were those written by Tony Williamson , Terry Nation and Brian Clemens , while Spooner's own ' The Interrogation ' compared favourably with ' The Prisoner ' . I regret that there was never a second series ; the concept had so much life left in it . Would Craig and Richard have been competitors for Sharron's affections ? What if Tremayne had learned of the Champions ' powers ? Did the Champions have any other abilities other than those we saw ? We never found out , alas .
" You Stupid Boy ! "	I won't bother describing ' Dad's Army ' in detail as its been covered extensively elsewhere . Quite simply , its one of the best comedy series ever made . Arthur Lowe and John Le Mesurier headed a stellar cast of comedy actors which included Clive Dunn , James Beck , Ian Lavender , John Laurie ( my favourite ) , Arnold Ridley , Janet Davies , Edward Sinclair and Pamela Cundell . Not forgetting the marvellous Bill Pertwee as ' A . R . P . Hodges ' , Back in the ' 60's / ' 70's , ' Dad's Army ' was watched by two different audiences for two different reasons - older viewers found it unbearably nostalgic , with its slightly rose-tinted ( though not inaccurate ) view of wartime England , whilst younger viewers ( of whom I was one ) simply loved it for its occasional forays into slapstick comedy . The show was created and written by Jimmy Perry and David Croft . Perry had served in The Home Guard ( he was the role model for ' Pike ' ) so he was able to bring much authenticity to the scripts . He later cited the classic Will Hay film ' Oh Mr . Porter ' ( pompous man , old man , stupid boy ) as a major source of inspiration , and its easy to see what he meant . The fine cast were ably served by the hilariously funny scripts . Probably the best remembered episode is ' The Deadly Attachment ' in which Philip Madoc played the captain of a captured U-Boat crew , if only for the legendary ' Don't Tell Him , Pike ! ' scene . My personal favourite , however , was ' Battle Of The Giants ' . After James Beck tragically died mid-way through the series , they brought in Talfryn Thomas as reporter ' Mr . Cheeseman ' . Personally , I liked him , but it was felt he added nothing to the show and so he was dropped . Its testament to the quality of ' Dad's Army ' that its still being repeated forty years later . Contrary to myth , the show's fans are not all old age pensioners . I wasn't alive when the Second World War happened , but I love the show because I know great comedy when I see it .
" Ye're not going to get my gold ! "	Alone one evening in his undertaker's parlour , Frazer gleefully counts his magnificent collection of gold sovereigns . Their existence is a secret to everyone in the world but himself . An unexpected visitor - Dr . McCeavedy - upsets the box , scattering the coins all over the floor . Frazer's secret is out . Suddenly he finds himself the centre of attention in Walmington . Everyone wants the gold for different reasons . The vicar wishes Frazer would offer to help pay for church repairs . Mainwaring wants Frazer to use the coins to buy an annuity , on which he himself will receive commission . Desperate to get the lot of them off his back , the wily Frazer devises a clever plan . . . ' The Miser's Hoard ' was one of the last ' Dad's Army ' episodes to be made , and if nothing else proves that the show was still punching its weight . John Laurie is in good form , the scene where he warns Mainwaring to keep away from his money earns him a well-deserved round of applause . Another great Scottish actor - Fulton Mackay from ' Porridge ' - appears , in the role of ' Dr . McCeavedy ' . If it strikes you as odd that someone should prefer to keep their money in their own home , where it can easily be stolen , rather than place it in the safety of a bank vault , let me just point out that it was not uncommon for elderly people to do this , and not just in the 1940's either . When my grandmother passed on in 1977 , she left behind a total of 1000 in used notes at the back of her wardrobe . Quite a lot of old people simply do not trust banks , particularly foreign-owned ones . Coupled with Fraser's distrust of banks is a natural dislike of Mainwaring himself . Funniest moment - Mainwaring opening Frazer's treasure box , and finding nothing but a brick inside . " Yon vicar can have that for the church ! " , says Frazer , with contempt . Great episode .
" Dear Michael . . . "	Before the V . C . R . revolution of the late ' 70's , if you wished to see a particular moment from your favourite B . B . C . programme again you did one of two things : a ) waited for a repeat or b ) wrote to Michael Aspel . ' Ask Aspel ' was a children's programme in which viewers could watch specially requested clips , most predictably were from children's shows , though adult material crept in from time to time , such as ' Monty Python's Flying Circus ' ( minus the naughty bits ) . Other series included ' The Goodies ' ( almost every edition of ' Ask Aspel ' featured a ' Goodies ' clip it seemed ) , ' Blue Peter Special Assignment ' , ' The Morecambe & Wise Show ' , ' Dr . Who ' , and ' Top Of The Pops ' . The show came in handy when power cuts were commonplace in Britain because of the Miners ' Strike . I used to follow a Sunday afternoon serial called ' The Moonstone ' ( based on the book by Wilkie Collins ) and was enjoying it when . during the final instalment , off went the power . Thankfully , a week later Aspel showed us how it had ended . Jimmy Tarbuck did a send-up of ' Ask Aspel ' on his show , which he called ' Tell Tarby ' ! Each edition had a special studio guest , such as John Cleese , Michael Palin , Kate Bush , Peter Cushing , and Sir Roger Moore . There was no audience , meaning we got none of the shouting and bawling that is sadly a feature of contemporary children's television . Aspel himself made an affable host ; his interviews were sensibly conducted , and not once did he attempt to poke fun at the guests . The show proved popular enough to run throughout the ' 70's , finally ending in 1981 . With V . C . R . ' s removing the need for programmes such as this , its time had finally come . However , the B . B . C . modified the format a year or so later , relaunching it as ' Take Two ' , hosted initially by Lucie Skeaping and then Josephine Buchan and Philip Schofield . In addition to the clips , ' Take Two ' asked schoolchildren for their views on programmes . One week the programme under discussion was ' Take Two ' itself . A boy with a long memory branded it a rip-off of ' Ask Aspel ' ! Aspel himself got his own chat show for L . W . T . - ' Aspel & Co ' - and later , ' This Is Your Life ' and ' The Antiques Roadshow ' . It does seem a pity that a presenter of his calibre would most probably not be allowed anywhere near children's television now . ' Ask Aspel ' is fondly remembered by a generation of forty-somethings ( me included ) . Sadly many editions have been wiped , another shameful act of vandalism on the part of the B . B . C .
" Will The Real Whodunnit Please Stand Up ? "	' Callan ' star Edward Woodward was the original presenter of this light-hearted panel game for Thames Television . However , Jon Pertwee inherited it following his retirement from ' Dr . Who ' in 1974 ( " Welcome to Whodunnit ! " , he said , in the first show he did , " Or if you like ' Dr . Whodunnit ' ! " ) , and it is he who is best remembered as host . His relaxed , urbane manner made him particularly suited to the job . Each week , a dramatised murder would be shown ( the title then burst onto the screen , accompanied by a nerve jangling theme tune , which included the sound of a gunshot ) , and an invited panel of celebrities ( whose number included Wendy Craig , Terry Scott , Arthur Mullard , Lindsay Wagner , George Savalas , Jimmy Jewel , Norman Bowler and Jack Smethurst ) had to question the suspects , and from the answers deduce the identity of the killer . Tough guy actor Patrick Mower seemed particularly adept at this ; perhaps he should have become a real-life sleuth ! Lance Percival ( who co-wrote the mystery segments with Jeremy Lloyd ) cropped up occasionally as a bumbling ' Clouseau'-style French detective . Two of Pertwee's ' Dr . Who ' co-stars - namely Nicholas ' Brigadier Lethbridge-Stewart ' Courtney ( he had a particularly bizarre exit - poisoned by a dart placed in one of his dancing shoes ! ) and Katy ' Jo Grant ' Manning - made one-off appearances . ' Whodunnit ' went out in the old ' Opportunity Knocks ' slot of 6 . 45 on Monday evenings . Some of the murders were surprisingly well-plotted ; you had to be observant to spot the clues . One episode ended with the surprising revelation ( which none of the panel guessed ) that no actual murder had taken place . The victim had committed suicide , but made his death appear like murder . As Pertwee asked the killer to identify himself , a door opened in the wings , and out walked the ghost of the corpse ! A bizarre televisual moment to be sure , but then ' Whodunnit ' was full of them . Another murder took place on a space station . Putting his tongue in his cheek , Pertwee remarked : " In case you think , you've seen me here before , you haven't . I never visited this place on my travels ! " . Yes , it was played for laughs , but was tremendous fun . I . T . V . made a similar series in the ' 90's - ' Cluedo ' , hosted by Chris Tarrant - but it managed to be nowhere near as good . L . W . T . ' s ' End Of Part One ' did a funny parody in which the host ( Fred Harris as Jon Pertwee ) was murdered during the opening moments of the show , leading to other hosts ( also playing Pertwee ) taking over .
" A British spy in love with a Russian ? Detente indeed ! ! "	Welcome to the most successful film on release in Britain in 1977 . Over in the U . S . A . , ' Star Wars ' was breaking box-office records , but would not be seen here until the end of the year . The new Bond therefore had the summer blockbuster field all to its itself . Following the disappointing ' The Man With The Golden Gun ' in 1974 , something drastic was needed to save the franchise . Cubby Broccoli , now sole producer of the series following Harry Saltzman's departure , made ' Spy ' a throwback to the ' 60's Bond blockbusters such as ' You Only Live Twice ' and ' Thunderball ' . Various writers worked on scripts , amongst them Anthony Burgess and John Landis , until Christopher Wood ( of the ' Confessions ' series ) came up with a workable screenplay . This was the first Bond to boast an entirely original storyline , not based on anything written by Ian Fleming . The novel of the same name was rightly deemed unfilmable . Wood later adapted the script into a novel which , in my view , was better than any of the John Gardner / Raymond Benson works . ' Spy ' opens with a British submarine disappearing at sea . Bond is sent for and , in an exciting ski chase , is pursued by gun-toting Russians , among them one Sergei Borzov ( Michael Billington ) . Bond kills Sergei and makes a spectacular getaway by skiing off the edge of a precipice . This opening was cheered by audiences worldwide . Someone has developed a means of tracking submarines . The Russians have lost one too . Bond goes to Egypt to make contact with Fekkesh , who represents someone wishing to sell the blueprints . Bond is not alone in his quest . An impossibly tall and strong henchman with steel teeth , who goes by the name of ' Jaws ' , has orders to kill everyone who comes into contact with the microfilm . Bond meets his opposite number - a highly desirable agent called Major Anya Amasova ( Barbara Bach ) , codenamed ' Triple-X ' . They decide to join forces to recover the microfilm . . . With this film , the public finally warmed to Roger Moore as 007 , and the renewed interest in the character thanks to the films being shown on television , put Bond back on the celluloid map . Ken Adam returned to produce some of his finest sets , most notably the interior of the Liparus supertanker . A special sound stage , the biggest in the world , had to be constructed at Pinewood . Curt Jurgens was the best Bond villain in years as ' Stromberg ' . Many will tell you he was ' miscast ' , but don't believe them . Barbara Bach made a suitably liberated Russian agent , while Richard Kiel stole the show as the sinister ' Jaws ' . He returned in the next Bond - ' Moonraker ' . Marvin Hamlisch's music has some of John Barry's style , but adds a more modern sound , most notably with ' Bond 77 ' . Lewis Gilbert , whose last Bond was ' You Only Live Twice ' in 1967 , was brought back to direct , and once again did a highly professional job , orchestrating the various elements with great panache . Instead of a mini-helicopter , Bond was given a Lotus Esprit which could turn into a submarine . A boy became the envy of the country when he got to travel in the car as part of a ' Jim'll Fix It ' show that year . The Open University did a fascinating series covering the making of ' Spy ' , which to my knowledge has not been seen anywhere in years . It is a pity as it covered every stage of production including music and editing . Before it turned up on I . T . V in 1981 , I saw ' Spy ' a total of three times in a movie theatre , and thoroughly enjoyed it each time . Even Alan Partridge ( Steve Coogan ) described it as ' the best movie ever made ' . By saying that , he was , to quote Bond ; " keeping the British end up ! " .
A Long , Long Wait For A Movie Far , Far Away	This is not a review of the first ( and best ) ' Star Wars ' movie . I take it , fellow I . M . D . B . users , that you are already familiar with the plot , characters and production history , and how its success changed the face of cinema overnight . So rather than rehash all the known facts , I want instead to recount a personal memory . I first learnt of ' Star Wars ' thanks to Granada's ' The Krypton Factor ' , a long-running game show designed to test contestants ' intelligence , physical fitness , powers of observation and so on . I liked the latter round as it often gave one a chance to see a sneak preview of a new movie . One week , they ran a clip of Han Solo , Luke Skywalker , R2D2 and C2PO escaping The Death Star in The Millennium Falcon , and being shot at by pursuing T . I . E . fighters . I fell off my chair . What was this ? 1970's sci-fi movies were mostly depressing affairs , now here was something fast , colourful , and lively , with lasers zapping about outer space and explosions . Right up my street . I had to see it . But the film was not yet on release here . There was no Internet then so I got my movie information from the local paper . I kept checking for news of an impending screening at my local cinema , but no - there was nothing . I began to wonder if the movie actually existed or not . Had Granada pulled off the greatest hoax of all time ? I read the Sphere book voraciously until I knew the story backwards . I played the Meco disco single at every opportunity . When Marvel's comic adaptation went on sale , I was almost thrown out of the newsagent for jumping up and down for sheer joy . At my school , ' Star Wars ' was a dirty word to sci-fi fans , mainly because it was not ' Close Encounters ' . The Spielberg picture was regarded as ' adult ' and ' intelligent ' , while the Lucas movie was deemed ' kiddie stuff ' starring weirdos in fancy dress running around with a bloke dressed as a big teddy bear . The wait dragged on and on . In an episode of ' Coronation Street ' , Gail ( Helen Worth ) asked her then-boyfriend , Steve Fisher : " When's ' Star Wars ' coming round here ? " to which he replied : " It'll be some time I expect . " . His words encapsulated the sheer frustration and impatience felt by all us U . K . fans . The highest grossing film of all time and we can't see it ? What is the hold up ? Are they reshooting bits for the benefit of British audiences ? Peter Cushing and Alec Guinness are in it so this cannot be right . In desperation , I told a blatant lie to my best friend . " I have seen ' Star Wars ' " , I proclaimed . He looked about as shocked as if I'd said I'd spent the night with Carrie Fisher . I claimed that my uncle Eric worked for Twentieth Century-Fox ( another lie . He drove taxi cabs for a living ) as an assistant editor and George Lucas had been so impressed with his work on the film , he had generously given him a print . To back up my claim , I reeled off a long list of plot details and scene descriptions . I got a few things wrong , such as Jabba The Hut and Biggs Darklighter , both of whom were excised from the final cut . But by the time my friend saw the film he had forgotten these . He did beg me to ask my uncle to run the film specially for him on Sunday afternoon , but I deflected this by stating that Uncle Eric's projector had broken down . He never asked again . Being about fifteen , I was too old for the toys , hence on Christmas Day 1977 I was denied the pleasure of restaging the assault on The Death Star in my garden shed , with the aid of elastic bands , old Subbuteo figures and the John Williams soundtrack thumping out of my Hitachi tape recorder . After what felt like an eternity , the movie finally opened here and suddenly it became fashionable to denounce it as ' overrated ' . ' It was childish when they were playing trumpets in the Cantina ' was my best friend's verdict . That was all he had to say on the subject ( he would have made a great film critic ! ) . Many people felt that the film had not been worth the six month wait . I was one of the few to speak in its defence . I was glad that sci-fi movies were fun again , following years of pictures in which bleak futures were predicted for Mankind , such as the ' Planet Of The Apes ' series . Nobody left the theatre with a spring in their step after seeing Milo The Baby Chimp's parents brutally murdered by the U . S . Government . ' Star Wars ' spawned two sequels , neither as good , and inspired the likes of ' Alien ' , ' The Black Hole ' , ' Star Trek : The Motion Picture ' and countless others . Without Lucas , these would simply not have been made . I am not a big fan of the prequels that began with ' The Phantom Menace ' , but then I'm not young anymore , so can't enjoy that kind of movie in the same way . ' Star Wars ' brought ' A New Hope ' to those of us wanting old fashioned escapism on the Silver Screen again . I envy kids today for not having to wait until winter for the latest summer blockbuster .
The Ultimate Loser	Some claim ' Some Mothers Do Ave Em ' makes fun of a retarded man . It doesn't . Frank is the world's biggest loser ; not very bright , habitually clumsy , unable to communicate with people and keep down a steady job . But he isn't retarded . The one good thing about his life is that he is married to the lovely , loyal Betty . Not many episodes were made , but each is packed with amusing incident , funny dialogue and some of the most amazing stunts ( performed by Crawford himself ) British television has broadcast . The fact that repeats are still with us thirty years later is testament to its quality . My favourite episode had Frank training to be a P . R . man , and stirring the students into revolt . Michael Crawford was hilarious as Frank , Michele Dotrice marvellous as Betty , and the guest-stars included James Cossins , George Baker and Fulton Mackay . Raymond Allen may never have sold another series to the B . B . C . , but I'm sure he's not too bothered . ' Some Mothers ' will always be shown somewhere .
A Game Of Cold War Cards	Russian scientist Professor Vasil is snatched from under the noses of the K . G . B . by Steed , Gambit , and Purdey ( with assistance from Department operative Roland ) . The agent in charge of the operation - Ivan Perov ( Peter Jeffrey ) - is so worried at the loss of face that he commits suicide . Or appears to . In fact he is alive and well and hopes to regain face by means of a programme he began in the 1950's called ' House Of Cards ' . Russian agents were carefully infiltrated into British society , and now Vasil plans on activating them ; firstly , to kill the New Avengers and then , to snatch back Professor Vasil . . . For many years , this was a ' lost ' New Avengers episode . Lost in the sense that one of its cast refused to allow it to be repeated , but thankfully this is no longer the case . Peter Jeffrey had played villains in two earlier ' Avengers ' episodes - as ' Max Prendergast ' in 1967's ' The Joker ' , and then as ' Monty Bristow ' in 1968's ' Game ' ( my favourite Linda Thorson episode ) . Like Peter Bowles and Peter Wyngarde he could always be relied on to give a good performance . The idea of ' sleepers ' being awakened and ordered to wreak havoc was also the premise of Walter Wager's novel ' Telefon ' , which was filmed the following year by Don Siegel , starring Charles Bronson and Donald Pleasence . The use of playing cards as ' triggers ' may have been inspired by Richard Condon's book ' The Manchurian Candidate ' . As was the case with ' The Eagle's Nest ' , Brian Clemens avoided criticism of stereotyping an entire race by bringing in a good Russian , in this case Olga ( Ina Shriver ) . Interestingly , in Peter Cave's novelisation , it is revealed that Perov's sleepers were trained behind the Iron Curtain in a village made to resemble a British community - a neat reference to the ' Danger Man ' episode ' Colony Three ' . Comedy actors Frank Thornton and Derek Francis appear , the latter cast as Purdey's stepfather , a bishop , who when the going gets rough is able to apprehend bad guys by kicking them , just as his stepdaughter does . Steed gets one of his best moments in this episode ; when his girlfriend Jo ( Geraldine Moffatt ) is caught trying to poison him , she pleads for mercy , but he tells her that he long ago married a job , and has remained faithful ever since . In a nice touch , framed photographs of Cathy Gale , Emma Peel , and Tara King are seen prominently displayed in Steed's living room .
There Goes The Bride !	With ' The Christmas Invasion ' in 2005 , ' Dr . Who ' effectively displaced ' Only Fools & Horses ' as the ' must-see ' B . B . C . Christmas Day programme . The king is dead , long live the king . With Billie Piper gone , ' The Runaway Bride ' needed to be good - fortunately , it was . Very good indeed . Beginning with secretary Donna Noble being spirited away from her wedding and dumped aboard the Tardis ( thereby removing the need for a lengthy reprise of Rose's tearful departure from ' Doomsday ' ) , the show was a tour de force of witty one-liners , great S . F . X . and nifty performances . Had it been twenty-five minutes longer it could have passed for a decent feature film . The Tardis chasing the taxi was worth tuning in for alone . I laughed out loud when the children in the car mouthed ' Jump ! ' . Before last Christmas , we wondered how David Tennant would shape up as the Doctor . Well , now we know - he is excellent . He handled with aplomb the humorous aspects of ' Bride ' , particularly his exchanges with Donna and later , the Empress of The Rachnoss . But his heartbreak at losing Rose had not dissipated - he saw her at the wedding reception . I hope his departure from the role is a long way off . I have to admit to not being a fan of Catherine Tate's T . V . show , but here she made a good contrast with Rose , being older , louder , brasher and - dare I say it - common as muck , but becoming gradually more sympathetic as the story progressed . When Lance stuck the knife in , you were on her side . As for Sarah Parish as the Empress , what a performance ! That make-up job must have been hell ! Nice that we didn't see her actual death . A return appearance would be welcome . The plot may have been thin , but ' Bride ' pushed all the right buttons ; it had action , comedy , tragedy and , above all , spectacle . The finale in the Empress ' underground lair was literally stupendous . If you watched ' Emmerdale ' instead - more fool you ! Three cheers to B . B . C . Wales for producing yet another seasonal treat !
Not One For The Feminists	Film buffs tend to turn up their noses at the mention of the name Michael Winner , but the fact is he made some pretty decent films back in the ' 60's ( ' The Cool Mikado ' excepted ! ) , of which ' The System ' was one . Shot in glorious black and white , it is set in a small British seaside resort , where a gang of young men prey on young female tourists . Object ? Sexual conquest . Tinker ( Oliver Reed ) , the self-styled leader of this pack of wolves , is a happy-go-lucky photographer who snaps the girls when they arrive , secures their hotel names and room numbers , and then shares the pictures out among his pals , naturally keeping the best looking one for himself . He calls this method ' The System ' . Tinker takes a shine to rich man's daughter Nicola ( Jane Merrow ) , and begins courting her . She knows what he is up to , and does not attempt to discourage him . Their relationship develops and Tinker finds himself genuinely falling in love , but Nicola is not keen on settling down . Similarities between this film and ' Alfie ' , released a mere two years later , are uncanny . Both feature a good-looking young man whose interest in females goes only as far as the bedroom . Both feature said hero getting his comeuppance at the end - and at the hands of a woman . The ending implies that , despite being rebuffed , Tinker will be back at the railway station the next summer , still practising The System . Both feature the lovely Julia Foster too . As ' Tinker ' , Reed gives a magnetic performance . You can see why the girls fall for him like dominoes . Watching this film with my wife , she commented on his eyes , and she's right . They are like blow lamps . Jane Merrow , an actress known mainly to me through her television work such as ' Danger Man ' and ' The Prisoner ' is gorgeous as the elegant ' Nicola ' . Tinker's gang includes David Hemmings ( two years away from starring in the iconic ' Blow-Up ' ) and John Alderton , future star of the T . V . sitcom ' Please Sir ! ' . His character , Nidge , earns Tinker's wrath by openly admitting he has gotten one of his conquests pregnant . Tinker gives him the address of a back-street abortionist ( it was illegal when this was made ) , but his friend does the decent thing and marries the girl . I was only two when this came out , so cannot say for certain whether its depiction of the young people of that era is in any way accurate . It feels authentic though . The fight between Tinker and Derek Newark's character is brutal indeed , as is a later scrap involving the rest of the gang . The use of broken bottles in said fight probably contributed to the film's earning of an ' X ' certificate ( today it would be 18 ) . The whole British holiday atmosphere is wonderfully captured . As Denis Norden once said : " it will take you back - even if you were never there originally ! " . Peter Draper wrote the thoughtful script , he later collaborated with Reed and Winner on the equally memorable ' I'll Never Forget What'sis name ' . He really should have penned more movies . I'm so glad that this picture has resurfaced on D . V . D . One to put on the shelf next to classics such as ' Alfie ' and ' Georgy Girl ' .
The Final Round	When I saw a repeat of ' The Avengers ' episode ' The Cybernauts ' late one Friday night in 1969 , I assumed automatically that the writer - Philip Levene - had ripped off Dr . Who's arch-enemy ' The Cybermen ' . I found out later on that the Cybernauts had come first . What are Cybernauts ? Robot men , silver in colour , able to home in and kill designated targets by means of snapping necks with one sweep of an arm . The eerie ' whooshing ' sound they made made them ideal for imitating in the playground . Though they moved with a lumbering gait , you definitely would not want a Cybernaut on your tail . They remain the best remembered of all ' Avengers ' baddies , and it is perplexing why Don Macpherson did not use them in his script for ' The Avengers ' movie . An army of Cybernauts on the rampage would surely have looked great on the big screen . After two encounters with John Steed and Mrs . Emma Peel , the Cybernauts went quiet for a few years , before resurfacing in the third episode of ' The New Avengers ' in 1976 . ' House Of Cards ' featured some nice nods to the past , but here we got an outright homage . Levene having died , the job of resurrecting the metal meanies went to Brian Clemens . At the start of the episode , Steed is celebrating his birthday in the company of Gambit and Purdey . A dying agent bursts in , and tells them that Department operative Felix Kane ( Robert Lang ) is really a double agent . The New Avengers lay in wait to catch him red-handed passing secrets to a Russian agent in a car park , but Kane makes a break for it , his car colliding with a petrol tanker . One year later , and a disfigured , wheelchair-bound Kane is plotting revenge . His henchman Malov ( Oscar Quitak ) picks up a newly-released convict called Frank Goff ( Robert Gillespie ) . Goff built the Cybernauts , working from the instructions of the deranged Professor Armstrong . Goff leads Kane to a secret storehouse of Cybernauts . The robots are made to live again . . . One note of bad continuity aside ( Goff was never in either of the earlier Cybernauts episodes ) , this is a cracking yarn , and as good as anything to be found in the original series . As another commentator has noted , the late Robert Lang makes a wonderful villain , neatly combining aspects of the earlier Cybernaut controllers , like Professor Armstrong , Kane is wheelchair-bound , and like Paul Beresford , thirsts for revenge . The director was Sidney Hayers , who helmed ' The Cybernauts ' way back in 1965 . Spot The Future Star - Gwen Taylor , later to star in ' Duty Free ' , is ' Dr . Marlow ' , a sexy scientist whom Steed tells to get in a cupboard . He is trying to save her from a Cybernaut , but she thinks he is being suggestive . Gambit and Purdey seem to be hitting it off beautifully in the scene where they discuss Steed's previous skirmish with the Cybernauts . Their quick-fire repartee is strongly reminiscent of Steed and Peel's . Amusingly , when this was repeated in 1990 by H . T . V . , the continuity announcer Eiry Palfrey must have misread the ' T . V . Times ' synopsis because she said : " In tonight's New Avengers , the Cybernauts are back and the ghost of Emma Peel appears ! " . Eh ?
" Monkey Business ! "	Though ' The Avengers ' ended in 1969 , repeats kept on coming on I . T . V . ( in my part of the world at least ) until 1972 . Some lucky regions got them as late as 1975 , mostly of the colour Rigg and Thorson episodes , good news for anyone who had recently upgraded their television sets . In 1976 , ' The New Avengers ' appeared . Patrick Macnee returned as ' Steed ' , with Joanna Lumley as ' Purdey ' and Gareth Hunt as ' Mike Gambit ' . Many felt the concept of a trio damaged the show , leaving little room for the kind of romantic chemistry Macnee had earlier enjoyed with his co-stars . I personally feel that it was a necessary move , especially seeing how Macnee was in his fifties when the show was made . ' The Eagle's Nest ' opened the series . A British agent named George Stannard is being chased across open country by fishermen whose rods have poisoned hooks . He seeks sanctuary in a monastery , but the monks stand by and watch him being led away . Whilst being interrogated , he makes a break for it , and speeds away from the island in a boat . A hook catches him across his right cheek , and he dies . Steed arrives at Stannard's London flat , only to be attacked . He gives chase , but ever the gallant gentlemen stops to help an old lady find her dog . He calls Gambit , requesting he consult Purdey . As she and Stannard had been lovers , it is thought she might have knowledge of his present whereabouts . The trail eventually leads to the remote Scottish island of St . Dorca . Steed turns up posing as a tourist , while Purdey sneaks in unannounced . Back in London , Gambit chases the kidnapper of the noted German cryobiologist Von Claus . He catches up with him , but the man takes his own life . Oddly , he is wearing a hairpiece , the crown of his head is shaved , like a monk's . . . I will leave the synopsis here . Suffice it to say , the episode has little of the flavour of the original series , coming across more like a ' Freewheelers ' adventure . From the pre-credits scene you immediately know its not the ' 60's anymore . Laurie Johnson's music is very much of its time , Steed does not have his Bentley , and the elegance and charm that endeared ' The Avengers ' to millions is all but gone . As ' Steed ' , Macnee is as impeccable as ever , Joanna Lumley's ' Purdey ' was the best ' Avengers ' girl since ' Mrs . Peel ' , and ' Gambit ' , while his character was never developed as well as it should , gave a fresh look to the show . As ' Von Claus ' , Peter Cushing made his second ' Avengers ' appearance . He had earlier played ' Paul Beresford ' in ' Return Of The Cybernauts ' . Anticipating being criticised for stereotyping the German people as heel-clicking Nazis , Clemens deliberately made a good German the pivot of the story . The premise of Hitler in suspended animation was hokey even then , but it is executed with some panache here . Not showing us Hitler's actual face was a wise move . The main villainy is provided by Derek Farr as ' Father Trasker ' . I . T . V . ' s trailer relied heavily on clips from this episode , such as Purdey's fight , Gambit's car chase , and Steed saying ' Rule Britannia ! ' when discovered by the Nazi monks . It had the unintended side-effect of making this look like a repeat even on the first run . Critics were divided . Brian Lawrence of ' The News Of The World ' called it ' great entertainment ' while Peter Phillips of ' The Sun ' thought it ' did not deserve a slot even on children's television ' . Phillips ' harsh view was echoed by many ' Sun ' readers . They felt that the show was a lot of ' childish comedy , with stereotypical situations ' . What had happened was that other more realistic thriller shows such as ' The Sweeney ' and ' Starsky & Hutch ' had come along , and Steed and co . looked ridiculous by comparison . Nevertheless , ' The Eagle's Nest ' reached number eight in the Top Ten most watched programmes of the week ( not bad for a non-networked show ) , and eventually the public grew to like ' The New Avengers ' . Steed was back , and with a vengeance !
" Onto last week's competition . . . "	You will notice that I did not title this review ' And why not ? ' . And why not , I hear you ask ? Well , because it is a quote attributed to Barry Norman by the ex-comedian turned political commentator Rory Bremner , never at any time uttered ( well , maybe once or twice ) by the real Bazza . Funny why he should use it as the title of his autobiography though . Oh well . . . ' Film 72 ' began , you will be surprised to learn , in 1972 , and was presented originally by novelist Jacky Gillatt . I never saw her ( for reasons I will come to later ) , but a clip on an anniversary show in the early 1990's told me she was very beautiful , if somewhat uncomfortable on television ( she sadly later took her own life ) . Barry , son of director Leslie and a former film critic for ' The Daily Maul ' ( sorry , Mail ) , made the show his own . Down here in the Welsh valleys , it was an unknown quantity until 1978 . Those nice B . B . C . programme planners must thought of us Taffies as having no interest in films , save for those set in doomed mining communities and starring coal-dust covered men with operatic voices and names like ' Ianto ' and ' Dai ' . Common sense finally prevailed and it crept onto Sunday nights , competing against re-runs of ' Police Surgeon ' ( a U . S . import starring Sam Groom ) over on the other channel . That theme tune - ' I Wish I Knew How It Felt To Be Free ' - got me hooked . Barry earned my undying admiration by reviewing a Clint Eastwood picture - ' Every Which Way But Loose ' - and favourably comparing the acting skills of Clint's simian co-star - Clyde the orangutan - with those of then teen-sensation John Travolta ( in those days we had only seen J . T . in ' Saturday Night Fever ' and ' Grease ' and were ignorant of his true abilities ) . From then on , I watched Barry in order to see him bash the latest ' blockbusters ' . His reviews were like great works of art ; the words just came flowing out of his mouth , all well-chosen and aimed with the accuracy of an Exocet missile . He could take the most mundane picture and rip it to shreds in a few seconds . For instance , he said that ' Table For Five ' ( 1983 ) screenwriter David Seltzer " lacked the fizz of his better-known brother Alka " . John Lydon ( better known as ' Johnny Rotten ' of The Sex Pistols ) made a film called ' Copkiller ' and Barry said he " sounded like a speak-your-weight machine that had been programmed by E . L . Wisty " ( a comic character created by Peter Cook who spoke only in monotone ) . Sylvester Stallone came in for a Bazza bruising when the ' Rambo ' films went on release . The film director Cecil B . De Mille had , according to Barry , " parted The Red Sea twice ( he had made two versions of ' The Ten Commandments ) . Not even God managed that ! " . I did not agree with all his opinions - he was much too kind to Peter Greenaway for instance , and overpraised the work of Robert Altman and Woody Allen , yet came down hard on horror films . He raved about Brian De Palma's ' Dressed To Kill ' when it opened , yet later recanted , describing it as ' luridly distasteful ' . Ah well , we have all changed our minds at one time or other . In addition to the reviews , there was a regular competition , such as ' Spot The Film This Snatch Of Dialogue Came From ' , the lucky winner receiving the latest copy of Halliwell's Film Guide . And interviews galore . One problem I had with the show had nothing to do with Barry . Some of the flicks he raved about were nowhere to be found outside of London , and by the time they made it here I had forgotten what they were about , and what he thought of them , and went to see ' Zombie Flesh Eaters ' instead . Barry quit in 1982 to front the arts show ' Omnibus ' and in his place we got various celebrities such as future ' Vanity Fair ' editor Tina Brown , actress Maria Aitken , Michael Parkinson , the late Glyn Worsnip , and Iain Johnstone . But none could hold a clapperboard to Barry and it came as a relief to see him back a year or so later . In 1998 , he left the B . B . C . to move to Sky T . V . It turned out to be the worst change of channels made by anyone since Simon Dee defected to L . W . T . in 1969 . The new show was a pale shadow of his old one , and was annoyingly interrupted by commercials . Sky eventually dropped it . The B . B . C . replaced Barry with Jonathan Ross and he has been there ever since . Barry continues to write for ' The Radio Times ' , but it is a shame that he is no longer to be seen on the box , sitting in that comfortable-looking chair , talking about a subject he both knows and cares about .
The Man With The Krypton Factor !	No sooner had the world recovered from ' Star Wars ' mania in 1977 than ' Superman ' mania was upon us . But whereas George Lucas ' homage to ' Flash Gordon ' came out of nowhere to become the top-grossing film of all time ( until E . T . came along ) , with The Man Of Steel the publicity bandwagon started rolling a long time before the film received its premiere . I remember telling my friends all about it , based on snippets I had read in newspapers and magazines such as ' Starburst ' . Most scoffed . ' Superman ' was considered baby stuff , fodder for poorly animated Saturday morning shows . The idea to do the film came from Pierre Spengler , who suggested the D . C . comics character to producers Alexander and Ilya Salkind as a follow-up to their hit ' Three Musketeers ' movies . You have to remember that this was the pre-C . G . I . era , hence a project like ' Superman ' was always going to be something of a risk . It would only take one person to laugh at the sight of a flying man in blue and red for the whole world to join in . But who to play the lead ? Big-name stars such as James Caan and Robert Redford were ( wisely ) ruled out . Rather like Sean Connery and ' James Bond ' , the producers cast an unknown actor - the late Christopher Reeve - as ' Superman ' . Reeve was no muscle man , but could act . A body building course was all that was required to turn him into the perfect hero . A major casting coup was the signing of Marlon Brando as ' Jor-El ' , Superman's father . With him aboard , it was relatively easy for the Salkinds to secure other stars such as Gene Hackman , Susannah York , Glenn Ford , Ned Beatty , Trevor Howard , and others . The film opened at the end of 1978 . Unlike ' Star Wars ' , I did not have to wait six months for it to turn up at my local theatre , finding myself in the unique position of seeing a major blockbuster before Barry Norman had a chance to review it for the B . B . C . It opens with a shot of the very first ' Superman ' comic . A tiny hand opens the cover , and we hear a boy's voice reading the first page . Suddenly , it all comes wonderfully to life . John Williams ' marvellous theme explodes onto the soundtrack as the titles hurtle towards the audience like comets . On the ice planet Krypton , three villains ( Terence Stamp , Sarah Douglas , and Jack O'Halloran ) are on trial for attempting to overthrow the ruling elite . Sentenced to exile in The Phantom Zone , we see them spinning off into space , their screams echoing as they get further away . As it turned out , they have had a lucky escape as Krypton is about to blow up anyway . Jor-El and his wife Lara place their only son , Kal-El , aboard a space-ship that resembles a large thistle and send it to Earth . Then up goes the planet . Stanley Kubrick could not have bettered these scenes . The ship lands in Smallville , America in the year 1938 . Jonathan and Martha Kent , a childless couple , find the baby Kal-El and decide to raise him as their own . Years later , Clark Kent ( as Kal-El is now known ) arrives in Metropolis to take up a post as reporter on The Daily Planet . I will leave the synopsis at this point but its worth pointing out that although ' Superman ' does not show up properly for about the first forty or so minutes the film has been so good it has not been a major problem . Reeve is terrific both as ' Superman ' and his clumsy alter-ego ' Clark ' , as is Margot Kidder as fellow reporter ' Lois Lane ' . Hackman's ' Lex Luthor ' , however , is a bit of a problem . He's very amusing but I found him a little too reminiscent of the campy villains from the old ' Batman ' television show . Valerie Perrine made quite an impact on me at the time as his sexy mistress ' Eve ' . Luthor has come up with a mad scheme to destroy California by detonating nuclear missiles along the San Andreas fault in order to make the worthless desert he has purchased valuable . The action is , as you would expect , spectacular , particularly the earthquake sequence . But its Reeve and Kidder who make the film work . The ' can you read my mind ' scene would have been nauseating without these two . This was Richard Donner's first film since ' The Omen ' and with it , he delivered another super-smash hit ( many liked it better than ' Star Wars ' ) , paving the way for three sequels , a spin-off ( ' Supergirl ' ) , and most recently ' Superman Returns ' , which , in my view , was a disappointment . Until ' Spider-Man ' in 2002 , this was the best superhero movie of them all .
Thirteen Million People Liked It , So Stop Moaning !	Another Christmas Day , another Christmas Day ' Dr . Who ' . This one was different in that it had the Kylie factor . To be honest , I'm not the world's biggest fan of ' La La La ' Minogue . I suppose it stems back to ' Neighbours ' , a show to which I have a long-term aversion . I can't get squeaky clean ' Charlene ' out of my memory banks . Fortunately , she has come a long way since then . The role of ' Astrid Peth ' could have been played by anyone , but to her credit she infused it with a fair amount of vitality and warmth . Her demise was never in any doubt ( the production team could never afford her as a regular ) , but she got a suitably spectacular exit . As for the plot being ripped off from ' The Poseidon Adventure ' , well , doesn't that just take the cake ? Fancy taking someone else's idea and turning into a ' Dr . Who ' script . Russell T . Davies ' head should roll for this . Of course this sort of thing never used to happen back in the days of Robert Holmes and Philip Hinchcliffe , when ' The Talons Of Weng-Chiang ' , ' Planet Of Evil ' and ' The Brain Of Morbius ' were made . Any resemblance to these and ' Sherlock Holmes ' , ' Forbidden Planet ' and ' Frankenstein ' must have been coincidental then . A survivor of the ' Titanic ' was quoted in the press as saying that the tragedy should not be used as the basis for entertainment . Fair comment . The thing is Dr . Who's ' Titanic ' was a spaceship . Unless there was a spaceship disaster recently that involved robotic angels , cyborg dwarfs , and teleport bracelets , I think we should let the complaint pass . I think what has miffed some fans is that ' Damned ' did not take place on the real Titanic , because then they could have savaged R . T . D . for messing up continuity by not having the tenth doctor meet his predecessor ( who was also aboard , if ' Rose ' is to be believed ) . Being a Christmas Special , ' Damned ' had to be spectacular - and was . We've come a long way since the wobbly sets and quarries . The sets and S . F . X . would have done credit to a movie . Everything was BIG . The cast were exceptional too - Clive Swift , Geoffrey Palmer , Bernard Cribbins , George Costigan , and that old thesp Nicholas Witchell . There were some good gags , such as Mr . Copper getting Christmas wrong and London being deserted because the public remembered the events of the previous Christmas Specials . Jessica Martin was The Voice Of The Queen . You have to hand it to her Majesty . The moment she saw the Titanic hurtling towards her , she knew the Doctor had to be involved somewhere . ' Damned ' pushed all the right buttons ; it was funny , thrilling , tragic , suspenseful . Anyone expecting another ' Blink ' was a fool . Yes , the plot was thinner than one of my Aunt Doris ' After Eight mints , but sweet all the same . Yes , a lot of people died , but then they do in real disaster movies . David Tennant confirmed his status as the best Doctor of them all . His ' I am a Time Lord ' speech was electrifying . While the ' fans ' pick over the Special like a housewife cutting up the remains of the turkey on Boxing Day , I shall raise a glass of sherry to everyone involved in its making , and bask in the glory of the viewing figures . ' Dr . Who ' is no longer a ' fans ' only show . When I buy D . V . D's , I no longer feel embarrassed , because I know now I am no longer alone in my love for the show . While ' fans ' cry into their Tom Baker hats and pretend that the new-look ' Who ' is a bad dream , I feel sorry for them because they are missing the best British television in years . Like him or hate him , R . T . D . is part of that success story . Could Steven Moffat have done better than thirteen million viewers ? In some strange parallel universe , R . T . D . never existed , ' Dr . Who ' did not come back in 2005 , and the ' fans ' spent this last Christmas Day writing yet more letters begging for its return .
Who ( Or What ) Is R . E . M . A . K . ?	Linda Thorson hardly features in this episode . ' Tara ' goes off on holiday early on , and does not reappear until the end , when the mission is over . In her place we get the lovely Jennifer Croxton ( later to co-star with future ' Avengers ' babe Joanna Lumley in the sitcom ' Its Awfully Bad For Your Eyes Darling ' ) as ' Lady Diana Forbes-Blakeney ' . In his book on ' The Avengers ' , Dave Rogers wonders whether Lady Di might have been a try-out for a new leading lady just in case the show was recommissioned without Linda . As it turned out , it was not . She has her fans , but I am not one of them . She has little rapport with Macnee , appearing to have wandered out out of one of the Monty Berman / Dennis Spooner I . T . C . shows . ' Killer ' was by Tony Williamson , author of the classic ' Danger Man ' caper - ' Not So Jolly Roger ' and various episodes of ' Adam Adamant Lives ' and ' The Champions ' . British agents are turning up dead , wrapped in polythene , and - this is the really perplexing part - having been first shot , stabbed , garroted , drowned etc . Yet their clothes are intact ! What's going on ? There is not really much of a plot here . One agent dies , another investigates , he in turn dies , another goes after him and dies , and so on , a bit like a game of ' Follow My Leader ' . Among the victims is Anthony Valentine , on the cusp of stardom in ' Callan ' and ' Colditz ' . Harry Towb has a good role as a traitorous British agent who keeps turning up on a deserted film set with arrows / knives sticking out his chest ! Comedy actor Richard Wattis is around too . The centre of the mysterious goings-on is a factory . At its heart is R . E . M . A . K . - a computer programmed to kill . Anyone unlucky to find himself inside the place will be forced to pass through a series of brightly coloured rooms ( a fact that would have been lost on British viewers watching in black and white ) , each equipped with a death device . R . E . M . A . K . ' s human associates are played by William Franklyn and Grant Taylor , who talk about the machine as though it were a real person . This was Cliff Owen's only episode . He directed two of the three Morecambe & Wise movies ( including the best one - ' That Riviera Touch ' ) and the cheeky ( in more ways than one ) Dick Emery comedy ' Ooh You Are Awful ' . He does a good job on ' Killer ' , keeping it slick , fast-moving and entertaining , and one wishes he had done more . The climax in the factory - as Steed alone tackles the computer - is wonderful . Had Tara not gone off with her bucket and spade , this would have been a classic episode . The ' all-powerful computer ' idea would be reused in the ' New Avengers ' adventure ' Complex ' .
Send In The Clowns !	A fabulous episode from the pen of Dennis Spooner , creator of ' The Champions ' and ' Randall & Hopkirk ( Deceased ) ' . Company directors are being ruthlessly eliminated by a pair of clowns , ' Merry Maxie Martin ' ( Jimmy Jewel ) and ' Jennings ' ( Julian Chagrin ) . Each time they murder someone they exit the scene with a merry little dance . Then Maxie leaves a red nose behind , giving Steed and Tara a major clue . Tara goes to see Marcus Rugman ( John Cleese ) , who keeps a record of copyrighted clown make-up , stored in a room of specially-painted eggs . He identifies the nose as belonging to Martin , but then the clowns show up and kill him . Martin , a one-time music-hall entertainer , is a resident at ' Vauda Villa ' - a retirement home for showbiz entertainers . A Punch & Judy man is guiding the actions of the residents , forcing them to commit murder in revenge for all the theatres the corporation has closed . But the mastermind has another , more sinister reason behind his actions - the same corporation is behind ' Project Cupid ' - the name of the secret underground base which the British Government will occupy in the event of nuclear war . . . As previously mentioned , this story features John Cleese , some months ahead of ' Monty Python's Flying Circus ' . He does not get a big role , certainly nothing comparable with ' Frost Report ' co-star Ronnie Barker's contribution to ' The Hidden Tiger ' , but he represents the future of comedy in a story that virtually celebrates its past . The casting of Jimmy Jewel - one half of the double-act Jewel and Warriss - was indeed inspired , and Julian Chagrin's sad-face makes ' Jennings ' seem incredibly sinister . Bernard Cribbins has a nice cameo as a gag writer , forever scribbling down jokes , reading them back to himself , and then throwing them away . When Tracey Emin went on the B . B . C . ' s ' Room 101 ' , she chose clowns as one of the things she most wanted to rid the world of , and a clip of this episode was used to illustrate their potential creepiness . Wonderful Welsh actor Talfryn Thomas ( ' Pte . Cheeseman ' in ' Dad's Army ' ) is ' Fiery Frederick ' . His leering and grimacing as he plans to burn Tara in half is disturbing to behold . The climax is a fight between Steed , Tara , Martin and Jennings , with the clowns changing costumes at lightning speed to confuse their opponents . You have got to see it to believe it !
Long Overdue Reappraisal Of A Much Maligned Comic Legend	The name Benny Hill has for too long been a byword for the so-called ' old school of British comedy ' . the very thing alternative comedy set out to ( and did ) destroy . About the only time we see his work now is in tacky retro programmes of the ' 100 Most Embarrassing Things About The ' 70's ' variety . A clip of Benny being chased through a park by scantily-clad lovelies followed by some smug media whore slapping his forehead , before exclaiming : " What was that all about ? " . So it was with some misgivings that I sat down to watch this over the festive period . It began by telling us nothing new ; that Hill was one of the most popular comedians in Britain for forty years , before falling foul of the alternative comedy brigade , in particular Ben Elton . I like and admire Elton , mainly for his work on ' The Young Ones ' and ' Blackadder ' , but his attacks on Hill were ludricrously over the top . ' Funny ' retold the story of Hill's life and career and included little-seen ( by me anyway ) clips from his B . B . C . series , widely regarded as the apex of his career . His take off of Mick Jagger was hysterical ! There was more to Benny than leering milkmen and busty blondes , as several contributors pointed out . Like Ronnie Barker , he could create memorable comedy simply by playing around with words . Many of his funniest sketches did not rely on visual humour . It came as a shock to see Ben Elton finally giving way and describing Hill as a ' great comedian ' , something many of us have known for years . Perhaps Elton's change of heart is attributable to his now knowing what its like to go out of style himself , as the hostile reaction to his disastrous B . B . C . sitcom ' Blessed ' well and truly proved . Finally , a randomly chosen audience of young people were invited to watch several Benny Hill sketches . The looks of pleasure on their faces was the most wondrous sight on British television in years . They voted Hill a hit . Whether ' Is Benny Hill Still Funny ? ' leads to a resurgence of interest in his humour remains to be seen . But the signs are that young people have had a belly full of being ordered not to laugh at certain things , and want the chance to make up their own minds . Somewhere in that great television studio in the sky , one Alfred Hawthorne Hill must be looking down - and smiling .
" Never say die ! "	London is in the grip of a thick fog . Delegates arrive to attend the World Disarmanent Conference . Steed is there to greet them . One gets lost , and is murdered by a mysterious figure in a cloak and top hat . Steed and Tara trace a clue to the ' Gaslight Ghoul Club ' , a secret society dedicated to unearthing the mystery of London's most notorious serial killer , a ' Jack The Ripper ' type figure who mysteriously disappeared around 1888 . It would seem the Gaslight Ghoul has arisen from the grave , and his blade is as sharp as ever . . . Jeremy Burnham's story - one of my favourites - appears to be set in Victorian London - foggy , cobblestoned streets , gas lamps on every corner , organ grinders , flower sellers - yet the dialogue establishes the era as the late 1960's . Mother drives around in a Mini Moke fitted with powerful lamps ! Atmospheric direction by John Hough , later to direct the Hammer Horror film ' Twins Of Evil ' . That splendid actor Nigel Green , who plays ' Sir Geoffrey Armstrong ' , was ' Sir Lexius Cray ' in ' The Winged Avenger ' . David Lodge's contribution to this episode was excised . When Channel 4 repeated this in the mid-90's , they cut out a sequence involving knives .
A Long Overdue Salute To The Comedy Greats	When I was young , two of my favourite programmes were ' Mad Movies ' hosted by Bob Monkhouse , and ' The Golden Silents ' with Michael Bentine , which instilled in me a lifelong love of the classic silent comedians such as Chaplin , Laurel & Hardy , Keaton , and Lloyd . I got that same wonderful feeling again watching Paul Merton in this excellent B . B . C . - 4 series . His enthusiasm for the subject is unmistakable , and he managed to convey it to the audience . Seeing children laughing out loud at silent comedy was the most wonderful sight on television in years . The feature on the painstaking restoration work on the films in the ' Keaton ' edition was fascinating too . The cherry on the cake was the screening in each edition of a complete movie , my favourite being ' Safety Last ' starring Harold Lloyd . Now we know at last how he did that scene on the clock ! Forget today's ' cutting edge ' rubbish , it'll soon be forgotten . Silent comedy , on the other hand , will live forever . Let's have another series soon , Paul !
' Steed is shot full of holes . . . Emma sees stars ! '	Cosgrove , an amateur astronomer , is observing the planet Venus . His glass of beer suddenly bubbles for no apparent reason . A strange whirring sound , a flash of light , and he is stone cold dead , his hair bleached pure white . Obviously a case for John Steed and Mrs . Emma Peel . As other astronomers - all members of the British Venusian Society - go the same way , it begins to look as though the killer is actually from Venus . Emma chases a ball of light along a country road in her Lotus Elan . When Channel 4 began broadcasting in 1982 , it revived a number of vintage television shows , both British and American . ' The Avengers ' was amongst them . Fans were disappointed to learn that the run was to commence with Season 5 , of which ' From Venus With Love ' was the first transmitted episode . Despite the shows going out at 12 . 55 in the early hours of Sunday ( we were more fortunate here in Wales . S4C showed it at 6 . 00 P . M . on Mondays ) , the reaction was strong enough to see the series ultimately promoted to a 7 . 25 slot on a Sunday evening ( mid-way through the ' Tara King ' era , they ran Season 4 - the black and white ' Emma Peel ' series ! ) . The prints used were hardly pristine ( as Patrick Macnee later remarked : " That wasn't ' The Avengers ' ! The episodes were cut , lacerated , destroyed ! " . He had a point . The ' Mrs . Peel We're Needed ' and ' tag ' scenes were deleted entirely . ' From Venus With Love ' is my all-time favourite ' Avengers ' episode . Continuing writer Philip Levene's fascination with science fiction ( he created ' The Cybernauts ' ) , it has what appears to be an alien invader on the loose . Laurie Johnson's music here recalls Ron Goodwin's ' Village Of The Damned ' score , and several other British sci-fi classics . Amongst a fine cast Jeremy Lloyd crops up as aristocratic chimney sweep ' Bert Smith ' , the late Philip Locke as ' Dr . Primble ' , and Jon Pertwee as the Blimpish ' Brigadier Whitehead ' , writing his memoirs through the reliving of battles . Sparkling script by Philip Levene and stylish direction by Robert Day make this a true ' Avengers ' classic . One to show to the uninitiated .
Exit Upton , Re-Enter Waring	With Barry Evans out of the ' Doctor ' series , it hit crisis point . So popular was he that to have recast the role of ' Upton ' would have been a mistake . Humphrey Barclay chose instead to bring back the cheeky ' Duncan Waring ' - not seen since ' In The House ' - played by the late , much-missed Robin Nedwell . His absence was explained by his being in America , studying medicine ( and getting up to naughty business as the episode ' Honey Lamb ' would make abundantly clear ) . Upton was said to have joined the Merchant Navy to escape the amorous advances of Nurse Willett , to whom he had drunkenly proposed . He was never seen again and remained virtually forgotten until the opening episode of ' Doctor At The Top ' twenty years later . It didn't take long for Waring to engender the same level of affection as his predecessor . He was more of an extrovert ( only an extrovert would wear those hideous bow-ties ! ) and Nedwell was particularly adept at physical comedy . The early episodes gave him a steady girlfriend in the shape of Nurse Sandra Crumpton , played by Sammie Winmill , of ' The Tomorrow People ' fame , but she was dropped after a handful of episodes , along with Duncan's mother and father . Richard O'Sullivan had proved popular as slimy ' Bingham ' and so was granted the honour of appearing in the opening titles along with the others . Inside Duncan's pacing outline Lawrence can be seen reacting in horror as the ambulance he is in collides head-on with another , carrying Dick Stuart-Clark . ' In Charge ' became the first ' Doctor ' series to earn a two-page strip in the children's comic ' Look-In ' . Angus P . Allan's stories were true to the spirit of the original , although the nurse-chasing and boozing were conspicuously absent ! I rate this as the best of the ' Doctor ' series , mainly because of the combined team of Nedwell , Davies , Layton , O'Sullivan and Clark and the superb scripts by , amongst others , Graeme Garden and Bill Oddie ( ' The Black & White Medical Show ' excepted ! ) . Sadly , they left after the first series to concentrate on ' The Goodies ' . Future ' Grange Hill ' and ' Brookside ' creator Phil Redmond was one of their replacements . Two story arcs occurred in the first series - Loftus ' quest for a knighthood and Bingham courting and marrying one of Duncan's old flames - the ghastly ' Dr . Mary Parsons ' ( Helen Fraser ) , who refers to him as ' Bidger-Badger ! ' and Duncan as ' Dunky ' ! Incidentally , a young Tony Robinson ( ' Baldrick ' from ' Blackadder ' ) appears in the episodes ' Amazing Grace ' and ' The Epidemic ' . Funniest episode - ' Honeymoon Special ' Watch it and cry laughing !
The Jokers Are Wild !	I love ' Swinging London ' movies ( real ones that is , not spoofs such as ' Austin Powers ' ) and ' The Jokers ' is a good example . It was directed by the much-maligned Michael Winner during what might be termed his ' golden age ' , the era of ' The System ' , ' You Must Be Joking ! ' , ' Hannibal Brooks ' , and ' I'll Never Forget Whatsisname ' . Having been booted out of the army for cheating during a training exercise , Michael Tremayne ( Michael Crawford ) decides to get even with the British establishment by making an extravagant gesture , hence he and brother David ( Oliver Reed ) execute a brilliantly conceived scheme to steal The Crown Jewels from the Tower of London . They plan to elude justice by leaving letters with solicitors stating that their intention was not to permanently deprive the Monarchy of their beloved trinkets ( apparently , this loophole in British law actually exists ) . The public takes the thieves to their hearts ( echoes of The Great Train Robbers ) . But then something goes wrong . Unbeknowest to David , Michael did not submit his letter , leaving his brother to take the blame for the theft . . . Though Winner came up with the basic idea , the script was penned by Dick Clement and Ian La Frenais , then fresh from their successful B . B . C . sitcom ' The Likely Lads ' . There is little of the humour of that show here , but it is witty and engaging . In the aftermath of the robbery , various members of the public are interviewed by a television news reporter . One man says he is not sorry for The Queen as she can ' always put in an insurance claim ' . A holiday maker ( Frank Finlay ) jokingly tells Customs officers that he has nothing to declare ' except the Crown Jewels ' . But the joke backfires as the officers proceed to dismantle his car ! As the Tremayne brothers , Crawford and Reed are great . They are rich , good-looking , and popular with the dbutantes so by rights you should hate them , but you do not . In fact you find yourself hoping they will get away with it . Surprisingly , the stars only worked together one more time - 1981's Walt Disney romp ' Condorman ' . Great supporting cast - James Donald as a dimwitted army colonel , Harry Andrews as Scotland Yard's finest ' Inspector Maryatt ' , and Brian Wilde as his incompetent sidekick ' Sgt . Catchpole ' . Warren Mitchell , Edward Fox , Daniel Massey , William Mervyn , and Julian Holloway are also in evidence . The jokers preface their theft by staging a hoax bombing campaign in the London capital , credited to ' Red George ' . Unfortunately , a few years later , bombs started going off there for real , courtesy of the I . R . A . , hence it was a good thing this was made when it was . Winner's brisk direction perfectly complements the amusing script and deft performances . There's also a lively soundtrack by Johnny Pearson . My only complaint is that there was never a sequel : ' The Jokers Strike Again ! ' in which the Tremaynes go after the Mona Lisa !
" Beauty Queen Shocks Council ! "	Naive , small-time thief Lennie Godber spends his first night in H . M . Slade Prison , in the company of Norman Stanley Fletcher . He is naturally nervous , but Fletcher gets him through it by telling him to pretend that he is having a ' quiet night in ' . As the doors are locked and the lights dim , the two men swap views on a variety of subjects . . . Its often been said that the simplest , most effective form of drama is the frank exchange between characters of widely differing viewpoints trapped in a lift or marooned on a desert island . That approach works well for comedy too . Here Dick Clement and Ian LaFrenais take a young , wet-behind-the-ears Brummie criminal and pair him off with an older , hardened Cockney lag . The script is , as one would reasonably expect , top notch and is performed to perfection by both Ronnie Barker and Richard Beckinsale . Apart from a brief appearance by Paul McDowell ( a regular on ' Dave Allen At Large ' ) as a prison guard , its virtually a two-handed piece , as good as anything you will find in the theatre . Poor Lennie badly misses his girlfriend Denise and reminisces at length about their sexual past . Fletcher urges him to forget her , then is fascinated by a topless Page 3 girl in ' The Sun ' . Godber is such a charming , intelligent young man its hard to see what drove him to crime in the first place . From his cell mate , though , he gets a masterclass in the fine art of prison survival . ' Porridge ' had only been on air for two weeks when this episode aired , but it had already achieved the status of ' comedy classic ' . Funniest moment - Fletcher repeatedly stepping on Godber's darning needle !
And The Verdict Is . . .	Daytime television in the U . K . didn't used to be about make over shows , ' Loose Women ' , and confrontational programmes of the ' Jeremy Kyle ' variety . Back in the ' 70's , we had ' Crown Court ' , a series of intelligently written courtroom dramas , starring the cream of Britain's acting talent . The secret of the show's success lay in its simplicity ; we rarely saw what was going on in the outside world , all we knew of the respective cases was what we heard from the witnesses , and that was enough . The jury was chosen from members of the public , who'd then deliver a verdict based on the evidence . Perhaps the most disturbing case was ' Destruct , Destruct ' in which a sci-fi obsessed juvenile suffocates a boy with a plastic bag . Every time the camera focused on the accused , we'd be privy to his thought processes , which consisted of weird electronic noises . In 1976 , Granada revamped ' Crown Court ' , putting it out on Saturday nights in hour-long shows . It didn't work , however , and soon returned to its natural habitat .
The Reluctant Romeo	Terry's sister Audrey is dating a hairdresser named Mario , to whom her brother takes an instant dislike . Keen to break up the relationship before it has a chance to turn serious , Terry tells Bob to ask Audrey on a date , while he takes Mario off to the pub and gets him legless . Bob , who has always regarded Audrey as something of a sister figure , is reluctant to go along with his friend's wishes , but does so . Audrey , however , is wise to the deception and comes on strong with Bob . . . ' The Suitor ' was the last episode of the first season of ' The Likely Lads ' , and is one of the few ' 60's episodes to survive the mass junkings of the ' 70's . Looking back , it now seems incredible that anyone could have even considered wiping classic sitcoms such as this . Did no-one realise just how special it was ? ' Mario ' provided an early television role for George Layton , the future ' Dr . Paul Collier ' of ' Doctor In The House ' and its sequels . When he tells Terry that he isn't Italian ( his real name is Ernie ) , Terry warms to him and reacts angrily when Bob reveals that deep down he really does fancy Audrey ( as Sheila Fearn is drop dead gorgeous , who can blame him ? ) Funniest moment - a laughing Bob and Terry shaking Mario's car in an effort to stop the hairdresser kissing Audrey .
Spy Games In Rio !	' Kiss The Girls & Make Them Die ' ( to give it its American title ) was one of a number of films in the ' 60's designed to cash in on the success of James Bond . It was made by Dino De Laurentiis , a man who , like Irwin Allen , has attracted more than his fair share of derision over the years , despite having produced some pretty entertaining pictures , of which this is one . It begins with a curious scene in the Brazilian jungles as eccentric English explorer Lord Aldric ( Terry-Thomas ) comes across a village where no children have been born in years , and despite the best efforts of the women the men appear completely disinterested in sex ( sounds like my home town ! ) . Aldric makes notes in his diary , only to be shot . The diary then goes missing - having been taken by one of the bearers - and a gang of villains , headed by wealthy industrialist David Ardonian ( Raf Vallone ) set out to recover it . We then move to Rio De Janeiro . An American is watching a pretty girl and a young man through binoculars . Various thugs close in on him . Taking refuge in a giant statue of Jesus , he is stalked by a sinister bald heavy ( Oliver McGreevy - who also appeared in ' Modesty Blaise ' and the first episode of ' The Prisoner ' T . V . series ) with a gun . The American , whom we will later learn is called Kelly , is an agent of the C . I . A . , and escapes from the killer with the aid of a helicopter . Kelly is in Rio to investigate the activities of the mysterious Mr . Ardonian , believed to be responsible for the disappearances of beautiful girls . Each has lavish gifts bestowed on them , on the promise that they will remain faithful to him . If any break this vow - and one or two do - then he has them killed . His top henchman is Omar ( Sandro Dori ) , a baby-faced blond psychopath whose favourite murder methods involve scorpions and boa constrictors . To cut the story short , Ardonian plans on cryogenically freezing his girls and thawing them out for breeding purposes when the world's population has died out due to mass sterility - which he intends causing with the aid of a satellite that will blanket the world with radiation . The Chinese have provided him with a rocket , believing he will only sterilise the West . Of course he does not intend honouring this promise . Joining forces with glamorous British agent Susan Fleming ( Dorothy Provine ) and her ever-so English chauffeur James ( Terry-Thomas again ) , Kelly sets out to stop the madman . The first thing to be said for the movie is that it looks more expensive than your average ' 60's spy caper . Most of the 007 wannabees lacked the kind of extravagance the Bonds had in abundance , but ' Kiss ' was an exception . It boasts fabulous location filming in Rio , impressive sets ( Ardonian's underground lair is cool ) , the gadgets are fun , the girls hot , and the hero stylishly played by future ' Mannix ' star Mike Connors . Little is known about his character , we do not find out if ' Kelly ' is his first name or last , all we really know is that he loves bananas . Unusually , he does not get to sleep around , though he proposes marriage to Susan at the end . Dorothy Provine is very funny , even if her English accent is none too convincing , but in a movie like this reality is unimportant . As ' Ardonian ' , Raf Vallone is as menacing as he was in ' The Italian Job ' when he played the head of the Mafia . Terry-Thomas is a hoot as the karate chopping ' James ' . As Chinese spy ' Wilma Soong ' , Seyna Seyn is devastatingly sexy , though underused . It is said that the 1979 Bond movie ' Moonraker ' is a virtual remake of this picture . I am sure Christopher Wood and Lewis Gilbert would vehemently deny it , but even so the resemblance is uncanny . One of the film's writers , Jack Pulman , went on to pen the classic B . B . C . series ' I Claudius ' . He probably only took this job for the money , but his script is a lot better than many others of the genre , being consistently amusing and inventive . Being English , he may have seen an episode of the ' Thunderbirds ' T . V . series , explaining how ' Susan ' and ' James ' so closely resemble ' Lady Penelope ' and ' Parker ' . Henry Levin , the director , keeps the action moving nicely , and it is hard to believe the same man directed two of Dean Martin's ' Matt Helm ' pictures - ' Murderers ' Row ' and ' The Ambushers ' . The only fault I could find was the music , particularly the harmonica solos used during the action which seem to have drifted in from a Western . If ever a film cried out for Jerry Goldsmith it was this one . ' Kiss ' never got a sequel . Bearing in mind how quickly the Flint and Matt Helm series deteriorated it is probably just as well . It is tremendous entertainment , a must for genre fans , and deserves a D . V . D . release . Perhaps now that Quentin Tarantino has officially endorsed it it may get one . Not before time either .
" You do not get crocodiles in the ocean ! "	The sitcom for which the late Terry Scott is best remembered is , of course , ' Terry & June ' , in which he co-starred with June Whitfield . However , from 1962-68 , he was partnered with the wonderful Hugh Lloyd in the David Croft-produced ' Hugh & I ' . As was the case with ' Hancock's Half-Hour ' , Scott and Lloyd played characters with the same names as themselves ; the former was a social-climbing bachelor , always on the lookout for fame and fortune , the latter his dim-witted lodger . They resided at Scott's mother's house at 33 Lobelia Avenue , Tooting , south London . Each week , Terry would dream up a new ' get-rich-quick ' scheme , only for it to fail dismally , mainly because of Hugh's bungling . Viewers took to the show immediately , in no small part due to the ' Laurel & Hardy ' style partnership at its heart . The scripts were by John Chapman , later to pen another classic Terry Scott sitcom - ' Happy Ever After ' . In the opening episode - ' Fully Incomprehensive ' - Terry decides to start his own insurance agency , after reading in ' The Times ' of the huge profits made by other companies . To find out the mechanics of the business , he and Hugh visit a real insurance agency , under the guise of Terry taking out a policy on his friend . But the manager , noticing Terry's substantial girth , tries to persuade Hugh to take out a policy on him instead . After placing a sign advertising their new business over their front door , Scott and Lloyd receive a visit from their neighbour Mr . Crispin , who threatens to report them . Terry counterattacks by threatening to report him for breeding ferrets in his kitchen . Desperate to sign their first client , Terry and Hugh visit the Wormolds , a senile , accident-prone old couple , but nothing comes of it . They then talk the manager of the insurance company into taking out a policy , but as he leaves the house , Terry's sign falls on the man's head , thus necessitating an immediate claim . ' Hugh and I ' will come as a shock to anyone accustomed to ' Terry & June ' . Scott's character is pompous , snobbish , and unashamedly rude . Watch Scott in the ' Bless This House ' movie to get an idea what this character is like . The irreplaceable Patricia Hayes crops up as ' Mrs . Wormwold ' , with Cyril Smith ( no relation to the ex-Liberal M . P . ) as her husband . Following Smith's unexpected death , he was replaced by Jack Haig . The combination of Scott and Lloyd's ' Stan and Ollie ' double-act , John Chapman's witty scripts , and the fine supporting players made ' Hugh & I ' a smash hit in the 1960's . I have only seen one episode , but would very much like to see more . Funniest moment - Terry and Hugh trying to erect their sign . " Put the hammer in my waistband ! " , Terry commands from the top of the ladder . Hugh does so , but places it upside down , leaving the head of the hammer freely dangling from Terry's trousers . Ouch !
Delightful British Comedy In The Ealing Mold	Mrs . Cragg ( Peggy Mount ) is a charlady in the employ of the successful property development firm Ryder Enterprises . One day she finds a barely-smoked cigar in her employer's waste-paper basket , and , wrapping it in a piece of paper , gives it to her other employer , Colonel Whitforth ( the splendid Robert Morley ) . Noticing that the paper is in fact a telegram warning of an imminent company take-over bid by R . E . , the wily Colonel instructs his stockbroker to buy shares in the doomed firm , and then sell them when the bid goes through . He makes a profit of 5 , 000 ! He offers Mrs . Cragg a share in the money , but she thinks he has done something illegal and goes to James Ryder ( Harry H . Corbett ) to come clean about the whole business . While waiting to see him she finds out R . E . have bought Pitt Street - where she lives - and plans to turf out the residents in order to build office blocks . Enraged , she enlists the help of other chars to beat the greedy Ryder at his own game . . . The post-war years saw much social change in Britain . Houses were demolished all over the country as redevelopment took place on a grand scale . ' Ladies Who Do ' effectively captures those far-off times . It is like an Ealing comedy in that it features ordinary people unexpectedly finding themselves in positions of authority , and the world becomes better off for it . The Colonel uses the money to form a company called ' Ladezudo ' ( ladies who do ) . Initially , they set out to save working class communities from predators such as Ryder , but by the end of the picture , they are seduced by the capitalist system and have adopted his entire philosophy . A mouth-watering cast - Peggy Mount , Robert Morley , Harry H . Corbett , Jon Pertwee , Nigel Davenport , Dandy Nichols , Miriam Karlin , Graham Stark , Cardew Robinson , Avril Elgar , Arthur Mullard , John Laurie - and a witty script by Michael Pertwee add up to 85 minutes of absolutely charming comedy . Mount's ' Mrs . Cragg ' is not as domineering as her other screen roles , such as ' Emma Hornet ' in ' Sailor Beware ' . Here she is lovable . I'm sure audiences cheered as her army of women in aprons and curlers advanced menacingly on the builders . ' Ryder ' has worked his way up from nothing to become a tycoon . He is the sort of man Harold Steptoe could have been had he gone into the property developing business instead of totting . Barbara Mitchell appears briefly at the end , her character is not too far removed from the one she played in ' Please Sir ! ' and ' The Fenn Street Gang ' . Also one to watch out for is a young Carol White ( of ' Cathy Come Home ' fame ) . Favourite moment - a couple takes up R . E . ' s offer of 100 to move out of Pitt Street , then the husband ( Ed Devereaux ) admits they were going to go anyway ! The only thing this film needed to make it a bona fide classic was the presence of John LeMesurier . But even without him , its still pretty good . Great music by Ron Goodwin too !
One Of The Greatest British Films Ever !	Its no secret that the Boulting Brothers were no lovers of trade unions , and this is reflected in their film ' I'm All Right Jack ' which portrays union men as either lazy or stupid . Often overlooked is the fact that its also extremely critical of capitalists too . When Ian Carmichael's wonderfully naive ' Stanley Windrush ' discovers he's been used as a pawn by greedy bosses , he loses his rag , denouncing the system as corrupt . But its Peter Sellers ' ' Fred Kite ' whom everyone remembers ; with his short hair , Hitler-like moustache , and ignorance of the very political doctrine he espouses , he's a marvellous comic creation . The film also takes swipes at the media , the world of advertising , and the changing moral climate in ' 50's Britain . If I could choose one film to put in a time capsule to epitomise that era , this would be it . The fact that after forty years , the phrase ' I'm All Right Jack ' is still used as shorthand for naked greed is testimony to the film's enduring appeal .
Bulldog's Babes	Three years after ' Deadlier Than The Male ' , Richard Johnson was back as Hugh ' Bulldog ' Drummond , this time investigating mysterious sabotage incidents involving the S . S . T . - 1 , Britain's newest supersonic airliner . The ' Matt Helm ' and ' Derek Flint ' sequels disappointed , but nobody who enjoyed ' Deadlier ' can fail to appreciate this . The same ingredients ( beautiful girls , gadgets , nice location filming , fast-moving action ) are here , but with a dash more humour . Its all so over the top its practically orbiting Saturn . Charles Blackwell's score catches the right mood of ' 60's kitsch , the opening theme song is a knockout ! Tightly edited , the film moves so fast you don't have time to dwell on its absurdities . Daliah Lavi and Beba Loncar head a long line of luscious babes , including a young Joanna Lumley , and the delectable Adrienne Posta ! Nigel Green isn't around to reprise baddie Carl Petersen , alas , but James Villiers is not too bad . Robert Morley is delightful as the eccentric cookery teacher ' Miss Mary ' !
Bob's Full Comedy House	After quitting Central's ' Family Fortunes ' , Bob Monkhouse crossed channels to present this , a celebration of the art of comedy . Over three seasons he introduced some of the best comedians in the world ; the first show featured an 80-year old Bob Hope . He handed over a pound note . " That's for those jokes you wrote for me all those years ago ! " , he quipped . Then he put his hand out . " What do you want ? " , asked Monkhouse . " Change ! " , added Hope , slyly . Despite his age , Hope was on good form that night , even singing with Monkhouse ( what else ? ) ' Thanks For The Memory ! " . Other comedians to appear later were Peter Cook , Tommy Cooper ( sadly this turned out to be his penultimate appearance ) , Ronnie Barker , Les Dawson and Pamela Stephenson ( she scared Bob by firing live ammo over the heads of the audience ) . U . S . comics Victoria Jackson and Sandra Bernhard ( whom Monkhouse apparently didn't get on with ) made their British television debuts , along with a manic young man called . . . Jim Carrey . Wonder what happened to him ?
Don't Panic - It's The Last Episode !	Having notched up 80 episodes , a radio series , stage show and a film , ' Dad's Army ' had indeed come a long way since its humble beginnings in 1968 ( five years longer than the real war , as wags never tire of telling us ) . In 1977 , Jimmy Perry and David Croft decided by mutual consent to bring it to a close . Not only were they concerned at the general state of the health of the older cast members , but felt it should bow out while it was still at the top ( had it lasted another two years , it would have been on at the birth of alternative comedy , with ' Not The Nine O'Clock News ' . The mind boggles ) . It returned for one final run - the ninth - at the end of 1977 . Screened on Sunday nights directly after ' Poldark ' , it continued to delight and amuse fans . The final extended episode ' Never Too Old ' saw Corporal Jones finally proposing to his sweetheart Mrs . Fox . He asks Captain Mainwaring for permission first , of course . Much to his relief , she says yes . The wedding preparations get underway - Jonesy has asked Sgt . Wilson ( clad in his W . W . 1 uniform ) to be his best man , and Mrs . Pike the maid of honour . A . R . P . Hodges is there for reasons we can only guess at ( " I'm a friend of the bride ! " , he says , with a lecherous look in his eye ) . Captain Mainwaring makes a speech , the couple are toasted , and the cake cut . By the time the fake layers are removed , all that is left is a humble jam sponge . " There's a war on ! " , the new Mrs . Jones tells everyone . But the Colonel issues an invasion alert , and poor Jonesy has to leave his new bride to resume duty , with Pike at his side . Mrs . Jones turns up , but Jonesy fails to recognise her in the dark . The other platoon members appear and , after being roundly insulted by Hodges , drink a toast to the British Home Guard - champagne in tin mugs . Symbolically , they were also celebrating the end of the show itself . The real Home Guard were stood down in 1944 , becoming an inactive reserve unit . The sad death of Edward Sinclair exactly one month after this was recorded shows how right Perry and Croft were to end the show when they did . Pike , Hodges , and Croft later popped up in a short-lived Radio 2 sequel called ' It Sticks Out Half A Mile ' . Funniest moment - the Verger and Mr . Hodges chucking confetti in other's faces . When the Vicar attempts to intervene , he gets a face full of the stuff too . Second funniest moment - Mrs . Jones telling her new husband about the nice new freezer she wants in their new country cottage . He asks what she wants it for . To put all the lovely joints of meat in , she replies . He says that will have to happen after the war . Her next words are " But we'll have one before then , won't we ? " . At this , Jones looks worried . He had earlier wondered aloud if she only wanted him for his meat . So off into the pages of television history marched Captain Mainwaring and the Warmington-On-Sea platoon . In 2008 , its popularity shows no signs of abating . Long may its repeats grace our screens . In case you are concerned about the fate of our heroes , check out the opening of the very first episode ' The Man & The Hour ' . It shows them ( Walker included ) enjoying a reunion dinner in the year 1968 . ( I would like to thank I . M . D . B . user ' Cyril Blake ' for providing additional information for this review . )
" I knew it ! I'm not paranoid ! They're all spies ! "	Along with Stanley Donen's ' Bedazzled ' , Theodore J . Flicker's ' The President's Analyst ' is my favourite motion picture of the ' 60's . It is so insane as to defy description . James Coburn had just made two movies in which he starred as super-agent ' Derek Flint ' , and he saw this as a chance to combine the glossy spoofery of those movies with satire . He plays ' Dr . Sidney Schaefer ' , a top psychiatrist given the job of analyst to the President of the United States . At first , he regards it as an honour , but then senses that he is being followed everywhere by intelligence agents . He is right . The knowledge in his head had made him a prime security risk . When Schaefer's nerve breaks , he goes into hiding and is hotly pursued not only by his own side , but agents of other world powers too . Coburn is marvellous in the title role ( he also produced the movie ) , and is ably supported by Godfrey Cambridge , Severn Darden , Joan Delaney , and William Daniels . In one of my favourite scenes , Schaefer takes refuge with the Quantrill family . The father , an avowed liberal , keeps guns in his car and every room in the house , the mother is a karate expert , while the son ( a racist , incidentally ) listens to people using homemade bugging devices . Throwing in his lot with a gang of hippies , the doctor makes love to one in a corn field while spies murder each other attempting to murder him . In a brilliant climax ( which has to be seen to be believed ) , Schaefer is taken to the headquarters of T . P . C . ( The Phone Company ) . Its chairman , Arlington Hewes ( the wonderful Pat Harrington Jr . ) wants Schaefer to influence the President into throwing the weight of public opinion behind the Cerebral Communicator - a device that does everything a normal phone can do , except that it is inserted into the brain . Depersonalisation in other words . If your jaw does not drop about fifty times ( or maybe more ) during the course of this picture , you must be unshakable . Like Tony Richardson's ' The Loved One ' , the picture sets out to ridicule all and sundry - from the Cold War to ' 60's pop music to the Hippie Movement to American politics to spy movies - and succeeds brilliantly . Why it was not nominated for an Oscar for ' Best Picture ' is beyond me . Oh , and there's a great soundtrack by Lalo Schrifrin to boot ! ( I hate remakes as a rule , but this film is crying out to be updated to the Bush era . )
Spike's Last Stand	As the twentieth century drew to a close , a number of programmes pontificated on its achievements . Not among them was ' Room 101 ' , which offered celebrities the chance to sound off about their favourite pet hates . The early editions were the best , as they featured the likes of Peter Cook and Bob Monkhouse , but by the end it was struggling to find decent guests ( does anyone really care what Davina McCall thinks ? ) . One of the very best editions was this one , featuring the late , great Spike Milligan . Though looking decidedly frail , Spike was in great form , tearing his victims to pieces with undisguised relish . Viewers were shocked at the level of anger he expressed . But this was not the voice of a senile old man with nothing to say , but a concerned humanitarian . His choices included Portsmouth ( his stage act was not well received there ) , football ( " I don't understand it ! " ) , Muzak ( " the man who invented it committed suicide . I sent a congratulatory telegram to his widow ! " ) , soap operas ( " people are goggle boxed by these things ! " ) , disc jockey Chris Evans ( " the best thing I can wish him is an early death ! " ) , fox hunters ( " you are all a load of bastards ! " ) , and bizarrely his own house . Paul Merton gave Spike good support , helping him to stay on topic when he looked to be in danger of straying off it . When Spike said that the most intelligent thing Chris Evans ever said in his life was " Good morning ! " , Merton jumped in with " he probably had that written for him ! " , a comment that caused Spike to double up . The programme unsurprisingly drew complaints from Evans ' fans , with one describing Spike on the letters pages of The Radio Times as an ' annoying , insulting man ' . Many people would say the same about Chris . As the world descends into a nightmarish hell , with the ever-present threat of terrorism , and anyone concerned about climate change vilified by the right-wing media ( not to mention the wrong politicians winning power , especially in the U . K . ) , how badly we need someone like Spike Milligan now to act as a voice of sanity , and to make us all laugh . I will leave the last word to the Great Man himself . Asked how he intended to celebrate the Millennium , he said : " I shall go to bed ! " .
You See , I . T . V . ? It Can Be Done !	One of the most disturbing sights in British television in recent years has been the disappearance of comedy from the I . T . V . schedules ( discounting unintentionally funny fare such as ' Footballers ' Wives ) . The network that once gave us ' Rising Damp ' , ' Man About The House ' , ' Nearest & Dearest ' , ' On The Buses ' , ' Doctor In The House ' and ' Shelley ' would seem to have given up the ghost , resorting to tatty fare based on home movie footage or ancient film / television clips . The less said about ' Get A Grip ! ' and ' News Knight With Sir Trevor McDoughnut ' , the better . What has happened to I . T . V . ' s ability to make popular sitcoms ? Have all the funny people either died or moved over to drama ? It certainly seems that way . I was not holding out much hope for ' Christmas Night At The Riviera ' , a feature-length comedy special broadcast on Christmas Eve 2007 . I was impressed by the cast , though - Alexander Armstrong , Darren Boyd ( ' Hugo Yemp ' in the underrated ' Hippies ' ) , Warren Clarke , Sam Kelly , Pam Ferris , and that old warhorse Peter Vaughan , still going strong three decades after ' Porridge ' and ' Citizen Smith ' . So I tuned in . And am I glad that I did . It was the funniest thing on I . T . V . in literally years ! The premise is this : ' The Riviera ' , a rundown seaside hotel in Eastbourne , prepares for an influx of Christmas guests . Ashley Dodds , the assistant manager , takes over at short notice when his boss leaves because of family problems . Well-meaning Ashley is to be blunt , a disaster area . To entertain the guests , for instance , he books an obscure band called Doug Pride and His Lions . Amongst the problematic guests is Miles , a priest terrified that his new clerical post will be jeopardised by an adulterous liaison he had in a jacuzzi with the stunning Vanessa , whom he calls ' Melons ' . To make matters worse , Vanessa is also at the hotel . Married couple Maurice and Rita are an appalling pair , especially the former , a grump who gives Victor Meldrew a run for his money . Tim and his father Dennis have brought along the latter's wife's ashes , which he insists on talking to as though the woman inside were still alive . Dennis keeps badgering Tim to find a new girlfriend . In the restaurant , they meet Avril , a sexy , middle-aged Welsh woman , but Tim is not interested . The first major catastrophe is when the guests ( along with a Salvation Army band ) fall into the frozen pool in the hotel grounds . Then one of the kitchen staff forgets to thaw the Christmas turkeys , so Ashley orders that they be grilled . Dennis's urn has somehow been transferred to the kitchen , and the ashes wind up as part of the stuffing mix . Fortunately , Ashley realises this in time , and spaghetti is served to the guests instead . Miles ' wife Diane discovers what her husband has been up to , and starts hitting the bottle . Miles tracks down Vanessa , and tries to persuade her to leave , but she reminds him he got her into bed by telling her his marriage is over . . . Previewing this in the ' Radio Times ' , Alison ' Scrooge ' Graham sniffed that it was ' full of clichs ' . Well , so what ? Loads of classic comedies have been full of clichs . Even ' Fawlty Towers ' was not a new idea in 1975 , as anyone who remembers Ronnie Barker's ' His Lordship Entertains ' will testify . The point is what's done with the clichs . Writers and directors Mark Bussell and Justin Sbresni have constructed a flawless farce . One disaster leading to another , without ever appearing forced or artificial . ' Riviera ' reminded me of the excellent ' The Flint Street Nativity ' from a few years back . That also wrung every possible permutation on the theme of something going wrong at a Christmas event . How good to see again a comedy featuring likable characters . The cast turn in wonderful performances , from Warren Clarke's moaning northerner to Pam Ferris ' Welsh nympho to Alexander Armstrong as what must be the funniest television priest since ' Father Ted ' . I was surprised to find myself even liking Reece Shearsmith , who played ' Ashley ' . As ' Diane ' , Anna Chancellor was so sexy I wondered why Miles wanted to cheat on her . Pathos is well integrated into the comedy mix , particularly when Avril's secret is finally revealed ( she is recovering from radiation therapy ) . At the climax , the hotel catches fire , the guests escape with their lives intact ( Ashley redeems himself by saving Maurice ) , and seem to have noticeably changed for the better as a result of their stay at the Riviera . This was not ' cutting edge ' comedy , and didn't attempt to be . It borrowed comedy styles from ' Fawlty Towers ' and ' Duty Free ' , and the Neil Simon movie ' California Suite ' . Who cares ? It worked ! It won't be to everyone's taste ( no wisecracking moons or lunatics in top hats singing about eels ) . Let us hope that we see more of this sort of humour on our screens in the not-too distant future . A fun Christmas treat .
Families At War	1978's ' Born & Bred ' was made by Thames and was a sparkling comedy drama about two warring London families , the Tonsleys ( working class and proud of it ) , headed by the grumpy Tommy ( Max Wall ) , and the middle-class Benges , led by the ultra-snobbish Frank ( James Grout ) . The starting point was a two-part episode ( the only one not to be written by Keith Waterhouse and Willis Hall ) of L . W . T . ' s ' Budgie ' starring the late Adam Faith , entitled ' Fiddler On The Hoof ' . Small-time crook Budgie Bird goes home to his family , and a right bunch of old miseries they are too , the prototype for the ' Tonsley ' clan . Douglas Livingstone thought that there was a series there , hence ' Born & Bred ' was born . When the naive Stephen Benge ( Richard O'Callaghan more or less reprising his ' Carry On Loving ' role ) becomes engaged to Tommy's nymphomaniac daughter Iris ( Susan Tracy ) , the families meet and it is hate at first sight . Luckily for all concerned , Stephen and Iris have doubts ( she starts to find him boring , he worries that she will be unfaithful to him ) and abandon the planned wedding . ' Born & Bred ' was a bit like Yorkshire's earlier ' Beryl's Lot ' in that it had the look and feel of a soap , yet was frequently hilarious . In one episode , Stephen went to Venice to try and get over Iris , and had a passionate fling with Cynthia ( Joanna Dunham ) , the secretary of the man - who - nearly - became - his - brother - in - law Dennis Tonsley ( Trevor Peacock ) . Dennis had been hoping to get her into bed himself , only to be confined to his hotel room with food poisoning . In another , pub landlady Molly Peglar ( Joan Sims ) suspected one of her employees of stealing from the till , and coated all banknotes with a chemical designed to turn the thief's fingers green ! Her husband Arthur ( Ivor Roberts ) had to go round wearing gloves to try and conceal his guilt . One critic favourably compared the show to ' Till Death Us Do Part ' , and not just because the opening credits also featured an aerial shot of Big Ben . Credit for must go not only to Livingstone , but also the magnificent cast . Ron Grainer composed the theme tune . Iris disappeared after the first series , replaced in the second by Tommy's illegitimate daughter Nina Farthing ( Sally Grace ) , who gave her occupation as ' personal services ' ( make of that what you will ) . Stephen was supposed to have married her too , but again bottled out . Wonderful stuff . It would indeed be a shame if this does not get a D . V . D . release because of possible fear of confusion with the 2002 B . B . C . series of the same name .
Leonard Rossiter's Forgotten Gem	Shot on film , ' Machinegunner ' was an eighty-minute play made by H . T . V . West and broadcast ( only once that I know of ) late one Saturday night in the summer of 1976 , following a screening of the first Bond film ' Dr . No ' . As ' The T . V . Times ' enthusiastically put it : ' Tough Trigger Action Explodes In Two High Speed Adventure Stories ! ' . It begins with what sounds like machine-gun fire , but instead turns out to be a pneumatic drill . The late , great Leonard Rossiter is ' Cyril Dugdale ' , a Bristol-based debt collector ( ' machinegunner ' is West Country slang for someone in the profession ) who also does private detective work . When a beautiful black woman named Felicity Mae Ingram ( Nina Baden-Semper ) hires him to obtain photographic evidence of an adulterous affair involving a property developer named Jack Bone ( Colin Welland ) , he takes the job , partly because of the money ( 50 being a tidy sum in those days ) , but mainly because he fancies Felicity . He gets the pictures but then his problems really begin . Bone hires thugs to retrieve the negatives , and they aren't fussy about who they rough up , including one of Dugdale's friends . To complicate matters further , Bone is then found dead in some woods , and the body later moved to the flat of his lover Pat Livingston ( Kate O'Mara ) . Bone had a secret arrangement with someone on the Council concerning the suitability of old properties for redevelopment . The first thing to be said about ' Machinegunner ' is that it is not a comedy . On the contrary , it is quite a dark tale of adultery , murder and corruption . There is a fair amount of blood on view and the odd glimpse of nudity ( including the sight of Rossiter taking a shower ! ) . ' Cyril Dugdale ' shares some characteristics with ' Rigsby ' , most notably a distrust of black people , but is not really a comic character . Its hard not to smile though as he goes about his business in a ' Popeye Doyle'-style hat , bribing Indian families to move out of their hovels . The film's major revelation is Nina Baden-Semper , cast as a very different character to ' Barbie Reynolds ' , the housewife she played in ' Love Thy Neighbour ' . Mysterious , tough , independent , she makes a good foil for Rossiter . Also in this are Tim ( credited as Timothy ) Preece , who was ' Tom ' in ' The Fall & Rise Of Reginald Perrin ' , and Gay ( Gabrielle ) Rose , who wiggled her way through the second season of ' Rising Damp ' as artist's model ' Brenda ' . ' Machinegunner ' was by Bob Baker and Dave Martin , best remembered for their work on ' Dr . Who ' ( they created K9 ) , as well as penning a number of other well-remembered series for H . T . V . West such as ' King Of The Castle ' and ' Sky ' . They appear here as a pair of ' scruffs ' . Watching this again recently , I was put in mind of ' Shoestring ' , the late ' 70's / early ' 80's B . B . C . private detective drama that starred Trevor Eve . The setting , story , and spurts of violence are all reminiscent of that later show . Baker wrote one episode , incidentally . Had a ' Machinegunner ' series been made , I am sure it would have been good , but Rossiter had Perrin lined up for later that year and was not yet finished with Rigsby . ' Machinegunner ' is a must for both lovers of ' 70's I . T . V . crime drama and fans of the brilliant Mr . Rossiter .
" Oh dear ! I shouldn't have said that - not today ! "	A decade after Reggie Perrin , David Nobbs was suddenly back on form with this sparkling series . It revolves around two families , the Rodenhursts , who're rich , and the Simcocks , who aren't . They keep meeting up at various social gatherings - a wedding , a dentists ' dinner dance , a beauty contest etc . - and each time there's trouble . Toasting fork tycoon Ted sleeps with his daughter-in-law's mother at his son's wedding , leading to her pregnancy , and the break-up of his marriage to Rita . As you'd expect from a David Nobbs series , the writing is first-class , and the cast simply mouth-watering . For Nicola Pagett , this was a welcome return to television after years in the theatre following ' Upstairs , Downstairs ' . Michael Jayston was also great as solicitor Neville Badger , forever droning on about his late wife . Paul Chapman's Laurence Rodenhurst was a perfectly judged performance ; his off screen suicide gave the series a slightly dark edge . Diana Weston cropped up in Series 2 as the devious confidence trickster Corinna Price-Rodgerson . Wonderful stuff . Worth watching over and over again .
Stan & Hilda - A Tribute	My rating is for the sterling work that Jean Alexander and Bernard Youens put into ' Coronation Street ' . For two decades , they played to perfection the warring Ogdens . So good were they in these roles that many became convinced they really existed . When Stan got into debt , for example , offers of financial help flooded into the Granada offices . You may think that amusing , but it shows how much the public took the Ogdens to heart . The Ogdens were Stan , an obese layabout who cleaned windows for a living ( when he was not feeding his face with bacon sandwiches or swilling pints of Newton & Ridley's ) , and Hilda , a head-scarved harridan with a fondness for gossip , not to say singing out of tune . They lived in less than opulent surroundings . Who can forget those plaster ducks on the ' muriel ' ( mural ) ? In spite of their constant quarrelling , there was genuine affection between the couple . They brought humour , warmth and pathos to the show . To celebrate the Silver Jubilee in 1977 , the Street's residents decided to ride around on a lorry dressed as characters from British history - Annie Walker as Queen Elisabeth 1 , Len Fairclough as Sir Francis Drake , and Ena Sharples as Queen Victoria , and so on . Only Stan would be so stupid as to leave the lorry's lights on all night , hence the next morning the battery was dead ! In one lovely episode , the Ogdens won a weekend at a luxury hotel , and to see them living the high life was an absolute joy . The deflated look on Hilda's face as they returned home spoke volumes about the sort of humdrum lives they led . The Ogdens helped make ' Coronation Street ' ( I refuse to refer to it as ' Corrie ' ) one of the best programmes of the ' 60's and ' 70's . Youens died on / 84 . Of course Stan had to die too . It presented the writers with a problem as Albert Tatlock had recently been written out because of the sad demise of Jack Howarth . Not wishing to kill Stan off so soon after , they pretended he was still alive but confined to bed . Several weeks later , Hilda discovered his lifeless body . An icon of ' Coronation Street ' was no more . I do not watch ' Coronation Street ' these days . It is a different programme now , aimed at a much younger audience . I doubt whether Stan and Hilda would feel at home in the Street these days . As Granada Plus's repeats showed , the Ogdens were simply irreplaceable .
" He pays his taxes ! "	Archie is thrilled when he receives expensive gifts from an old army buddy called Eddie Frazier , now a successful car salesman . He is even more delighted when Eddie announces his intention to pay him a visit . Mike does not want to meet Eddie as he regards millionaires with deep suspicion . But Archie insists that he and Gloria cancel their planned trip to the movies . It is obvious that he is envious of Eddie's success . The following evening , Eddie shows up , along with a couple of other of Archie's army pals , and a drunken , joyous reunion ensues . Eddie is very much the life and soul of the party , laughing and cracking jokes . However , Mike overhears Eddie's telephone call to his son , and sees the millionaire in an entirely different light . . . ' All In The Family ' was the American version of Johnny Speight's ' Till Death Us Do Part ' . Though the latter was enormously popular in Britain , the former never caught on here . Only 41 of the 202 episodes were screened by the B . B . C . , mostly in late night slots ( ironically , the inferior spin-off ' Gloria ' was allocated a decent time slot on B . B . C . - 1 in the mid-eighties ! ) . The late Carroll O'Connor was superb as the bigoted loudmouth ' Archie Bunker ' , as were Jean Stapleton as his daft wife ' Edith ' , Rob Reiner as his left-leaning son-in-law ' Mike Stivic ' , and the lovely Sally Struthers as daughter ' Gloria ' . Sensing that the original was a tad too abrasive for prime time U . S . television , writer / producer Norman Lear softened the Bunkers ' characters , making Archie in particular a bit more likable . ' Success Story ' , the penultimate episode of the first season , effectively combined comedy and pathos , boasting a touching performance from William Windom as ' Eddie ' . Only Mike knows that the millionaire is unhappy because his son refuses to have anything to do with him . A storyline such as this would never have been used by Speight ; despite their similarity , there was clear blue water between the shows in terms of their respective approaches to comedy . It is strange why a quality sitcom such as this is nowhere to be found on D . V . D . over here nor on Sky television , yet ' Friends ' is endlessly re-screened for the benefit of those with short memories . Funniest moment - Archie taking the call from Eddie . Handing the phone to Edith , he dashes upstairs . Then we hear a toilet being flushed ! ( another groundbreaking aspect of the show , incidentally )
" Lucky sods ! "	Good British film comedies are rare these days , but every now and then someone manages to come up with a cracker . Ten years ago , ' Waking Ned ' , written and directed by Kirk Jones , was just such a movie . Set in the town of Tullymore ( population : 52 ) on the coast of Ireland , it concerns two old friends , Jackie O'Shea ( Ian Bannen ) and Michael O'Sullivan ( David Kelly ) who , on discovering that a local person has scooped a colossal fortune on the Lottery , set about trying to discover the identity of the winner . Suspicion even falls on Jackie himself at one point . The lucky man is one Ned Devine . Visiting him at his cottage , Jackie finds him dead in front of his television , having succumbed to a heart attack as the result of shock brought on by his win . Ned had written his name on the back of the ticket . Not wishing to see the money go unclaimed ( it was a Rollover week ) , Jackie persuades Michael to try and pass himself off as Ned . But will the man from the Lottery be fooled ? Its a simple idea , yet written and performed to perfection . The cast are marvellous , particularly the late Scottish actor Ian Bannen as ' Jackie ' . He gets the Irish accent to a tee and he and David Kelly make a great comic team . Kelly is probably best remembered for his role ( which never did him justice in my view ) as ' Albert Riddle ' in the long-running I . T . V . sitcom ' Robin's Nest ' . James Nesbitt crops up as the pig farmer ' Pig Finn ' , unhappy because the lovely Maggie won't let him near her on account of the fact he stinks of pigs . The humour is natural , not forced as with a lot of other comedies . If the idea of a close-knit community where everyone knows each other's business and gets on well with neighbours seems far-fetched , take it from me - such places exist . I lived in Ireland for a time , and the film's depiction of the country and its people is accurate . There are many moments of laugh-out loud comedy to relish , such as the sight of Michael riding his motorbike in the nude , and Michael finding a chicken leg on Ned's floor and mistaking it for his intestines ( or ' intest-ines ' as he calls them ) . The ending will warm even the coldest heart . But my favourite bit is Jackie attempting to close the late Ned's mouth and causing his false teeth to fly out ! ' Father Ted ' was funny , but so is this , and its much nearer to reality . A real treat !
Where's Me Shirt ?	' The Incredible Hulk ' television series was the inspiration for a long-running joke in the U . K . It went as follows : " why does the Hulk always sound so angry ? You would too if your body grew to three times its normal size and yet your trousers stayed the same . " . Everyone from Ken Dodd to Eddie Large used it in their act at one time or other . I only mention it because it gives you an idea how popular this series was in the late ' 70's / early ' 80's . Loosely based on the Marvel comic book of the same name , ' T . I . H . ' told the story of Dr . David Banner ( Bill Bixby ) , a brilliant scientist who got an accidental overdose of gamma radiation during an experiment , and then when stressed out turned into the Hulk - a grotesque , powerful monster with skin the colour of vomit and a tendency towards mindless destruction . This being a family show , of course , he wasn't too violent , and dealt with the bad guys usually by picking them up and hurling them into rivers . He also got through a lot of shirts during the course of the series . Banner was thought to have perished when his lab blew up , but a nosey reporter by the name of ' McGee ' ( Jack Colvin ) was keen to get at the truth and so dogged him every step of the way , a sort of ' Lieutenant Gerard ' to Banner's ' Richard Kimble ' . Each week , Banner turned up in a different location , got a job ( altering his surname so that it still began with ' B ' ) , became involved with a local problem , which he then solved by ' Hulking out ' . Perhaps the show should have been retitled ' The Incredible Social Worker ' . The Hulk , as a rule , only made two appearances per episode , with Bixby's ' Banner ' carrying the show . The actor was familiar to viewers thanks to ' My Favourite Martian ' and ' The Magician ' . I always felt that he was an underrated performer who sadly never got the parts he deserved . I'm sure he could not have been too pleased when the script for the ' Hulk ' pilot landed on his doormat , but to his credit , he brought a quiet dignity to the role , much as Richard Basehart did with ' Admiral Nelson ' in ' Voyage To The Bottom Of The Sea ' . Jack Colvin ( another underrated actor ) was equally excellent as ' McGee ' . One of the best episodes - ' Proof Positive ' - had McGee ( Banner did not appear that week ) explaining his motivations for hunting the creature . Muscle-man Lou Ferrigno proved the perfect embodiment of the Hulk . Much better than any C . G . I . rubbish . Critics in the U . K . reacted with disbelief when ' T . I . H . ' first appeared . Margaret Forwood of ' The Sun ' said that it was ' even sillier than the Man From Atlantis ' , while another likened the Hulk to the ' Jolly Green Giant ' . The public ignored the complaints and made the show a hit that ran for five years . I personally found it a refreshing change of pace after the high campery of superhero shows such as ' Batman ' and ' Wonder Woman ' . A trio of Hulk T . V . movies cropped up at the end of the ' 80's , but they were not much good . The first two featured ludicrous versions of two other Marvel characters - ' The Mighty Thor ' and ' Daredevil ' . More recently , we have had Ang Lee's ' Hulk ' ( 2003 ) and now a new one starring Edward Norton . But for me Dr . Banner will always be wearing flares and keeping an eye out for that guy from ' The National Register ' .
Blackly Comic	Based on ' Don Among The Dead Men ' by C . E . Vulliamy , this little-seen British film stars Leo McKern as Professor Bowles-Ottery , a misanthrope who dreams of becoming a ' benevolent ' dictator . During a live television interview , he rants : " We must eliminate the mad , sterilise the incompetent . We must clean up the Human Race or else we will all perish ! " . He gets his chance to put his theories into effect when he accidentally invents a gas capable of inducing a drunken state of euphoria , leading to death . Soon he begins using it on people he regards as serious threats to society . Anyone who thinks of British film comedy of the ' 60's purely in terms of ' Carry On ' , ' Doctor In The House ' and Norman Wisdom should be made to watch this . It is so blackly comic as to defy description . McKern is wonderful as the mad Professor , and the supporting cast includes Dennis Price and Leonard Rossiter . Don Chaffey finished the film when original director Robert ' Kind Hearts & Coronets ' Hamer died suddenly . Chaffey would later work with McKern on the T . V . series ' The Prisoner ' ( 1967 ) .
" There's this Irishman . . . "	1971 was a vintage year for B . B . C . comedy all right , what with ' The Two Ronnies ' getting underway , and Dave Allen beginning his marvellous , long-running series . ' Large ' combined sketches with monologues , the latter delivered by the man himself , smartly dressed , seated in a chair , cigarette in one hand , a glass of whisky ( or something ) perched on a nearby table . His style was all his own . He was cool . Unique ( With more and more modern comedy performed to speed , just think if Dave were appearing on television today , his act would probably be regarded as ' too slow ' . It used to take him three minutes just to light a cigarette and get comfortable . ) He told stories on a wide variety of topics , but mainly about religion as he had had a strict Catholic upbringing in Ireland , and took delight in mocking the subject . On one occasion , he even told a creepy horror tale , and held his audience spellbound . A number of stock characters evolved in the sketches , including a would-be revolutionary constantly trying to blow up ' El Presidente ' , and a Pope-like figure always being carried around in a chair . One of my favourite items had monks arguing over porridge , a dispute culminating in a messy fight . Another had rival undertakers ' firms competing with each other to see who could get to the cemetery first . And there was a ' Robin Hood ' spoof too . He would sign off with " Goodnight , and may your God go with you . " . Note the ' your God ' , and not just ' God ' . Aiding and abetting him were a number of talented comic performers such as Michael Sharvell-Martin , the late Ronnie Brody , the late Peter Hawkins , and the attractive Jacqueline Clarke . Future ' That's Life ' presenter Chris Serle was a regular in the first series . The catchy theme tune was ' Blarney's Stoned ' by Alan Hawkshaw . When the D . V . D . finally appears , why not reacquaint yourself with one of the funniest men ever to grace a television screen ?
" Do You Wanna Come With Me ? ! "	2005 will go down in ' Dr . Who ' history as its most incredible year . Everything seemed to click ; a first-rate new Doctor and companion , big audiences ( 10 million for the first episode and Christmas special ) , major awards , critical acclaim and those idiots who spent years giggling at the Daleks ' seeming inability to negotiate stairs were well and truly silenced . But then Christopher Eccleston dropped a bombshell , quitting after just one series . It looked like the honeymoon was over . Luckily , the public appears to have embraced his successor , the excellent David Tennant . On top of this the show boasts fine S . F . X . , like the spaceship crashing into ' Big Ben ' in ' Aliens Of London ' and superb story lines such as ' Tooth & Claw ' , ' Army Of Ghosts / Doomsday ' . The new ' Dr . Who ' is basically the same as the old , only updated for the 21st century . Some fans have accused Russell T . Davies of ' ruining ' the show . They need to remember that there was no show for sixteen years until he came along .
" Hold a chicken in the air . . . "	When , many moons ago , I first heard of ' Spitting Image ' , I thought it would be at best a one-season wonder . The novelty of having puppets doing satire would in my view wear off quickly , leaving the show nowhere to go . As we now know , ' Image ' ran for over a decade . It was originally produced by John Lloyd , one of the driving forces behind ' Not The Nine O'Clock News ' so predictably it inherited that earlier show's healthy disrespect for authority and public figures . The voices of Chris Barrie ( magnificent as Ronald Reagan ) , Harry Enfield , Jessica Martin , Kate Robbins and Steve Nallon ( more like Thatcher like she ever was ) were superbly matched to clever puppetry courtesy of Fluck & Law . Amongst the writers were Doug Naylor and Rob Grant ( later to create ' Red Dwarf ' ) , John O'Farrell and Mark Burton . The first few episodes were at best patchy , marred by canned laughter and some iffy material , but by the end of the first season the bugs had been ironed out . A regular item was ' The President's Brain Is Missing ! ' starring President Ronald Reagan . No-one then knew that Reagan had the first symptoms of Alzheimer's . The Reagan of ' Spitting Image ' was gaffe-prone , frequently seen in bed with wife Nancy , read comics and loved Warner Brothers cartoons . In one episode , he authorised the use of Phantom jet fighters to assist Wile E . Coyote in the destruction of the Roadrunner . In another , he conducted a secret nuclear test up his own arse . British politicians also came in for a bashing ; Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher dressed like Al Capone , smoked cigars , and was seen taking political advice from a 90-year old Hitler . The show ridiculed Labour leader Neil Kinnock's attempts to make his party electable ( it had been in opposition only five years when the show started ) . In one sketch , he said to the Shadow Cabinet ; " We must get rid of all the people who will be a liability at the next General Election . " . At which point , the entire Shadow Cabinet left the room . Liberal leader David Steel later blamed ' Image ' for his failure to become P . M . , it caricatured him as a squeaky-voiced muppet living in the top pocket of David Owen . No review of the show can be complete without mentioning their treatment of The Royal Family . Though pro-monarchists wailed that it was insulting and unfair , I disagree . I thought the show gave them an unexpectedly human face , portraying them as ordinary people with normal fallacies . The Queen Mother , in particular , came across as a lovable Beryl Reid type fond of a flutter on the horses . When the Royals sang a parody of Queen's ' We Are The Champions ' ( entitled ' We Are The Windsors ' ) , it sounded like a new National Anthem . ' Image ' was lucky enough to be around when Thatcher was dumped by the Tories and replaced by the ultra-grey John Major . The writers and performers succeeded in making the man more interesting than he really was . The show got into trouble on more than one occasion . For instance , a joke at the expense of gun collectors soon after the Hungerford massacre in 1987 provoked predictable self-righteous fury from the tabloids . ' Image ' also spoofed ' 80's and ' 90's pop culture , such as ' Rambo ' , ' Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles ' ( or Turds as they became ) , pop groups like ' Wham ! ' , ' Culture Club ' , and ' The Pet Shop Boys ' ( their hit ' Go West ' was guyed as ' How The Hell Do We Keep Getting Away With It ? ' ) . No respect was shown for anyone or anything . It overstayed its welcome , unfortunately , ending the year before Labour's 1997 landslide victory . Despite many imitations , it remains unequalled . Perhaps the show's unsung heroes were the people inside the puppets , such as Louise Gold and the late Alistair Fullerton . Another underrated aspect was the songs . ' The Chicken Song ' sent-up ' Agadoo ' by Black Lace ' and became a hit in its own right . ' We've Screwed Up The World ' was a bleak parody of Louis Armstrong's ' Wonderful World ' with Satchmo bemoaning our increasingly polluted planet . ' Every Job You Take ' , performed by Sting , rounded off the first series . ' Image ' provided I . T . V . with one of its last great comedy shows , and helped make the nightmare of the Thatcher / Reagan years partially bearable .
As Indestructible As Ever !	' Dr . Who ' was not the only classic children's British sci-fi show to be revived in 2005 . Beating it to the airwaves by a few weeks was an all-new animated version of Gerry Anderson's 1967 hit ' Captain Scarlet & The Mysterons ' . Though ' Scarlet ' rivalled ' Who ' in terms of quality , it met with a different fate . Where the latter recently concluded its fourth season ( with a fifth scheduled to appear to 2010 ) , the former vanished from our screens at the end of 2005 , never to return . So what happened ? It was Anderson's cherished dream to make a new series of ' Captain Scarlet ' ( along with a new ' Thunderbirds ' ) . After securing a $30 million budget , he set to work upgrading the concept for a new generation . The basic idea remained the same ; an expedition to Mars results in tragedy . Captain Black opens fire on a mysterious alien city , believing the inhabitants to be hostile . Actually , they were not , but now they are . The city is controlled by computers built by the Mysterons , and they swear vengeance against Mankind . They turn Black into their top agent , and on returning to Earth he begins a war of nerves against the Spectrum organisation , commanded by Colonel White . All Spectrum operatives are named after colours . The Mysterons have the power of ' retro-metabolism ' , meaning that they can kill a person and then construct a replica under their control . This happens to Captain Scarlet , but he recovers and becomes Spectrum's number one weapon in the fight against the Mysterons . He also is indestructible . Recognising that the old puppets from the ' Supermarionation ' days had had their day , Anderson decided to make the new show in motion-capture C . G . I . and High Definition , making it one of the most ambitious and expensive children's series ever mounted . The animation greatly increased the scope of the plots , which now included metal-eating insects , alien spores and time travel . Scarlet now could do things his predecessor simply could not , such as running , jumping and fighting . The old vehicles such as the Angel Interceptors ( now known as Falcons ) were kept but there were new ones such as the tank-like Rhinos and ultra-fast Raid bikes . The first episode of the original show was expanded into a two-parter called ' Instrument Of Destruction ' . Changes included Scarlet becoming a part of the ill-fated trip to Mars and a chilling sequence with an apparently dead Black rising from the grave . Minor characters such as Destiny Angel , Captain Magenta and Captain Ochre were given a chance to shine . Lieutenant Green becoming a woman angered die-hard fans but I do not think it hurt the show . Cloudbase , Spectrum's floating headquarters , was renamed Skybase . Again a change of minor importance . I was not keen on Crispin Merrill's new theme though , it sounded like the ' Space Precinct ' signature tune with the notes in a slightly different order . The famous seven note drum roll between scenes was thankfully retained . ' New Captain Scarlet ' both looked and sounded marvellous . Despite the modern technology , the integrity of the original was perfectly preserved . The failure of the ' Thunderbirds ' movie the year before became immediately apparent . To do justice to a Gerry Anderson idea you first need to hire the man himself ( and David Lane if possible ! ) . With all these excellent qualities , it is sad to have to report that it was not the success it should have been . Originally earmarked for a high-profile autumn launch , ' New Captain Scarlet ' was instead crucified . Without warning , I . T . V . - 1 inserted it into a dreadful Saturday morning children's show called ' Ministry Of Mayhem ' ' . The episodes were cut in half ( with no indication given as to when Part Two would appear ) , the opening and closing credits often removed , and the presenters allowed to make inane comments both before and after the show had finished . It was impossible for ' New Captain Scarlet ' to gain the kind of audience it needed to become a popular success . Anderson was understandably furious . Though the show ( or some of it ) was later repeated in an afternoon slot , the damage had been done . After 26 episodes , it ended . Annoyingly , many intriguing possibilities ( such as the idea of a renegade Mysteron faction ) remained unexplored . Interestingly , ' Dr . Who ' paid tribute in the 2007 episode ' The Sound Of Drums ' by having the Doctor's arch-enemy The Master based on a craft called ' The Valiant ' , whose design was remarkably similar to Skybase . It beggars belief that Anderson's best series in years should have been treated with something approaching contempt by I . T . V . - 1 , but then what do you expect from the channel that gave us ' Footballers ' Wives ' and ' Trinny & Susannah Undress The Nation ' ? At the time of writing , Gerry is still hoping to get a C . G . I . version of ' Thunderbirds ' underway . If he is successful ( and one hopes he is ) , he would do well to ensure it goes out anywhere other than I . T . V . - 1 . Judging by its well-publicised phone-in scandals and increasingly bad programmes , it would seem that the Mysterons are now in charge , not Michael Grade !
Junkshop Blues !	Shelley wants to buy an old book in a junk shop but the dealer tries to make him think it is worth far more than it really is . After a protracted debate , the dealer agrees to let him have it for nothing . Shelley and Fran are in a pub when he meets an old friend from his university days - Paul ' Bunter ' England ( Warren Clarke ) . Bunter wants a bed for the night , so they take him back to their bedsit . Before he knows it , he is invited to replace Ned as best man at their forthcoming wedding . . . I used to love rummaging about in junk shops , usually looking for rare books , and met plenty of characters like the dealer here . I made the mistake of telling one that the book I wanted to buy ( ' Secret Army ' by John Brason ) was a collector's item . Before I knew it , the conniving devil had trebled the price . The arrival of Warren Clarke's ' Bunter ' in the series was especially welcome , as it virtually ruled out the possibility of a return appearance from David Pugh's obnoxious ' Ned ' . The latter , we are told , has gone to Australia , where hopefully he was savaged to death by a koala . I'm giving this top marks for the superbly written scene where Shelley learns that Fran has purchased a job-lot from the junk shop , which includes tables , chairs , a commode , nine ashtrays , paintings , the complete works of Sir Walter Scott - but no bed ! " Fine , we'll curl up together in the wardrobe ! " , says Shelley . But its not the funniest moment . That honour belongs to the pub scene in which Shelley grumbles at length at the cheese roll he has bought at the bar . A moment or so later , a man walks past and steals it . It is ' Bunter ' of course , but Shelley does not yet know this . Having complained about the roll , Shelley then expresses outrage at having had it stolen from under its nose !
" I know his father ! He wears yellow trousers and stutters ! "	Alf's leg is broken as a result of him slipping on a freshly polished floor ( he thinks Else did it on purpose to try and claim insurance money ) and he is off work , confined to a wheelchair . She claims it was his own fault as he was drunk at the time . Left alone for hours in the dark , he is bored out of his mind and begs his family to bring him downstairs , which they do - with great difficulty . He is still miserable though , especially when Gran turns up , starts drinking whisky and talking about terminal illnesses . To get away from her , he goes to the pub . Else tries pushing both him and Rita's baby's pram simultaneously , but the effort proves too much and she walks off . Three youths push him the rest of the way . Leaving him outside , they take cigarettes off the landlord and tell him to put them on Alf's slate . He gives them crisps as a reward for their ' kindness ' . Mike finds the youths have drugged Alf's beer and painted a clown's face on him to use him for ' Penny For The Guy ' purposes . . . This was the last episode of Season 4 ( though a Christmas Special would follow shortly ) . Following a four year gap , ' Till Death Us Do Part ' had resumed production , and in glorious colour to boot . According to Mark Ward's new book ' A Family At War ' , the decision to revive Alf was partly motivated by the success of the American version ' All In The Family ' . The other reason was that I . T . V . had scored a batch of comedy hits such as ' On The Buses ' , ' Please Sir ! ' , and the ' Doctor ' series and the B . B . C . wished to compete , so they revived not only this but also ' Steptoe & Son ' , ' The Likely Lads ' and ' Sykes ' . Certainly the show benefited from the break . This being the ' 70's , there was a Tory Government in power and new targets for the humour . Joan Sims guested in most of the new shows as ' Gran ' , the gin-sodden geriatric . As was the case with Clive Dunn in ' Dad's Army ' , the actress - quite an attractive woman at that time - was able to portray old people convincingly . Else's indifference at her husband's discomfort is amusing , though it is sad to think that over a decade later she would be the one in the wheelchair . The ringleader of the tear-aways is Richard Speight , son of the show's creator / writer , who would reappear in ' In Sickness & In Health ' as Marigold's boyfriend ' Goldie ' . In an amusing in-joke , Alf refers to the boy's dad as someone who wears yellow trousers and stutters ! Both were characteristics of Johnny Speight . Alf would have his face repainted in an episode of the I . T . V . sequel ' Till Death ' , only then it was Rita's teenage son who did the deed . Funniest moment - Alf looking in a mirror and realising just why everyone is laughing at him !
" Are you sure you're not Bruce Forsyth ? "	Shelley and his girlfriend Fran are searching for somewhere to live . In a caf , he teases a well-endowed but dim waitress by suggesting a ' spot of troilism ' . It means threesome , but she thinks he is asking for food . At the Unemployment Benefit Office , he collects his Giro from the humourless Alan Forsyth , who is openly contemptuous of him . Then he is shown around a bed-sit by a pleasant but talkative lady named Mrs . Hawkins . He sees one other bed-sit that day . It is disgustingly filthy . Back at the caf , Fran tells him that she has found a place , and holds up a bunch of keys . It turns out to be Mrs . Hawkins ' house , and she is none too pleased with the idea of having Shelley as a sitting tenant . . . I can remember watching this opening episode of ' Shelley ' back in 1979 and being amazed at how well written and performed it was , more like a B . B . C . - 2 sitcom than a Thames one . The reference to Thatcher's recent election victory gave the show topicality . Shelley teases Forsyth by stating that as soon as the new Government sorts out the economy , unemployment will fall ( it stood at just over one million then ) , and people such as he will be made redundant . As we now know , it did not fall - it rocketed to three million . Peter Tilbury must have been dead pleased with his show's timing . ' Moving In ' was only his second script , his first being ' Sprout ' in 1974 . John Alderton played ' Darwin Sprout ' who like Shelley was a charming liar and rogue . Though very funny , it failed to develop beyond the pilot stage . ' Moving In ' effectively sets the scene for the series , including many key ingredients such as a rude encounter with a D . H . S . S . ( as it was called then ) officer , Shelley flirting with an attractive woman , and insults traded with landlady Mrs . Hawkins . Josephine Tewson played ' Mrs . Hawkins ' . What can one say about this lady except that she's been brilliant in everything she's been in ? From co-starring with Ronnie Barker in ' Clarence ' to Patricia Routledge in ' Keeping Up Appearances ' , she is more than a fine supporting actress , but a comedy legend in her own right . Most of the best moments of the early seasons of ' Shelley ' involved her and Hywel Bennett . As the tight-lipped ' Alan Forsyth ' , Kenneth Cope provides a nicely dry counterbalance to Shelley's sarcastic wit . I have to throw in a quick mention of Rosie Collins as the waitress . This attractive actress cropped up in numerous television shows of the late ' 70's / early ' 80's , such as ' Emery Presents ' and ' Victoria Wood As Seen On T . V . ' . We don't see her anymore but she made a great impression on yours truly at the time . Shelley's rude comments about the Asian man's bed-sit probably would not be allowed now . The scene with the ' accomodation agent ' makes chilling viewing . A homeless black man is told there is nothing available , yet when Shelley tries he gets a place straight away . Funniest moment - the look of horror on Mrs . Hawkins ' face when she sees who her new tenant is !
The Boys From The Dwarf	It is hard to believe it is just over twenty years since ' Red Dwarf ' blasted onto our screens . I watched the first episode for two reasons ; firstly , it was the work of Rob Grant and Doug Naylor , writers I knew from their work on ' Carrott's Lib ' and ' Spitting Image ' , and secondly , it combined two life-long interests of mine - comedy and science fiction . The premise is this - mining ship ' Red Dwarf ' has suffered a disaster in space , meaning that most of its crew are dead . The only survivor is Dave Lister ( Craig Charles ) , a slob who loves getting drunk and eating curry . Also around are a life form descended from a cat he smuggled on board , called ' Cat ' ( Danny John-Jules ) , who acts like James Brown , and Arnold Rimmer ( Chris Barrie ) , a hologram of an unpopular technician . There's also a talking computer called ' Holly ' , played first by Norman Lovett and then Hattie Hayridge . I was disappointed by the opening episode , so like the Smeghead that I am did not bother with the show again until it reached its third season . ' Backwards ' opened with a hilarious conversation between Lister and Cat in which the former expressed a secret desire for Wilma Flintstone . It convinced me that the show had changed for the better ( I later caught up with the ones I had missed , and found they were not bad either ) . The same episode brought in as a regular ' Kryten ' ( David Ross , then Robert Llewelyn ) , a robot who speaks in a Canadian accent and who by his own admission looks like Herman Munster's stunt double . The show could have been called ' Lads In Space ' . The cast were superb , particularly Barrie as the conceited ' Rimmer ' , the scripts cleverly exploited the fine line between comedy and sci-fi , and for my money it was one of the best sitcoms of the ' 90's , alongside ' I'm Alan Partridge ' and ' Father Ted ' . Among the many first-rate episodes were ' Demons & Angels ' ( the boys meet evil versions of themselves ) , ' Gunmen Of The Apocalypse ' ( the boys in a space western ) , ' Timeslides ' ( Rimmer tries to change the course of his own history ) , ' D . N . A . ' ( Kryten learns what it is like to be human ) , ' Dimension Jump ' ( Rimmer meets a heroic version of himself - ' Ace ' Rimmer ) . Best of all was ' Back To Reality ' in which the boys think that their ' Dwarf ' experiences have all been part of a Virtual Reality game . Cat's cries of ' Dwayne Dibbley ! ' were hilarious ! With such a strong cast and production crew , the show attained a peak of perfection unseen in British comedy for years previously - and some would say , not since . It was also a hit in America , and they attempted their own version , from all accounts it was not very good . Sadly , Naylor and Grant parted company , and the seventh season was written by Naylor and other writers such as Kim Fuller . Robert Llewelyn himself co-wrote one . The absence of Grant , plus a move onto film , and Chris Barrie only appearing in a handful of episodes , resulted in Season Seven looking a bit patchy . The inclusion of a new female character - ' Kochanski ' ( Chloe Annett ) made things worse . She was to the boys from the Dwarf what Zeppo had been to the Marx Bros . Things perked up a bit in Season Eight . Rimmer came back full-time , Norman Lovett returned as ' Holly ' , and Naylor wrote every episode alone , ensuring the comedy was more consistent . Bringing back the entire crew , including the Captain , was a mistake though ( as was the retaining of Kochanski ) . The show simply did not need them . And that sadly is where the ' Red Dwarf ' story ends . It is now ten years since the transmission of Season Eight . Naylor has tried to get a ' Dwarf ' feature film made but without success . I wish he had instead devoted the time to writing more television episodes . ' Sky Television ' have announced a pair of specials for transmission sometime in the year . Hopefully they will feature the original cast . The idea of a bunch of nobodies as ' Rimmer ' , ' Cat ' , ' Lister ' et al does not exactly thrill me .
" Bob Helmets Is Dead ? "	I hated the first episode of this show ( ' Protesting Hippies ' ) so much in 1999 that I shunned the rest . However , when it came on ' The Paramount Comedy Channel ' I watched it in full and , to my surprise , found it absolutely hilarious ( Motto : never judge a comedy series in its first week ) ! Set in 1969 , ' Hippies ' stars Simon Pegg as ' Ray Purbbs ' , editor of an ' Oz'-like underground magazine called ' Mouth ' . His friends are the feminist Jill , laid-back Alex , and the half-wit Hugo . Back in the late ' 60's , there was a feeling of incredible optimism amongst the young , that they could change the world through the printing of magazines nobody read . Rather than sneering at the hippies ' naivety , ' Hippies ' is affectionate towards it . Arthur Mathews ' scripts cheekily parody a number of that era's icons - ' Hair ' , ' Woodstock ' , ' The Graduate ' , even the infamous ' Oz ' obscenity trial of the early ' 70's . Excellent performances from the cast ; Julian Rhind-Tutt's ' Alex ' strangely put me in mind of the Richard O'Sullivan character from ' Man About The House ' . Its a shame that there was never a second series , possibly because of people like me . If you missed ' Hippies ' , give it a try . Once you get past the dire opener , you're in for a treat !
Russ's Madhouse On A Saturday Night	Running parallel with the ' alternative comedy ' boom of the ' 80's was the emergence of more traditional comedy performers , such as Cannon & Ball , Jimmy Cricket , Bobby Davro and , of course , Russ . ' Madhouse ' began life as a vehicle for Freddie Starr , and was quite dreadful , but when Russ replaced him it developed into something really special . Abbot's recurring characters included ' See You Jimmy ' , ' Cooperman ' , ' Basildon Bond ' , ' Wilf Bumworthy ' , ' Boggles ' and ' Geronimo ' . He was ably supported by a wonderful cast which included the then-unknown Michael Barrymore , Bella Emberg , Les Dennis and the late , much-missed Dustin Gee . It was typical I . T . V . Saturday night fare , combining slapstick with innuendo , but everyone looked as though they were having fun , and this was communicated to the audience . Sadly , Russ became the victim of a purge of the old guard of comedians in the early ' 90's , a criminal waste of a great talent . We badly need a show like this on Saturday nights now .
" Are you the head robber ? "	Our hero has landed a cushy job writing copy for an advertising agency ( nice work if you can get it ! ) . He hates it but is looking forward to his first pay check . But when it arrives he is not happy - after tax deductions it is not much higher than the money he got on the Dole . Furious , Shelley goes to the Tax Office to demand to know what they are playing at , and is pushed from pillar to post by a series of faceless clerks . On being told he can qualify for Mortgage Tax Relief , he tries to get one , but of course for that you need a bank account . . . After the disappointing ' Gainfully Employed ' , its back to form with a cracking episode which sees Jim doing what he is best at - being rude to practitioners of bureaucracy . Shelley's dismay is perfectly understandable , encapsulating one of the reasons why some people prefer the Dole to work . You are no better off really . One of the clerks he encounters is played by the gorgeous Marsha Fitzalan , who went on to be the faithless ' Sarah B'Stard ' in ' The New Statesman ' . I once saw her do a commercial for chocolate , and she managed to make Munchies incredibly sexy . The rest of the episode is taken up with Shelley's phone call to his prospective father-in-law . We do not hear what Mr . Smith is saying , but from Shelley's responses it sounds profane . In the four weeks it had been on air , ' Shelley ' achieved excellent ratings and reviews . Margaret Forwood , television critic of ' The Sun ' , even started a campaign among readers to ' Keep ' Shelley ' At The Top Of The Ratings ' . Then , disaster struck . Following the transmission of this episode , I . T . V . was blacked out by a strike that lasted approximately ten weeks . Viewers had to wait eight months for the remaining three episodes of Season 1 , when they were appended to the beginning to Season 2 . Had ' Shelley ' not been a hit , its likely they would never have been shown . Funniest moment - Shelley teasing Mrs . Hawkins by telling her that he and Fran plan on a nude wedding . " What's the matter ? " , he asks the shocked landlady , " Worried at having nowhere to put your carnation ? "
" I am not eating apartheid fish ! "	Shelley is appalled to learn that his favourite pub is to undergo a refit , to be renamed ' The Victory ' and the staff are to dress as Admiral Nelson . But that is the least of his problems . At the Unemployment Benefit Office , the Dole Inspector wants to know why , with his qualifications ( ten O Levels , 4 A Levels and a Phd ) he has hardly ever worked . " I don't like work . " , says Shelley . Back home , Fran has some exciting and worrying news for him - she is pregnant . Shelley dashes back to the U . B . O . to beg for a job . They make him the temporary barman of ' The Victory ' pub . . . Peter Tilbury had been an actor before turning to writing , and had spent time on the Dole , hence his experiences came in handy when writing the ' Shelley ' shows . There is a certain amount of wishful thinking in Shelley's confrontation with the Inspector ; anyone who openly refuses offers of work does not qualify for benefit . Excellent though this episode is , it makes what I regard as a fundamental mistake with the character . Having Shelley become a father so early into the run unfortunately transformed the show into a cosy domestic sitcom . Funniest moment - Shelley's interview . There's a laugh on practically every line . INSPECTOR : What did you like doing at school ? SHELLEY : Putting my hand down Beryl Wilson's skirt . ( Later , Shelley learns that Beryl Wilson is the Inspector's wife ) Nicholas LeProvost is superb as the Inspector , he would go on to play the psychiatrist in Tilbury's underrated ' It Takes A Worried Man ' .
The Welsh ' Passport To Pimlico ' ?	Over the years , there have been numerous attempts to put Wales and its people on the television screen , ranging from the cringe making Ronnie Barker sitcom ' The Magnificent Evans ' to the touching period drama ' We Are Seven ' . ' Mine All Mine ' was a piece of whimsy from the pen of Russell T . Davies , starring Griff Rhys Jones as the head of a dysfunctional Mumbles-based family who discovers he is the rightful owner of the land on which Swansea is built . Of course his new-found status as ' King of Swansea ' creates untold problems for both himself and his family . As one would expect from a Russell T . Davies series , the writing is first-rate . The cast are wonderful , particularly Jones as the dreamer ' Max Vivaldi ' and Rhian Morgan as his long-suffering wife Val . Even the minor characters , such as Debbie Chazen's ' Big Claire ' , are beautifully put over . For me , though , the real showstopper was Ruth Madoc as Val's trouble-making mother Myrtle . Being Welsh , I could recognise those characters from everyday life . Seeing familiar locations such as Mumbles pier and Swansea Town Hall was also a joy . The only annoying thing about this show was that it ended on a cliffhanger . Despite having many excellent qualities , ' Mine All Mine ' failed to find an audience . Perhaps its very Welshness alienated English audiences . I don't know . Russell was bitterly disappointed by the cancellation , he had plans for two more series . Four months later , however , he had a ratings blockbuster in the shape of ' Dr . Who ' . To think I . T . V . - 1 let this go after one series , yet pumped out five seasons of the execrable ' Footballers ' Wives ' - it beggars belief !
It's a gas !	This is my favourite ' Doctor ' film , made when ' 60's London was in full Swing . British comedy films were fast losing their appeal , with only the ' Carry On's ' carrying on , so for the ' Doctor ' series , it was a case of ' if you can't beat ' em , join ' em ' . Personally , I prefer the Philips ' Doctor ' films to the Bogarde ones . Here Leslie plays ' Dr . Gaston Grimsdyke ' ( different character to the one he played in ' Doctor In Love ' ) . Grimsdyke is after a job in America , but to qualify he has to be married , so he chases the lovely Jeannine ( Elisabeth Ercy ) . When she rejects him because of his age , he heads for Carnaby Street in pursuit of a new , youthful image . The bit where a reinvigorated Grimsdyke prances about in front of nurses in his trendy new clothes to the sound of John Scott's beat music is priceless ! Also of note are Arthur Haynes ( in his final role ) as the obdurate Mr . Wendover , and gorgeous Fenella Fielding as man-mad ballerina Tatiana Rubikoff . I must mention the sublime Joan Sims as Matron Joanna Sweet . The party scene where she goes under the laughing gas has me in fits each time ! ' Doctor In Clover ' is packed full of great comedy actors ( Terry Scott pops up as a camp hairdresser ) and moments you'll cherish forever and will want to see over and over again . As for the bit at the end , where the film suddenly goes into reverse , well , it is a comedy !
" I will not make any deals with you . I've resigned ! "	As I write this , a remake of the television classic ' The Prisoner ' is nearing completion . Those of us who remember the original view the prospect with some trepidation . How many great movies / T . V . series have had their reputations sullied by remakes ? Too many to name . Even the B . B . C . have gotten in on the act with ' Survivors ' , loosely based on Terry Nation's classic show . With ' The Prisoner ' , its more worrying because the opportunities for failure are greater . Have they chosen the right man to replace Patrick McGoohan ? Will the new location work out ? Will the plots be dumbed down ? Ah well , questions are a burden to others as someone once said , so let us wait and see . The first episode of the original was aptly titled ' Arrival ' , and it was written by George Markstein and David Tomblin . An unnamed British secret agent resigns , and is swiftly abducted by unknown forces . He wakes up in a strange place known only as ' The Village ' . Here other ex-agents have been incarcerated and are forced to live out their lives though with numbers in place of their names . Our hero finds himself lumbered with the number Six . Attempts to escape from The Village usually end in failure . strange balloon-like creatures called ' Rovers ' emerge from the sea , roaring like demented lions , to pursue and in some cases suffocate would-be runaways . Number Six is told by the Chairman of The Village - Number Two - that he has only a short time to willingly co-operate , such as stating his reason for resigning , and that if he fails to do so , the information will be forcibly extracted from his mind . The local hospital is a front for a brainwashing centre . Number Six witnesses first-hand the horror of seeing people reduced to gibbering imbeciles . The first part of ' Arrival ' is devoted to setting up the premise of the show . The beautiful Portmeirion location contrasts magnificently with the cold and clinical interiors . Patrick McGoohan is , as you would expect , simply brilliant . His performance encompasses anger , confusion , wry amusement , and defiance . ' Number Two ' is initially played by the late Guy Doleman ( ' Colonel Ross ' in Michael Caine's ' Harry Palmer ' films ) but half-way through the episode another actor - George Baker - assumes the role . Doleman's ' Number Two ' is charming and polite , but Baker's is an altogether more unpleasant character . On a sad note , Virginia Maskell , who plays ' The Woman ' , committed suicide a short time after this was broadcast . The second part deals with an attempt by Number Six to escape from The Village in a helicopter . Having managed to obtain an electro-pass from a woman who was emotionally attached to an old colleague called ' Cobb ' ( Paul Eddington ) , Number Six flies off , but as this is only the first episode it is reasonable to assume he does not get far . ' Arrival ' presents us with a world where nothing is what it seems and where no-one can be trusted . Even the maps on sale in The Village shop do not tell the truth . On arriving in The Village , Number Six repeatedly bumps into the same man ( Oliver MacGreevy ) in different guises . No matter what Number Six does or where he goes , he always seems to find himself right back where he started . I expect the new version to simplify the original's complexities , meaning it will probably not gain a cult following nor be the subject of discussion in thirty years ' time . Superbly written , acted , edited , and directed , ' Arrival ' is one of the greatest openings to a television series ever . If you only decide to watch one episode of ' The Prisoner ' , make it this one . Be Seeing You !
" What time do you call this ? "	Alf is scrubbing the floor of the hall in the block of flats where he and Else both live . Why ? He thinks he owns it . He then goes out into the garden to burn rubbish , but a neighbour with washing on the line threatens to set their dog on him . Tired at having to do housework in addition to pushing Else around , Alf contacts the Social Services , and is sent a succession of home helps . Else insists on tidying the flat before they arrive to create a good impression of their cleanliness . Alf complains loudly about the standard of their cleaning and generally resents what he regards as an intrusive presence . All three walk out on him . But then he meets his match - a new home help named Winston . . . This , the third episode of ' In Sickness ' , introduced Arthur English as ' Arthur ' , Alf's drinking pal . Here the character is credited simply as ' the man in the pub ' . Harry Fowler's milkman is not dissimilar to John Junkin's in ' Till Death Us Do Part ' , a cheeky chappie who doles out betting slips along with the gold top . Eamonn Walker also makes his debut as ' Winston ' , the home help who gets right up Alf's nose by being both black and gay . Objecting to him being named after the great Sir Winston Churchill , in the next episode Alf takes to calling him ' Marigold ' . Winston responds by rechristening Alf ' bwana ' . One of the home helps is played by Tricia Kelly , who replaced Eileen Kennally in the role of neighbour ' Mrs . Johnson ' . Plenty for Alf to get steamed up here , including football hooligans ( ' we should brand them so we can see who they are ! ' ) and the welfare state , which he is happy to use even though he does not approve . Funniest moment - following a pub discussion on how mince can turn a man gay , Alf goes home for dinner . Guess what Marigold has made for him ?
The Last Noel - If Only !	A year to the day after ' I Love A ' 70's Christmas ' , B . B . C . - 2 gave us another helping of seasonal nostalgia with this offering , linked by Brian Blessed as Father Christmas . Amongst the topics under discussion were ' The Railway Children ' , ' Some Mothers Do Ave Em ' , pantomimes and ' Thunderbirds ' . Noel Edmonds launched a ferocious attack on the latter that left me speechless . He claimed that whenever one of the Tracy family puppets turned sideways , they overshot their mark because the puppeteers couldn't handle the strings properly . Not only was this inaccurate , but an insult to the puppetry skills of the late Christine Glanville and others . I thought it a bit rich that the man responsible for the inane ' Mr . Blobby ' should be rude about a television show whose popularity has endured for forty years . Seeing how ' Noel's House Party ' had recently been cancelled , you'd think Noel would be sympathetic to ex-T . V . stars forced to earn a crust by doing pantomime . Instead he came out with " Chronic ! I'd rather do lap dancing ! " . Charming ! Perhaps Noel could play ' Scrooge ' one day ?
Alf's Supermarket Adventure !	This episode begins in the pub , with Alf and Arthur chatting about the old days in the docks , before ( so Alf claims ) the unions helped bring about the end of industry in Britain . Marigold is there with his boyfriend Goldie ( Richard Speight ) . Alf is repelled by their openly gay behaviour , yet accepts the drinks they buy for him . Arthur torments his friend by describing the luscious lunch his wife has waiting for him when he gets home . " Roast beef , Yorkshire pudding , garden peas , potatoes . " . He offers Alf a share of this feast . Alf accepts . " Right ! " , says Arthur , " I'll fix it up one week ! " . Back home , Alf finds there is no food in his larder , save for a stale crust of bread . Even the cheese he had has been used to trap mice . A lady from ' Meals On Wheels ' turns up , but the food is for Mrs . Hollingbery . Alf vows to get his own Sunday dinner the next week , a decision that necessitates a visit to a supermarket . . . Poor Alf . You really feel for him in this episode . Hearing Arthur brag about his dinner is bad enough , but then he catches sight of Fred Johnson carving the Sunday roast , and his salivary glands go into action . Why his cupboard is bare is not properly explained though , unless Marigold is helping himself to the grub . One of the functions of a home help is to ensure that there is food in ready supply . Alf's anger when he finds his larder empty is hilarious . He rants that convicted criminals gets better dinners than him , and blames the local Labour council . The supermarket manager is the late Leo Dolan , who was ' Charlie ' the window cleaner in ' Not On Your Nellie ' starring Hylda Baker . Funniest moment - Alf in the supermarket , alien territory to him . He is mystified by the automatic doors , and trolleys . Helping himself to a can of lager , he goes on his way . When he finds out he does not have enough money for his goods , all hell breaks loose at the checkout . The manager graciously gives him free of charge the items needed to make a meat pudding . On the way out , Alf says : " See you next week ! " .
" Smoking ? Do you see smoke coming out of my pipe ? "	Fed up at having to push his crippled wife everywhere , Alf takes Else's wheelchair to bits in the living room in an effort to make it lighter . At the Department of Social Security ( now the Department of Works & Pensions ) he tries to see about getting Else a motorised model . The starchy clerk informs him that she would if only qualify if she and Alf were unmarried . Losing his temper , Alf shouts : " S . S . is right ! Sieg Heil ! Sieg Heil ! " . Next he goes into a showroom and asks to test drive a chair . The young assistant is helpful until he realises Alf has not got any money . Giving him a two-fingered salute , Alf walks out . Finally , he goes to see a man about a chair . Alf tests it out , but loses control . The chair causes mayhem on London's roads , but stops bank robbers from making a getaway . Alf is now the man of the hour ! The last episode of the first season of ' In Sickness ' is a little beauty , with Alf's anger at his wife not being eligible for a powered chair turning him into an unlikely hero . The studio audience is on his side as he rounds on the D . H . S . S . clerk , pointing out that when he retired from the docks , he never banked on getting a job harder than the one he had just left ! Winston only appears in the final scene , when he puts the wind up Alf by pointing out that his going on the news could conceivably make him a target for the underworld . Funniest moment - Alf's wheelchair rampage , but the most memorable moment is his little soliloquy about how he , as man and boy , served under fourteen Prime Ministers , and was poor under every one of them ! Thousands of other British people could say the same . Alf Garnett had returned in triumph to B . B . C . - 1 .
" Do We Know Where Seltzman Is ? "	Originally produced under the title ' Face Unknown ' , this episode was made as a ' fill-in ' because McGoohan was busy filming ' Ice Station Zebra ' for M . G . M . It opens with a helicopter bringing an army Colonel to The Village . Number 2 reveals to him the existence of a ' mind swap ' machine , invented by Professor Jacob Seltzman , a brilliant scientist who has gone into hiding . The machine can swap minds , but the process cannot be reversed , hence Seltzman must be found . Some time later , The Prisoner wakes up in his London flat , his memories of The Village erased , and sporting another man's face : the Colonel's . Even his fiance Janet fails to recognise him . He sets about searching for the only man who can help him - Seltzman . Unfortunately , this is what The Village wants him to do , hence every step of The Prisoner's quest is shadowed by an undertaker in a hearse . Nigel Stock gives a remarkable performance as ' The Colonel / Number 6 ' , accurately capturing the steely determination of McGoohan's character , while Clifford Evans ' ' Number Two ' is so good one wishes he'd been brought back like Colin Gordon and Leo McKern . Zena Walker shines in her few scenes as Number 6's fiance . ' Do Not Forsake Me ' veers closely at times into ' Danger Man ' territory , particularly the Austrian and London party scenes , and because of this , some hold it in low esteem . I am not among them . I think it is a brilliant episode , coming as a breath of fresh air after the previous Village-based tales . Had a second season been made - with Number Six chased across the world by his captors - this is how it might have looked . Clips from previous episodes are put to good use too . Some have grumbled that the Village do not really need Seltzman , when all they have to do to reverse the process is to run it again . Obviously this must have been tried , and did not work . As for the final scene in which Seltzman escapes from the Village in a helicopter ( having first transferred his mind into the Colonel's body ) , we must assume that there was a tidy interval between the helicopter lifting off , and Number Six explaining things to a baffled Number Two . The scene was shortened for dramatic impact . These flaws , if they can be called that , do not detract from what is a highly entertaining and exciting episode .
The Politics Of Individuality	Of the seventeen episodes which form Patrick McGoohan's brilliant ' The Prisoner ' series , ' Free For All ' is in my view the most relevant to the modern world . Written and directed by the man himself ( sheltering behind the pseudonym ' Paddy Fitz ' ) , it was the fourth to be broadcast in the U . K . , and the first to baffle viewers by stepping outside the spy story framework . It begins with an unusually benign Number 2 visiting 6 at home , and over breakfast informing him that there is to be an election in The Village , the winner becoming the new Number 2 . 6 is sceptical , but the thought of meeting Number 1 is tempting . Invited to address The Village , 6 airs his thoughts ( " I am not a number . . . I am a person ! " ) . The crowd laughs . No sooner has 6 finished speaking than placards bearing his face are carried through the confetti-strewn streets , drums are banged , striped umbrellas twirled , and the crowd cheer him on to victory . For the duration of the campaign , 6 is given the services of a maid - Number 58 - who speaks no English . 6 is invited to address the outgoing Council . In a stylish underground chamber , he confronts a row of brainwashed imbeciles . 6's motives for running for office are questioned . When he does not respond , he is handed over to the manager of the Labour Exchange . A different 6 emerges , spouting meaningless slogans and making impossible-to-keep promises . He has become the people's choice . Needless to say , he does not remain in this state for long , and attempts to flee The Village in a motorboat . Rover brings him back , and the brainwashing resumes . Only two candidates are running for office - the handsome yet mindless ( thanks to The Village ) 6 , and the older , experienced 2 . Everyone loves 6 , hardly anyone seems to back 2 . Yet their ' views ' seem to be much the same . Which is very much the case in modern politics . The public , when faced with the daunting prospect of exercising their democratic right , will often vote for the guy who used to read the news on television or who once acted in a long-running soap . Policies ? Forget it . To cut the story short , 6 wins by a landslide . As the transfer of power takes place , the Villagers ' enthusiasm for 6 appears to have evaporated totally . He enters The Green Dome with Number 58 at his side . After initially behaving like a couple of kids let loose in a sweet-shop , their personalities change - he is his old rebellious self once again , she turns nasty and starts slapping him across the face . 6 uses his new position to order a mass evacuation of The Village , but no-one listens . Number 1 is still in command . Cue one very violent ending ( one that had to be trimmed for the original U . K . broadcast ) . ' Free For All ' is a marvellous political allegory . 6 wishes to win power for the right reasons ( to free the people ) , but is reprogrammed by the establishment so that his ideals virtually disappear . The odds are stacked against him from the start . To remind viewers this is an adventure show , there is a motorboat chase , of course , but that's the only concession McGoohan makes . The brainwashing scene is chilling , the late George Benson ( best known for comedy roles ) making a superb interrogator . Even his offer of tea is not to be trusted ! Rachel Herbert's character is used initially for comic relief , rather like Rosalie Crutchley's in ' Checkmate ' , but at the climax , her true significance is revealed , and 6 finds he has been been played for a patsy once more . There is no democracy in The Village ; it is all an illusion . The scene with the ' Tally Ho ' reporters is hilarious , as is the one in the underground therapy zone where Villagers can drink real alcohol without disturbing the equilibrium of The Village . This was one of Eric Portman's last roles , and he is splendid as the ' under dog ' candidate - the older man who knows he will be soundly beaten at the ballet box yet still has to go through the motions of the democratic process . When ' The Prisoner ' was reviewed on the B . B . C . ' s ' Did You See ? ' back in 1983 , Julian Critchley ( the late Tory M . P . for Aldershot ) dismissed ' Free For All ' as ' high camp . . . James Bond without the music ' . Was that his real view ? Or did he sense the episode's message and thought to try and discredit it ?
" You're a bastard , Alan ! " " B'Stard , if you please ! "	By the mid-80's , Rik Mayall was firmly established as one of the biggest comedy stars on British television , thanks to ' A Kick Up The ' 80's ' in which he had played the idiotic Kevin Turvey , and of course ' The Young Ones ' . Lawrence Marks and Maurice Gran had created the brilliant ' Shine On Harvey Moon ' which Mayall admired , so it seemed only natural to combine their talents . The title ' The New Statesman ' had been used three years earlier for a now-forgotten Windsor Davies B . B . C . sitcom . Marks and Gran's series centred around Alan Beresford B'Stard , Machiavellian Tory M . P . for Haltemprice , a man so corrupt and evil as to defy description . He only wins his seat by default after arranging for the other candidates to perish in a car crash . He is married to the lovely Sarah , who plays the devoted wife in public but is in reality a promiscuous bisexual . Alan shares an office at The House Of Commons with Piers Fletcher-Dervish , with whom he has a ' Blackadder / Baldrick ' style relationship . A running gag in the first series had Alan's financial adviser Norman Bormann trying to escape a prison sentence by undergoing a sex change . Credited as ' R . R . Cooper ' , the character was in fact portrayed by Rowena Cooper . I remember watching this back in 1987 and finding it hard to believe it was a Yorkshire Television production . ' Statesman ' had the gloss of a London Weekend Television series . Each episode had Alan embarking on some new ' get-rich-quick ' project ; in the first he gets the law changed to enable policemen to carry guns . Guess who supplies the weapons ? In another , Alan stores nuclear waste under a school . In the series ' best episode , Alan was apparently assassinated , but as we later found out , it was another cunning ploy on his part . Mayall was simply superb as the scheming ' B'Stard ' , a character a world away from ' Rick ' of ' The Young Ones ' , and he was ably supported by sexy Marsha Fitzalan as ' Sarah ' and Michael Troughton as the imbecilic ' Piers ' . The final series took Alan away from Westminister and to Brussels , where he became an M . E . P . Though it had its moments , it wasn't as funny as before . At the very end of the final episode , Alan becomes Prime Minister of Great Britain . Despite the topical references to Thatcher and Reagan , ' Statesman ' has dated far less badly than , say , ' Spitting Image ' . Mayall recently revived B'Stard in a West End stage show , which I haven't seen , but I think Marks and Gran made a blunder in having him defect to New Labour . B'Stard has Tory written through him like Blackpool rock . They should have waited for the Tories to regain power before bringing back B'Stard . If nothing else , the show proved there was more to Rik Mayall than nose picking and farting . Here he proved that he could do satirical farce , and do it extremely well .
Number Six Times Two	Patrick McGoohan , my favourite actor , died earlier this week ( shame on B . B . C . - 1's ' Six O'Clock News ' and I . T . N . for failing to mention this . If it had been Russell Brand it probably would have been the lead item ) , so I thought I'd pay small tribute by looking at an episode of his most famous creation - ' The Prisoner ' T . V . series . I won't spell out the plot in great detail because it would be unfair to anyone viewing it for the first time . Also , it is hard to do ! It begins in Number Six's cottage , where he is assisting a young woman called Alison ( Jane Merrow ) who has telepathic abilities . As he picks out Xener cards , she is able to correctly identify each one . She puts it down to a psychic bond between them . A accident with a soda syphon leaves him with a bruised thumbnail . We do not know it yet but that bruise - and her photograph of it - will be important later on . As she leaves , the scene switches to The Village's control room , where Number Two ( Anton Rodgers ) commences the latest plot to break The Prisoner and learn the reason for his resignation . A light over the sleeping Prisoner's head pulsates , and medics carry him off to the hospital . He is there for an undetermined period , long enough for him to grown a moustache anyway , also his hair is dyed black , and he undergoes electric shock treatment to make him left-handed instead of right . When he awakens , he is not in his usual dwelling , and when he looks in a mirror sees his appearance has been altered . At the Green Dome , Number Two addresses him as ' Number Twelve ' , and acts as though he is on his side . Number Six is given his ' orders ' - to break himself ! After having his hair dyed back to its original colour and the moustache shaved , Number Six returns to his original dwelling . Who should be in residence but . . . Number Six ? Confused ? So apparently was director Pat Jackson when he read the script back in 1966 . To his credit , his confusion is not apparent . The complex plan to make The Prisoner doubt his identity almost works . Following a lengthy session with the double in which both men sword fence , shoot guns , and box , ironically it is Alison who provides the final damning proof by establishing her psychic bond with the double . It is all a put-up job though , and later she regrets her decision to co-operate with The Village . ' Schizoid Man ' is one of the finest episodes of the series , intriguing throughout , boasting a tour-de-force performance from McGoohan . When the double lays in wait for Number Six with a nerve gas gun , the actor excludes the charming arrogance he would bring later to his many villainous roles , such as ' Roger Devereau ' in ' Silver Streak ' . The scene where Number Six makes himself right-handed again is powerful indeed . Anton Rodgers is the youngest ' Number Two ' seen in the show so far , playing him not as a ruthless interrogator but a seemingly-harmless bureaucrat : " Here I am , stuck in Admin ! " . However , when Number Six fails the mind-reading test with Alison , you will see Number Two smirking at The Prisoner's discomfiture . Not so nice after all . Terence Feely's script so impressed McGoohan the writer was invited to join the board of directors at Everyman Films - the company that made the series . It is a superbly plotted show , with a strong ending , even if Number Six's carelessness is ultimately a little hard to swallow , given that earlier episodes established him as a tricky character to outwit . The new ' Prisoner ' has got an awful lot to live up to . If only one episode is half as good as this , I will be happy . But no matter how superior the new show's special effects might or might not be , you cannot replace McGoohan . He was ' The Prisoner ' . Be Seeing You , Patrick .
Alf's ultimate nightmare !	Alf is clipping his toenails with scissors when someone knocks the door . It is Min ( Patricia Hayes ) , his old neighbour , and she has brought along her sister - the senile Gwenneth ( Irene Handl ) . This appalling pair pair proceeds to move in ( " only for a few days " ) , turfing Alf out of his bed . Gwenneth is not only deaf ( and has to wear a hearing aid ) but has problems remembering who Alf is . Rita arrives and informs Min that Mrs . Garnett has passed on . Min takes an instant dislike to Mrs . Hollingbery , and when both women prepare dinners for Alf war breaks out . . . The second season of ' And In Health ' ended with this cracker , reintroducing Min ( last seen in the ' Till Death ' spin-off ) , who stayed behind in Eastbourne when Alf and Else went back to London . This will ring a bell with anyone who recalls what it is like when friends or relatives turn up uninvited , and take a house over completely . Luckily for Alf , Rita's arrival gives him the chance to make a beeline for the pub . As ' Min ' and ' Gwenneth ' , Patricia Hayes and Irene Handl are a scream , practically reducing Alf to silence for most of the episode . Min still fancies him ( " my husband Bert couldn't awaken me as a woman ! " ) and , her face covered in make-up , presents him with a meat pudding , only for Mrs . Holiingbery to chuck it out of the window . Only a few episodes back Alf and Mrs . Hollingbery were themselves up to this kind of behaviour . Now the Irish widow seems fond of him to the point of over protectiveness . Her first name , incidentally , is given here for the first time - ' Camille ' . The climax takes place at a street party intended to mark the wedding of Prince Andrew to Sarah Ferguson ( how long ago that all seems now ! ) . As was the case with the Royal Wedding party in 1973 , hardly anyone turns up , and when Alf tries to fix bunting to a lamp post it triggers a dispute with Mr . Johnson , leading to a ' Last Of The Summer Wine'-style stunt as a ladder gives way , causing Alf to fall into Fred's car . Funniest moment - Min's wonderfully over the top display of grief at the news of Else's passing . It shows what a marvellous actress Patricia Hayes was . Second funniest moment - Alf realising Gwenneth has wet his bed !
They Were More Than Just The Welsh Morecambe & Wise	In the early ' 70's , it looked as though Welsh comedians Ryan Davies and Ronnie Williams were poised to breakthrough into the British comedy mainstream . Bill Cotton , the then-Head Of Light Entertainment at the B . B . C . attended a recording of one of their shows and , despite not really understanding it ( it was in Welsh ) was sufficiently impressed by the audience's reaction to the duo put them on B . B . C . - 1 . ' Ryan & Ronnie ' was a lively , amusing show , combining sketches in which they took off top television shows of the day such as ' Steptoe & Son ' , ' Rowan & Martin's Laugh-In ' , even ' The Magic Roundabout ' , musical items , Eric & Ernie-style cross-talk , and the soap opera parody ' Our House ' which was good enough to have warranted a spin-off . It would have been unsurprising if they had failed to appeal to audiences beyond the valleys , but they didn't and ' Ryan & Ronnie ' ran for three seasons . Sadly , their triumph was to be short-lived ; Ryan died of asthma in 1977 , robbing us of a wonderful double-act whose potential went largely unrealised .
" I Say , You're Not The Duke Of Wellington , Are You ? "	Chosen ( rather oddly ) to represent ' The Prisoner ' as part of I . T . V . ' s ' Best Of British ' series in 1982 , ' Girl ' is one of the least representative episodes . Apart from the final scene , there's nothing to link it to the ongoing saga of ' Number 6 ' and his quest to escape The Village . It opens with an ' Avengers ' type teaser in which a British agent is blown up by a cricket ball . McGoohan's unnamed agent ( surely not John Drake ? ) replaces him , going off on a wild chase across Merrie England , avoiding death-traps , until he confronts the girl and her Napoleon-obsessed father , who is plotting the destruction of London . ' Girl ' is usually thought of as a send-up of ' Danger Man ' , but Drake never had an adventure as outrageous as this . Justine Lord's glamorous assassin and the late Kenneth Griffith's over-the-top megalomaniac are glorious , while Terence Feely's ingenious script ridicules the conventions of the spy genre more effectively than any of the bigger budgeted movies made at that time .
" You're never to old to learn , Sir ! "	A new craze sweeps through The Village . ' Speed Learn ' is a subliminal educational process by which students can accomplish three years ' worth of studying in three minutes . It is the work of The Professor , a benign academic who delivers lectures via the television screen . In reality , though , he is merely a figurehead for a sinister brainwashing project . Witnessing The Professor's unsuccessful attempt to escape from The Village , The Prisoner finds a tape recorder warning the listener about ' Speed Learn ' ( " it is an abomination ! " ) , and urging the destruction of ' The General ' , the real brains behind the project . Teaming up with Number 12 from Adminstration , The Prisoner penetrates the wall of security surrounding ' Speed Learn ' , with the intention of replacing The Village's history lessons with a healthy dose of democracy . . . I watched this today as a kind of personal tribute to its director , Peter Graham Scott , who has just died . Scott claimed not to have understood Lewis Greifer's script at the time , but what may have seemed incomprehensible in 1966 is frighteningly relevant now . ' The General ' is a stark warning of the dangers of over-reliance on television for information . In the U . K . , several well-publicised scandals concerning reedited news footage and so-called ' fakeumentaries ' have recently occurred . In America , the Fox News Network has been tying itself into knots in an effort to justify the Iraq fiasco and turn it into a raging success for ' General ' George and co . While these examples may seem far removed from the futuristic nuts and bolts of ' The General ' , the principle is the same . The medium used to sell bubble gum can also be used to sell wars . ' The General ' also urges caution with regard to the up-and-coming computer age . Now I will be the first to admit that the home computer ( and internet ) boom has been overwhelmingly positive , yet I can easily understand why there was nervousness back in 1966 ( you will also find it in movies like ' 2001 : A Space Odyssey ' and ' Colossus : The Forbin Project ' ) Like every great stride in progress , the computer revolution has had a dark side , particularly in enabling idiots to grab publicity by expounding half-baked conspiracy theories and perverts greater access to unacceptable material . Colin Gordon is a wonderfully charming ' Number 2 ' ( " Don't underestimate yourself , Number Six . . . and don't underestimate me ! " ) , along with Leo McKern he was the only other actor to play the role more than once . John Castle , Peter Howell and Betty McDowall all provide solid support . ' The General ' contains many memorable sequences , such as the ' Speed Learn ' broadcasts , The Professor's wife explaining art to The Prisoner , and the men in dark glasses and top hats ( amongst them The Prisoner ) gaining access to a restricted area of The Village . Interestingly , the finale has The Prisoner destroying The General simply by asking it a three-letter question . Many is the time my P . C . has crashed just because I have made it do a mind-bogglingly simple task ! Despite much of ' The General ' now seeming dated ( particularly the computer itself ! ) , its message is one we all would do well to heed .
" Take A Look At The Lawman . . . "	When I first heard about this , I thought : " Here we go again . Yet another one of those awful ' let's make fun of the past ' shows . " ( in fact , it was originally going to be that way , and called ' Ford Granada ' . But then commonsense prevailed ) . I tuned in nervously to the first episode . It came as a pleasant surprise . That it got made at all is another reason to be thankful to ' Dr . Who ' executive producer Julie Gardner . It had been turned down beforehand by both the B . B . C . and Channel 4 . The premise is this : D . C . I . Sam Tyler is involved in a hit-and-run incident and finds himself in 1973 , working alongside the ebullient D . C . I . Gene Hunt and sexy W . P . C . Annie Cartwright . He does his best to adjust to his new environment , but there are constant reminders of his old life ; the girl on the B . B . C . test card sends him cryptic messages , he hears medics trying to revive him , and meets himself as a boy . The production team has gone to a good deal of trouble to evoke the era ; at times ' Life On Mars ' comes close to mirroring ' Special Branch ' and ' The Sweeney ' , the character of D . C . I . Hunt puts one in mind of John Thaw's ' Regan ' . As soon as he appears , seizing Tyler's lapels , and spitting : " Its 1973 . Almost dinnertime , and I'm having hoops ! " , you know the show is going to work . Its a terrific performance from Philip Glenister . John Simm is equally outstanding as the reluctant time traveller . Inaccuraccies crop up here and there ; ' male bonding ' was not a phrase in common use in the ' 70's , and ' Nelson ' the Rastafarian barman isn't credible for that era , but to complain would be churlish . ' Life On Mars ' is my favourite programme of 2006 and I cannot wait for the second ( alas , the last ) series . Already , talk of a spin-off is rife ; instead of ' Ashes To Ashes ' , perhaps they should call it ' Gene Genie ' ?
As good as Bond	Several oil executives die in mysterious ' accidents ' and each time , an anonymous company is richer by a million pounds . Insurance underwriter Hugh Drummond is called in to investigate . Jimmy Sangster had earlier put Hammer Films on the map by reworking old horror favourites like ' Dracula ' and ' Frankenstein ' . In 1966 , he gave Sapper's ' Bulldog Drummond ' a Bond make-over . Richard Johnson was well cast ; smooth , charming , and sophisticated . The girls are stunningly beautiful , and the film bristles with excitement , invention and good humour . Nigel Green is excellent as Carl Petersen . Some great set-pieces ; the underground car park fight is surprisingly violent , while the chessboard finale is straight out of ' The Avengers ' . All this plus a cameo by the late , great Leonard Rossiter , and a blinding title song by The Walker Brothers ! Wisely , the film doesn't try to compete with the more lavish Bonds such as ' Goldfinger ' and ' Thunderball ' . Both Drummond films were novelised for Coronet Books by Henry Reymond .
Satire On Sunday !	Of all the sketch shows that came in the wake of ' Monty Python's Flying Circus ' , ' End Of Part One ' was , I think , the best . It only ran to two seasons , yet is well remembered by those who saw it . Andrew Marshall and David Renwick's witty skits mocked not only television programmes , but also their presentation . Titles and theme tunes were parodied accurately . ' Larry Grayson's Fat Ladies ' Embarrassment Game ' sent up ' The Generation Game ' , ' Doctor Eyes ' took the mickey out of Tom Baker-era ' Dr . Who ( director Geoffrey Sax would helm the real thing in 1996 ) , ' OHMS ' was ' MASH ' starring the Royal Family , ' Mr & Mr & Mrs ' was ' Mr & Mrs ' except here the female contestant had two husbands , ' The British Bum Awards ' guyed B . A . F . T . A . ' s tedious award ceremonies ( the recipient of ' The All-Time Greatest Bum Performance Award ' was , naturally , Bernard Manning ) . ' Are You Being Stereotyped ? ' subverted the signature tune of the long-running Jeremy Lloyd / David Croft sit-com to devastating effect , becoming in effect a scathing critique . A parody of ' The Hollywood Greats ' concluded with the Barry Norman figure being murdered by the dead movie stars whose reputations he has wrecked . My favourite sketch was ' Cheapo Cartoon Man ' , which cocked a snook at American animated superhero shows . Not all of the humour was about television . In one funny sketch , set in 1930's Hollywood , a young make-up artist ( Tony Aitken ) completes his designs for the new Frankenstein movie , only to discover that the studio executives all closely resemble the monster . A send-up of ' The Great Escape ' , set in Hell , had The Damned attempting to tunnel their way into Heaven . On arrival , however , they were confronted by none other than Cliff Richard ! The cast , particularly Dudley Stevens and Sue Holderness , were outstanding . In the first season , the sketches were linked by Norman and Vera Straightman ( Aitken and Denise Coffey ) , a dreary T . V . - obsessed couple , but they were barely seen in the second . One item , ' Whoops Apocalypse ! ' , was later expanded , first into a series , and then a film . ' End Of Part One ' was hilarious , frequently brilliant , and deserved a longer run , but L . W . T . tucked it away on Sunday afternoons , where its target audience was least likely to find it . Marshall and Renwick made their displeasure public , refusing to write another series unless it was rescheduled . L . W . T . wouldn't give in , however , and sadly it never came back . Won't someone - anyone - please put ' End Of Part One ' on D . V . D . ?
" Welcome To Project Zero ! "	Along a quiet country road , a man in a lab coat runs , plainly terrified . Coming to a small village square , he finds it eerily deserted . He tries to make a phone call , but while his back is turned , the Postmaster shoots him dead . The scientist's body is later found dumped in a London street . Tremayne tells The Champions that several scientists , all experts in their field , have mysteriously disappeared . Posing as a physicist , Richard Barrett attends an interview for what he believes to be a top secret British Government project . In actual fact , it is bogus ; the project's director - Dr . Voss - intends using a laser gun to destroy stockpiles of nuclear material unless his demands are met . The late Tony Williamson was one of the best I . T . C . staff writers , and this is his finest ' Champions ' script . There's genuine suspense in the scene where Craig attempts to remove the explosive collar around Richard's neck . Great ending , with Sharron getting the last word for once !
Baxter Brilliance !	When producer / director David Bell defected to L . W . T . in 1972 , star Stanley Baxter followed suit . ' Picture ' had a brief run ( only four episodes were made ) but provided the Scottish comedian with the launching pad for those spectacular one-hour shows for which he is best remembered . It comprised spoofs of popular television shows of the day such as ' Whicker's World ' , ' Braden's Week ' , ' Cinema ' and ' The Benny Hill Show ' - all were sent up something rotten . ' Scars On Sunday ' , to give an example , had Stanley as ' Jest Fate ' , an accurate lampoon of the late Jess ' Bishop ' Yates . The same sketch featured Stanley as Eartha Kitt and Harry Secombe ! ' Elfin Nolan - Supertramp ' was an effective mickey-take of portentous rock documentaries such as those directed by Tony Palmer . Any resemblance between the character and the late Marc Bolan was presumably coincidental . ' Peculiar Girl ' had Stanley as Barbra Streisand from the film ' Funny Girl ' . Miming to ' Don't Reign On My Parade ' , Stanley was to be seen hijacking a bus , riding various forms of transport ( such as a penny farthing bicycle , tricycle and roller skates ) and zooming over London on a broomstick . Anyone who thinks Stanley was not a good impressionist needs their head examined . He did not just take off politicians and minor celebrities , but went for big-name stars such as Joan Crawford , Bette Davis , Clark Gable and Katherine Hepburn . He was the first comedian to impersonate The Queen ! I have seen Rich Little and he is just not in the same class . Stanley had strong support from the brilliant writer Ken Hoare and director David Bell . Of course some sketches have not aged very well ( the parody of Ken Russell's ' The Music Lovers ' comes to mind ) mainly because memories of the originals have faded . But Stanley's genius remains undiminished with the passage of time . Watch and marvel that comedy of this calibre ever got made , much less transmitted .
" Talk , Stirling , talk ! "	NEMESIS agent Craig Stirling is trapped in a room from which there is no escape , where he is ruthlessly interrogated by a sinister man , who wants to know all about ' the Retford case ' . Stirling is being broken a bit at a time . The water is drugged , and the exit turns out to be fake . The only people who can help him are Richard and Sharon , but they dare not lift a finger for fear of revealing the existence of their super powers . . . One of the best episodes of ' Man In A Suitcase ' was ' Brainwash ' . ' The Interrogation ' has virtually the same plot , and yes Colin Blakely played an interrogator in that too . Good use of clips of old episodes , Its easily Stuart Damon's finest work on the show , and Blakely gives him powerful support . Dennis Spooner's script has a strong ' Prisoner ' feel . Its the ending which makes the story , though . No , I'm not giving it away . You'll have to watch for yourself .
Trek In The U . K .	I was a fan of ' Star Trek ' long before I saw a single episode . In 1969 a comic called ' Joe 90 : Top Secret ' went on sale in the U . K . Along with ' Joe 90 ' , it featured ' The Champions ' , ' Land Of The Giants ' , and of course , ' Star Trek ' . By the time the B . B . C . bought it - ' Star Trek ' was shown as a summer replacement for ' Dr . Who ' which went temporarily off-air following Patrick Troughton's departure - I was well acquainted with the format and characters . ' The U . S . S . Enterprise ' is , according to the credits , on a five year mission to explore new worlds and go where no man has gone before . The ship is commanded by ' Captain James T . Kirk ' , played by William Shatner . Kirk used to drive me nuts by kissing a different girl each week . Also aboard were the late DeForest Kelley as crusty ' Dr . Leonard ' Bones ' McCoy ' and Leonard Nimoy ( who stole the show ) as the emotionless Vulcan ' Mr . Spock ' . Some highly regarded sci-fi authors contributed scripts , including Harlan Ellison , Robert Bloch , Richart Matheson , Theodore Sturgeon , Jerry Sohl , and Norman Spinrad . The B . B . C . endlessly re-ran ' Star Trek ' throughout the ' 70's , usually in peak viewing time . Though regarded as a failure in the U . S . A . , ' Star Trek ' cast a long shadow over television science fiction for years to come , with new series such as ' Space : 1999 ' being rightly or wrongly compared to it . I got a ' Star Trek ' annual every Christmas until 1979 ! We Brits never experienced ' Trek''s decline because the episodes were screened wildly out of sequence by the B . B . C . I can remember watching ' Return Of The Archons ' in 1974 and thinking it was a brand new episode ! As Mr . Spock might have said : " Most illogical . " .
Not One For The ' Cutting-Edge ' Brigade	The above rating is for the mid-'70's to mid-80's shows , when ' Last Of The Summer Wine ' was at its peak in my view . Brian Wilde was ' Foggy ' , Peter Sallis ' Clegg ' , and the irreplaceable Bill Owen played ' Compo ' . ' Last ' is the perfect tonic ; the sun always shines in Holmfirth , everybody gets on well with everybody else , and nothing unpleasant ever seems to happen . No wonder its lasted thirty-three years . Its detractors seem to think its main audience are pensioners . Wrong . ' Last ' is watched by children too ; in fact its one of the few television comedies on now that the family can enjoy . Naturally , this makes it a thorn in the side of the ' cutting-edge ' comedy brigade , who can't sit through anything for more than two minutes unless someone either swears , vomits or farts . The quality of the show might not be what it once was , but its still more enjoyable than the dire ' Little Britain ' . Brian Murphy , Frank Thornton , Peter Sallis and Stephen Lewis are living proof that comedy doesn't have to be ' a young man's game ' .
Two Lipsticks And A Shaving Brush	A few years ago , the satellite channel U . K . Gold promoted repeats of ' Men Behaving Badly ' with the line : " Here it is , the original flat-sharing sitcom ! " . It was totally untrue . ' Man About The House ' was also a flat-sharing sitcom and ran from 1973-76 . It was the brainchild of Johnnie Mortimer and Brian Cooke , creators of the popular ' Father Dear Father ' . When that sitcom ended , they decided they wanted to do something a bit more in harmony with the times . In the first episode , Chrissy ( Paula Wilcox ) and Jo ( Sally Thomsett ) are tidying their Myddleton Terrace flat following a wild party when they find a man in their bath . He is Robin Tripp ( Richard O'Sullivan ) , a Southampton cookery student of no fixed abode . While his clothes dry out , he puts on a ladies ' dressing gown and prepares them a meal . They are so impressed by his culinary skills that they invite him to stay . But there must be no naughty business . So Robin has to pretend to be gay . . . One of the most iconic ( for me , anyway ) images of ' 70's British television was Sally Thomsett coming out of the London Underground carrying a parasol , and a ' blind ' man doing a double take as her pert bottom swings past . A man living with two girls was a risqu subject for the time . But Mrs . Mary Whitehouse had no need to get hot under the collar , it was innocent , good-natured fun . Mortimer and Cooke's scripts were daring and witty . Richard O'Sullivan was still playing ' Bingham ' in I . T . V . ' s ' Doctor In Charge ' when this got started . In fact the second run of ' In Charge ' overlapped with the first of ' House ' . He was born to play Robin . Paula Wilcox's ' Chrissy ' was a bit more streetwise than ' Beryl ' , the character she played in ' The Lovers ' , while Sally Thomsett's ' Jo ' was a lovable dizzy blonde . For many viewers , Brian Murphy and Yootha Joyce stole the show as the warring Ropers . George had lost interest in sex , but Mildred had not . They went on to their own show - the aptly titled ' George & Mildred ' . The late Doug Fisher was good value as as Robin's friend Larry . He worked so well with Robin he was made into a regular . Within a year of its debut , there was the inevitable movie spin-off . I am not a big fan of the ' Man About The House ' movie because I think it was stretched to fit the big screen . Most of its characters had never appeared in the series . The format was sold to America , where it became the long-running ' Three's Company ' starring the late John Ritter and Suzanne Somers . It was far more suggestive than the British original , with Somers often seen in sexy clothing . After seven seasons , ' House ' ended with Chrissy marrying Robin's older brother Norman ( Norman Eshley ) . Fans were devastated to see Robin failing to get the girl he loved , but there was some consolation in the fact that he went on to land his own show - ' Robin's Nest ' .
The Making Of A ' Dr . Who ' Classic	When ' Inferno ' was released on D . V . D . earlier this year , I nearly didn't buy it as my V . H . S . copy was still in good condition . Then I changed my mind , and thank goodness for that because then I'd have missed this cracking documentary . Opening with a brief recap of earlier Season 7 adventures , it swiftly moves onto the origins of Don Houghton's story . Outgoing producers Derrick Sherwin and Peter Bryant had decided to exile the Doctor to Earth and make longer stories , decisions the Script-Editor Terrance Dicks did not agree with . ' Inferno ' underwent two major rewrites ; firstly , to bring in some monsters ( Primords ) and secondly , accommodate the seven-episode length by flinging the Doctor into a parallel universe where he meets evil dopplegangers of his friends . In retrospect this second development can now be seen as the moment when the story took on the mantle of greatness . As you may have gathered , ' Inferno ' is my favourite ' Dr . Who ' story of all time , and I'm pleased to report that this documentary is fascinating throughout , full of interesting behind-the-scenes information and comments . Nice to see the cast and crew praising the late Douglas Camfield , even though most of the serial was helmed by Barry Letts . I agree with Nicholas Courtney when he describes the meshing of Camfield's and Letts ' work as ' seamless ' . John Levene seems not to have aged a day since 1970 ! As indeed has Ian Fairbairn , who played doomed technician ' Bromley ' . Its especially moving to hear Caroline John recalling the day she was told she was not coming back to ' Dr . Who ' . I felt the character of ' Liz Shaw ' should not have been dropped . Liz was a feisty , intelligent lady , far removed from the ' screamers ' of the show's monochrome years , and her presence enhanced ' Dr . Who ' immeasurably . Its the only decision Barry Letts took on ' Dr . Who ' with which I strongly disagree . Shame about the caption identifying the author of ' Spearhead From Space ' as Malcolm Hulke . It was , of course , the legendary Robert Holmes . Otherwise , a practically flawless programme .
" Its Bleedin ' Treasure Island Now ! "	Much to Mackay's disgust , Fletcher is laid up in the hospital wing of Slade prison with a broken foot . Also there is Blanco , an elderly man , and the conniving , weasel-like Norris . On hearing that Norris now owns Blanco's most treasured possessions - an antique snuff box , a Japanese radio , and a music-box that plays ' Waltzing Matilda ' - Fletcher is furious . Norris defends himself by stating that he won these fairly and squarely at cards . Determined that Blanco should get his possessions back , Fletcher cooks up a clever plan to get Norris to hand them over . . . Sitcoms like ' The Fenn Street Gang ' and ' The Goodies ' are easy to review because there are plenty of episodes to be critical of as well as to enthuse about . With ' Porridge ' , its a different situation . Its hard to be objective about the show because each episode is a masterpiece . The combination of Ronnie Barker's acting , great support work from Richard Beckinsale , Fulton Mackay , Brian Wilde et al , the scripts by Dick Clement and Ian LaFrenais all add up to one of television's greatest achievements . ' Happy Release ' takes Fletcher temporarily away from his cell , though thankfully not away from his friends . David Jason makes his third appearance as the old lag Blanco ( his first was in ' No Peace For The Wicked ' ) . Although they played different characters on many series ( ' Hark At Barker ' , ' Six Dates With Barker ' , ' Open All Hours ' ) , Barker and Jason clicked each time . So it is here . Fletcher telling Blanco a dirty joke is one of the episode's many highlights . Colin Farrell , who plays ' Norris ' , was ' Ernie Hadfield ' in the popular Thora Hird I . T . V . sitcom ' In Loving Memory ' . Funniest moment - Norris caught digging up a football pitch in a futile search for buried treasure !
" I read a book once . Green it was ! "	Three new arrivals at H . M . Slade Prison - the dimwitted Cyril Heslop , first-timer Lennie Godber , and recidivist Norman Stanley Fletcher . Mackay warns the guards to keep an eye on the latter . Following an army-style lecture on discipline by the Scots warder , the newcomers are subjected to a medical , or ' depersonalisation ' as Fletcher calls it . He gives Godber useful tips on how to survive behind bars , such as requesting special shoes for flat feet to avoid wearing uncomfortable prison boots . In the Governor's office , the wily Cockney pretends to be an expert on tropical fish ( the Governor has a tank of these ) , having set his heart on a cushy job in the library , and a cell of his own . In the event , he gets neither of these , being made to share with Heslop and work in a piggery . Over a year after ' Prisoner & Escort ' went out as part of the ' Seven Of One ' series , ' Porridge ' got underway with this fine episode , establishing the prison setting and introducing Richard Beckinsale as ' Godber ' , who with Ronnie Barker's ' Fletcher ' formed one of the all-time great comedy partnerships . Even here you can see a father / son type relationship developing . The late Brian Glover played ' Heslop ' in the first season only . Clement and La Frenais used him in the ' No Hiding Place ' episode of ' Whatever Happened To The Likely Lads ? ' as ' Brian Flint ' . Funniest moment - Fletcher having a medical , and blaming his feet for all sorts of problems . " Are you or have you ever been a practising homosexual ? " , the doctor asks . Fletcher says seriously : " What , with these feet ? " .
" A robbery ? Anything stolen ? "	Despite not being an official ' Goon Show ' movie ( as the dire ' Down Among The Z-Men ' was ) , this is the best example of Goon humour on film . I watched it online recently for the first time in fifteen years and found it as hysterically funny as ever . Peter Sellers and Spike Milligan are the incompetent Scotland Yard detectives called in to investigate the theft of the legendary Mukkinese Battlehorn , thought to be the only one of its kind in existence . Along the way they encounter idiots such as Henry Crun , Minnie Bannister and the famous Eccles . Sadly Harry Secombe is missing , but Dick Emery makes a more than adequate replacement . Sellers ' Superintendent Quilt anticipates his later ' Inspector Clouseau ' . The script by Larry Stephens , Harry Booth and Jon Pennington ( with additional material by Spike Milligan and Peter Sellers ) contains a few recycled gags , yet feels fresh . The music was by Edwin Astley , later to compose the excellent scores for I . T . C . shows ' The Saint ' and ' The Baron ' amongst others . He gets into the spirit of the thing by providing dramatic stings every time something ridiculous ( which is very few seconds ) happens . I was slightly surprised at the resemblance between this film and the classic ' Two Ronnies ' serial ' The Phantom Raspberry Blower Of Old London Town ' . Both set out to ridicule in Goon-like fashion the old Basil Rathbone ' Sherlock Holmes ' pictures . Funniest moment - a couple are kissing near the docks in thick London fog . A policeman strolls over . " Sir , would you mind accompanying me to the station ? " . Pause . Then : " I'm lost ! " . He walks off and a moment later , we hear a loud splash !
" I hear you've got a game going ! "	To keep their minds occupied behind bars , the inmates of H . M . Slade Prison have turned to gambling . They will bet on anything - two flies walking up a wall , guessing the number of bricks in a cell , two flies walking down a wall - and everything . Fletcher's working with pigs means he has easy access to the hen house , meaning he can get his hands on lots of lovely eggs . Ideal gambling currency . After Ives cheats on a bet , Fletcher gives him eggs which Mackay then finds . Frogmarched off to the Governor's office , Ives is determined to get his own back . . . The second episode introduces Christopher Biggins as the camp ' Lukewarm ' and Ken Jones as ' Orrible Ives ' . Jones featured in a few ' 70's sitcoms , including ' Last Of The Baskets ' which co-starred Patricia Hayes and Arthur Lowe , Vince Powell's ' The Wackers ' and Eric Chappell's very funny ( and undeservedly forgotten ) ' The Squirrels ' . The cowardly ' Ives ' is massively unpopular with both warders and inmates , and here you can see why . On discovering where Fletcher's game ( snakes and ladders ) is to take place , he informs Mackay , who arranges a most suitable punishment . But all is not as it seems , as Fletcher manages to turn the situation to his advantage yet again . The late Ray Dunbobbin is seen as ' Evans ' , whom Fletcher describes as ' that Welsh lunatic who eats electric light bulbs ' . Like ' Heslop ' he was not seen again after the first series . The actor also played ' Sid Skellhorn ' in the first season of ' I Didn't Know You Cared ' and ' Mr . Boswell ' in ' The Liver Birds ' . Funniest moment - Fletcher , Lukewarm , Evans and Heslop emerging from a cellar covered in coal dust .
" To The Batpoles ! "	' Batman ' was one of a bunch of U . S . shows to benefit from the arrival of colour television in the mid-'60's . The sets , costumes , over-the-top gadgetry , all screamed ' Look ! We're In Colour ! ' . Had it been done two years earlier in black and white , I don't think it would have worked . William Dozier hit on the idea of ' camping ' the Batman character in order to broaden his appeal . It worked ; ' Batman ' displaced ' The Man From U . N . C . L . E . ' as America's coolest show . I can remember watching as a kid and being annoyed because my parents found it funny . Now I understand the reasons for their amusement . It was the ' Police Squad ! ' of its day . One of my favourite scenes had Batman talking to Commissioner Gordon by phone from the Batcave and pretending to be both himself and Bruce Wayne . Though Batman doesn't change his voice Gordon is convinced he's talking to two different people . Another was the scene where Gordon rings Batman for help , only to learn that the Caped Crusader is unavailable . " You know what this means , Chief O'Hara ? We'll have to solve this case ourselves ! " . A long line of distinguished stage and screen stars lined up to make appearances in ' Batman ' , either as villains or to lean out of the window whenever The Dynamic Duo climbed the wall . They included Anne Baxter , George Sanders , Roddy McDowall , Cliff Robertson , Tallulah Bankhead , Cesar Romero , Burgess Meredith , and even Liberace . For me , though , the ultimate ' Batman ' baddie was ' Catwoman ' , as played by the delectable Julie Newmar . She set the T . V . set ablaze with her body language and suggestive dialogue . Like all fads , ' Batman ' didn't last . The third season introduced ' Batgirl ' as a regular , played by Yvonne Craig , and was the weakest of the three . The show's popularity has endured , with reruns always lurking somewhere on the airwaves . It gives a man a good feeling to know The Dynamic Dou are out there still , doing their job !
" So Clever But Oh So Vulnerable "	' Adam Adamant Lives ! ' was another innovative and inventive adventure series from the creative mind of Sydney Newman ( his others include ' The Avengers ' and ' Dr . Who ' ) . Having been placed in suspended animation by his arch-enemy ' The Face ' , the dashing Edwardian hero Adam Adamant ( Gerald Harper ) was found and revived in 1966 , where he , aided and abetted by his sidekicks - the wide-eyed Mod Georgina Jones and ' Jeeves'-like butler William Simms , battled evil in the modern world . Verity Lambert produced , the scripts were by amongst others Brian Clemens and Tony Williamson . Ridley Scott directed several episodes . Being a video-taped B . B . C . production , it stood no chance of competing with the more expensive filmed shows made by I . T . C . , but worked well enough on its own terms . Gerald Harper cut a dash as the caped Adamant , sword stick forever at the ready . The first season outperformed ' The Man From U . N . C . L . E . ' in the ratings in Britain . In the second year , Peter Ducrow was reintroduced as ' The Face ' . Many episodes no longer exist , alas , but those that do are splendidly entertaining and amusing . ( To the unnamed author of the comment entitled ' First Episode ' , I think that you ought to have watched it all the way to the end before submitting your damning review . You do not seem to have grasped that this was a fantasy adventure show , and as such was not intended to be taken seriously . )
Alias The Baron	I . T . C . made ' The Baron ' as a follow-up to ' The Saint ' series starring Roger Moore . Terry Nation , Dennis Spooner and Brian Clemens ignored John Creasey's books and invented wholly original plots . Some such as ' Storm Warning / The Island ' had a strong ' U . N . C . L . E . / Avengers ' flavour . The casting of Steve Forrest as ' John Mannering ' worked because there were no previous screen incarnations to judge him by . As per the books , Mannering owned an antiques shop in London , but was now a part-time agent for British Intelligence , headed by John Templeton-Greene ( Colin Gordon ) , hence the scope of the plots ran from crime to espionage to mystery . The presence of luscious Sue Lloyd ( as ' Cordelia ' ) further distanced the show from the Moore series . While ' The Baron ' failed to replicate the success of ' The Saint ' in the U . S . A . , it remains an enormously entertaining show and the only screen incarnation of the character to date . It also has one of Edwin Astley's best theme tunes !
Terror From Thames !	Sufferers of a nervous disposition found much in early ' 70's British television to give them sleepless nights - the half-eaten corpse in the ' Tomorrow The Rat ' episode of ' Doomwatch ' ; ' Dr . Edith Joynton ' ageing to death in seconds in ' Timeslip ' ; ' Platoon Under-Leader ' Benton's transformation into a Primord in the ' Dr . Who ' story ' Inferno ' ; people turning into skeletons in the ' Bones Of Byrom Blain ' outing of ' Department S ' , and in ' The Goodies ' , Tim Brooke-Taylor in drag finding the remains of Cecily's nanny in a rocking chair ( more frightening than ' Psycho ' ! ) . I forgot to mention Hughie Green in ' Opportunity Knocks ! ' . Beating them all for sheer terror was the title sequence of this Thames-made anthology series . Following the familiar Thames logo , we see a bleak overhead shot of a town . We then glide along a row of terraced houses , whose windows contain screaming faces , a faceless figure , and a boy staring at a bald man whose internal organs are on display . Accompanying all this is a haunting Roger Webb tune , punctuated by the chatter of human voices . Brown trousers time . ' The Death Watcher ' , the third edition broadcast , was written by Jacques Gilles , whose other credits include an episode of ' Danger Man ' ( called ' Say It With Flowers ' ) starring the late , great Patrick McGoohan . Emmy Erikson ( Judy Parfitt ) is a University Professor who travels by train to meet Pickering ( John Neville ) in the name of research for a book on psychic phenomena . He surprises her by taking her to a different location , a house in an isolated setting . He appears charming and affable at first , then mentions his reason for bringing her there . He wishes to stage an experiment to communicate with the dead . Realising he is a nut case , she tries to leave , but there are no late trains so she reluctantly must stay the night . The room she is given has bars on the windows and the door is locked . The next morning , she again tries to leave , but Pickering instructs his employee Dawson ( Victor Maddern ) to physically restrain her . In his cellar , the deranged Pickering has a box in which he intends to imprison Emmy , cover it with chicken wire , and fill with water . As she dies , the last thing she will see is a huge blow-up photograph of her killer . He can then ( so he believes ) speak to her in the next world . Emmy tries screaming out of her window , but to no avail . Pickering has put up a sign that says : ' Nursing Home ' . Passers-by simply ignore her cries of help . . . This is a tense , suspenseful story , and John Neville ( who played ' Sherlock Holmes ' in the 1965 film ' A Study In Terror ' as well as the title role in Terry Gilliam's ' Baron Munchausen ' ) is brilliant as the maniac . Charming , elegant , intelligent - but mad , not averse to dancing with a roll of chicken wire ! Judy Parfitt likewise is impressive as the imprisoned Professor . Today they would probably cast some bimbo in the role . Victor Maddern , known for comedy roles , provides good support as ' Dawson ' . Ostensibly he is on Pickering's side , but then even he comes to see his employer is off his trolley . The ending is guaranteed to send a shiver up the spine . Eleven episodes of this show were made , still exist , and deserve to be released on D . V . D . Checking the transmission dates , I note that the last one went out two years after the rest of the series . I wonder why ?
" The Name Is Pulaski ! "	The recent I . T . V . series ' Moving Wallpaper / Echo Beach ' won plaudits in some quarters for being ' original ' , and yet was not . Twenty years ago , Roy Clarke ( of ' Last Of The Summer Wine ' and ' Open All Hours ' fame ) came up with a remarkably similar idea for the B . B . C . ' Pulaski ' was a show within a show . It was the name of a long-running television series in which actor Larry Summers ( David Andrews ) portrayed an American detective based in England . Summers was an alcoholic who was carrying on with the actress playing Pulaski's sidekick ' Briggsy ' ( Caroline Langrishe ) . So convincing was he in the role that members of the public actively sought his help in solving real-life crimes . Even criminals seemed taken in by the notion that Summers really was as good a sleuth as his alter-ego . The show was roughly divided between the ' real ' world of Larry Summers and the ' fictional ' world of Pulaski . Often the two interfaced so alarmingly you never knew just what you were watching at any given time . The ' Pulaski ' segments looked suspiciously like a spoof of London Weekend Television's then-current hit ' Dempsey & Makepeace ' which starred Michael Brandon and Glynis Barber . B . B . C . - 1 Controller Michael Grade boasted in a press release that ' Pulaski ' would be the surprise hit of the season . By rights this should have happened . The idea behind the show was ingenious , the scripts were well written , and the acting generally good . The catchy theme tune was by The Shadows . But it had the misfortune to debut on B . B . C . - 1 not long after the Hungerford Massacre in which madman Michael Ryan went on the rampage and killed 14 people . Eager as ever to blame someone or something , the tabloid press decided that the culprit was the B . B . C . for screening the Sylvester Stallone movie ' First Blood ' a short time before . Despite the fact that it contained not one scene similar to the massacre , a wave of outrage led to not only that movie not being screened again for several years ( and then on Channel 5 ) , but also the temporary shelving of a new B . B . C . drama series called ' The Marksman ' . To tie-in with Brian De Palma's new version of ' The Untouchables ' , the station began repeating episodes of the original 1960's series starring Robert Stack , and were made to tone even these down . ' Miami Vice ' also found itself in the doghouse . The opening scene of the first episode of ' Pulaski ' had our hero cornered outside his mobile home by gangsters , leading to a gun battle . As it was part of the series within a series , by rights it should not have given offence , but did . Janet Street-Porter wrote a newspaper article entitled ' Promises , Promises But All We Get Is More Blood ' in which she berated the station for screening such a ' violent ' programme so soon after the Hungerford tragedy . She missed the point completely . ' Pulaski ' was a send-up of the very shows she proposed should be banned . It had other problems too . The ' jumps ' from reality to fantasy were a bit much for viewers to take . After only eight episodes , it ended . A pity as it had a lot of life left in it . It was certainly ahead of its time . Clarke later reworked the idea for I . T . V . as ' The World Of Eddie Weary ' which starred Ray Brooks and Anita Dobson . It was well received but no series followed . ' Pulaski ' was shown in the States as ' Pulaski : The T . V . Detective ' and was much better received there . It managed to capture the brashness and excitement of American style cop shows whilst parodying them at the same time . Today it would probably be called ' postmodern ' . D . V . D . release ? Yes , please !
" Telegram for Mongo ! "	American film comedy in the ' 70's was dominated by two men - Woody Allen and Mel Brooks . The latter had made the hilarious ( though unappreciated at the time ) ' The Producers ' and the little-seen ' The Twelve Chairs ' . With two flops to his credit , that should have been the last of him . Fortunately for us , Warner Bros . gave him the finance to make this outrageous Western spoof . Andrew Bergman had written a script called ' Tex X ' , about a black Sheriff sent to ' clean up ' a crime-ridden town in The Wild West , only to find the bigoted locals don't appreciate his efforts . Brooks bought it , and along with other writers such as the brilliant Richard Pryor , made it funnier still . I didn't get to see ' Blazing Saddles ' until 1978 , when it was shown on a double-bill at my local theatre with ' Monty Python & The Holy Grail ' . In those days , there was no Internet to give away the plots of movies , so I came to it not really knowing what to expect . By the time the final credits rolled , my sides ached from laughing too much . I was not alone . Even the usherette could not hold her torch properly . Before the Python movie got underway , we were treated to a trailer for a reissued Lee Van Cleef spaghetti Western , and the audience laughed . Having just sat through ' Blazing Saddles ' , it was impossible to take Westerns seriously any longer . Indeed the genre went out of fashion shortly after its release , and has yet to make anything resembling a full recovery . It brought a dose of much-needed reality to the cowboy flick by focusing on something the others had ignored - racial prejudice . When railroad workers encounter quicksand , they test its depth by ordering two black men to ride a handcart straight through it . Predictably , it sinks , yet the foreman is more concerned with saving the handcart than the men . Later , a wagon containing a black family is forced to travel in a circle by itself during an Indian attack because the whites don't want it in theirs . The ' N ' word is bandied around an awful lot in this movie , I'm afraid , but serves a useful purpose . It reminds us how ignorant prejudiced people are . Only idiots ever use words of that calibre . The movie broke new ground in another respect . The now infamous campfire scene features cowboys eating beans and farting like there's no tomorrow . We are so used to farting in comedies now that it no longer has shock value , but back in those days it was akin to someone stepping on the moon for the first time . Cleavon Little , Harvey Korman , Madeline Kahn , Slim Pickens , Gene Wilder and Brooks himself all contribute marvellous comic performances , ones we will treasure for as long as people love to laugh . Bad taste abounds ; in one scene , an old woman is beaten up by thugs , and in another , a retarded man ( ' Mongo ' ) blown up . P . C . this sure ain't . The ending in which the cowboy fight spills out of the studio and into an adjacent set where a Busby Berkeley-type musical is being made has proved controversial over the years , with many branding it a cop-out , but I disagree . Brooks knew exactly what he was doing . Funniest moment - it has to be the aforementioned campfire scene . I don't normally laugh at farting in movies , but here it feels so right . Mind you , it put me off beans for life .
The Seven Ronnies	' Seven Of One ' is best remembered as the series that gave Ronnie Barker two of his greatest television successes : ' Porridge ' and ' Open All Hours ' . But don't be fooled into thinking the remaining five are in some way substandard . ' My Old Man ' cast Ronnie as ' Sam Cobbett ' , a cantankerous pensioner struggling to fit in with the modern world ( it later became an I . T . V . series starring the wonderful Clive Dunn ) , ' Another Man's Meat ' featured a sublime teaming of Ronnie , Prunella Scales , Sam Kelly and Joan Sims in this slight but amusing tale of an overweight man whose attempts to diet are taken to extremes , ' Spanner's Eleven ' was a Roy Clarke script about a struggling football team , ' Another Fine Mess ' a sublime evocation of the Laurel & Hardy movies ( almost as good as the real thing , in fact ) and , my favourite , ' I'll Fly You For A Quid ' was about a gambling-mad Welsh family . One wishes they all could have been developed into series . A must for all Ronnie Barker fans . Pity that the D . V . D . release lacks the standard title sequence on two of the five episodes , though .
Another Winner From Michael !	' You Must Be Joking ! ' opens with the most famous work of art in history - The Mona Lisa . Suddenly ( courtesy of Bob Godfrey animation ) , it winks at us and grins , exposing blackened teeth . A fast-paced Laurie Johnson theme kicks in , and we are off . Its an early Michael Winner film , so we know it won't be dull . Soldiers from various regiments gather at an Air Force Base in England to hear army psychiatrist Major Foskitt ( Terry-Thomas ) outline his plan for a new initiative test . Imagine , he says , that there has been a nuclear war , and you are the sole survivor . You decide to gather symbols of the British way of life to preserve for posterity . They include a rare flower called ' Lady Frances MacDonough ' , a flight of plaster ducks , a racing course hare , a lock of hair and the autograph of French pop star Sylvie Tarnet , and the Lutine Bell of Lloyds of London . Whoever assembles this lot and returns to the base before a deadline wins a fabulous prize - a 10 day trip around the world . The soldiers are first placed in a maze , from which they must escape . Sgt . Major MacGregor ( Lionel Jeffries ) pole-vaults his way to freedom , while three others escape by helicopter . Sgt . Clegg ( Bernard Cribbins ) tries to tunnel his way out ( in a running gag , each time he emerges from the maze he finds himself within sight of either Foskitt or General Lockwood ( Wilfrid Hyde-White ) who then put him back to begin the whole process all over again . ' Joking ! ' was one of several ' 60's comedy films inspired by the huge success of Staney Kramer's 1963 blockbuster ' Its A Mad , Mad , Mad , Mad , Mad World ' . Its on a much smaller scale , of course , with none of the elaborate slapstick gags of that earlier movie , but is nevertheless enjoyable with a great cast including James Robertson-Justice , Denholm Elliott , Lee Montague , Leslie Phillips , Clive Dunn , Arthur Lowe , Miles Malleson , and Norman Vaughan ( managing to be a lot funnier than he was in ' The Golden Shot ' ) . The top billing goes to America's Michael Callan as ' Lt . Tim Morton ' . I have to say I found him a pain , particularly when he callously dumps his girlfriend Annabelle ( Gabriella Licudi ) in order to run off with Sylvie . The slapstick is augmented by satire ( spot Lance Perceval from ' T . W . 3 ' if you can ) , in particular of British pop culture ( middle-aged women sign photos of pop stars to hand out to fans , while ' The Cavemen ' look and sound suspiciously like a send-up of The Beatles ) . ' Joking ! ' is great fun , with the brilliant Lionel Jeffries stealing every scene he is . Note the bit where he pole-vaults out of the maze . His battle-cry of ' Pogue Mahone ! ' brought gales of laughter from Irish audiences . It is Gaelic for " Kiss my a - - e ! " . On a sad note , Patricia Viterbo , who plays ' Sylvie ' , died in a car accident the following year . Funniest moment ? For me , its the fight between the married couple played by Leslie Phillips and Gwendolyn Watts . Having caught her about to seduce Lt . Morton , he proceeds to throw her Mother's gifts at her . After hurling a statuette through the window of their high-rise flat , he asks through clenched teeth : " Right , now where's your Mother ? " .
Future Medicine	Dr . Roger Full ( Emrys Jones ) was struck off years before following the death of a patient . Since that time , he has sunk slowly into a morass of alcoholism , poverty and despair . His life changes dramatically one day when he finds a black bag containing medical instruments the like of which he has not before seen . The bag was accidentally left behind by an expedition of time travellers from the future . He is able to use these to cure cancerous tumours , as well as provide instant cosmetic surgery . Teaming up with the lovely Angie ( Geraldine Moffatt ) , he opens his own private clinic , soon people are parting with huge sums of money for his services . Naturally his miracle cures bring him to the attention of the authorities . But he has a fit of conscience and horrifies Angie by announcing that he intends donating the bag to medical science so that everyone can benefit . Not wishing to see a good money-making opportunity thrown away , she attacks him with a knife , killing him . The death of Full is noticed by the bag's original owners in the far future , and they deactivate it , making the instruments worthless . Unfortunately , Angie has chosen that precise moment to demonstrate a scalpel to a wealthy client by cutting her throat . . . Until recently , this was a lost episode . The copy in my possession is missing the first twenty or so minutes and the final grisly scene , but it still makes sense . It is a gripping tale , typical of this series . Good science fiction does not need flashy special effects , the story is the important thing . ' Dr . Who ' fans will recognise Emrys Jones ( who plays ' Full ' ) as ' The Master ' in the 1968 story ' The Mind Robber ' . Geraldine Moffatt a . k . a . ' Angie ' , is best known for her role in the iconic Michael Caine gangster movie ' Get Carter ' . C . M . Kornbluth's story was later remade in America for ' Rod Serling's Night Gallery ' .
" More tea , Father ? "	To my eternal shame , I shunned ' Father Ted ' when it was originally broadcast , and only got into it in 2000 when it was shown on The Paramount Comedy Channel . Its impossible to deliver an objective review of this show because everything about it is perfect . The late Dermot Morgan was one of the greatest comedians of all time ; his early death robbed us of a great talent . It would have been interesting to see what he would have done next . The scripts by Arthur Mathews and Graham Linehan are masterpieces of surreal comedy . Frank Kelly as ' Father Jack Hackett ' , Pauline MacLynn as ' Mrs . Doyle ' and , Ardal O'Hanlon as ' Father Dougal MacGuire ' . . . well , what can I say ? Marvellous . I'm not a great fan of Graham Norton , but his appearances in ' Father Ted ' redeem a lot of the dross reality stuff he's done since . My favourite episode has to be ' A Song For Europe ' mainly due to the hysterically funny ' My Lovely Horse ' song ! Dermot may be gone , but he's left behind a classic that will last forever .
" He's The Talk Of The West , Always Cool , He's The Best ! "	By 1970 , the spaghetti western genre was looking tired , until Enzo Barboni made this amiable romp . Terence Hill plays the ' Trinity ' of the title , a blue-eyed gunslinger so laid back as to make ' The Man With No Name ' look like The Milky Bar Kid . Teaming up with his brother ' Bambino ' , a bearded giant of a man portrayed by Bud Spencer , they come to the aid of a Mormon community under threat from a greedy landowner played by Farley Granger . Hill and Spencer make a great double act . The film manages to be hilarious without being crude or offensive . Highlights include Trinity shooting a man dead without once turning round , some improvised surgery to remove a bullet ( using whisky as anaesthetic ) and , of course , the climax in which the normally passive Mormons engage in battle with the Major's men . Great music here ! Unsurprisingly , the film broke box office records in Italy and led to a sequel ' Trinity Is Still My Name ' which , alas , wasn't nearly as good .
A Cosmic Watergate ?	Conspiracy theory movies abounded in the ' 70's ; amongst others , there was ' Executive Action ' ( 1973 ) , ' The Parallax View ' ( 1974 ) , ' The Domino Principle ' ( 1977 ) , and , of course , this . ' Capricorn One ' was unusual in two respects ; firstly , it was made by Lew Grade ( so technically it is a British film ) and secondly , the baddies of the piece are not the American Government . Written and directed by Peter Hyams , this intelligent , thought-provoking thriller has as its premise an original idea - what if N . A . S . A . decided to fake a space mission ? For years , the notion that Neil Armstrong never really set foot on the Moon , but was hopping about in a film studio in sunny California has been a popular one amongst theorists . I personally do not think it has any credibility , but the ' evidence ' is there for those who want it . The film begins when three astronauts board a rocket bound for Mars , among them Colonel Brubaker ( James Brolin ) . But before it can take off , a hatch opens and the trio are ordered to leave . The ship blasts off without them . Dr . Kelloway ( Hal Holbrook ) , the head of the mission , informs them that due to unforeseen technical problems the expedition will not now take place as scheduled . Terrified of losing funding , N . A . S . A . is prepared to fake the trip , to give them time to prepare for the real thing in the near-future . So while millions of people watch Brubaker and co . land on Mars , what they are actually seeing is footage transmitted live from a studio . The scheme might have worked had it not been for one tiny thing - the empty rocket crashes back to Earth , and the astronauts are believed dead . Brubaker realises that he and his friends must now die . So they escape and , splitting up , head out into the desert . While they are chased relentlessly , investigative reporter Robert Caulfield ( Elliott Gould ) is working on the case from a different angle . One of the Cape Kennedy staff has noticed that the transmissions have not been coming from Mars . He is later murdered . Caulfield himself nearly dies when the brakes on his car fail . So it is down to him alone to find the three astronauts and expose the whole terrifying conspiracy . . . The late Jerry Goldsmith wrote many fine scores , and this film features one of the his best . That opening theme grabs you from the start . James Brolin , who plays ' Brubaker ' , once came close to replacing Roger Moore as James Bond and , while I am glad he did not land the role , gives a good performance here . Hal Holbrook is wonderful too , not evil as such , just determined to see the Mars project go ahead at all costs , even if it means resorting to deception and murder . The other astronauts are played by Sam Waterston and O . J . Simpson ( who later became the focus of conspiracy theories himself ) . Karen Black pops up briefly , and then there's good old Telly Savalas as an eccentric pilot . Brenda Vaccaro is Brubaker's wife . The film is at its strongest in the first hour , when the premise is laid out . The second sees it evolving into a chase movie ( albeit a well-made one ) , which I think was a bit of a shame . I would have liked to have seen the conspiracy aspect developed a bit more . Still , the desert scenes are harrowing ( some poor sod has to eat a snake ! ) . Sadly , the film was overshadowed in 1979 by the recently released blockbuster ' Superman ' starring Christopher Reeve , and did not find an audience . Nevertheless , it has in my view stood up well and the next time you sit through an archive clip of Neil Armstrong uttering those famous words : " One small step for a man . . . one giant leap for Mankind ! " , you will remember ' Capricorn One ' and a tiny shard of doubt will creep into your mind . . .
Old Soldiers Never Die	' Fairly Secret Army ' was a spin-off from David Nobbs ' ' The Fall & Rise Of Reginald Perrin ' in which Geoffrey Palmer played ' Jimmy Anderson ' , Reggie's scrounging brother-in-law . " Bit of a cock-up on the catering front ! " , he would say , before making off with the contents of Elisabeth's fridge . In the second season , the ex-Major formed a right-wing army of malcontents and misfits who wanted to take-over Britain to save us from ' the forces of anarchy ' - anyone who was not British , basically . Nobbs felt the character worth developing . This series , shot on film without a laugh track , and screened on Channel 4 , was made by Video Arts , a company owned by John Cleese which specialised in company training films ( later shown on television to capitalise on ' Fawlty Towers ' success ) . The only change was that , for copyright reasons , ' Jimmy ' had to be renamed ' Harry Kitchener Wellington Truscott ' . In all other respects , he was the same man ( I never found out why they gave him a moustache though ) ; speaking in clipped , militaristic phrases , bitter at having been made redundant from the army after years of loyal service , and , worst of all , losing his wife to an Italian . The show opened with an animated title sequence in which the face of General Kitchener ( from that famous ' Your Country Needs You ' recruitment poster ) was seen to morph into Harry's hangdog features to the accompaniment of Michael Nyman's stirring patriotic theme . That pointing finger would then go to his lips in a gesture of secrecy . The first episode begins with Harry seeking a job , only to find he is basically unemployable . Harry gives the unhelpful clerk in the Job Centre a lecture about how he fought the Beastly Hun . The young man points out that he was too young to have been in W . W . 2 . Harry walks out in disgust . In a church , he is arrested for attempting to make off with a charity box . A magistrate orders him to pay 50 , which he does not have . Depressed , Harry tries to kill himself by laying on a railway track . A woman out walking a dog points out that the line is no longer in use . Harry next contemplates drowning himself in a reservoir . The dog walker reappears , telling Harry that she loves him . He decides not to go through with it . They go to a pub , where she admits that she only said that to save his life . Harry returns to the reservoir to resume his suicide attempt . Here he meets Tim ' Curly ' Beamish , an old army colleague , and whom Harry blames for breaking up his marriage . Beamish puts an interesting offer to Harry - he has recently inherited 90 , 000 and wishes to split it with him . . . This first episode establishes the characters , particularly Harry's , who despite being a bit of an oaf is also rather tragic . Geoffrey Palmer is fabulous here , extracting every last drop of humour and pathos from the role . The lovely Diane Fletcher plays ' Nancy ' , who rescues Harry from suicide , and becomes his love interest for the rest of the series . Jeremy Child is cast as ' Tim ' Curly ' Beamish , a man whose motives for helping Harry are not as clear-cut as they first appear . Later episodes brought in ' On The Buses ' star Michael Robbins as the wonderfully named ' Sgt . Major Throttle ' , Liz Fraser as his girlfriend ' Doris ' , ' A Bit Of A Do's Paul Chapman as ' Peg-Leg Pogson ' , and even a young Ray Winstone as ' Stubby Collins ' . The combination of Nobbs ' brilliant writing , Palmer's central performance , and the marvellous supporting cast made ' Fairly Secret Army ' a delight from start to finish . It really is worth tracking down . Funniest moment - Harry attempts to steal the church money , only to set off an alarm . He runs , but the vicar comes after him , and brings him down with a flying rugby tackle !
" I like the idea of a nude . . . on a motorbike ! "	' One-Upmanship ' is probably unique in the annals of television in that its Christmas Special preceded the series by over a year . Richard Briers portrayed Stephen Potter , ex-B . B . C . broadcaster and college lecturer , and author of the spoof manuals ' Gamesmanship ' , ' Lifemanship ' , ' One-Upmanship ' , ' Supermanship ' , ' Anti-Woo ' and ' The Complete Golf Gamesmanship ' . What is ' One-Upmanship ' ? Well , nothing less than the art of getting one up on your opponents at all times . As Potter succinctly puts it : " The world is divided into two types of people - winners and losers , the one-up and the one-down . He who is not one-up is surely one-down ' . The books had previously been done on radio and formed the basis for an excellent film starring Ian Carmichael , Terry-Thomas and Alistair Sim entitled ' School For Scoundrels ' ( 1960 ) . Here they were adapted for television by the irreplaceable Barry Took , and took the form of witty sketches depicting various social situations . As well as Briers , the late Peter Jones played the snobbish ' Gatling-Fenn ' , with the late Frederick Jaegar - replete with monocle and buckteeth - as the Bertie Wooster-like ' Cogg-Willoughby ' . I cherish a wine-tasting scene in one episode where the latter employs a pen torch to evaluate the contents of his glass . The gathering then try to outfox one another with unintelligible comments such as : " Too many tram lines for me ! " . But it was Briers ' wry asides to camera ( many lifted from the books ) that got the biggest laughs from me . The humour was altogether very English . Instant Sunshine provided the theme music . ' One-Upmanship ' is one of those wonderful B . B . C . shows which appears alas to have vanished into television oblivion . Surely with such a fine cast and strong writing it deserves a D . V . D . release at the very least ?
" My father . . . a male Linda Lovelace ! "	While London swelters in a heat wave , Albert relaxes in the yard in a deckchair , stripped to the waist , a knotted hankie on his head , while poor Harold is out totting , having eaten nothing all day save a corned beef sandwich and drunk water from the horse's bucket . Harold has picked up an old ' What The Butler Saw ' machine on the rounds . On hearing that the film features a milkman pouring milk into a woman's bath , Albert's initial excitement turns to horror . He played the milkman years ago when he was young and broke . His wife's sister was the girl in the bath . Harold thinks that this could ruin what little respect he has in the community . To make things worse , the Vicar and his wife express an interest in the machine for their forthcoming Garden Fete . . . Another marvellous episode , brilliantly combining comedy and pathos as usual . It opens with a great sight gag as Harold puts on a pair of sunglasses , only for one of the lenses to fall out and land in a pile of horse dung . Albert weeping on seeing himself as a young man is a poignant moment . Wilfrid Brambell is on good form here , expertly switching from one emotion to another as his eagerness to view the film in the machine is replaced by shame at having appeared in it . Anthony Sharp's ' Vicar ' had previously appeared in ' Men Of Letters ' . Funniest moment - Albert dashes into the living room , wearing only a skimpy towel , unaware that the Vicar and his wife are standing behind him !
Batman Vs . The Fearsome Foursome !	Between Seasons 1 and 2 of ' Batman ' , this movie spin-off gave us British fans a chance to appreciate The Caped Crusader in colour . Adam West and Burt Ward reprised their roles as ' Batman ' and ' Robin ' ; even though I never could stand the latter he doesn't spoil the film too much . Madge Blake , Neil Hamilton , Stafford Repp , Cesar Romero , Burgess Meredith , Frank Gorshin are all present and correct . Sadly , Julie Newmar was unavailable to put on her claws , so the equally sexy Lee Meriwether replaced her . Lorenzo Semple Jr . ' s wacky script has Joker , Penguin , Riddler and Catwoman teaming up to take over the world by dehydrating the nine members of the Security Council of the United Nations . Being a feature film , there was a bit ( though not much ) more money to play around with , hence we see the Bat-boat , Bat-cycle , and Bat-copter for the first time , and the Penguin's submarine comes equipped with flippers . Wonderful set-pieces and cheesy dialogue abound . Years before Leslie Nielsen and ' Police Squad ! ' , Adam West was doing the same sort of self-parody here . Bruce Wayne and Madame Kitka ( Catwoman ) indulge in love scenes that put one in mind of one of those marvellously over-the-top spy thrillers of that period . ' Batman ' has to dispose of a bomb in probably the film's most famous scene . It is a genuinely inspired comic moment . Top marks to Semple and director Leslie H . Martinson for making this the most fun ' Batman ' movie of them all . It also gave Tim Burton something to provide an alternative to twenty-three years later . Personally , I like Gotham City best when Nelson Riddle is doing the music .
" Two great rows of tombstones flashing at me ! "	Campaigning has begun in a local by-election , and Albert and Harold find themselves on opposing ends of the political spectrum ; the former a true-blue Tory , the latter a staunch Labour supporter . Tory bigwigs inform Albert that Prime Minister Ted Heath plans to take tea with him as part of a ' Meet The People ' tour . Albert is so thrilled at the prospect he splashes out on a new china tea set ( which his son later smashes in anger ) , refreshments and decorates the toilet . As secretary for the local Labour Party , Harold - along with his friend Dolly Clackett - intends staging a nude protest . But things do not quite go according to plan . . . Despite being an inversion of ' My Old Man's A Tory ' from Season 4 , this is still a blinding episode in its own right . Ted Heath had only been in power for four months when it went out , and already comedy writers such as Galton and Simpson were sharpening their knives . The opening scene where Harold and Albert debate their respective political views is hilarious and among my favourites of the whole series . Though as poor as a church mouse and living in abject squalor , the old man sincerely believes that voting Conservative puts him above the working classes . If Harold's pro-Labour stance seems eerily authentic , it can partly be attributed to Harry H . Corbett's own political leanings , which were much the same . Funniest moment - every moment is funny , but I love the bit when Harold says he hates Mr . Heath's ambivalent and negative attitude towards the Concorde cock-up ( think about it ) !
Gotcha !	Politicians do not hold any real power these days , the press do . They can make and break someone in a short space of time . L . W . T . ' s ' Hot Metal ' did for journalism what Andrew Marshall and David Renwick's earlier ' Whoops Apocalypse ! ' did for The Cold War . The premise is this ; the ailing ' Crucible ' newspaper is bought by vain , right-wing millionaire Twiggy Rathbone , who appoints his twin brother Russell Spam as managing editor . Spam turns the paper into ' The Daily Crucible ' - a muckraking , scandal sheet . Senior editor Harry Stringer can only watch dumbfounded as the paper goes into the gutter in search of lurid stories . Anyone remotely critical of Thatcher is branded insane . Rathbone is sensitive to criticism from others , though ; when ' Spitting Image ' does an unflattering caricature of him , he goes ballistic ! Seedy reporter Greg Kettle is less interested in the truth than simply printing what he thinks the readers want to see . In one episode , he breaks into Prince Andrew's hotel room and damages his packet of condoms ! Other gimmicks to promote the paper involve a campaign to restore capital punishment , and a free pair of glasses that causes the Page Three girl's breasts to wobble ! Thankfully , ' The Crucible ' still has some good reporters left , such as Bill Tytla , an eager young Scot who gradually exposes a far-reaching political conspiracy involving his boss . He was played by John Gordon Sinclair , then still fresh in the public's memory from ' Gregory's Girl ' . Caroline Milmoe replaced him in the second season as ' Maggie Troon ' . Also departing after one season was Geoffrey Palmer a . k . a . ' Harry Stringer ' . Richard Wilson stepped into his shoes as ' Dicky Lipton ' . In the first episode in which he appeared , he is seen wandering naked around the ' Blue Peter ' set during a live broadcast ! Comparisons with ' The Crucible ' and ' The Sun ' were , of course , intentional . Its easy to forget now just how important a role the tabloid rags played in keeping Thatcher in power . The show cleverly combined sharp satire with the mystery thriller format . Running through the first year was a plot that began with a Nikita Kruschev lookalike dropping dead on a talk-show . The experience served Renwick in good stead many years later when he created ' Jonathan Creek ' . Both the writing and acting were of an extremely high standard . It came as a shock to see Robert Hardy of ' All Creatures Great & Small ' fame in a show of this calibre ! He was excellent in the dual role of ' Twiggy Rathbone ' / ' Russell Spam ' . Following the Channel 4 repeats , the show vanished into television oblivion . Someone , somewhere should rectify this at once - better yet , make a new series !
Strictly Steptoe Dancing !	Its Sunday afternoon . While Albert snores his head off in his favourite armchair , Harold talks to himself . He is thoroughly miserable because he has set his sights on an attractive woman named Jean and does not appear to be getting anywhere with her . As Jean is a fan of ballroom dancing , Albert offers to teach his son so that the couple can enter a local contest . Harold is clumsy at first , but soon gets the hang of it . Confidant of winning the prize money , the trophy and the girl of his dreams , he heads for the contest . . . This episode is structured in two parts ; the first in which Harold whines about being bored has echoes of the classic ' Sunday Afternoon At Home ' episode of ' Hancock's Half-Hour ' , the second has Albert teaching Harold how to dance . Of course the whole thing ends in disaster ; Harold learns too late that he has only succeeded in mastering the woman's steps . Bye bye prize money , trophy and Jean . I watched this again recently and my wife complained because we did not see Harold's humiliation , merely heard of it second-hand from Harold himself . I argued that it would have been too expensive to stage such a scene , with all the extras and costumes and so on , and that it was funnier the way it was . What's wrong with using your imagination every now and then when watching television ? Funniest moment - Harold , dressed up for the occasion , dances a few steps in the yard , before accidentally treading in horse dung !
" I'll bung you in the black bath ! "	Harold is fed up with living in squalor ( he has to put saucepans down each time it rains ) and proposes that he and Albert sell up and move to a quiet , residential area . Predictably , the old man isn't keen on the idea , but is finally seduced by his son's talk of a better life . They are shown around their dream house , which comes equipped with such modern labour-saving devices as a kitchen waste disposal unit , eye-level grill , and smell extractor ( " We're going to need that ! " , quips Harold , glancing at his father ) . The posh estate agent is amused when they tell him they plan to run their business from the house . But their interest in the property has been noted by the local Residents ' Association . They pay the Steptoes a visit . . . Another marvellous episode , in which the Steptoes turn the snobbery of the middle classes to their own financial advantage . Of course the R . A . won't admit to being biased against Harold and Albert because they are poor ( much the same way racists usually begin their foul outbursts with ' I'm not a racist , but . . . ' ) . Interestingly , while Harold rages at their blatant class discrimination , Albert is keen to accept their offer , and does ( having managed to push the price up considerably first ) . The R . A . fails to realise it has been outwitted by a man of the same political persuasion as themselves . The late Norman Bird is the Chairman of the R . A . This marvellous character actor appeared in everything from ' Fawlty Towers ' to ' Worzel Gummidge ' . Funniest moment - Albert's revulsion on seeing a black bath . " It'll match the water ! " , says Harold , referring to his father's legendary lack of hygiene .
" What kind of fool am I ? "	Albert is confined to bed with back trouble . A doctor ( Robert James ) has prescribed plenty of rest . Naturally the old man takes advantage of the situation by living like a king , with poor old Harold not only cleaning the house , shopping , changing library books , preparing and taking meals upstairs , but also being expected to go totting as well . When he gets the time . It all comes to a head when Harold lets his feelings be known . Of course he calms down eventually . Attempting to change channels on the T . V . set while Harold is out , the old man's slipped disc suddenly rights itself . Instead of telling Harold this , he continues to treat him like a slave . Harold notices his favourite liquorice allsorts - the pink ones - have gone missing , also cans of beer have been drunk . He puts two and two together , and plots a terrible revenge on his malingering father . . . A superb episode from the final run of ' Steptoe & Son ' . Poor Harold is really pushed to the limit here , anyone who has had to look after a sick relative will know exactly how he feels . His line ' we'll manage . . . we always do ' is wonderfully touching . The old man plays the sympathy card relentlessly , so much so that in spite of his condition you do not feel at all sorry for him . His comeuppance , when it comes , is eminently satisfying . Robert James , who plays ' The Doctor ' , was ' Lesterson ' in Patrick Troughton's ' Dr . Who ' debut in 1966 : ' The Power Of The Daleks ' . Funniest moment - Harold staying out of sight while his Dad comes downstairs and steals the liquorice allsorts . He then creeps up behind him and delivers an imaginary kick to his rear ! Great stuff .
" I've been had ! "	An episode of the underrated fifth season of ' Mission : Impossible ' . No tape recorder opening this time . We are plunged into the mission immediately . Barney Collier ( Greg Morris ) and Willy Armitage ( Peter Lupus ) have broken into the Interoco Chemical Plant somewhere in the Middle East ( how prophetic ! ) to destroy the formula for a deadly new chemical called Dehominant-B , which the regime intends using against a neighbouring country . Barney accidentally gets contaminated by the stuff , and is taken prisoner . Willy escapes . So now the I . M . F . have two problems to contend with - get Barney out before he dies , and complete the original mission . Breaking a cardinal rule , they decide to recruit an ' innocent ' - a drop-out scientist named Jerome Carlin ( the late Christopher Connolly ) . At first they offer him money to join them , but he refuses , so instead they make it appear as though his girlfriend has been kidnapped . He signs up for the trip . The journey to the laboratory involves a conduit tunnel . But then Carlin recognises Paris ( Leonard Nimoy ) and Doug ( Sam Elliott ) , and realising he has been conned , refuses to co-operate further . . . Not only a very tense episode , but a thought-provoking one as it brings into question the I . M . F . ' s ethics . In common with other young Americans at that time , Carlin bitterly resents the fact that his country is meddling in the affairs of others . Originally , the arguments were to have been a lot more robust , but Laurence Heath rewrote Marc Norman's script to bring it more into line with the show's adventure format . Connolly is good as the argumentative scientist . British viewers probably best remember him for his role in the long-running soap ' Peyton Place ' . Larry Linville , who plays ' Colonel Orlov ' , was the Bible-thumping ' Major Frank Burns ' in the seminal comedy series ' M . A . S . H ' . This marked the first time viewers saw the character of ' Doug ' , played by Sam Elliott , originally planned as a replacement for Peter Lupus ( until fans demanded his reinstatement ! ) . Episodes such as this helped bring a new dimension to the long-running show .
Who is ' Scorpio ' ?	' The Killer ' was chosen to open the fifth season of ' Mission : Impossible ' . Robert Conrad guests as ' Eddie Lorca ' , a professional hit-man who flies to Los Angeles to carry out an assassination . He does not yet know whom he will kill . His paymaster is the mysterious ' Scorpio ' . Waiting for him are Jim Phelps and the I . M . F . ( Impossible Missions Force ) . Picking him up in a taxi , Paris ( Leonard Nimoy ) drives him to a fake hotel - the Bower . Lorca refuses the room allocated him , preferring to select his own as he makes decisions based on the throw of a pair of dice . Room 7 is fitted out with cameras and microphones so that the I . M . F . can follow his every move . He arranges a rendezvous with a young woman in Scorpio's employ to collect his orders . But the woman he meets is not the one he spoke to . It is I . M . F . agent Dana Lambert ( Lesley Warren ) . Lorca senses she is not right . . . Immediately you can tell this is not the ' Mission : Impossible ' of old . It opens with a short self-contained scene showing the villain relaxing while his girlfriend dances to modern music , then Phelps appears and once again gets his orders via a self-destructing tape recorder . The titles kick in , and afterwards , there's no dossier scene , but a quick briefing , and then Lorca's plane touches down and we are off . These changes were mainly the work of producer Bruce Lansbury , who wanted to give the show a fresher , more up-to-date look . The previous season featured a number of actresses standing in for Barbara Bain , but Lansbury decided he wanted a new regular female character , and so Lesley Ann Warren ( credited as ' Lesley Warren ' ) was brought in to play ' Dana Lambert ' . She brought a new , youthful look to the series , proving especially useful in impersonating waitresses and college students , something her predecessors could not have done . Robert Conrad is terrific as ' Lorca ' , a character who proves difficult for the I . M . F . to deal with as his decisions are often based on the random throw of a dice . Anyone familiar with the series knows that a major part of I . M . F . strategy is the prediction of their opponents ' actions . There's a long but suspenseful scene near the beginning when Lorca is being driven to the hotel , and Willy tries to delay the trip to give Jim more time to get the hotel ready . Firstly , the car stops at lights , and then a pair of lorries block the road . Good script by Arthur Weiss , who also wrote some wonderfully daft episodes of the final run of ' Voyage To The Bottom Of The Sea ' . When ' Mission : Impossible ' was revived in the ' 80's in the middle of a writer's strike , several old scripts were recycled - this was the first . John De Lancie played ' Lorca ' on that occasion .
Simon In The ' 60's	The show that made Roger Moore a star and rightly so . After forty-three years no-one has matched his version of ' The Saint ' . He brought warmth and charisma to the role , as well as directing episodes such as ' The House On Dragon's Rock ' . He was supported by Britain's finest actors such as Julie Christie , Anthony Quayle , Sylvia Syms , Peter Wyngarde , Edward Woodward and Ronnie Barker . Who can forget the late Ivor Dean as the hapless , gum-chewing ' Inspector Teal ' ? The scripts were of a very high calibre , often derived from Charteris ' short stories ( the later colour shows boasted original plots ) from writers such as Terry Nation , Terence Feely , Donald James and John Kruse . Leslie Charteris was impressed with Kruse , describing him as ' the real find of the operation ' . Unlike later versions , this ' Saint ' fitted its time period ( the ' 60's ) like a glove . Edwin Astley's ' Saint ' theme was the cherry on the cake . The show only ended because Roger Moore wanted to move on . Had he stayed , it would have lasted well into the ' 70's .
A Chilling View Of A Nightmare Future	In the late ' 80's , as satellite television finally became a reality in the U . K . , this gripping play by William Nicholson attempted to warn of the possible dangers involved . Dirk Bogarde plays ' James Marriner ' , a washed-up T . V . personality ( known to viewers as ' Gentleman Jim ' ) hired by an American satellite network as front man for their British operation . Having been dismissed from the terrestrial channels on account of his alcoholism , he jumps at the chance to get back on the box . He makes a horrifying discovery - the station is owned by a far-right religious group who intend using the programmes for propaganda purposes . Marriner is therefore faced with a dilemma - should he keep silent or denounce the station and possibly risk destroying his last attempt at a career comeback ? He chooses the latter option . The station immediately sets out to discredit him . An old girlfriend of Marriner's - Margaret Bunn - becomes the victim of character assassination by the media , who hound her at every turn , nicknaming her ' the Bunny girl ' . Eventually , unable to take any more , she kills herself . Marriner agrees to go on live television to make one final bid at exposing these fanatics . But he has underestimated them . After making a desperate plea , he is told that his speech has not gone out live , and that he is now completely finished . Despondent , he leaves the studio . . . Unlike the other I . M . D . B . reviewer , I did not find this the least bit ' implausible ' . On the contrary , what was predicted here has tragically come to pass . As I write , the skies are full of satellites pumping distorted news into millions of peoples ' homes , the Fox News Network's coverage of the Iraq War being an obvious example . Dirk Bogarde gives a powerful performance as ' Marriner ' , and I do not care if his final speech to camera was done better by Peter Finch in ' Network ' . Lee Remick made her final appearance before her sad death , and she is splendidly evil as the station's boss . Unlike Wilfred Greatorex's ' 1990 ' , this manages to be entertaining , with strong performances from the cast , and a twisty script . I only wish ' The Vision ' had had some impact on its original transmission . The nightmare predicted here could have been avoided , and we would not now be living in the horrific world we are now in . There was a Conservative Government in power when this went out , and they were hardly likely to heed the message of a play like this , no matter how well conveyed . The Labour Government could have passed laws to ensure that television is not in the hands of those with axes to grind , but inexplicably chose not to . So top marks to everyone connected with this , but what a shame the message did not get through in time . Politicians of both right and left should be roundly condemned for their fatal lack of vision .
" There's a po in it ! "	Harold is delighted with his latest purchase - a Regency commode , which he got for only 7 . 10 . The woman who sold it to him had no idea as to its true worth . But his father , normally not averse to making a quick profit , is appalled , seeing the purchase as unethical . Then the ex-owner turns up , and offers to buy it back for a tidy little sum . Harold agrees . An antiques dealer pays a visit later that day , and establishes the commode's true worth , somewhere in the region of 500 . When the old man points out it has already been sold , Harold nudges him quiet . He sees an opportunity to make an even bigger profit . . . Nice little episode , once again Albert and Harold are on opposing sides in a dispute , culminating in the latter losing rather than making money thanks to his greed . The late John Arnatt was a cast member of ' The Adventures Of Robin Hood ' starring Richard Greene . He played the ' Deputy Sheriff ' . Funniest moment - Albert's confession that he'd sold plus fours to an Asian man . " You didn't tell him they'd gone out of style ! " , says Harold . Albert replies : " Sir Alec Douglas-Home wears them ! " . " Yes , on the grouse moors , not for going after a job on the buses ! " .
Trouble At T'Mill !	In the early ' 80's , the world was in the grip of ' Dallas ' fever . This ludicrous , overblown saga of Texan oil billionaires had somehow gripped the public's imagination , and inevitably imitations ( ' Flamingo Road ' , ' Falcon Crest ' , ' Dynasty ' ) and parodies appeared . ' Brass ' was the creation of Julian Roach and John Stevenson , two of ' Coronation Street's ' best scriptwriters . It was produced by Bill Podmore , also a producer on ' Street ' . Set in the 1930's , in the fictional Northern town of Utterley , it centred around the wildly contrasting lives of two families - the Hardacres ( who were very rich ) and the Fairchilds ( who were not ) . Bradley Hardacre ( splendidly brought to life by Timothy West ) was a ruthless cigar-smoking tycoon with Thatcherite values - J . R . Ewing as he might have been written by J . B . Priestley - who owned everything of importance in the community , and whose idea of fun was sacking workers . His wife was the wheelchair-bound Lady Patience ( Caroline Blakiston ) , a confirmed alcoholic . Hardacre had two daughters - the wayward Isobel ( Gail Harrison ) and virginal Charlotte ( Emily Morgan ) . He also had two sons - the scheming cad Austin ( Robert Reynolds ) and the gay ( and teddy bear loving ) Morris ( the late James Saxon ) . The Fairchilds were led by Agnes ( Barbara Ewing ) , a feminist before her time ( and whose heaving bosom deserved a spin-off of its own ) and dimwitted husband George ( Geofrrey Hinsliff - later to play taxi driver ' Don Brennan ' in ' Coronation Street ' ) . Their sons were the strapping Jack ( Shaun Scott ) and shy poet Matthew ( Gary Cady ) . It was an inspired spoof of grim Northern dramas such as ' When The Boat Comes In ' and ' Sam ' , and even found time to thumb its nose at the likes of ' Dr . Finlay's Casebook ' , ' Brideshead Revisited ' , and ' Sons & Lovers ' . References to real-life politicians such as Margaret Thatcher and Michael Heseltine ( this was made during the Miners ' Strike ) sneaked in from time to time . The U . S . comedy ' Soap ' was also a major inspiration , particularly with regards to the insane plots . Stevenson and Roach's dialogue was often pure ' Carry On ' . For example , when Isobel talked about her horse Brass Beauty , she told her father : " I have never known her to refuse a jump . " . Hardacre wryly replied : " You and she are well matched ! " . Sex was referred to by the working classes as ' clog banting ! ' . The cast delivered the absurd lines with a straight face . And there was no laugh track to spoil the fun . Some viewers mistook the show for a drama in the mold of Granada's ' The Mallens ' , but after a while , the penny dropped and ' Brass ' found an audience , even if the pit disaster in one episode made some distinctly uncomfortable . The first series ended on a ' Dallas'-style cliffhanger as a chimney on which Jack and Matthew were sitting ( don't ask ) collapsed , and Isobel and Charlotte did a Lady Godiva impression by riding Brass Beauty naked through the cobblestoned streets of Utterley during a Royal visit ( Gail Harrison claimed in an interview that both she and Emily Morgan wore body stockings for the scene , but I do not believe it . ) . Following a second season in 1984 , the show disappeared for six years , finally returning ( to Channel 4 ) for a much shorter third run , changing the setting to World War Two , where Hardacre was now a munitions factory owner and working on a submarine named after himself called ' The Insufferable ' ! It was not as good as the earlier series , mainly due to a number of cast changes , but also the joke had worn off . ' Brass ' has more or less been completely forgotten . In 1996 , Granada Plus repeated the first series - but not the second and third . Thankfully , the entire run is now on D . V . D . and I . T . V . are planning on devoting a forthcoming edition of ' Comedy Classics ' to it . An angry viewer's letter in the ' News Of The World ' in 1983 said : " ' Brass ' brasses me off . By making fun of soaps , it is also making fun of the people who enjoy them . To add insult to injury , it goes out straight after ' Coronation Street ' ! " .
Eric Idle's Finest Hour	" The final impression conveyed by this dismal programme was that of the talentless sneering at the talented " was how one angry Beatles fan summed up ' All You Need Is Cash ' in a letter to ' The Radio Times ' in 1978 . He'd missed the point completely . Eric Idle and Gary Weis ' film is not a mickey take of the group themselves , but rather the media circus that surrounded the Beatles . Archive footage is seamlessly blended with new material to create an exhilarating comic portrait of a fictitious ' 60's super group . Those who saw Tony Palmer's pretentious ' All You Need Is Love ' series will appreciate Idle's spoof even more . Special mention must be made of Neil Innes as the Lennon figure , Ron Nasty . So brilliant were his Beatles pastiches that they were eventually released as an album . And as for ' Yellow Submarine Sandwich ' , well , it takes your breath away ! Not all of the film works , for example , the joke made of Brian Epstein's death falls flat , but it remains Idle's best post ' Python ' project to date .
Jack Becomes Blakey !	Stan and Jack get a new fiddle going - by waiting round a corner from a bus stop they can avoid picking up passengers and have a crafty smoke at the same time - but then disaster strikes ! Jack is unexpectedly promoted to the post of Inspector . Stan is chuffed at first , as he thinks his friend will give him more overtime and turn a blind eye to his numerous fiddles , but instead Jack undergoes a change of personality . He becomes another Blakey . Poor Stan suddenly finds his perks under the close scrutiny of the management . To make matters worse , he has arranged a date with the lovely Christine , a clippie who eats like there's no tomorrow . . . This is ' On The Buses ' answer to ' Animal Farm ' . Its also a reworking of a first season episode called ' The New Inspector ' , though Stan was the one promoted on that occasion . Bob Grant gives one of his best performances here ; as soon as he puts on the badge and peaked cap he turns thoroughly evil . That cheeky grin is suddenly gone . Surprisingly , Stan never tries to exact revenge when Jack becomes an ordinary Conductor again . Another man would have belted him one for betraying confidences . This is the lovely Madeleine Mills ' third appearance in the show ; previously , she had been ' Sally ' in ' Going Steady ' and ' The Inspector's Niece ' . Christine is not so stuck-up as Sally , though with her appetite for food she would have been a financial drain on any man who took her out . Funniest moment - Blakey getting drenched in batter !
" Extraordinary Way To Clean Windows ! "	In the early ' 70's , a number of Sphere-published books , all credited to one ' Timothy Lea ' and whose titles were prefixed by the words ' Confessions Of A . . . ' , went on sale in Britain . I never bought one ( I was more into Agaton Sax ) , but a Form Five boy brought several to school , which he passed round behind the bike shed , the naughty bits underlined in red . They were the work of Christopher Wood , and their riotous blend of sex and slapstick made them bestsellers . In 1974 , producer Greg Smith turned the first into ' Confessions Of A Window Cleaner ' starring Robin Askwith as ' Timmy ' , a cheeky young Cockney whom the ladies adore . The director , Val Guest , had recently made another sex comedy - ' Au Pair Girls ' with Gabrielle Drake . Timmy's family is made up of half of the cast of the B . B . C . ' s ' Till Death Us Do Part ' - Dandy Nichols and Anthony Booth . Sheila White ( for me the sexiest bit of crumpet in the franchise ) played Timmy's blowsy sister ' Rosie ' , with Bill Maynard as his flat-capped Dad , who had a penchant for bringing home stuff from the Lost Property office where he worked . It amused cinema-going audiences in the ' 70's to see sitcom stars competing for attention with bare boobs and bums . At the start of ' Cleaner ' , Timmy is still a virgin , even after an encounter with a sexy stripper named ' Lil ' ( he makes love to her suspender belt by mistake ! ) but finally a customer called Jackie does the dirty deed . In the film's most notorious scene , she and Timmy make out in a kitchen awash with soap bubbles . Like ' Alfie ' , the story cheerfully bounds from one sexy encounter to another . Anita Graham pops up as an energetic Au Pair ( though her clothes disappointingly stay on throughout her scene ) , Melissa Stribling tries to seduce Timmy in a coal cellar , and Linda Hayden raises temperatures as a policewoman called ' Liz ' ( or ' Fanny The Fuzz ' as Sid disparagingly refers to her ) . The ' Confessions ' series has often been likened to the ' Carry On ' series , but I think a more realistic comparison is to be made with the ' On The Buses ' movies . Like ' Stan Butler ' , Timmy lives at home with his mother , sister , and brother-in-law . Interestingly , when Dandy Nichols backed out of the series , who did Smith replace her with ? Doris Hare , of course . Smith had the decency to acknowledge his debt to Peter Rogers at the time , while Tony Booth blasted the critics who panned ' Cleaner ' . ' The mere thought that this is the first in a series is enough to set the jaw solid ' sniffed one , while another stated simply : " Come back ' Carry On's ' , all is forgiven ! ' . The ' Confessions ' films were noticeably tamer than the books , which were full of bad language . But the public wholeheartedly embraced ' Cleaner ' and made it the most commercially successful film on release in 1974 , paving the way not only for three sequels but numerous imitators , such as the ' Adventures ' series . I'm on their side because ' Cleaner ' not only is good fun , but boasts a great soundtrack , and a first-rate cast clearly enjoying themselves . It would not be until the ' 90's that the ' Confessions ' finally made it to terrestrial television . Channel Five ( as it was then called ) garnered excellent ratings from the quartet . One in the eye for Mary Whitehouse !
More Television Magic From Irwin Allen !	' Project Tic Tok ' is a secret underground base where scientists have developed time travel . Head of the project is Dr . Tony Newman . Terrified of losing Government funding , Newman decides to test the device , known as ' the time tunnel ' , using himself as guinea pig . He finds himself on the deck of the Titanic , hours before its destruction . Dr . Doug Phillips follows him into the past , but can the course of history be changed ? I can remember being stunned by the opening episode of ' The Time Tunnel ' back in the ' 60's . Even in black and white , the set looked incredible , a two-tone vortex stretching to infinity . Irwin Allen spared no expense here . As a cost-cutting measure , however , he was forced to plunder old historical movies to provide the settings , but it didn't harm the show as much as it could have . Like his other series such as ' Lost In Space ' , ' Time ' emphasised action at the expense of plot and characterisation . James Darren and Robert Colbert made an exceptionally likable pair of time-travellers , while Lee Meriwether looked glamorous even in a lab coat . Each week , Tony and Doug would arrive at the scene of a famous historical event or disaster , such as Krakatoa or Little Big Horn , and try to survive without changing history . Perhaps the best episode was ' The Day The Sky Fell In ' in which Doug and Tony materialise at Pearl Harbour hours before the Japanese attack . Tony meets himself as a boy , and his father whom he knows will die soon . The ending is deeply moving . Towards the end of the run , several ' alien invasion ' stories appeared , but this didn't help ratings . ' Time ' suffered the misfortune of being scheduled against ' The Man From U . N . C . L . E . ' , then at the height of its popularity . Despite having the shortest shelf-life of any Allen show , ' Time ' is amongst his best , and was his personal favourite .
Dr . Upton Will See You Now !	' In The House ' concluded with the students finally passing their medical exams , so it looked like the end for the show . Frank Muir had moved on , to be replaced as Head of Comedy at L . W . T . by Barry Took . But two weeks after the last episode was recorded , Humphrey Barclay contacted the cast to inform them it would be coming back . The result was ' Doctor In Large ' , and it saw Upton , Collier , and Stuart-Clark moving on from St . Swithins to venture into the wide world . A paring down of the cast was inevitable - out went ' Duncan Waring ' ( Robin Nedwell joined the cast of the Jack Rosenthal sitcom ' The Lovers ' ) , ' Danny Hooley ' ( although he would reappear in the final episode of ' In Charge ' ) and ' Dave Briddock ' , in came ' Lawrence Marwood Bingham ' , a conceited creep of the first order , excellently played by Richard O'Sullivan . His character was not only popular with the public , but some of the writers as well , in particular Garden and Oddie . The new series went from St . Swithins to Dr . Maxwell's inner-city surgery , Dr . Whiteland's Harley Street practice , Paul's uncle's ( Dr . Griffin ) country surgery , before returning to the hospital . An industrial dispute resulted in a number of I . T . V . programmes being recorded in black and white , and the first six episodes of ' Large ' were amongst them . Not that viewers were too bothered , many still hadn't upgraded to colour . What is astonishing about ' Large ' is its length - British sitcoms traditionally last six episodes per season , but this was on air for an incredible eight months , totalling twenty-nine episodes . What is equally astonishing is how good many of them are ; ' No Ill Feeling ! ' and ' Its The Rich Wot Gets The Pleasure ' being two outstanding examples . John Cleese ( apparently in need of money following a failed business venture ) and Graham Chapman ( working with Bernard McKenna ) provided some fine scripts . The punishing schedule , alas , took its toll on Barry Evans , and after the show ended , he announced he would not be returning . CODA : In the ' Comedy Classics ' documentary broadcast on I . T . V . - 1 on / 08 , George Layton revealed that Barry Evans was in fact sacked from the show due to his ' erratic behaviour ' .
" Mama ! "	1939 . Bill Oddie is born and , much to the consternation of his parents , has the body of a fully grown man , replete with beard . Sent to a special public school for precocious tots , he along with Graeme Garden and Tim Brooke-Taylor offer to do their bit for the war effort . After defusing a bomb dropped on the school , the trio parachute behind enemy lines to buy cigars for Winston Churchill . Their mission is successful , but on meeting Winnie they've a shock in store - he is a dead ringer for Adolf Hitler ! The final ' Goodies ' episode on the B . B . C . - although not the last recorded , that honour went to ' Animals ' - is a splendid swan-song , full of good visual gags and mischief . The next time they would be on television turned out to be the ill-fated L . W . T . series . Like ' Rome Antics ' five years earlier , it ignores the established format and presents our heroes in an entirely unrelated ( almost Goon Show-like ) adventure set in World War Two , in which a clockwork Tim impersonates Churchill so as to win a football match between Britain and Germany . ' The Six Million Dollar Man ' theme is heard as Tim goes into slow motion mode . The late Andrew Ray , who plays ' Churchill ' , was the youngest son of the much-loved comedian Ted Ray . The headmaster is played by Geoffrey Palmer of ' Reginald Perrin ' and ' Butterflies ' fame . Interesting to see the Goodies turning Churchill into a figure of fun , especially in the scene where British soldiers blow raspberries during one of his speeches . Recently , the film ' Churchill - The Hollywood Years ' tried the same trick , but with less successful results . Funniest moment - Tim as ' Churchill ' running bionic fashion through a minefield with a chamber pot on his head !
" We'll Keep A Welcome In The Hillside ! "	The Goodies go to Wales to perform at the Eisteddfod on Llan-dlubber Island . They find it a dreary , boring place ( the roadsigns read ' No Drinking ' , ' No Smoking ' and ' No Girls ' ) , peopled by women in national costume with smoke coming out of their hats and God-fearing types , such as ' The Reverend Llewellyn Llewellyn Llewellyn Llewellyn ' ( Jon Pertwee ) . Tim , Bill and Graeme try to liven up the event by introducing elements of heavy rock , magic and striptease , but the locals are furious . They enjoy being bored , which is why the Eisteddfod is so popular . The Goodies are sentenced to decapitation at the hands of the Druids . In desperation , they pretend to have Welsh heritage . The Reverend is persuaded , and the Goodies are allowed to participate in an ecclesiastical rugby match involving various religious groups , for which the coveted prize is a golden rugby ball . . . When Anne Robinson ranted about the Welsh on ' Room 101 ' a few years back , it caused a national scandal . Yet this show , an even bigger insult to my country , went out thirty-two years ago without causing a ripple of protest . How times have changed . Possibly the reason no-one was offended was because the parody was too over-the-top to be taken seriously . To give an example , during the Eisteddfod , a woman sells leeks to the audience , in addition to ices and soft drinks . It would not be the first time ' The Goodies ' had made fun of a different part of the U . K . - Season Two's ' Loch Ness Monster ' similarly poked fun at the Scots . Here the Welsh are depicted as so backward they decline to use lavatories on religious grounds . Jon Pertwee stepped into the role of ' Llewellyn ' after Windsor Davies had to back out due to other commitments , and as you'd expect from a man of his not inconsiderable comic talents , he is superb , totally unrecognisable as the man who'd been ' Dr . Who ' only the year before . The late Alun Williams , a familiar face on B . B . C . Wales in the ' 70's , plays a rugby commentator . Funniest moment - the rugby match in which both Long Longford and Mrs . Mary Whitehouse are players . After scoring a try , Mary gets a mouthful of abuse from a Druid . He is clearly seen mouthing the words : " You XXXXing old bitch ! " .
" F . S . - 1 To Seaview ! "	Created by Irwin Allen , ' Voyage To The Bottom Of The Sea ' was a long-running science fiction series based on the hit Twentieth Century Fox movie of the same name . Basically , it told of the colourful exploits of the Seaview , the world's most technologically advanced submarine , commanded by Captain Lee Crane and created by Admiral Harriman Nelson ( Rtd . ) of ' The Nelson Institute Of Marine Research ' . Each week , the sub would save the world either from saboteurs , aliens or monsters . David Hedison and the late Richard Basehart brought more to the characters than was ever there on paper . Four seasons were produced - of which the first was the best - and the show was a favourite of mine when I was a boy . Rather than regurgitate the show's well-documented history , however , I want to use this review to recount a personal memory . In the early ' 90's , Britain's Channel 4 announced that it had purchased the entire run , and planned to screen it on Sunday afternoons in the slot vacated by ' Lost In Space ' . I was beside myself with excitement . The last reruns of ' Voyage ' ( as it shall henceforth be referred to ) were back in the early ' 80's , and took the form of sporadic showings of Season 2 and 3 stories such as ' The Mechanical Man ' and ' The Lost Bomb ' ( I'm referring to the H . T . V . screenings . Other regions may have had different ones ) . Particularly exciting was the news that the run included the first season , which I had never before seen . Being black and white effectively precluded it from a reshowing in the colour crazy ' 70's . So in 1990 , the Seaview set sail again . But there was a problem . In my neck of the woods , we had S4C - the Welsh fourth channel - and they commenced the run several weeks behind Channel 4 . Which meant that when English viewers got onto the colour episodes , we were still watching the monochrome ones . Nothing wrong with that , you may think . I was grateful to be seeing ' Voyage ' at all . But then something dreadful happened . The Gulf War , to be precise . Someone at Channel 4 realised that the episode ' The Magnus Beam ' was too close to what was happening in the real world - set in the Middle East , it concerned a madman who wanted to start World War Three by capturing U . S . spy planes , and decided it was not suitable for screening at that time . It was shelved - along with ' The Blizzard Makers ' , whose only crime it seems was to mention The Gulf Stream several times . The run carried on without them . After the war ended , Channel 4 showed the episodes . All seemed well . Then S4C made a staggering blunder . Following ' The Magnus Beam ' , they were to have followed C4's lead by screening ' The Blizzard Makers ' before recommencing the normal order . But they didn't . Instead they put on ' Leviathan ' , the seventh episode of Season 2 ! I was horrified . The station had managed to omit a dozen episodes ( six from the first year , six from the second ) . Any hope I had of building a complete library of ' Voyage ' episodes went straight out the window . Amongst the ' lost ' stories were classics like ' Jonah & The Whale ' and ' And Five Of Us Are Left ' . It would be like a comprehensive ' Star Trek ' season forgetting to include ' The City On The Edge Of Forever ' and ' Amok Time ' . Enraged , I fired off a letter to S4C , hoping to obtain an explanation for this act of crass stupidity . I eventually got a reply . The unsigned letter claimed that the decision to skip twelve episodes was Channel 4's , insisting that the S4C transmissions should harmonise with theirs . I didn't buy it . For one thing , they were still a week behind , and secondly , why would an English television station care what was being shown in Wales ? ' The Waltons ' was also being rerun at the same time , and S4C's reverential treatment of ' John-Boy ' and company contrasted sharply with its unmistakable contempt for ' Voyage ' . The letter writer concluded by inviting me to take the matter up with Channel 4 . In other words , they were passing the buck . They had messed up , and were refusing to even say sorry . I tossed the letter in the bin . S4C weren't finished with ' Voyage ' either . A screening of the Season 3 episode ' The Death Watch ' was plagued by so many technical problems it rendered the plot incomprehensible . A year later , ' Cave Of The Dead ' was displaced by coverage of the Urdd Eisteddfod , never to be rescheduled . None of this would have mattered had the series been available on V . H . S . at the time . It wasn't . I had to wait fourteen years to see the missing twelve , when ' Voyage ' was rerun on the Sky satellite channel ' F . X . 289 ' ' . And then they only ran the first two seasons . If you think the S4C debacle still rankles with me after all these years , you'd be right . My ' Voyage ' collection is still missing two episodes at the time of writing . Despite its popularity , Channel 4 have not shown the slightest interest in bringing it back . Admiral Nelson and Captain Crane faced many untold dangers over the years , but one peril even they could not overcome was the general incompetence of television programme planners .
" You're a looney ! " . " Thank you ! "	The Goodies are watching a live concert in Hyde Park when sinister Mafia-types make off with the orchestra . Everywhere , musicians are mysteriously vanishing . The Goodies give a free show on Hackney Marshes . No-one turns up to hear them play , but someone makes off with their lorry - with them inside . Our heroes are taken to the country home of one M . J . Coggleton , also known as ' The Music Master ' . The villain has stolen the world's musicians so that people will have to pay him if they want to hear them again . He wants the Goodies to make a record - if they refuse , they will be forced to face the ultimate punishment - namely , be locked in a cell with Rolf Harris . . . One of my all-time favourite ' Goodies ' episodes . With his slicked-back hair , Dracula-style cloak and mobile , rocket-firing Hammond organ , The Music Master is the nearest the show got to one of those eccentric super-villains so typical of the ' Batman ' television series . The late Henry McGee is best remembered for his work on ' The Benny Hill Show ' . Its a pity this episode wasn't shown as a tribute to him earlier this year . Full of great gags , including a couple at the expense of Cilla Black's singing . She couldn't have been offended , because she contributed to the final scene . Funniest moment - the final battle between the Goodies and the Music Master , where a euphonium is used as a cannon !
" There's Nobody Driving Those Things ! "	Frustrated at the lack of progress on the redecoration of their office , The Goodies search for new premises . Disguised as poor people ( Bill is made up to look like a baby ) , they visit an estate agent , whose house prices rise with each passing second . After being conned out of their life savings , they decide to build a disused railway station . . . Cracking episode which launched ' The Goodies ' third series . Joe Melia , who plays a double role as the builder and the estate agent , will forever be remembered as ' Mr . Prosser ' from the television version of ' The Hitch-Hiker's Guide To The Galaxy . His sexy secretary , Miss Lushboosie , is played by Julie Desmond - ' the girl with the biggest tits ' in the famous Monty Python ' Summarise Proust ' sketch . Two fantastic film sequences - the Goodies building their new offices ( Bill uses a pneumatic drill as a pogo stick at one point ) and the stunning finale in which our heroes are menaced by sentient bulldozers - make this a real treat for comedy fans .
Back In The Real World . . .	' The Enemy Of The World ' is usually regarded as ' Dr . Who's ' sole excursion into the world of James Bond , but I think ' The Invasion ' can lay a greater claim to that title . It has a missing Professor , a kooky blonde , a paramilitary organisation set up to combat threats to the world , a super villain bent on world conquest , brainwashing , secret underground lairs , gadgetry , nick-of-time escapes , helicopters , and most importantly , a climactic battle between opposing forces . Kevin Stoney plays ' Vaughn ' with as much icy demeanour as Joseph Wiseman in ' Dr . No ' . Complaints that the first episode reveals little of the villain's master plan are bizarre - this is only the first part of an eight-part story ! Part One picks up where ' The Mind Robber ' ended . No sooner has the TARDIS reformed than it is fired on by an unknown spaceship somewhere on the dark side of the Moon . The action then moves to late 20th century Earth ( said to be 1975 by ' The Radio Times ' but never confirmed on screen ) . The Tardis has materialised on land belonging to International Electromatics , owned by Tobias Vaughn . As the Tardis is now invisible , the Doctor and his companions set off for London to find their old friend Professor Travers . A lorry driver gives them a lift . Moments after dropping them off , security guards shoot him dead . It will be interesting to see if Cosgrove Hall's animated reconstruction does full justice to this fine episode . UPDATE : I was lucky enough to see ' The Invasion ' in 1968 , and can say with some authority that the animations are superb . Cosgrove Hall have gone to a good deal of trouble to evoke the spirit of the original . The only mistake they made was getting Zoe's costume wrong in Part One . A minor quibble . At least here we actually got to see the enemy spaceship !
How Kolchak Inspired Carter	When originally screened in America in 1972 , ' The Night Stalker ' became the highest rated made-for-T . V . movie in history . Based on Jeff Rice's unpublished novel , it told how a fearless investigative reporter named Carl Kolchak ( the late Darren McGavin ) discovered the existence of a vampire in modern-day Las Vegas . When it arrived on British television four years later , it did not quite have the same impact , but my friends were talking about it at school on Monday morning , as indeed was I . We all agreed that it was one of the most exciting things we had seen . I did not know of the existence of ' The Night Strangler ' until it turned up nearly a decade later . I . T . V . , who screened the ' Kolchak ' movies , had apparently decided to pass on the spin-off series ; they felt ' Barnaby Jones ' starring Buddy Ebsen to be more of a draw , and anyway , viewers might confuse ' Kolchak ' with ' Kojak ' ! For years my only source of information concerning the show was an article in Fangoria magazine . I could not even purchase the Jeff Rice novels . Then something wonderful happened . In 1990 , B . B . C . - 2 put out the show as part of a late-night Friday series devoted to the supernatural called ' Mystery Train ' , hosted by Richard O'Brian . ' Kolchak ' found himself rubbing shoulders with the likes of ' The Brain Eaters ' and ' Earth Vs . The Spider ' . The opening titles were trimmed , removing Kolchak's whistling , and the closing credits . . . well , there were none . The first episode screened was ' Werewolf ' . I cannot say I was overly impressed , but stuck with it , and am I glad that I did ! I really wish I'd seen it in 1974 . My twelve year old self would have adored it . Creepy , humorous , exciting , no wonder it fired Chris Carter's imagination . The show's biggest asset was , of course , McGavin . Unlike the recent Kolchak , the original was an everyman figure , eccentrically dressed , rather conservative . He was to the supernatural what ' Columbo ' was to crime . The late Simon Oakland was great too as Kolchak's bad-tempered boss Tony Vincenzo . The scripts overflowed with wonderful , dry wit . I found myself enjoying the programme more for the humour content than the horror . When the twenty episodes ended , I felt bereft . ' The X-Files ' came along a few years later and filled the void - but only to an extent . I wanted Kolchak and Vincenzo back . I am glad that the show was never revived though . Without Oakland it would not have been the same . I have the Rice books now and have read them several times . I was very surprised when Stephen King slated the first ( in his book ' Danse Macabre ' ) as it is as good as anything he has written . Alright , so some of the monsters were hardly state-of-the-art , but so what ? The new ' Kolchak ' totally missed the point of the original . What you don't see is sometimes more frightening than what you do . . . Best Episode - ' Horror In The Heights ' Worst Episode - ' The Sentry '
Steptoe Totters Into The ' 70's	After an absence of five years , ' Steptoe & Son ' returned to B . B . C . - 1 , and at an interesting time for British television . Colour had arrived , and I . T . V . were topping the ratings with ' Please Sir ! ' , the ' Doctor ' series , and ' On The Buses ' , meaning the B . B . C . needed to compete . Shows made pre-1969 could not be re-run ( two exceptions were the period drama ' The Forsyte Saga ' and the children's programme ' Andy Pandy ' ) . The obvious solution was to either remake old shows ( as was done with ' Sykes ' ) or to construct sequels to earlier hits ( such as ' Whatever Happened To The Likely Lads ' ) . Just think of it - had Harry H . Corbett and Wilfrid Brambell refused to reprise their roles , ' Steptoe & Son ' would now be a forgotten show . ' A Death In The Family ' was the first of the new run , and a sad little episode it is too . Hercules , the Steptoe's horse , drops dead while Harold is on his rounds . When a tearful Harold tells his father , he is accused of causing the animal's death . The horse was not just an important part of the business , more like a family member . The old man takes to his bed , refusing to get up . Harold buys a new horse - which he calls Samson - but Albert does not want to know . Then Samson falls ill . Of course Harold never bothered to check the animal's sex before buying . . . Hercules ' death and Samson's arrival can be seen as a metaphor for the end of the old show and the commencement of the new one . Some people found it a bit hard to take , however ; on ' Points Of View ' complaints were read out from those who found the sight of Harold and Albert grieving for a dead animal upsetting rather than funny . Nevertheless , as the weeks rolled by , it became clear that the new ' Steptoe ' was every bit as good - if not better - than the old . Funniest moment - Harold , determined to erase the memory of Hercules ' death , switches on the television . A Western is on , followed by a commercial for dog food ( think about it ! ) This episode , along with several other early ' 70's ' Steptoes ' , exists only in monochrome . Luckily , comedy of this calibre looks good no matter what medium it is in .
The Not-So Good , The Very Bad & The Extremely Ugly	The coming of C . G . I . effectively revolutionised television and cinema , relegating generations of sci-fi and horror movies to museum piece status , curios to be laughed at rather than be frightened or excited by . It may surprise some to learn that the ' hah-hah , that was so low budget ! ' attitude existed long before C . G . I . Brothers Harry and Michael Medved had enjoyed success with their books ' The Fifty Worst Movies Of All Time ' and ' The Golden Turkey Awards ' and , as a result , became familiar faces on the talk-show circuit . Harry was Tony Bilbow's guest on ' Pebble Mill At One ' , while Michael went on ' Parkinson ' . " Are we still making bad movies ? " , the host naively asked , to which his guest responded : " Its a thriving industry ! " and cited ' Raise The Titanic ! ' and the Olivia Newton-John musical ' Xanadu ' as shining examples . It seemed inevitable that someone would make a programme on the subject , and London Weekend Television did . Rather than get the Medveds to present it though , they roped in Australian critic / author Clive James . He seemed a fair choice , having fronted Granada's ' Cinema ' a few years before . ' At The Movies ' boasted clips from some of the most mind-bogglingly awful motion pictures ever ; ' From Hell It Came ' , a hybrid of sci-fi and voodoo themes which resulted in a walking tree stump , ' Godzilla Vs . The Smog Monster ' , ' The Creeping Terror ' ( a giant carpet ) , ' Robot Monster ' ( a gorilla in a diving helmet ) , ' Teenagers From Outer Space ' , and ' Beyond The Valley Of The Dolls ' . No attempt was made to mine the movies for cheap jokes , as would later be the case with ' M . S . T . 3 . K . ' . His commentary was informative rather than condescending . He prefaced excerpts from ' Glen Or Glenda ' and ' Plan Nine From Outer Space ' with a mini-biography of their director Edward D . Wood . At the end of the show , he even defended the movies by stating that they were products of another age . " It was all a long time ago ! " was his final comment . The programme went out on I . T . V . but was repeated by Channel 4 as an appetite-wetter for its seminal ' Worst Of Hollywood ' series . Instead of Clive , its makers hired Michael Medved . Clive switched his attentions to awful foreign television . ' At The Movies ' can itself now be regarded as the product of another age . Its clips were well chosen , the commentary sharp and witty , and delivered by a presenter who knew what he was talking about . " It was all a long time ago ! " .
Its The ' 50's Revival !	This is one of my favourite ' Goodies ' episodes , mainly because it mocks three popular television shows of the ' 70's - the talent ( free ) contest ' New Faces ' , ' Stars On Sunday ' ( yuck ! ) and the pop show ' Supersonic ' in which producer Mike Mansfield briefly became a youth cult figure ( his catchphrase was " Cue ! " ) . Forget the plot , there isn't one . Like ' Goodies Rule O . K . ' it slides from one silly situation to another . It begins with Bill struggling to compose a hit record to follow ' Funky Gibbon ' , much to Graeme's amusement , and ends with an all-out war between Tim's Mike Mansfield ( " Cue Hitler ! Cue The Luftwaffe ! ) and Bill's Ken Russell . In between there's a funny send-up of the ' 70's fad for 50's nostalgia . Kitten Kong and Dougal make welcome cameos , and a treat for older viewers with guest appearances from ' 50's B . B . C . presenters Macdonald Hobley and Mary Malcolm . Funniest moment - the Goodies dressed as teddy boys , performing a rock and roll number . At one point , Graeme attempts to play a piano using a hammer and chisel ! Despite this being the sixth series , ' The Goodies ' showed no sign of running out of steam .
Big Bunny Is Watching You !	Graeme is asked by the British Government to organise an expedition to the Moon . He sends Tim and Bill . After waltzing about on the lunar surface to the strains of Strauss , they find carrots and lettuces in abundance , sustenance for an army of super-intelligent rabbits led by ' Big Bunny ' - originally known as ' Flopsy ' - sent there by Graeme during a test run . A brainwashed Tim and Bill return to Earth , where they embark on a spree of ultra-violence . Its up to Graeme to stop Big Bunny's army of rabbits from taking over the world , but who will believe him ? The Apollo space missions having ended the year before , the time was right for the Goodies to spoof sci-fi . ' Creatures ' makes fun of ' The Quatermass Experiment ' , ' 2001 : A Space Odyssey ' , ' 1984 ' , ' A Clockwork Orange ' ( here renamed ' The Transistorised Rabbit ' ) , ' Star Trek ' and , of course ' Dr . Who ' . ' Monty Python's Flying Circus ' is referenced in one scene , eliciting a cheer from the audience . The space-suits and consoles hailed from Gerry Anderson's ' U . F . O . ' . Roland McLeod appears as the B . B . C . ' s science correspondent , the legendary James Burke . No-one is safe from Big Bunny's power , even Prime Minister Ted Heath is seen getting into a limousine sporting a fluffy tail . Pretty daft even by ' Goodies ' standards - but I love it ! If the spectacle of rabbits wailing the theme from ' Star Trek ' doesn't amuse you , nothing will . Garden and Oddie would return to sci-fi seven years later with ' U-Friend Or U . F . O . ' , as well as creating the forgotten A . T . V . sitcom ' Astronauts ' . Funniest moment - Tim and Bill racing around Cricklewood on a motorbike in rabbit costumes , and attacking pedestrians with giant carrots !
" They're Altogether Ooky ! "	I had heard of but never seen ' The Addams Family ' until 1974 when I . T . V . screened repeats on Sunday mornings . I took to it straight away , as did most of my generation . People who think ' The League Of Gentlemen ' are doing anything new should be made to watch this ; it was unusually dark by the standards of U . S . television . Amusing though the Addams family undeniably are , they nevertheless possess a vaguely threatening quality . John Astin headed up the cast as ' Gomez Addams ' , whose idea of fun is watching toy trains crash . The late Carolyn Jones was sublime as ' Morticia ' , while former child star Jackie Coogan lit up the screen when he put light bulbs in his mouth as ' Uncle Fester ' . Ted Cassidy made a huge impact as ' Lurch ' , despite having very little to say . ' The Addams Family ' debuted on U . S . television at the same time as ' The Munsters ' , but this is my favourite . Once you've heard that insufferably catchy Vic Mizzy theme , you just can't get it out of your head !
" You'll never stick it out ! "	Bob takes Terry to a trendy hairdresser's , where his friend is shocked to see men working alongside women . He jumps to the wrong conclusion about their sexuality . As they prepare to have their hair washed and restyled , an old friend ( enemy ? ) called Brian Flint strides in , and , removing his cap , reveals himself to be nearly bald . Bob and Terry are looking forward to a soccer match between England and Romania , due to be played that afternoon , but televised late in the evening . Flint tries to spoil it by blabbing the result . They flee to the nearest pub , but he follows . Actually , Flint knows nothing , because the match has only just started . He bets them a fiver each they cannot go through the day without hearing the outcome . They accept the challenge . . . A strong candidate for the title of ' Best Ever Episode of W . H . T . T . L . L . ' , this was trotted out by the B . B . C . regularly for many years afterwards as a prelude to big football matches . You would think that it would be easy to avoid one man in a place like Newcastle , but Flint is cleverer than he appears , and like a bloodhound tracks them wherever they go , firstly to Audrey's home ( which he phones ) , then a church , and finally to Bob's new house . We never quite find out who ' Brian Flint ' is ; is he an old work colleague , drinking buddy , or what ? He comes across as a big-headed and unpleasant person who delights in making others uncomfortable . The role is superbly played by the late , much-missed Brian Glover , who went on to play the dimwitted ' Heslop ' in Clement and La Frenais's other classic sitcom ' Porridge ' . ' Flint ' was never seen again after this , which is a shame . Bob and Terry's fear at discovering the result of the match is palpable , emphasising the importance of football in their lives . No Thelma I'm afraid , but Audrey is very good here , especially when she fantasises about her West Indian lover - a limbo dancer . " He's upstairs , lowering his pole ! " , she says , in a sexy manner that would have done credit to Mae West . The scene in the hairdressers makes me cringe whenever I see it now . Flared trousers ! Long sideburns ! Garish shirts ! Oh no ! One of the stylists is Drina Pavlovic , who two years earlier had been in the fourth series of ' Please Sir ! ' as the sexy Celia . Funniest moment - the look on the face of the one-legged news vendor as he sees a car with no driver speed past ! Later remade ( rather badly ) by I . T . V . , starring Ant & Dec .
" A caterpillar fell out of his underpants !	Terry has become withdrawn , sullen and morose . Lounging about his mother's house all day , he does nothing but smoke , do jigsaws , and watch daytime television ( yes , it existed then ) . Mrs . Collier likens him to ' Andy Capp ' , while Audrey is reminded of Old Man Steptoe . Bob tries to coax him out of his shell by inviting him to a private dinner party with Thelma , and her social-climbing friends Brenda and Alan Boyle . Terry remembers Brenda from school , and unknowingly embarrasses her at every turn by reminding her of her working class background . Finally , Brenda snaps , and orders them all to leave . Surprisingly , Thelma sides with Terry for once . . . Another marvellous episode of ' W . H . T . T . L . L . ' . Unlike the ' Shelley ' episode ' Nowt So Queer ' ( which also focused on a dinner party going wrong ) , we actually get to see it , and it gives Clement and La Frenais a wonderful excuse to feature Terry at his worst . Though a snob and a social climber ( not unlike Thelma ) you feel sorry for Brenda as as one embarrassing detail about her past after another is dredged up over dinner . The reference to ' the boiler room incident ' comes as a shock to the viewer . It infers that both Bob and Terry may have sexually molested ( or at least attempted to ) Brenda in the quietest part of the school building . If Brenda's claims are not exaggerated , it casts our heroes in a somewhat darker light than usual . ' Brenda ' is played by the lovely Jacquie-Ann Carr , later to play Robin Nedwell's girlfriend ' Dr . Kate Wright ' in ' Doctor On The Go ' , while the bespectacled ' Alan ' ( looking as he does like Graeme Garden's stand-in ) is Julian Holloway , son of Stanley and a ' Carry On ' veteran . As you would expect , the performances are terrific ( particularly Bolam's ) and the dialogue immaculate . Interesting to hear Terry likened to ' Andy Capp ' . In 1987 , James Bolam portrayed the work shy layabout in a short-lived I . T . V . series . Funniest moment - Terry's recollections about Bob's liaison with Deirdre Birchwood in the greenhouse , leading to the quote above . Thelma's look of indignation is impossible to describe .
" 007 . . . leave the Beretta here ! "	Its hard to imagine the impact that ' Dr . No ' had on audiences back in 1962 , particularly those not used to seeing a British film made with the same level of technical competence as American movies . Harry Saltzman and Cubby Broccoli took a gamble by casting an unknown - Sean Connery - as the lead character James Bond . They took a further gamble by making Bond a tough cookie far removed from the elegant Clubland heroes so beloved of British fiction such as ' Bulldog Drummond ' and ' Simon Templar ' . The other ingredient for success was Ian Fleming , a damned good storyteller , and ' Dr . No ' was one of his very best books . Britain had tired of ' kitchen sink ' movies and wanted something colourful , racier and exciting . Bond fitted the bill perfectly . I saw ' Dr . No ' in 1975 , when it came on I . T . V . for the first time . Nowadays people grumble whenever Bond is on telly , but back then it was something of an event . The film itself begins in the style of the ' Danger Man ' television series , with Connery in the McGoohan role , but effortlessly turns from a spy thriller into something approaching science fiction . Nothing like it had been seen before . Considering it was made on a low budget , it is a great achievement for Ken Adam and Terence Young . And the best was yet to come . As ' Casino Royale ' has recently been remade , perhaps ' Dr . No ' should be in line for the same treatment ?
" Who Were Those Masked Scouts ? "	Bill and Graeme notice their friend Tim behaving in an odd fashion . Each night , he goes out , wearing a grubby mac , a bin liner on his head , and creeps about the deserted streets like someone with a guilty secret . They follow him to a hut , where Tim is Scoutmaster of a troupe of ancient Scouts . Bill and Graeme find this hilarious . But it does not stop them from joining . They use their Scout credentials to commit crimes , such as stealing wigs , and demanding protection money . Tim throws them out of his troupe , so they set up on their own . Such is the scale of their crime wave that the Government officially declares the Boy Scout Movement an illegal organisation . A petrified Tim is forced to testify before the sinister Scoutfinder General . . . " The Goodies have had it . They are no longer funny . They are making fun of organisations unable to answer back ! " , raged an angry ' Sun ' reader , hot on the heels of this episode's transmission . Actually , ' The Goodies ' was not the first comedy show to ridicule the Scouts . Spike Milligan did it in ' Q6 ' , and ' The Two Ronnies ' did a splendid take-off of ' The Gang Show ' in 1972 . History does not record a sharp decline in Boy Scout membership as a result of this programme , which proves if nothing else that some people just do not have a sense of humour . I was a Scout once and I found this episode hilarious ! Guest star Frank Windsor , of ' Z Cars ' and ' Softly , Softly ' fame , turns in a creepy performance as the Joe McCarthy-like ' Scoutfinder General ' . On being released from custody , Tim joins the Salvation Army , which expands to include a Navy and Air Force ( ! ) . In a stunning climax , the Masked Scouts ( Bill and Graeme ) are attacked by all three . Graeme's ace up his sleeve is a homemade atom bomb . As soon as the pin is pulled , however , it deflates like a punctured balloon . Funniest moment - The Scoutfinder General trapping Tim into admitting Scout membership by drumming a beat with his fingers , which turns into a chorus of ' We're Riding Along On The Crest Of A Wave ' !
" This is a man . . . and this isn't ! "	Mrs . Desiree Carthorse , the puritanical head of the ' Clean Up T . V . Campaign ' , hires The Goodies to make a sex education film entitled ' How To Make Babies By Doing Dirty Things ' . But she takes offence to the word ' gender ' in the opening credits , and suddenly our heroes are in trouble , with the public and media ranged against them . To clear their names , they go on television disguised as outspoken M . P . Sir Reginald Wheelbarrow , but the interviewer is not fooled . Bill becomes a B . B . C . producer and soon the airwaves are full of violent and sexually explicit programmes . Filming the death scene for the sexy pantomime ' Sinderella ' , Bill flips completely and wipes out the cast with a machine gun built into one of the cameras . . . Bill Oddie has often spoken of the umbrage he and his fellow Goodies took when , not long after transmission of the first episode , they received a fan letter from , of all people , Mrs . Mary Whitehouse . The Bespectacled Blue-rinsed One called their show ' clean family fun ' . Luckily she missed ' Caught In The Act ' ( featuring naked female backsides ) , ' Love The Police ' ( featuring Bill's naked backside ) , ' The Greenies ' ( featuring a stripper at work ) and even ' Tower Of London ' offers a quick shot of a topless woman . Determined to get into her bad books , the Goodies went all out to ridicule her and everything she stood for . Its easy to forget now just how despised she was . Here she is parodied by the brilliant Beryl Reid . Instead of saying ' sex ' , she says the first two letters , and uses her finger to make a cross in the air . Without even watching their film , she calls for it to be banned . Having eradicated television , she fears bored couples will have sex instead , and the episode ends with her standing in the street shouting ' Stop it ! ' . ' Sir Reginald Wheelbarrow ' is a take-off of the late Sir Gerald Nabarro , the ' Boris Johnson ' of his day , a rent-a-quote Tory M . P . famed for his handlebar moustache and outspoken views . Richard Wattis , sporting a dreadful wig , plays the television interviewer . In a bizarre ( even by Goodies ' standards ) climax , leather-clad , whip-wielding dominatrixes die Peckinpah-style , Oddie laughs maniacally , and the B . B . C . T . V . Centre goes up in an impressive display of pyrotechnics . Note the cheer from the audience ! Funniest moment - the Goodies ' sex education film . Its so coy as to beggar belief , and about as educational as showbiz gossip . No nudity is visible because both man and woman are covered from head to foot in sheets ! I wonder if Harry Enfield got the idea for his ' Mr . Cholmondely Warner / Mr . Grayson ' public information film spoofs from this ?
" Send Rodney For The Fish ! "	' Only Fools & Horses ' has experienced a slight fall from grace in recent years , with its reputation questioned by , amongst others , comedian Arthur Smith , who made unfavourable comparisons with ' The Office ' . Repeats have possibly resulted in overfamiliarity breeding contempt , as well as confusion ( the episodes being screened wildly out of sequence ) . Its certainly true that the post-1996 Christmas shows weren't up to standard , but all this is to ignore the series at its best . The fact it that ' Only Fools & Horses ' is a prime contender for the title of best British sitcom of all time . Brilliantly written and acted throughout . In 1981 , when it started , ' Only Fools ' was just another comedy . Each episode was thirty minutes long , the only regulars were Derek ' Del Boy ' Trotter , his brother Rodney , and their Grandad . Stories revolved around Del Boy's latest ' get rich quick ' scheme which , predictably , would fail badly . But as it developed , and steadily rose in popularity , it evolved into something else - a comedy soap , if you like . When it was expanded to 45 minute episodes , supporting characters such as ' Trigger ' , ' Denzil ' and ' Boycie ' became as much a part of the show as either Del Boy or Rodney . When the latter married Cassandra and the former began a relationship with Raquel , that was when it really hit the button . Those who claim that the show's humour is intrinsically dated are wrong because the show is essentially about human relationships and that theme will never date . Despite their constant bickering , Del Boy and Rodney are devoted to each other . When gangsters threatened Rodney , Del Boy agreed to take a beating on his behalf . A sitcom about hate is never going to have the longevity of one based on love . The death of Lennard Pearce in the mid-80's threatened to derail the show , but John Sullivan bravely decided to make Grandad's death into an episode , one that set the scene for the arrival of Uncle Albert , brilliantly played by Buster Merryfield . As other sitcoms come and go , ' Only Fools ' will always be around somewhere . My favourite episode - ' The Jolly Boys ' Outing ' . Just watching the Trotters and their friends having fun at the seaside is a sheer joy ! A word of warning - if you're thinking of getting your chandelier cleaned , don't call the Trotters , okay ?
" Are you going to Tossa ? "	The one-off comedy special by Ray Galton and Alan Simpson that inspired the series ' Dawsons Weekly ' . Les wants to see the world . Turning up at a travel agents , he creates trouble by insisting he bring his bike indoors . The agent ( Frank Thornton ) is so keen to get rid of him he offers a list of package holidays - all are too expensive for Les . He only has 22 . He buys a ticket to fly to Tossa del Mar courtesy of the ' Kut-Price Holidays Ltd ' group . Les senses he is in for trouble when he turns up at Leeds Airport and finds the company's office located in a tent near the runway . Doris ( Mollie Sugden ) says the plane cannot take-off because the company has not sold enough tickets . Luckily , a few more holiday-makers turn up . Les is told he is carrying too much weight and has to leave most of his luggage behind . A van ferries the passengers to an ancient cargo plane , festooned with football graffiti . Inside the passengers are crowded together like cattle . The stewardess ( Patricia Hayes ) sells Les a raffle ticket . The lucky winner will receive a meal . The plane eventually takes off - albeit reluctantly . " For a moment there , I thought we were travelling by road ! " , says Les . His fellow passenger is ' Peregrine ' ( Roy Barrowclough ) , a gay coal-miner . As soon as they meet , he asks him : " Are you going to Tossa ? " . The passengers are told to get off when they get to the Pyrenees , as a bus will take them around the other side , where they will get back on the plane . Worse , the passengers are forced to hand over loose change for an unexpected refuelling . Les is skint and he has not even got there yet ! Bad package holidays were also the theme of the film ' Carry On Abroad ' in 1972 and the B . B . C . special ' Marty Abroad ' ( starring Marty Feldman ) in 1971 . Benny Hill also did a very good silent sketch on the same subject . Thanks to a terrific Galton / Simpson script and top-notch playing from all concerned , particularly Dawson and Barrowclough , this one is comedy gold from start to finish . Patricia Hayes is , as always , a joy to watch . Funniest moment - Les emerging from a toilet . He asks the stewardess where they are . " Over Luton ! " , she replies . " Good , I never went down well there ! " , says Les , before going back to pull the chain !
" And don't the kids just love him ! "	The Goodies run a safari park with a difference - no animals . Coach-loads of tourists pay to see figures from the world of showbiz and light entertainment , such as Danny LaRue , Brian Rix , Steptoe & Son , the ' Gumbies ' from ' Monty Python's Flying Circus ' and so on . On losing their star attraction - Tony Blackburn ( ! ) - they elect to replace him with Rolf Harris . Travelling to the Australian outback , they pursue Rolf in a Land Rover and bring him down with a hypodermic dart . Back in England , the Australian Rolf is mated with the Russian Rolf to produce ( wait for it ) - Little Rolf . The diminutive Rolf becomes so popular the other celebrities grow jealous and set him ( and the other Rolfs ) free . London becomes infested by Rolf Harrises , all behaving like the rats from ' The Pied Piper Of Hamelin ' . As the crisis worsens , Her Majesty The Queen issues a challenge - stop the Rolfs in return for the hand of Prince Charles in marriage . Oh , and there are O . B . E's thrown in too . Guess who volunteers for the job ? Hilarious episode from the Goodies ' star year - 1975 . Marty Feldman and Dick Emery are glimpsed briefly in the Goodies ' safari park , courtesy of stock footage . A neat gag has Morecambe and Wise battling their on screen comedy rivals Mike and Bernie Winters . That frequent target of the Goodies ' humour - Tony Blackburn - appears for the first time in the show as himself . Note the cheer from one section of the studio audience when Tony is shot dead by a big game hunter ! But Blackburn's humiliation is nothing compared to that heaped upon poor Rolf Harris . Ironically , Rolf is still getting television work , which is more than can be said for the Goodies themselves . Asked about this show many years later , Rolf said he wasn't offended and would have participated if asked . Funniest moment - there are so many its hard to know where to begin . The Goodies ' trip to Australia is especially amusing , seeing how the first person they encounter is a convict . The finale in which the Rolf Harrises go on the rampage is as sidesplitting now as it was in 1975 . My personal favourite though is Bill showing off his collection of ' Rolf ' merchandise . As well as balloons and stickers bearing the legend " We Have Seen Little Rolf " , he has a walkie-talkie doll . Singing ' tie me kangaroo down , sport ' , it takes a couple of steps and falls off a table , its head coming off completely . An accident no doubt , but a happy one .
" She thought her backside was a perfume factory ! "	Five years after ' The Likely Lads ' ended , Bob and Terry were reunited for this superior sequel . Bob is now engaged to Thelma Chambers , whom he plans marrying in six weeks ' time . One evening , they are looking at slides of the Elm Lodge Housing Estate , when Bob accidentally pops in one featuring a drunken Terry Collier . Thelma thinks it an omen of things to come . Terry is back in England following a lengthy spell in the army . He and Bob visit a Soho strip club but fail to see one another . By another startling coincidence , they share the same railway carriage , but the lights go out . It is only when Bob tells this ' stranger ' the hilarious tale of how his best friend came to be in the army that Terry realises who he is with . . . The early ' 70's saw a slew of revived B . B . C . sitcoms - ' Till Death Us Do Part ' , ' Steptoe & Son ' , ' Sykes ' - and all were better than they had been before . And not only because they were now in colour . ' Whatever Happened To The Likely Lads ' worked because Clement and La Frenais had matured as writers . Ditto the cast . You don't hear Bolam and Bewes going ' eee ' or ' by the cringe ! ' anymore . Secondly , the passing of time allowed Bob and Terry to change ; the former has a well-paid job , is engaged to an attractive woman , and has the Elm Lodge Housing Estate to look forward to , while the latter is bit of a misfit , embittered at having missed out on The Permissive Society ( it did not really exist , but Terry was not to know that ) . These changes strengthened the characters , made the show even funnier . Its fair to say that the comedy came out of the characters , rather than the other way round . The dialogue here is fantastic , as are the performances . Brigit Forsyth made her debut as ' Thelma ' ( though the character had been mentioned in the earlier shows ) , and was promptly christened ' The Dreaded Thelma ' by Observer critic Clive James . Why I do not know . She may be a bit possessive , but she's not remotely fearsome . With Terry Collier hovering around in the background , any sensible woman would worry . Funniest moment - for me , its the moment when the lights go on in the carriage , and Terry snaps at Bob . " You b - - - - - d ! " . It does not look funny here , but take it from me , on screen its hilarious !
Terror From The Past !	An unknown object is picked up on Alpha's scanners . It is Voyager One , a space probe of Earth origin launched during the 1970's to explore the universe , conveying a message of peace and goodwill . The probe is equipped with the Queller Drive - a revolutionary form of propulsion using fast neutrons . It proved dangerous , however , resulting in the destruction of an entire community , and its creator - Dr . Ernst Queller - was forced to go into hiding . The obvious solution is to blast Voyager 1 before it can reach the Moon . But Professor Bergman objects as it contains important information . While the debate rages , a physicist named Dr . Linden steps forward and identifies himself as Dr . Queller . He brings the probe down safely , but then a new menace appears . A fleet of space ships , under the command of Aarchon , Chief Justifier of the Federated Worlds of Sidon , arrives . Voyager 1 was responsible for the destruction of two of their outer worlds , and he intends to exact revenge by destroying the race who built it . . . I do not recall seeing this Johnny Byrne-penned episode during the show's premiere run in 1975 , nor during the 1978 and 1982 repeats on H . T . V . I cannot believe it was banned - if that was the case , it is hard to see why - but my first viewing was in 1992 when it was included as part of I . T . C . ' s video releases . This strong episode boasts for once a threat created by human technology . An Earth space probe also appeared in the memorable ' Six Million Dollar Man ' episode ' Death Probe ' and its sequel ' Return Of Death Probe ' , as well as the first ' Star Trek ' movie . Jeremy Kemp plays ' Linden / Queller ' , the genius who created the Drive with good intentions , but had to go into hiding on Alpha under an assumed name because of all the destruction it has wrought . In some ways , he is reminiscent of the ' Professor Seltzman ' character from the ' Do Not Forsake Me Oh My Darling ' episode of ' The Prisoner ' . Kemp , as you would expect , gives a fine performance . Once some of the Alphans discover his true identity , they resent the survival of the base being put into his hands . Paul Morrow is among them , his father was one of the casualties . Like I said earlier , I had to wait nearly twenty years to view this particular episode , but luckily it was worth the wait .
Bedtime For Bill !	Rupert Wincheater of Beechrow Products hires The Goodies to devise a new marketing campaign for an unpopular bedtime drink called ' Venom ' . They start by changing the name to the more soporific-sounding ' Snooze ' . Graeme goes further , creating a new formula which knocks out anyone who takes so much as a sip . Half the country is put to sleep , and Bill starts sleepwalking through minefields . . . The first ' Goodies ' episode to really hit the mark , ' Snooze ' is great fun , not in the least because of Roddy Maude-Roxby's turn as the hyperactive ' Rupert ' : " O . K . ? O . K . ? Fine ! Fine ! " . The actor had previously appeared in the U . S . series ' Rowan & Martin's Laugh-In ' , and was the dimwitted ' Professor Weaver ' in Michael Palin and Terry Jones ' ' The Complete & Utter History Of Britain ' . Funniest moment - the wordless opening in which Graeme rises , has breakfast and gets dressed . Definitely a major influence on Nick Park !
" You Dirty Old Man ! "	One of the saddest sights I ever saw on television was Wilfrid Brambell , close to tears on ' Nationwide ' in 1982 following the sudden death of his ' Steptoe & Son ' co-star Harry H . Corbett . The pairing of these great actors , combined with some wonderful scripts by Ray Galton and Alan Simpson , made ' Steptoe ' a classic . I think viewers recognised the truthfulness of the situation ; rag and bone man Harold desperately wanted to escape from his father's domination to begin a new life on his own , but couldn't because he loved the old man too much . When searching for comedy ideas , today's writers fall into the trap of thinking : " How can I shock the public ? " . ' Steptoe ' did not set out to shock , yet did because it was so real . After a successful run in the ' 60's , it was revived in the ' 70's in colour , and these episodes are my favourites , particularly ' Divided We Stand ' in which Harold and Albert tried to lead separate lives in the same house . The word ' timeless ' is overused these days , but it definitely applies here .
" Bom ! "	The Goodies set up a pirate radio station - Radio Goodies - located beneath a rowing boat in the English Channel . They also set up their own Post Office ( an early example of privatisation , surely ? ) in competition with the Royal Mail . But Graeme flips and begins laying plans for a pirate bus service , as well as the British Isles being towed away by submarines . . . This terrific episode rounded off the first series of ' The Goodies ' , and broke the established pattern by having one of the regulars go mad on some new idea , to the extent of threatening the world with it . Garden is on wonderful form here as the mad dictator . No guest-stars , and all the better for it . Funniest moment - Tim and Bill chasing people whilst inside red pillar boxes ! Bit Of Pointless Trivia : ' A Walk In The Black Forest ' was a hit for Horst Jankowski in 1965 .
When Napoleon Was Dynamite !	" Open Channel D ! " . I never saw ' U . N . C . L . E . ' during its ' 60's heyday , I regret to say . I came to it in 1972 , when I . T . V . broadcast the movies ( beginning with ' The Karate Killers ' ) at peak-time on Saturday evenings , followed by reruns of ' The Persuaders ! ' . My first glimpse of ' Napoleon Solo ' and ' Illya Kuryakin ' was of them in a silver sports car being chased by a squad of mini-helicopters , equipped with rocket launchers . I was hooked . For the next seven weeks , I was in secret agent heaven . These were the days before I . T . V . bought the ' James Bond ' films , so ' U . N . C . L . E . ' was the next best thing . Then I found some paperbacks in a second-hand book store , and from these learned that ' U . N . C . L . E . ' stood for ' United Network Command for Law and Enforcement ' , and was an international spy organisation whose main headquarters were in New York , cunningly concealed behind the facade of a dry cleaners . Its main adversary was ' T . H . R . U . S . H . ' - the Technological Hierachy for the Removal of Undesirables and the Subjugation of Humanity ( actually , that acronym was invented by the writer David McDaniel in his superb novel ' The Dagger Affair ' . It was never used on the show ) . ' T . H . R . U . S . H . ' wanted to take over the world , and ' U . N . C . L . E . ' were out to stop them . What really made the show a big hit was the chemistry between Robert Vaughn and David McCallum . Vaughn's ' Solo ' was the extrovert , McCallum's ' Illya ' was the shy intellectual . Leo G . Carroll played their gruff boss ' Alexander Waverly ' . Each week , ' T . H . R . U . S . H . ' embarked on a new world domination project , usually with the aid of some fantastic invention - earthquake machines , tidal wave machines , invisible killer bees , mind control devices , death rays , even exploding apples ! The stars were cool , the girls were hot , the action fast , the whole thing was executed in a colourful , tongue in cheek manner that was simply delightful to watch . The show ended in 1968 . The spy craze had run its course . Whereas ' Mission : Impossible ' was able to reinvent itself as a crime show , ' U . N . C . L . E . ' simply could not follow suit . One could not imagine Napoleon and Illya hot on the trail of ' The Syndicate ' . Its equally impossible to imagine it being set in any era other than the ' 60's . The concept of an American agent working alongside a Russian was a novelty at the time . I don't think it would impress anyone today . For that reason alone , I hope nobody tries to make a movie of this show . The Eddie Murphy and Owen Wilson movie ' I Spy ' was a stinker , and I would not like to see ' U . N . C . L . E . ' getting the same treatment . Let's all continue to enjoy the original ! " Close Channel D ! " .
" Affluence means effluence ! "	London is becoming increasingly polluted , so the Goodies try to do something about it . They go to the Ministry Of Pollution in Eastbourne . Graeme thinks the Ministry might be causing the pollution . He's right . The Minister openly admits to making the air unbreathable so he - and the Government - can grab credit when he finally puts it right . The Goodies take to the air in their flying bike , intending to create rain . Unfortunately , they use too much chemical on one cloud . As it drifts over London , it turns the city into a lush tropical paradise . . . Ahead of its time or what ? The sight of the entire British population in gas-masks , dead birds falling from the skies and glowing radioactive cattle might have amused in 1971 , but makes disturbing viewing now . Nevertheless , the episode's got more than its fair share of laughs . The late Ronnie Stevens was a familiar face in British comedy films of the ' 50's and ' 60's . Some excellent visual effects as London becomes a jungle , inhabited by people who resemble walking Christmas trees . Funniest moment - Tim putting his hand out of the window to see if it is raining , and when he pulls it back it is covered in black sludge ! Second funniest moment - a sign on the Ministry Of Pollution that reads : Conservationists Get Lost !
" God Help The Queen ! "	Every year , Her Majesty The Queen attends The Royal Command Performance at The Palladium , but never sees it because the acts are so boring she falls asleep . The Goodies are put in charge of the next one . Done in the style of ' The Good Old Days ' T . V . series , The Royals are given the option of dispensing with boring acts by various means , including trapdoors , hangman's nooses , and the rack . The Royals go into showbiz for themselves , as ' The Amazing Tumbling Royals ' ( footage of them falling off horses was to have been used , but got deleted and replaced by a joke caption ) . With every bone in their bodies broken , the Royals hire the Goodies as stand-ins ; Tim as ' Her Majesty The Queen ' , Graeme as ' Princess Anne ' , Bill as ' Prince Charles ' and a tailor's dummy replacing ' Prince Philip ' . The Goodies enjoy being Royals so much they decide to stay in the job , and a rerun of The Coronation is planned at Westminster Abbey . Hearing about this , the Royals leave their sick beds and attempt to stop them . . . I can only recall a handful of occasions when Britain was an absolutely unbearable place to be - all those occasions involved the Royal Family . In 1977 , Her Majesty was celebrating her Silver Jubilee , and for what felt like months you could not pick up a paper or switch on a radio or television without being reminded of the fact . The airwaves were dominated by fawning sycophants in suits droning on about how lucky we were to have a Monarchy . Thank goodness for Johnny Rotten and ' The Sex Pistols ' ! In the street where I lived , a massive party was organised . You couldn't move for flags , overexcited children , old age pensioners weeping for joy , sausage rolls , Tizer , and strawberry jelly . Only one person was absent from this jamboree - me ! Where was I ? At home , in front of the television , watching a repeat of ' Goodies-Rule O . K . ' ! And I've never regretted it ! This programme provided a welcome antidote to the nausea of the Jubilee celebrations . Whilst not as disrespectful as the later ' Not The Nine O'Clock News ' and ' Spitting Image ' shows , it ridiculed the Royals in a way television hadn't done before ( yes , the Goodies poked fun at them in ' Tower Of London ' , but that was gentle stuff compared to this ) . The sight of a bandaged Queen and Prince Philip riding a horse and cart was considered so shocking that the episode was pulled on the night of its intended transmission - Princess Anne had gone into hospital to have a baby - and a repeat of ' 2001 & A Bit ' went out in its place . ' Royal Command ' was eventually shown , but still managed to upset rabid Monarchists . " I have yet to see a ruder programme ! " , huffed one angry ' Radio Times ' reader . Funniest moment - it doesn't involve The Queen , funnily enough . At The Palladium , ' The Brotherhood Of Man ' are trilling ' Save Your Kisses For Me ' and doing that bizarre dance whereby they stare at the soles of their feet , when four nooses are lowered , and the entire group is hanged mid-song ! Terrific stuff !
Walking On The Moon	The Moon is passing through a solar system with a sun very like our own . One planet in particular - Ariel - has Earth-like conditions , so Carter blasts off in his Eagle to investigate . Strange objects launched from Ariel land on the lunar surface . Gas emerges from each , giving the Moon a breathable atmosphere . With the sun in the sky , the Alphans find they are able to leave the sterile confines of Alpha and walk about outside . Further Ariellian devices bring about rain . An Eagle carrying Sandra , Carter , Paul , and Helena is affected by a storm and crashes . Though all aboard survive they face the prospect of dying of starvation before they can be discovered . . . Not long after Year 1 was completed , Fred Freiburger was invited to make an assessment of the series . While praising the special effects , he claimed the characters were uninteresting and there was a genuine lack of humour . Well , we all know what his remedy to the ' problem ' was - bring in a shape-changing alien woman and get a previously unmentioned Alphan to try and brew his own beer . One wonders which episodes he viewed . Was ' The Last Sunset ' among them ? Presumably not . If he had seen it , he would have realised it had more characterisation than in the whole of his dismal Year 2 . The Alphans , for once , are given an alternative to their quest to find a new planet - live on the Moon itself . Their joy at finding their new ' home ' is truly heart warming . Christopher Penfold's script gives Prentis Hancock's ' Paul Morrow ' a bit more to do by having him turn into a religious maniac as the result of consuming the strange mushroom-like fungus he finds on the lunar surface . The situation with the crashed Eagle is reminiscent of the classic ' Star Trek ' episode ' The Galileo Seven ' - only without those spear-throwing primitives . The absence of guest stars worked in the story's favour , allowing for greater interaction among the regular cast . Of course the Alphans ' hope of turning the Moon into a giant holiday camp is doomed . The Ariellians only gave them this because they wanted to keep them away from their world . The final scene - in which Koenig and co . watch the sun go down for the very last time - is touching and one of the best endings of any episode of this series .
The Time Lord Who Fell To Earth !	A swarm of fifty meteorites lands in Southern England . Poacher Sam Seeley digs one up . It pulsates and emits an unearthly trilling sound . The meteorites are not the only visitors from space that day . The Tardis lands nearby , and an ill-looking Doctor steps out , before collapsing . Meanwhile , boffin Liz Shaw is whisked away from Cambridge to a secret meeting with Brigadier Lethbridge-Stewart of U . N . I . T ( United Nations Intelligence Taskforce ) . The organisation was set up to protect Earth from attacks by creatures from outer space . Man's attempts at space exploration have attracted attention apparently . He tells her that on the two previous alien invasion attempts , Earth was saved by a strange man known only as ' The Doctor ' . The Doctor has been taken to a country hospital , and appears to be in a coma . His unusual physiognomy ( two hearts , no known blood group ) confound the medical staff . . . No sooner had the ' 70's begun than ' Dr . Who ' was back on our screens , this time with a new leading man ( Jon Pertwee ) and in colour ( I didn't upgrade until 1974 . hence was unable to appreciate the new show in this medium ) . Pertwee was mainly known for his comedy roles , on the radio ( ' The Navy Lark ' ) and films such as ' Carry On Cowboy ' and ' The Ladies Who Do ' , so to see him as everyone's favourite Time Lord came as quite a shock . He confounded expectations by playing the role straight , almost like an Edwardian version of James Bond , who in his frilly shirt , smoking jacket and cape made a dapper contrast to his scruffily attired predecessor , Patrick Troughton . He spends most of the first episode in bed , recovering briefly to talk to Lethbridge-Stewart . His character remained an unknown quantity right up to the end credits . As Liz Shaw , Caroline John was a radical departure from the ' Who ' girls of the past , being both intelligent and independent . She would not have seemed out of place in ' Doomwatch ' . This was Nicholas Courtney's third appearance as ' Lethbridge-Stewart ' ; we first saw him ( as a Colonel ' ) in ' The Web Of Fear ' , then promoted to ' Brigadier ' in ' The Invasion ' . He was established as a regular character in this story . Exiled to Earth , the Doctor had no place in society , and U . N . I . T . provided him with a place to work in return for his becoming their Scientific Adviser . Had the internet existed in 1970 , the ' Dr . Who ' forums of the day would doubtless have seethed with outrage over the reformatting . The thing is , it worked . The ' cosmic nomad ' format had been in place since 1963 and was in need of a temporary rest . Needless to say , within a few years , it would be revived . The villains of this story - the Autons - are glimpsed only briefly , but when revealed in all their plastic glory terrified a whole generation of British children ( myself included ) . In 2005 , Russell T . Davies resurrected ' Dr . Who ' , using the Autons in his first script - ' Rose ' . He was right to do so because the concept - animated plastic mannequins - is a frightening one even now . Due to industrial action , the first Pertwee adventure had to be shot entirely on film , another thing that worked in its favour . It came across as slicker and looking more like an adult show than a children's one , as if ' Dr . Who ' was now being made by I . T . C instead of the B . B . C . This was Robert Holmes ' third ' Who ' script , his others being ' The Krotons ' and ' The Space Pirates ' . The new format and doctor seemed to do him the power of good . ' Spearhead ' was the first of several Holmes-scripted classics . It got ' 70's ' Who ' off to a flying start .
" Miaow ! "	What ' The Ministry Of Silly Walks ' was to ' Monty Python ' , ' Kitten Kong ' is to ' The Goodies ' . It is quite simply the best-loved , best-remembered episode . Whenever I recommend this wonderfully crazy show to first-timers , I urge them to watch this one first because it contains all the things that made it so great . I have never seen the original version ( it went out smack in the middle of Season 2 ) alas , but it proved so successful it was remade with additional film sequences , and entered for The Golden Rose Of Montreux in 1972 . That it only won Silver makes one wonder how good the Gold winner must have been . It is impossible to imagine anything funnier than this . It starts with the Goodies opening their own veterinarian surgery - but one with a difference . Each day , they ride through London on their trandem , towing a large basket on wheels , into which people place their pets . The poor animals are thrown together ( cats and dogs , goldfish and snakes ) without any thought for their wellbeing . As the bike pedals away , the sounds of mewling , hissing , barking and growling can be heard coming from the basket . One patient in particular proves difficult to handle - a fluffy white kitten named Twinkle . Tim takes it for a walk in the park , but it drags him along behind it , eventually taking refuge in a tree . Graeme accidentally overfeeds the animal with growth serum and it expands to mammoth proportions , threatening the whole of London . The special effects may have dated , but there's no denying that the sight of Giant Twinkle , demolishing the G . P . O . Tower , is one of British television comedy's iconic moments . Even those who resist ' The Goodies ' surely cannot fail to laugh as Michael Aspel , acting as the B . B . C . ' s roving reporter , is swatted to the ground by a huge paw . One gag - two dogs singing ' Anything You Can Do , I Can Do Better ' - was recycled footage from Garden and Brooke-Taylor's ' Broaden Your Mind ' . For nearly two decades ' Kitten Kong ' held the honour of being the last ' Goodies ' to be shown on the B . B . C - going out as part of a retro T . V . festival in 1986 - until ' Winter Olympics ' was repeated in January 2006 . Funniest moment - dressed as mice , the Goodies take to the air and endeavour to inject the monster pussy with shrinking serum !
What's Up , Chosen One ?	I watched this on Sky Movies a couple of years ago . Having never heard of Steve Oedekerk , I did not really know what to expect . An hour and a half later , I had a pain in my side from laughing too much . Steve has taken a typical kung fu movie from the ' 70's , removed the soundtrack , written and recorded a new one and digitally inserted himself into the action . He's not the first to do this ; in 1965 Woody Allen pulled the same trick with ' What's Up , Tiger Lily ' , a spoof of a dreadful Japanese Bond clone called ' The Key ' . But where that movie ran out of steam after only thirty minutes , Oedekerk keeps the momentum going by piling absurdity on top of absurdity , including a kung fu baby , a battle with a cow versed in the martial arts and the unexpected arrival of a fleet of French flying saucers . Utter nonsense , of course , but accomplished with great verve . He even manages to take the mickey out of the Hollywood practice of putting ' outtakes ' over the end credits . One of the funniest films in recent years .
" In my experience , politicians don't like being sent up ! "	Like Morecambe and Wise , Stanley Baxter gave up making weekly shows to concentrate on hour-long ( fifty minutes minus the commercials ) specials , usually screened in the Autumn or just before Christmas . This enabled him to ensure they were of the highest possible standard ; a good deal of thought and hard work went into their making and it shows . His second L . W . T . extravaganza contains some of his best-remembered sketches , including a hilarious parody of the period drama ' Upstairs , Downstairs ' with Baxter playing Mrs . Bridges , Rose ( Jean Marsh admired his impersonation ) and Hudson . As the series was still in production at the time , Baxter was able to film on the very same sets used in the show , most notably the kitchen and drawing room . ' Thumpalong with Reg Varnish ' sent up Reg Varney's 1973 A . T . V . show , and ' Nationwide ' enabled Baxter to display his mastery of regional accents . The ' Hollywood Canteen ' segment is one of Baxter's finest ; during World War Two , Nazi sympathising showbiz agent Willard Pringle stages a star-packed show intended to boost the morale of U . S . forces , but the songs have been rewritten so that they will now have the opposite effect , hence Jimmy Durante sings ' I'm The Guy That Joined The S . S . ' , Carmen Miranda goes ' I-I-I-I Hate Democracy ' , and Jimmy Cagney proclaims he is a ' Yankee Double-Dealer ' . Stunning choreography by Norman Maen and brilliant lyrics by Ken Hoare . This sketch ought to have closed the show , instead of simply rounding off the second act . The least successful item is ' supposing the television news was done in the style of ' The Sun ' . Anyone who has looked at I . T . N . recently will see it has become a frightening reality . A brilliant and touching number is ' Sitting On A Cloud ' in which Baxter , as Maurice Chevalier , is in Heaven , ruminating on how glad he is to be deceased . The song includes the daring lyric ' Where I used to spread my joie de vivre , now Brando spreads butter in Paree ' , a reference to the most famous scene in the notorious ' Last Tango In Paris ' . ' 2001 : A Royal Wedding Odysssy ' closes the show and while its good fun , ends the show on a full stop rather the exclamation mark it should have had . A member of the British Royal Family is to marry the Scottish singer Zena Lavaroni , and the wedding turns into an excuse for a mass public phone-in . The final scene in which the Royal Balcony descends at Buckingham Palace and a dance ensues is as disrespectful as anything later found in ' Spitting Image ' . Funny though this was at the time , its sad to watch now in the knowledge that the real Lena Zavaroni did not live to see 2001 . ' Moving Picture Show ' scooped three B . A . F . T . A . S in 1975 , for Design , Best Light Entertainment Programme and Best Light Entertainment Performance . Baxter beat out Arthur Lowe in ' Dad's Army ' , Ronnie Barker in ' Porridge ' , and Michael Crawford in ' Some Mothers Do Ave Em ' . Quite an achievement . Director / producer David Bell died in 1990 , and I . T . V . screened ' Moving Picture ' by way of a tribute .
" Why Can't We Cancel Christmas ? "	Easily the best of Stanley Baxter's legendary Christmas shows . Many items , such as ' The Last Noel ' , with Stanley as Noel Coward , went on to become much-repeated classics . ' Farewell My Cinders ' is ' Cinderella ' as it might have been written by Raymond Chandler . It contained the memorable line : " People from my past flashed before my eyes . Until they got booked for indecent exposure . " . ' The Undersea World Of Jacques Cousteau ' featured Stanley as the intrepid Gallic submariner in Brighton ! Some sketches , particularly the Jewish newsreader , are overlong while ' The Bruce Fosdyke Show ' doesn't work as well as it might , but any shortcomings are compensated by the stupendous ' Girl On The Cover ' . Stanley's Edward Everett Horton is an absolute knock-out ! It tells the story of a grotesquely obese woman called Lois Latnuk , who undergoes beauty treatments to become the cover girl for ' Harpies Bizarre ' magazine . Of course it all goes horribly wrong . Great songs , sets and choreography help to make this a tasty Yuletide treat !
Terror & June !	Criminologist June Wiley is in a library researching old murder cases . She is fascinated by the case of a strange man named Matakitas , hanged in 1927 for strangling women - including a librarian . He defended himself at his trial by claiming he had ' The Devil's dispensation ' . When June tries to leave , she finds she is locked in , along with librarian Sylvia Ann . Phoning the police , she discovers that it is now 1927 . Smashing the glass in a barred window , she sees old cars and people in period dress outside . While the trapped women mull over their predicament , they have another awful surprise in store - locked in with them is the madman Matakitas . . . Easily the best episode of the series . It is a stark exercise in terror ; a symphony of echoing footsteps , deep breathing , and creeping shadows . I personally find libraries unnerving places during the day , so I hate to imagine what it would be like to spend the night in one . Leon Lissek plays the serial killer , and while hardly handsome ( I've seen people scuttling around libraries who make him look like George Clooney by comparison ) he is not the sort of man you would want to be imprisoned with , anywhere . This was Michael Lindsay-Hogg's only contribution to the series , he went on to direct The Beatles ' last film ' Let It Be ' . He exerts a Hitchcockian influence over the material . Though credited to Robert Heverley , apparently an uncredited rewrite was carried out by Michael J . ( ' Somewhere In A Crowd ' ) Bird . Good performance by Vera Miles , and that final scene really delivers a jolt .
" Hello ! I'm Joanna Lumley ! "	Following the end of ' Not The Nine O'Clock News ' in 1982 , the team went their separate ways . Pamela Stephenson pursued a ( short-lived ) movie career , Rowan Atkinson moved into sitcoms with the sublime ' The Black Adder ' , but what of Mel Smith and Griff Rhys Jones ? ' Alas Smith & Jones ' kept them in the sketch show format , but unlike its predecessor was not tied to topicality ( although some items referenced issues of the day ) . Each edition commenced with the pair cracking gags before a studio audience , rather like the Morecambe and Wise Show intros . Then the sketches would get under way , along with a funny song or two , and - my favourite - the head-to-head routines . Obviously inspired by ' Not Only But Also ' , these were often beautifully written ( sometimes by Clive Anderson ) and performed . Mel would be the idiot , Griff the even bigger idiot . For instance , when discussing clothes , Griff asked : " what sort of animal is a mo ? " . Flustered , Mel wanted to know what he meant . " I've got a mohair suit ! " , replied his friend , " So what's a mo then ? " . Then , there was another item in which Mel claimed to have won the pools , and indeed he had - 50p . " I think I'll put my 50p into something . " , he bragged . " What ? " , responded Griff , sarcastically , " A cigarette machine ? " . The best one of all was when Mel reminisced about the day he lost his virginity to the woman who ran the local sweet shop , Mrs . Wilberforce . " She took me round the back to search me for orange Jubblies , and that was when it happened . Wham bam thank you ma'am ! " . Griff said , " For me , it would have been ' wham bam NO thank you mam ! " . " Everybody remembers where they were when they lost their virginity . " , said Mel , with a nostalgic sigh . " In my case . . . " , said Griff , " It happened at the same time that President Kennedy was shot ! " . Amongst the other sketches was a parody of the American T . V . movie ' Jacqueline Bouvier Kennedy ' entitled ' Margaret Roberts Thatcher ' , Mel as a recording artist who adds the word ' wank ' every time he sings , a gangster send-up called ' The St . Davids Day Massacre ' , Mel as Meatloaf , belting out ' I'm A Loving Machine ' , two men in a restaurant eating their meals in the manner of babies , an Iranian version of ' Terry & June ' entitled ' Achmed & June ' , Mel as a salesman attempting to extol the virtues of a new music system without having a clue as to how it actually works , and the adventures of an inept pair of detectives called ' Inspector Bribeasy ' and ' Sergeant Porno ' ! It was outrageous , cheeky , and wicked , but it was hard to be offended as it was done so well . Smith and Jones sparked off each other wonderfully , becoming the alternative ' Laurel & Hardy ' . They got into trouble with a couple of sketches , though ; one had Mel tossing a wreath onto the Senotaph on Remembrance Sunday , another had both men kissing each other with rather more enthusiasm than was necessary . ' Alas ' proved a worthy successor to ' Not The Nine O'Clock News ' and ran ( losing the first word of the title along the way ) well into the ' 90's . In case you are puzzling over that quote , it was a catchphrase used by Griff ( and other characters too ) in the first series . At the very end of the final episode , the real Joanna Lumley appeared , and announced that she intended to sue !
Back To Cafe Rene !	According to Sam Kelly , when ' Hans Geering ' did his Nazi salute , what he said was ' tler ! ' , yet some thought it was ' clop ' or ' clip ' . Good to know things like that . I have to admit I was not the world's biggest ' Allo , Allo ' fan . I liked some of the early episodes , but when it ended after nine years ( a period considerably longer than World War 2 ) I had waved the white flag well before then . The show went out in the middle of ' the alternative comedy revolution ' , and it was not seen as cool for a twenty-something to watch , not when ' The Young Ones ' , ' Filthy , Rich & Catflap ' and ' Black Adder ' seemed so right on the pulse . I didn't even bother with the repeats . I tuned in to ' The Return Of Allo , Allo ' mainly out of curiosity . Following the pattern established by ' The Return Of The Goodies ' in 2005 , it was part-reunion special , part documentary . The war long over , Rene Artois is putting the finishing touches to his memoirs , only to be distracted by familiar faces from the past wandering into the caf . The studio audience was composed of rabid ' Allo , Allo ' fans - many were in costume - and the arrival of the old favourites was greeted by thunderous applause . Jeremy Lloyd's script showed that he has not lost the ability to conjure up vulgar puns , and the cast threw themselves into the whole thing with commendable enthusiasm . Gorden Kaye , in particular , was on fine form , and it is perplexing why this talented actor is not on our screens more often . It was interesting to see the cast as themselves , particularly Arthur Bostrom , who played the British agent ' Crabtree ' , a man whose mangling of the French language rivals Inspector Clouseau's command of English . But where , I wonder , was the lovely Kim Hartman a . k . a . ' Helga ' ? And whatever became of Francesca ' Maria ' Gonshaw ? Amongst ' Allo , Allo''s celebrity fans was , surprisingly , director Ken Russell , who once dismissed the ' Carry On ' films as ' crap ' . I would have thought ' Allo , Allo ' would not have been to his taste , but there you go . T . V . critic Charlie Catchpole stated ( rather oddly ) that ' Gruber ' was ' the first openly gay character in a sitcom ' . He obviously does not remember ' Lukewarm ' from ' Porridge ' . Jan Francis , who played ' Lisa Colbert ' in ' Secret Army ' ( the inspiration for ' Allo , Allo ' ) claimed to have been unhappy when she heard about the show , but changed her mind on seeing it . A Robert Kilroy-Silk discussion programme from 1986 showed that many ( particularly war veterans ) regarded the sitcom in poor taste . But 17 million people thought otherwise . Yes , the show was riddled with racial stereotypes , but you could say the same about ' Father Ted ' . What's the difference between stupid Frenchmen and stupid Irishmen ? Funny though it was , ' The Return Of Allo , Allo ' was tinged with sadness , as many of the cast are no longer with us . Carmen Silvera , who played Rene's wife ' Edith ' , was perhaps the most noticeable absentee . As the end credits rolled , and that accordion theme played one more time , I was left with a nice , warm feeling . You don't get that from many comedies these days ( of course , it could have been caused by the hot chocolate I was drinking ! ) . I will definitely watch ' Allo , Allo ' the next time it comes round . Heck , I might get the D . V . D's tomorrow !
The Neighbours From Hell !	Hank and Anne Prentiss take up residence in the country . The neighbours , especially divorce Terry Lawrence , and Luther and Helen Ames , appear to be very friendly . Perhaps a little too friendly . Luther seems to openly desire Anne , while Helen is obviously attracted to Hank . At a housewarming party , a drunken Terry confides to Anne that she and Luther once had an affair . She describes Luther as ' a man who likes to own people ' . The next morning , Anne finds Terry dead from an overdose of sleeping pills . Hank befriends Matt Dystal , an Irish scriptwriter , and learns about the fate of the last person to live at the house , Dick Parker . Like Terry he committed suicide . But not of his own free will . . . Based on a story by Charles Beaumont , a frequent contributor to ' The Twilight Zone ' , this is a cracking episode . Like ' The Beckoning Fair One ' , it centres on a couple moving into a new home only to discover evil forces at work . Here its a cult of rich pleasure seekers , who having exhausted every perverse activity imaginable have drifted into Satanism . First-rate direction by Peter Sasdy , later to direct ' Taste The Blood Of Dracula ' for Hammer . And what a cast . The late Patrick Allen plays the urbane ' Luther ' , with Adrienne Corri as ' Terry ' , Milo O'Shea as ' Matt ' , and Melissa Stribling as ' Helen ' . Seen in a minor role is Damien Thomas , later to play ' Count Karnstein ' in Hammer's ' Twins Of Evil ' . ' Hank ' is the late Robert Reed , best remembered for his role as the father in the long-running U . S . show ' The Brady Bunch ' . The opening scene - Luther and his friends enjoy their party , oblivious to the fact that a dead man hangs from the ceiling - is one of the most chilling in the entire series .
If You Go Down To The Woods Today . . .	Modern horror movies are a bad joke . Why do film makers persist on using C . G . I . monsters ? When did you last see a C . G . I . monster , for goodness sake ? Daniel Myrick and Eduardo Sanchez's ' The Blair Witch Project ' is the perfect antidote to those ludicrous ' Scream ' type movies in which nubile co-eds get slain by some idiot in a monk's habit and joke shop mask . So convincingly realistic did ' Witch ' turn out that some thought they were watching a real video diary . For me , it brought back uncomfortable memories of camping with friends in the woods and being kept awake all night by owls and other nocturnal beasts ! ' Witch ' owes a debt to those eerie ' Ghost Stories For Christmas ' made by the B . B . C . in the ' 70's , such as ' The Signalman ' . It works as much on the imagination as on the senses . The film starts slowly , then ratchets up the tension so fast that by the end you're absolutely terrified . If you like your horror movies gory and silly , don't watch . And you're planning on going camping , don't watch it the night before .
Beware The Watchers !	William Searle is present at the launching of a new ship , covering the event for television , when the O . B . cameras pick out seemingly at random five individuals in a crowd - a mother and her little girl , a black man smoking a pipe , a young man in hippie-type clothes , and a businessman in a pinstriped suit and bowler . Searle has seen these people before ; they were bystanders at the scenes of terrible disasters . He tries to alert the man in charge of security , but his warnings go unheeded . The launching takes place . Eighteen people are killed that day when masonry collapses . Searle meets an attractive young woman named Marielle , and although happily married to Ruth , begins dating her . His psychiatrist shows him pictures of various people , and from these Searle picks out the five ' watchers ' . All were involved in a train crash some time ago ( of which Searle was a survivor ) , and furthermore , all are dead . . . The late Michael J . Bird was responsible for such fondly remembered B . B . C . drama series as ' Who Pays The Ferryman ? ' and ' The Lotus Eaters ' . He also contributed to other shows , including ' Danger Man ' and ' Secret Army ' . Here he has come up with an intriguing ghost story that manages to be devoid of clichs such as dark , cobwebbed houses , creepy music and so on . David Hedison , fresh from a four-year stint aboard submarine ' Seaview ' in ' Voyage To The Bottom Of The Sea ' , takes up the leading role , and gets a chance to do some proper acting for once . The lovely Jane Asher is the mysterious ' Marielle ' . There's a hilarious scene as a television talk show ( which Hedison is hosting ) degenerates into panic when a woman in the audience shoots the guest stone dead . Jerry Springer must have been taking notes when this first aired !
" A Van Dyke is a painter , not a beard ! "	I'm giving this delightful picture a rating because I think its high time someone did . It enjoys an unfair reputation as Laurel and Hardy's worst ever movie ( ' Utopia ' deserves that honour ) mainly because it recycles gags from earlier pictures . So what ? They would not be the first comics to do this . Even Chaplin occasionally copied himself . Our heroes are office cleaners at a detective agency who take a call from one Alva P . Hartley , an eccentric inventor who claims to have invented a super bomb called ' The Big Noise ' , which is capable of blowing up a city . He feels it will be of great use in the war effort and , fearing that Nazis will try and steal it , wants a pair of detectives to guard the device . As the agency is understaffed , guess who applies for the job ? Along with their other wartime pictures ' Great Guns ' and ' Air Raid Wardens ' , this was intended as a morale booster for domestic audiences , as George Formby's were in the U . K . Classic comedy this certainly is not , but I have no doubt that 1944 audiences left theatres happier than when they entered . Stan and Ollie are their usual lovable bumbling selves , and there's a refreshing absence of gooey romantic subplots and musical numbers ( apart from Stan giving a quick burst of ' Maizy Doats ' on the concertina ) of the sort which marred some of their other work . If you have not seen a Laurel and Hardy picture before , you should enjoy it more because you will have nothing to compare it with ( which is how I originally came to see it ) . Highspots include Stan and Ollie enjoying a Thanksgiving dinner where the food is made out of pills , Stan ruining a priceless work of art with white paint , Stan trying to turn off the lights in a gadget-packed bedroom , and the finale aboard a remote controlled light plane in which our heroes find themselves used as target practice by their own side . The inclusion of this picture in Harry and Michael Medved's book ' The Fifty Worst Films Of All Time ' is as bizarre as it is unwarranted . But then ' The Omen ' , ' Zabriskie Point ' , and ' The Ambushers ' are also there ( all of which I like ) so its in good company . These days Michael is best known for reviewing films from a right-wing perspective ( he regarded ' Happy Feet ' as liberal propaganda ! ) , and seems to have become something of a joke himself . Funniest moment - Stan and Ollie attempting to change into night clothes in a cramped train compartment , blissfully unaware that the bomb on their person is real . Hysterical !
Self-Sufficiency In Surbiton	On his fortieth birthday , Tom Good ( Richard Briers ) , top draughtsman for J . J . M . ( skilled but unambitious - he has never risen above the fourth floor while his friend and colleague Jerry Leadbeatter is on the seventh ) , celebrates at home with wife Barbara ( Felicity Kendal ) . Something is troubling him . Bored with the rat race , he wants to ' break the circle ' , and work at the job of life itself . This means growing vegetables , keeping pigs and chickens , making one's own clothes , building a generator etc . Another woman would tell him to go to hell but Barbara , ever the devoted wife , is fully supportive . When Jerry ( Paul Eddington ) offers Tom a lift to work the next day , he refuses , and begins planting potatoes on the front lawn . Barbara yells out of a window that the goat will be arriving later that day . So began the hugely popular John Esmonde and Bob Larbey-scripted sitcom ' The Good Life ' , their first for the B . B . C . after years of working for L . W . T . The premise - people quitting the rat race to become self-sufficient - was not original . Sid James and Victor Spinetti did the same thing six years earlier in ' Two In Clover ' . But where ' Clover ' was set on a farm , Tom and Barbara stayed in Surbiton , bringing them into conflict with the local snobs , most notably the Goods ' fearsome neighbour Margo ( Penelope Keith ) . In fairness there was also affection between the couples ; when the Goods ' crops were deluged in a storm , the Leadbeatters graciously helped harvest them . If Esmonde and Larbey had had them at each others throats the whole time ( which logically is what should have have happened ) you would then have got ' Love Thy Neighbour Mark Two ' . Thankfully , the writers avoided sitcom clichs . As the series progressed , Margo grew in stature , often stealing the show , particularly with her ongoing war with ' Mrs . Dooms-Patterson ' ( whom we never saw ) . In ' The Windbreak War ' , she got drunk and admitted she was humourless . Less amusing though was her patronising attitude to the working classes , most notably Timothy Bateson's ' Mr . Bailey ' in the same episode . Like Alf Garnett , a section of the audience were laughing with her rather than at her . The performances were uniformly excellent ; for me Eddington's smarmy but likable ' Jerry ' was the stand-out . In one episode , Margo told him of her awful experiences at a pottery class , and he had to stuff a hankie in his mouth to stop himself laughing . In ' The Thing In The Cellar ' , his jealousy at Tom's never needing to pay another electricity bill was unmistakable ( he got his revenge at the end though ) . Felicity Kendal became an unlikely sex symbol because of this show ; it must have been those dungarees ! Reginald Marsh was also good as Tom's old boss ' Sir ' . The Queen was a ' Good Life ' fan ( and attended the recording of one episode ) , and in normal circumstances that fact alone would automatically turn me against it but for once I side with her . One person who was not was Ade Edmondson who famously ranted about it in ' The Young Ones ' . Do you think The Queen should have invited him to Buck House to take tea and watch a few episodes ?
" We Are The T . P . F . , We Are The People ! "	The nearest British television got to a ' Fonzie'-type character was ' Wolfie Smith ' who , in his ' Freedom For Tooting ! ' T-shirt , khaki jacket , braces , jeans and green beret , was an ineffectual rebel somehow left over from the ' 60's . He was marvellously played by the charismatic Robert Lindsay , in his first television role since ' Get Some In ! ' . Wolfie worshipped Che Guevara , and dreamt of ' the glorious day ' when the downtrodden working classes rose up as one and threw off the shackles imposed on them by their capitalist masters . Ah . If only . . . Backing him up were Buddhist Ken , sad cowboy Tucker , and psychotic Speed . Luckily , Wolfie had a most understanding girlfriend in the shape of Shirley . Unluckily , her Dad - a Tory voting security guard - didn't see Wolfie's appeal , constantly disparaging him as ' that long-haired Yeti in plimsolls ! " . It was all very funny , hardly surprising seeing as it was penned by the great John Sullivan ( his first series ) . One of the best episodes was when the T . P . F . kidnapped a man they thought to be their local M . P . , only to discover that he was the local ' Godfather ' - Harry Fenning . Cheryl Hall left after the second series , so Shirley was written out . Peter Vaughan ( who played her Dad ) left also , and the role went to Tony Steedman . Er , why ? With Shirley gone , there was no need for her Dad to be still around . Or for Wolfie to be still living in the Johnson's house that matter . Arguably the most famous episode was the final one of Season Three , in which the T . F . B . found an abandoned tank , and tried to take over the reins of power by storming Parliament . After a short prison sentence , they came back for one final series , which concluded with Wolfie and Ken going to Spain to find Shirley , only to discover that she was now happily married . ' Citizen Smith ' had a good run , and is fondly remembered . Lindsay may have done other things since , but to me he'll always be ' Wolfie ' . Sullivan's next series was ' Only Fools & Horses ' . Ever heard of it ? Remember , folks - Power To The People !
Was Columbo On A Secret Mission To Smash Capitalism ?	Let me get one thing straight - I worshipped ' Columbo ' back in the ' 70's . Of all the ' Mystery Movie ' characters , he was the one whose exploits I most appreciated . He hailed from an era when television investigators were nearly all rich , handsome , and ridiculously over-sexed , such as George Peppard in ' Banacek ' , James Farentino in ' Cool Million ' and Robert Wagner in ' It Takes A Thief ' . Columbo came as a breath of fresh air . ' Prescription : Murder ' was the first ( you can tell by how clean his coat is ! ) - and in my view - best ' Columbo ' ever . The much-maligned Gene Barry gave one of his finest performances as the first in a long line of devious killers . I'm not going to say any more about this except for one thing - watch it . But something has always bothered me about ' Columbo ' . Why does he only go after the same sort of killers ? They're nearly always rich and famous . And admired by his wife . What does Columbo say to her when the case is closed ? " Hey , honey , you know that talk-show host / blues singer / T . V . chef you like so much , I arrested him today for homicide . He's a dead cert for Death Row . " . You never saw Columbo hounding the poor in the same way . And his dishevelled appearance - the shabby coat ( obviously worn in tribute to British Prime Minister Harold Wilson ) , those tired cigars , that clapped-out auto - he's been on the force now for forty years , so must have earned enough money to enjoy a higher standard of living by now . Watching my D . V . D . ' s recently , an idea occurred to me . What if Columbo himself really was behind the murders - the openings could be red herrings - on a one-man mission to smash capitalism by putting as many rich people behind bars as possible . Maybe the reason why we never saw Mrs . Columbo was that he too had bumped her off . No wonder Bing Crosby turned down the role ! It would explain why the show was massively popular in East European countries . Richard Levinson and William Link went on to create ' Murder She Wrote ' starring Angela Lansbury , daughter of British Labour Party leader George Lansbury ! As you may have gathered , I'm having you on . But its an interesting theory , isn't it ?
" Look It Up In Your Cone-tract ! "	Failed sports commentator and chat-show host Alan is sacked from ' Radio Norwich ' by his new boss , Tony Hayers , and goes berserk in a restaurant , running around with a piece of cheese . As the series develops , he tries to maintain a public profile , even though the doors are closing on him . Steve Coogan's performance is a masterclass in comedy , the sitcom format enabled him to bring out different sides to his character , such as his lap dancing fantasies . My favourite episode was ' Alan Attraction ' - lovely performance from Julia Deakin as ' Jill ' . Of the supporting cast , Sally Phillips made the biggest impact as Sophie , the giggling receptionist though Felicity Montagu gave her competition as Lynn , Alan's beleaguered P . A . The second season took Alan away from The Linton Travel Tavern , gave him a Ukrainian girlfriend , and had him living in a caravan next to a site where a house is under construction . Predictably , it wasn't as good as the first , although two episodes - ' Brave Alan ' and ' Never Say Alan Again ' - were simply outstanding .
When Moore Met Curtis	One of the great mysteries of all time is how ' Mission : Impossible ' ( a great show , yes , but well past its prime in 1971 ) managed to wipe the floor with this engaging comedy thriller from the I . T . C . stable . In all other countries it was a big hit and deservedly so . As well as the charming byplay of Mr . Curtis and Moore , it had exotic locations , intriguing scripts ( from the likes of Brian Clemens and Terry Nation ) , beautiful girls , wonderful guest-stars ( including Joan Collins , Ian Hendry , Nigel Green , Gladys Cooper , and a rare television appearance from Terry-Thomas ) , a sublime theme by John Barry and the delightful Lawrence Naismith as ' Judge Fulton ' . As Britain suffered crippling strikes , we could escape from our gloom ( when there was power ) by watching Tony and Roger each week . So massively popular was the show that as soon as it ended repeats started in peak-time , prefaced by the ' Man From U . N . C . L . E . ' movies . The one good thing to be said for its premature cancellation was it freed Moore up to play James Bond .
When The World Was Wobbly !	For donkey's years , the 5 . 35 weekday slot on B . B . C . - 1 was occupied by a five-minute cartoon that acted as a bridge from children's television to the early evening news . Off the top my head there was ' The Magic Roundabout ' , ' Willo The Wisp ' ( lovely narration by Kenneth Williams ) , ' Captain Pugwash ' , ' Ludwig ' ( possibly the most weird show of all time ! ) , ' Noah & Nelly In Skylark ' , and , of course , ' The Wombles ' . But my personal favourite was ' Roobarb ' which began in 1974 . It was the work of the brilliant animator Bob Godfrey , and as you would expect was completely off the wall . ' Roobarb ' was the name of the show's star , a vomit-coloured dog who lived in a garden along with ' Custard ' ( a shocking pink cat who spoke alarmingly like John Major ) , and some hyperactive birds . The plots usually followed a pattern - Roobarb would have a great idea , such as trying to fly with the aid of homemade wings , manufacturing fizzy lemonade , or becoming a great musician , retire to his shed to put his idea into practice , emerge triumphantly and the whole thing would then fall apart in seconds , much to the amusement of Custard and co . It was created and written by Grange Calveley , and often approached genius levels in its humour . Lines like ' sound travels at night . . . because its cheaper ! ' could have come out of ' The Goon Show ' . Richard Briers ' narration was perfectly delivered . When I watch repeats of ' The Good Life ' , I see something of Roobarb in the character of ' Tom Good ' . Both are doers , creatures of invention , determined to do things in a different way , who carry on regardless even if things do not always work out as planned . As this was made well before computers became commonplace in animation , it betrays its humble origins most delightfully . The whole thing looks like a child's drawings come to life . Because magic marker pens were used to create the illustrations , it resulted in an endearing ' wobble ' effect , giving the show much of its charm . Only one series was made , but its popularity kept it being repeated for years . In 2005 , a sequel - ' Roobarb & Custard Too ' - appeared . Though lacking Godfrey's involvement , it still proved enjoyable ( what a good year for reviving old shows that was , with ' Dr . Who ' and ' Captain Scarlet ' also being given new leases of life ) . I still enjoy repeats , if only for the sheer daftness of it all . And I must quickly mention Johnny Hawksworth's catchy theme tune , a masterpiece by itself ! " And all the birds laughed ! " .
As Good As ' Monty Python ' , So Why Isn't It Better Known ?	Marty Feldman made such an impact in Associated-Rediffusion's ' At Last The 1948 Show ' that the B . B . C . poached both him and Tim Brooke-Taylor for this series . And what a series it turned out to be . Marty co-wrote several sketches with his ' Round The Horne ' collaborator Barry Took , others were penned by John Cleese and Graham Chapman , Michael Palin and Terry Jones , and Terry Gilliam . Many feature an ordinary setting , such as a train , a vet's or a travel agency , being disrupted by Marty ( sometimes with Tim ) in lunatic mode . The late John Junkin played various authority figures whose sanity goes out of the window after meeting Marty . In one item , Marty played a gnome who goes to his bank to see about getting a mortgage on his toadstool . Visual comedy featured prominently ; ' A Hard Day's Night ' must rank amongst the all-time greats , in which Marty's henpecked husband makes repeated nocturnal assignations with beautiful girls right under his wife's nose ! Classic stuff - and with a cool theme tune by Ken Jones to boot !
I . T . V . ' s Best-Ever Sitcom	' Rising Damp ' was recently repeated on I . T . V . - 1 in an afternoon slot , and some chump wrote an angry letter to ' Teletext ' , claiming that the show ' was axed due to its racist content ' . Nobody bothered to correct him . ' Rising Damp ' ran for four successful seasons in the ' 70's , only coming to an end because it had reached the end of its natural life . Yes , ' Rigsby ' is ignorant when it comes to foreign cultures , but a racist ? I think not . If he were , he'd never have tolerated Philip in his house , son of a chieftain or not . Besides , the complainant seems to have overlooked Frances De La Tour's wonderfully prissy ' Ruth ' , Don Warrington as the clever and charming Phillip , the late Richard Beckinsale as naive medical student ' Alan ' and , of course , the magnificent , much-missed Leonard Rossiter as the seedy landlord ' Rigsby ' . This superb cast , combined with the fabulous scripts by Eric Chappell , made ' Rising Damp ' a classic , one that has not diminished with age . I pity those unable to appreciate its greatness .
" Here she comes , Zola Budd ! "	Five years after the disappointing A . T . V . series ' Till Death ' , Alf and Else Garnett returned to the B . B . C . for ' In Sickness & In Health ' . It was Johnny Speight's best work in years , pitting Alf against the uncaring Thatcherite ' 80's . The Garnetts are now living in a cheap ground floor flat in London ( no mention is made of their time in Eastbourne ) ; Else is ill with rheumatoid arthritis and has to be pushed everywhere in a wheelchair , a situation Alf is understandably unhappy with . Dandy Nichols was ill during the making of the first series , and it shows . She died not long afterwards . The second season saw Alf , now a widower , learning to get by with a smaller pension , although this does not stop him from enjoying his beer and tobacco . A new character , Mrs . Hollingbery ( Carmel McSharry ) , was introduced to provide someone for him to argue with , along with Winston ( Eamonn Walker ) , Alf's home-help , who happens to be both black and gay . Arthur English was also brought in as Alf's drinking partner Arthur . As was the case with ' Till Death ' , Una Stubbs managed a few guest appearances as Rita , now divorced from ' that scouse git ' Mike . Patricia Hayes cropped up once or twice , as Alf's batty ex-neighbour Min , in tow with her senile , incontinent sister Gwenneth ( the sublime Irene Handl ) . My favourite new character was ' Mr . Johnson ' , excellently played by Ken Campbell , who is as bigoted as Alf in his own way . The combination of Speight's scripts and the new characters made ' In Sickness ' one of the best B . B . C . sitcoms of the mid ' 80's / early ' 90's . The final series had Alf discovering a cache of used banknotes ( loot from a ' 50's bank robbery ) in an old wardrobe , and becoming a millionaire . It wasn't as funny as the earlier shows , but it was nice to see Alf living the high life for a change - and finding fault with that too . Revivals of old sitcoms only work when the new show is as good or better than the original . ' In Sickness ' was for the most part in the former category , sometimes in the latter .
" Swine That You Are ! "	' Rab C . Nesbitt ' was one of the finest B . B . C . sitcoms of the ' 90's . Like the later ' Alan Partridge ' , the character originated in a sketch show - in this case , ' Naked Video ' . Wearing a tattered suit ( with string vest ) , clutching a rolled-up newspaper , and a blood-soaked bandage round his head , the drunken philosopher from Govan delivered rants through clenched teeth which he prefaced with : " I will tell you this , boy ! " . A lot of what he said made sense though . Gregor Fisher was loathe to take on the role originally as he initially perceived it to be a stereotype , but later changed his mind . Our first sighting of ' Rab ' was a vox pop item in which he described the then-Tory Government as ' jumped-up Fascist bastards ' . He next appeared losing his rag in a D . W . P . office when the clerk refuses to give him benefit . He proved so popular he was eventually given his own show , commencing with the special ' Rab C . Nesbitt's Seasonal Greet ' . What followed was basically a comedy soap opera ; Rab was married to Mary Doll ( Elaine C . Smith ) and had two sons - Gash ( Andrew Fairlie ) and Burney ( Eric Cullen ) . Despite complaints from some English viewers about the incomprehensibility of the cast's accents , it caught on immediately . Ian Pattison's superb scripts combined elements of traditional sitcom with black comedy , such as the episode where Rab thinks he's terminally ill . Gregor Fisher was magnificent as Rab , as was the rest of the cast , particularly Elaine C . Smith as ' Mary Doll ' , Tony Roper as his sex-mad pal ' Jamesie Cotter ' , and his faithless wife ' Ella ' ( Barbara Rafferty ) . Sean Scanlon was impressive in those episodes he did as ' Shug ' . Guest-stars included the great Stanley Baxter , Jimmy Logan , Iain Cuthbertson , Rikki Fulton , and Russell Hunter . A young David Tennent made his television debut here . I must throw in a word of praise for David McNiven's splendid theme tune which caught the mood of the show so well . When Eric Cullen went to prison , ' Burney ' was replaced by cousin ' Screech ' ( David Mackay ) , but it just was not the same ( plans to reinstate the actor collapsed when he unexpectedly died during a minor operation ) . Eventually , Gash married Bridie ( Nicola Park ) and fathered a child . Given the show's immense popularity at the time , it is astonishing how few repeats there have been on B . B . C . - 2 . It is rather like ' The Goodies ' in that respect . You can stick your plastic American rubbish such as ' Friends ' , I'll take Rab every time !
" Better , Stronger , Faster ! "	Colonel Steve Austin , severely crippled following a plane crash is ' rebuilt ' with bionic parts ( as Freddie Starr said at the time : " He's got everything bionic , hasn't he ? Well , almost everything ! " ) , turning him into a superman . Austin can now run at incredible speeds , see things over a long distance , and with one arm rip off safe doors and punch holes in walls ( a useful ability should one accidentally lock oneself out of the house ) . The makeover costs six million dollars ( a lot of money then . Today he would be lucky to get a bionic big toe for that amount ) . Keen to get their money's worth , the U . S . Government puts Austin to work for the O . S . I . ( Office of Strategic Intelligence ) , headed by Oscar Goldman . Each week , Austin would be sent round the world on some dangerous mission - such as assisting a Russian scientist to defect or recovering stolen microfilm - one that required the use of his extraordinary powers . Beautiful girls including Britt Ekland , Martine Beswick , Michele Carey , Jane Merrow , and Lee Majors ' then wife Farrah Fawcett cropped up an awful lot , none able to resist our hero's charms . Bits of him may have required an M . O . T . every now and then , obviously not the bits they were interested in . The villains were by and large foreign saboteurs or evil scientists out to seize power . The late Henry Jones played a robot inventor in no less than three episodes . ' Bigfoot ' showed up more than once too ; he wasn't the real Sasquatch , of course , but an android used by aliens to guard their secret base . Then there was ' Death Probe ' , a N . A . S . A . device designed to explore and study alien planets which went berserk after crash landing on Earth . All this was great fun if you , like me , was eleven years old when it started . The novel ' Cyborg ' by Martin Caidin formed the basis for the pilot . Mark Gatiss cited the opening title sequence as one of his all-time favourites . Footage of Austin's crash backed by dramatic music led to an animated version of Austin's rebirth , leading to that famous voice-over : " Gentlemen , we can rebuild him . We have the technology . . . the capability to make the world's first bionic man . Steve Austin will be that man . Better , stronger , faster ! " . We would then see him lifting weights and running like the wind , and hear Oliver Nelson's theme in all its glory . Depicting Austin running fast was a problem for the producers . Initially , they speeded up the film , but this made him look like Benny Hill , so they went to the other extreme by slowing him down . The show was a phenomenon . All over the world , playgrounds were full of children pretending to run like Austin , singing ' da da da da ' , before going home and playing with toys associated with the series . I still have the books along with an Annual . It captured the imagination of an entire generation in a way that few shows , before or since , have managed . It wasn't original , of course . The British show ' The Champions ' also featured superhuman secret agents , but was axed after one season . The timing for ' The Six Million Dollar Man ' was right because in the aftermath of Vietnam and Watergate it reassured American viewers that their country was still a force to be reckoned with . Parodies abounded . Les Dawson became ' The Fifty Pence Man ' on his ' Les Sez ' show , while Eric Sykes ' B . B . C . series featured an episode in which he dreamt he was bionic . As late as 1985 , Ben Elton's ' Happy Families ' featured ' The Man Who Cost A Lot ' . Though not the world's greatest actor , Lee Majors was perfect for the role of Austin ( though his dress sense occasionally left a lot to be desired . And why did he grow that cheesy moustache ? ) . Richard Anderson made Goldman a likable authority figure . He and Steve did not get along initially but then became friends . Martin Balsam played ' Dr . Rudy Wells ' in the pilot , Alan Oppenheimer replaced him , but it is Martin E . Brooks who is best remembered in the role . In a decade when science fiction was considered passe in the aftermath of the Apollo moon landings , ' The Six Million Dollar Man ' defied expectations by enjoying a solid five year run . Like many shows though , it ' jumped the shark ' - particularly when it brought in other bionic characters . I did not mind ' The Seven Million Dollar Man ' , put up with ' The Bionic Woman ' ( I rather fancied her ) , but when her spin-off started , and ' Bionic Boy ' and ' Bionic Dog ' came along I used what was left of my bionic strength to switch the television set off . There were a number of ' reunion ' movies in the ' 80's ( one of them guest starred Sandra Bullock ) , but for me the original remains the best . I still enjoy watching reruns . Scientists may perfect bionics someday , and I hope its soon so I can go bounding around the place in my checked jacket and flares , just as Steve used to do .
" Oh Jeffrey . . . The Lady Is For Turning ! "	If Jeffrey Archer didn't exist , some clever scriptwriter would be sure to invent him . The trouble is , no-one would believe it ! Here was a man whose lies eventually got him jailed , whereupon he reinvented himself as the victim of a terrible miscarriage of justice ! The truth certainly is stranger than fiction . Damian Green looks and sounds nothing like the real Archer , which is what makes this film so funny , unlike ' A Very Social Secretary ' which strove to depict its characters accurately . I understand why humourless Tories found it offensive , but I found it wonderful fun , a joyous romp in the manner of ' The New Statesman ' T . V . series . Besides , Steven Pacey's ' Tony Blair ' was hardly flattering to him either . Greta Scacchi's ' Margaret Thatcher ' depicted the ex-P . M . as a Mae West-style vamp . The funniest bit was when Archer did to her what the real Thatcher did to Britain for ten years ! The only wonder is why this has never been repeated . The B . B . C . bowing to ' internal pressure ' yet again ?
The Majority Are Not Always Right	One type of programme British television excelled at in the ' 70's was the one-off drama . With the likes of Jack Rosenthal , David Mercer , Colin Welland , Barrie Keefe and Howard Schuman writing these , it was no wonder they were good . ' Against The Crowd ' was an anthology of plays about society's outsiders . Penned by ' Quatermass ' creator Nigel Kneale , ' Murrain ' starred David Simeon as ' Alan Crich ' , a veterinarian surgeon who goes to a remote country village to investigate a possible outbreak of swine fever and instead finds a community living in terror of a local woman - Mrs . Clemson - who they suspect of being a witch . The poor old lady is held responsible for everything from a drought to a mysterious virus affecting the shopkeeper's son . Crich is asked by crusty old farmer Beeley ( played by Bernard Lee ) to throw a bag of soil ( upon which everyone in the village has walked ) over the woman . Needless to say , he refuses . He finds Mrs . Clemson a lonely , unhappy woman living in squalor , and offers to help out by bringing groceries . In doing so , the vet becomes the focus of the villager's blind hatred . . . The play works as a perfect allegory of modern society ; in particular , the shameful way minorities are often blamed for the world's ills . The villagers are convinced that Mrs . Clemson is a witch and nothing will budge them from this view , in the same way that immigrants are scapegoated nowadays by vote-seeking politicians . David Simeon is largely known for comedy roles in series such as ' End Of Part One ' , but here he gives an outstanding dramatic performance as ' Crich ' . I doubt whether ' Murrain ' could be made today . There's no sex , violence and swearing , and it ends on a deliberately ambiguous note . It is well written , acted and thought provoking . You will find the play as an extra on the ' Beasts ' D . V . D . and I have to say that I found it better than the series itself . Two connections with the James Bond films ; Bernard Lee , who plays ' Beeley ' , was 007's boss ' M ' , and the music was by Monty Norman , composer of ' The James Bond Theme ' .
The Descent Continues . . .	Made as a response to Channel 4's ' T . V . Heaven ' ( transmitted the previous year ) , B . B . C . - 2's ' T . V . Hell ' showcased the worst of British television . I watched my video copy again recently and what struck me was how differently it would probably be made now . For one thing , it served up whole programmes rather than piddling ( and out-of-context ) clips . We saw the pilot of the infamous Kate O'Mara ' 80's soap ' Triangle ' , and the unseen magazine programme ' Mainly For Men ' ( amusingly , Alison Graham of ' The Radio Times ' seemed to think the latter actually went out in 1969 ! ) . We did not get Zoe Ball being condescending about shows she was far too young to have seen , nor Stuart Maconie and Dominik Diamond putting the boot into a decade because they did not like ' Carry On Christmas ' , not even a peep out of Kate Thornton . We saw the people responsible for the programmes themselves , and it was interesting to hear their views as to what they think went wrong . Linked by Paul Merton and Angus Deayton , with witty contributions by Victor Lewis-Smith , ' T . V . Hell ' was terrific stuff . ' The A-Z Of T . V . Hell ' featured the infamous ' Minipops ' ( children dressed to resemble pop stars of the day ) , ' Churchill's People ' , an interminable studio-bound historical drama series based on Winston Churchill's ' A History Of The English Speaking Peoples ' , ' Sin On Saturday ' , ' The Borgias ' ( its star's mastery of English was comparable to Inspector Clouseau's grasp of French ) , actor John Grieve getting a fit of the giggles whilst reciting poetry on a Hogmanay show , The Sex Pistols swearing at Bill Grundy , a man jumping over eggs on ' Nationwide ' , ' Club X ' , and the ' Open Door ' ( a B . B . C . - 2 programme devoted to minority viewpoints ) edition starring the ' Albion Free State ' which must rank as the single most boring programme ever transmitted ( yes , worse even than ' The Great Global Warming Swindle ' ! ) . The concept is begging to be updated . I would personally include ' The Falklands Play ' ( a stunning whitewash of Thatcher ) , an edition of ' O . T . T . ' starring Chris Tarrant , which was like watching rugby fans on a drunken night out in Cardiff , ' Under Manning ' , a game show hosted by Bernard Manning ( if you can believe it ) , ' Big Brother ' , Davina McCall on ' Question Time ( she did not have a clue what she was talking about ) , Rob Brydon in ' Director's Commentary ' ( a lame spoof on D . V . D . yak tracks ) , ' Ruddy Hell ! Its Harry & Paul ! ' , ' Ant & Dec's Saturday Night Takeaway ' , the recent revival of ' Crossroads ' , ' Noel's House Party ' , Ben Elton's ' Get A Grip ! ' , and practically everything ever broadcast on B . B . C . - 3 in the name of comedy . In 1992 , the definition of bad television was those shows that took risks . In 2008 , series designed to win mammoth audiences on the main channels are the ones most likely to turn out stinkers . ' Celebrity Love Island ' anyone ?
" What are we going to do with Uncle Arthur ? "	I became politically aware thanks to ' Upstairs , Downstairs ' . Before I was a naive nine year old whose interests included model plane making and marbles , but the first episode turned me into a rabid activist . What brought about this transformation ? The show was the brainchild of actresses Jean Marsh and Eileen Atkins . Noting the immense popularity of the B . B . C . ' s ' The Forsyte Saga ' , they thought it a good idea to do a similar show in which equal emphasis was placed on the servants below stairs . Marsh played ' Rose ' , the ever so-prim head parlour maid , with Atkins earmarked for ' Sarah ' , the cheeky Cockney girl who brings scandal and shame to the Bellamy household . Because of prior commitments , she proved unavailable , and Pauline Collins ( fresh from the first series of ' The Liver Birds ' ) had to replace her . With all due respect to Atkins , its impossible now to think of ' Sarah ' being played by anyone else . I loved how she stood up for herself , gave as good as she got . What stuck in my craw was the sight of Richard Bellamy forever pulling on a rope every time he wanted a cup of tea or something , and asking his butler Hudson ( Gordon Jackson ) to get Mrs . Bridges to put on the kettle . I remember thinking : " what's the matter with you ? Are you a cripple or something ? Make your own bloody tea ! " . I was mystified as to why this family - in addition to ambitious Tory M . P . Richard , there was his elegant wife Marjorie ( Rachel Gurney ) , their caddish son James ( Simon Williams ) and wayward daughter Elisabeth ( Nicola Pagett ) - dwelt in opulent surroundings while Hudson , Rose , Mrs . Bridges et al were living under their feet like rats . Hudson had been brainwashed into thinking this was the natural order of things . ' They are better than me ' is not an attitude I have ever really understood . My forelock has never known what it is like to be tugged ( in the days when I had a forelock , that is ) . My favourite episodes usually concerned the servants . I did not give a monkey's about James ' money troubles or The King coming to dinner or Miss Lizzie marrying an impotent poet , but was upset when scullery maid Emily ( Evin Crowley ) hung herself after being cast aside by a footman . ' I Dies From Love ' still moves me nearly forty years later . To add insult to injury , we then found out that her body had been earmarked for medical experimentation - dissection , in other words . There was no equality in those days even in death . The cast were brilliant , particularly the late Angela Baddeley as ' Mrs . Bridges ' , the Bellamy's cook . Then there was Jenny Tomasin as scullery maid ' Ruby ' , who wore a permanent look of despair at her plight . Whenever people refer to this era as ' the good old days ' , I respond with ' yes , if you happened to be rich ' . John Alderton came aboard in the second season as chauffeur ' Thomas Watkins ' , a fairly straight character to begin with , but who then evolved into a devious con-artist - witness his fleecing of the Bellamy's when a blackmailer came on the scene with Lady Marjorie's love letters to Captain Hammond . I was sorry to see the departures of both Thomas and Sarah ( they later got their own show ) , but did not miss Miss Lizzie in the slightest . Rachel Gurney also left at that time , resulting in Lady Marjorie going down on the Titanic ( funny how James Cameron never mentioned this ) . Her replacement was the tasty Meg Wynn Owen as ' Hazel Forest ' , Richard's typist . When randy old James asked her to dinner , Hudson was so appalled he was prepared to resign out of protest . Berk . Was I alone in wanting to strangle Miss Georgina Worsley ( Lesley-Anne Down ) , a vacuous deb who ran over and killed someone in her motor car , and then showed very little remorse ? One of the great things about ' Updown ' was that , as well as being top-notch drama , you got a history lesson as well . The later episodes set in The Great War were simply fabulous . One of the most moving scenes ever shown on television was when footman Edward ( Christopher Beeny ) came back from the trenches with shell-shock . The show caught on in America . Rumour has it that when Shelley Winters had to present an award for ' Best Programme ' , she ignored what was on the card , and gave it to ' Updown ' instead . When it ended in 1975 , the production team ( Sagitta ) moved to the B . B . C . , where they did the equally popular ' The Duchess Of Duke Street ' . As the result of its success , parodies appeared . ' The Two Ronnies ' did one , as did Stanley Baxter ( filmed on the same sets used in the show ! ) , the ' Carry On ' team spoofed it in two editions of ' Carry On Laughing ' , and more recently , Jimmy Perry & David Croft gave us ' You Rang Milord ? ' . Perhaps the most inane spin-off was ' Russell Harty Meets Upstairs , Downstairs ' in which the late chat-show host was seen dropping in on the residents of Eaton Place . It inspired a wag to write to ' The T . V . Times ' proposing a special edition of ' Supersonic ' in which inflatable King Edward The Seventh dolls floated gracefully around Mike Mansfield's pop star-packed studio . Nearly forty years after it first appeared , ' Updown ' remains compelling , powerful , sometimes humorous , always entertaining viewing . T . V . bosses would do well to take a long hard look at it in order to learn how to do a show of this kind . It managed to pull in big audiences without insulting anyone's intelligence . Time to finish this review . I am in need of a stiff drink and must summon the butler .
The ' Citizen Kane ' Of Zombie Movies !	If proof were ever needed that the 1970's was the golden age of horror movies , ' Dawn Of The Dead ' is it . A decade after his groundbreaking ' Night Of The Living Dead ' , George A . Romero returned to zombies with this , arguably the greatest film of its kind . Low budget horror films were all the rage in those days . Strangely , the lack of money worked in their favour as film makers such as Cronenberg , DePalma , Carpenter , Lieberman and Hooper had to rely on their imaginations . Instead of big-name Hollywood stars , ' Dawn ' presents us with four ordinary people - one woman and three men - struggling to survive in a nightmarish world . The documentary look lends weight to the horror , as at times you feel that what you are watching is real ! Romero comes up with some stunning set pieces such as S . W . A . T . troopers invading a house full of the living dead , a zombie's head being sliced off by the rotor blades of a helicopter , and Hells Angels storming the shopping mall where our heroes are holed up . Tom Savini provided the gruesome make-up ( even Peckinpah never used so much blood ! ) and appears as one of the Hells Angels . Great soundtrack by Dario Argento and The Goblins ! One or two critics praised the movie at the time as an ' anti consumer society satire ' . To tell the truth , I did not notice this as I was too busy cowering in terror ! ' Dawn Of The Dead ' was a worldwide box-office hit whose success provoked dozens of imitations , mostly from Italy , such as Lucio Fulci's ' Zombi 2 ' ( ' Zombie Flesh Eaters ' ) . I liked the remake , but it relied too heavily on C . G . I . for my taste . The original leaves it standing .
" And In A Packed Programme Tonight . . . "	When Mel Smith and Griff Rhys Jones spoofed ' The Two Ronnies ' in a ' Not The Nine O'Clock News ' sketch entitled ' The Two Ninnies ' , it didn't work because a ) it wasn't funny and b ) it was inaccurate . Ronnie Barker's beautifully crafted song parodies did not use words like ' titty ' and ' bum ' , and never did . Smith and Jones brought out the dire ' Morons From Outer Space ' in 1985 , and can count themselves lucky they weren't on the receiving end of similar abuse from Corbett and Barker . Its twenty years since the series ended ( barring compilations ) but ' The Two Ronnies ' is still a joy to watch . These gentlemen had an unmistakable on-screen chemistry . My favourite bits were the filmed items , such as the ' Piggy Malone ' and ' Charley Farley ' serials . Some of the humour hasn't aged very well admittedly , but its stood the test of time a lot better than ' The Young Ones ' and ' Not The Nine O'Clock News ' . Must throw in a quick mention of ' Four Candles ' - has me in fits each time !
" Of all the coppers in London , why pick on me ? "	On the B . B . C . ' s ' I Love The ' 70's ' , it was incorrectly stated that ' The Sweeney ' was the first violent British crime television series . Season Three of ' Special Branch ' beat it to the airwaves by two years . The earlier seasons , shot on videotape with film inserts , starred Derren Nesbitt as ' D . C . I . Jordan ' . After a gap of three years , it returned , completely reformatted and recast . Craggy George Sewell took up the main role of ' D . C . I . Alan Craven ' , a tough man in a tough world . The new-look show was the first to be made by Euston Films , an offshoot of Thames T . V . Over the next two decades , the company made some of the most successful British television shows ever - ' Minder ' , ' Danger U . X . B . ' , ' Widows ' , ' Quatermass ' , ' Reilly Ace Of Spies ' , ' The Flame Trees Of Thika ' and , of course , ' The Sweeney ' . ' A Copper Called Craven ' , written by Roger Marshall , begins with a small-time crook called Ridley ( Tony Selby ) being arrested while trying to smuggle gold watches through customs at Heathrow airport . In his defence he claims that he had bribed D . C . I . Craven to let him through . Craven is suspended from active duty in the Special Branch . His home is searched by detectives , and he is subjected to harsh interrogation at the hands of Pettiford ( Peter Jeffrey ) . To make matters worse , a large sum of money has been deposited in his bank account , so clearly someone is trying to frame him . But whom ? Craven embarks on a one-man quest to clear his name . . . You immediately know you are not watching ' Dixon Of Dock Green ' thanks to the opening titles which feature shots of London tourist landmarks inter-cut with Craven loading and firing his gun , looking at mug-shots , and watching a fan-dancer in a Soho club . As cinemas were full of films such as ' Get Carter ' , ' Sitting Target ' , and ' Villain ' , it was inevitable that television would be influenced in some way . Of course ' Special Branch ' had some way to go , the early Season Three episodes feature little by way of action , but that would change over time . Patrick Mower was brought in to play ' D . C . I . Tom Haggerty ' , a younger , brasher detective ( an ex-Flying Squad man ) often at loggerheads with Craven . Sewell is marvellous , wonderfully conveying the anger and frustration of the framed detective . Nobody likes a bent copper , least of all the police themselves . Much of Craven's background is sketched in , such as him having had a poor upbringing , which Pettiford tries to use to his advantage by making it seem like justification for corruption . Sewell is hardly Robert Redford , and this works in the show's favour by giving it an extra dimension of reality . Watching him in this it is hard to believe that only three years before he had been chasing green-skinned aliens in the sci-fi drama ' U . F . O . ' ! Peter Jeffrey likewise turns in a powerful performance as Pettiford . The actor had played villains in shows such as ' The Avengers ' and also acted in Lindsay Anderson's ' If ? ' . The scenes where he interrogates Craven are superbly written and acted , boasting a smattering of expletives that were rare for the day . Craven has a black girlfriend - Nurse Pam Sloane ( Sheila Scott-Wilkinson ) - a fact predictably used against him by his accusers . A very good piece of crime drama then , and a strong season opener . A pity the show became overshadowed by ' The Sweeney ' because it is comparable in terms of quality . And I think it has a much better theme tune !
" Oh , Eric ! "	In the early ' 70's , the B . B . C . revived several hit sitcoms from the previous decade , including ' Steptoe & Son ' , ' The Likely Lads ' , ' Till Death Us Do Part ' , ' Whacko ! ' , and of course , ' Sykes ' . I . T . V . had been enjoying success with the likes of ' On The Buses ' , the ' Doctor ' series , and ' Please Sir ! ' and the B . B . C . wanted to compete . In the new medium of colour , the resurrected shows took on a new lease of life . Each week , the pounding of a drum would signal the start of a new ' Sykes ' episode . The new show was much the same as the earlier one ; he still lived in Sebastopol Terrace ( though at number 28 , not 24 ) with twin sister Hattie ( Hattie Jacques ) , and the next-door neighbour was the pompous Charles Fulbright Brown ( Richard Wattis ) . Added to the mix were Deryck Guyler ( fresh from ' Please Sir ! ' ) as a policeman with a fondness for food named ' P . C . Turnbull ' ( known to his friends as ' Korky ' ) , and Eric had an admirer in the shape of Madge from the bread shop ( Joan Sims ) who called him ' Ricky ' and kept him supplied with cakes . Korky's wife was never seen , but her reedy voice ( courtesy of Eric ) sounded not unlike that of ' Minnie Bannister ' from ' The Goon Show ' . Eric's character was that of an overgrown boy , constantly trying out new things ( such as building his own burglar alarm or redecorating ) but never quite getting the hang of them . Hat ( or ' Harriet ' as he often called her ) was like a mother figure , always telling him off but defending him when others did the same . She frequently talked to the cuckoo clock on the wall , which she called ' Peter ' . In one episode , Eric and Hattie returned from holiday only to find an old tramp ( Roy Dotrice ) had moved in and made himself at home ( Eric had left the front door open ! ) . In another , they went to a holiday camp where Eric caused chaos by refusing to get up early in the morning . Another memorable episode had him getting a job in a factory , and almost causing a strike by working too slow and then too fast ! When Eric , Hattie and Korky went caravanning , they fell out and hurled plates of porridge at one another ! Another time they bought a boat and almost got blown up by a mine left over from W . W . 2 . " Its alright ! " , said Hat : " I think its one of ours ! " . Some of the early episodes were remakes of the ' 60's shows , such as ' Sykes & A Stranger ' . The original featured Leo McKern as an ex-con who returns to honour a old childhood promise to marry Hattie . For the remake , Eric enlisted the services of his old friend from ' The Goon Show ' days Peter Sellers ( in a rare B . B . C . sitcom appearance ) . ' Sykes ' blend of visual and character driven comedy made it a big hit which ran for the remainder of the decade . Wattis sadly passed on in 1975 , and the show continued but was noticeably poorer for his absence . Joy Harington came aboard as another neighbour - Miss Rumbelow . It ended in 1979 with the appalling ' The B . B . C . Honours Sykes ' . I say appalling because it ruined the illusion that the show was not a sitcom ! In 1980 , Hattie died . The B . B . C . wanted Eric to continue alone , but he rightly declined . The chemistry between the leads had made ' Sykes ' special . Repeats have been few and far between . Network issued the 1972 series on D . V . D . in 2004 , but its ongoing dispute with the B . B . C . means we are unlikely to get more releases , and ' 2entertain ' do not seem keen to pick up the baton . A few years back , the now-defunct satellite channel ' U . K . Drama Daytime ' put on most - but not all - of the shows . They showed that ' Sykes ' still has the ability to delight and amuse in equal proportions .
How To Hijack A Building !	Computer expert Sumner ( Geoffrey Bayldon ) suffers a nervous breakdown , and , taking a cleaning woman hostage , threatens to blow up a London office block unless his demands are met . He wants political activist Sheila Fenner ( Jumoke Debayo ) , currently on trial at the Old Bailey , freed and permitted to leave the country . D . C . I . Craven attempts to make the man see sense without success . Then an attempted rescue of the hostage goes wrong , and Sumner's finger edges closer to the detonator button . . . Written by Trevor Preston , who would later contribute to ' The Sweeney ' , this is a fine , suspenseful episode with a strong central performance by Geoffrey Bayldon as the madman . The actor is , of course , fondly remembered as ' Catweazle ' from the charming children's show of the same name . While a lone man does not seem to pose much of a threat , the fact that he is a genius makes a difference . Sumner is able to predict the counter-moves of Special Branch , and thus act against them before they actually happen . This is not a ' let's go in with all guns blazing ' story , but is played realistically by all concerned . The most exciting moment is when the cleaning woman's husband , concerned for his wife's welfare , ignores the police and tries to break into the office in which Sumner has made his base . Jumoke Debayo , who plays ' Fenner ' , was a familiar face in numerous television and theatre productions of the time , and here gets to play a pivotal role . It is never explained exactly what Fenner is standing trial for , nor indeed what views she is espousing ( Craven describes her as ' disturbed ' ) , but Sumner is sufficiently impressed to be willing to blow up half of London to see her acquitted . Interestingly , it is not Craven who brings Sumner to book , but Fenner herself by pointing out that going to jail is what she wants as that way she becomes a martyr for her cause . Crushed , Sumner meekly hands over the detonation device to Craven . Some superb location filming add to this episode's already inconsiderable strengths .
" Hello , darling , its me , Edgar ! "	Comic secret agents have made a comeback in recent years , with Mike Myers ' ' Austin Powers ' and Rowan Atkinson's ' Johnny English ' , and more recently Steve Carell in the big-screen version of the hit ' 60's show ' Get Smart ! ' . Back in 1974 , it was David Jason who was wearing a shoulder holster and carrying an attach case full of documents marked ' Classified ' . ' The Top Secret Life Of Edgar Briggs ' was his first starring role in a sitcom , after years of being a supporting actor in such shows as ' Six Dates With Barker ' , the ' Doctor ' series , and ' Hark At Barker ' . Humphrey Barclay had found him working in a pier theatre in Bournemouth and was sufficiently impressed to include him alongside Michael Palin , Terry Jones and Eric Idle in the children's comedy show ' Do Not Adjust Your Set ! ' . ' T . T . S . L . O . E . B ' cast Jason as ' Edgar Briggs ' , a well-meaning but incompetent agent for the Secret Intelligence Service . Whereas John Steed wore a bowler hat , Briggs had a trilby . Whereas Napoleon Solo carried a radio pen , Briggs owned a pipe . Objects fell to bits in his hands . He read Confidential documents in bed while his wife ( Barbara Angell ) perused Woman's Own ( on one occasion it would be the other way round ) . When he tracked a pair of Russian agents to a heliport , he accidentally switched on the airport's Tannoy system , and broadcast his plans to capture them ! When he hid on a train so as to photograph a meeting between an S . I . S . man and his enemy-contact , it moved off with him aboard and took him straight to Brighton ! When he tried to organise the defection of a female Russian scientist , he took a ' short cut ' to elude his pursuers , only to wind up hopelessly lost in a car park . Yet , like ' Inspector Clouseau ' , he always seemed to come out on top at the end , much to the dismay of his colleagues . As previously mentioned , he was married . His wife Jennifer was understanding about the sort of work he did . Though they had a row once which resulted in her yelling at him from the window of their high-rise flat : " Secret Service this , Secret Service that ! You never stop thinking about the Secret Service ! " . He shouted back : " Think of the neighbours ! They're not supposed to know I'm in the Secret Service ! " . Briggs was part of a team of agents whose number included ' Coronation Street ' villain Mark Eden ( he was the psychotic Alan Bradley ) as ' Spencer ' , Michael Stainton as ' Buxton ' , and ' Doctor At Sea''s Elisabeth Counsell as the lovely ' Cathy Strong ' . They answered to ' The Commander ' , played by the late Noel Coleman . The Commander was kidnapped in one episode , leaving Briggs temporarily in charge of the S . I . S . - which naturally horrified everyone . This hilarious show was by Richard Laing and Bernard McKenna , who had written for the ' Doctor ' series . Rather than spoof Bond , it was more of a send-up of the serious spy shows such as ' Callan ' ( though it had a Bond-style theme tune ) . Furtive meetings in underground car parks , code-breaking , stolen missile plans , that kind of thing . Jason brought a lot of energy to the role , doing a lot of his own stunts , such as Briggs falling off a ladder whilst decorating his flat , and tumbling down a hill in a wastepaper bin , and were reminiscent of those to be found in the ' Pink Panther ' films . ' Briggs ' had all the ingredients to be a smash-hit . Unfortunately , it was not networked . In the London area , it was put out on Sundays at 7 . 25 P . M . where it was trounced in the ratings by the B . B . C . ' s soapy drama ' The Brothers ' . It was then moved to Fridays at 7 P . M . because I . T . V . wanted to showcase its latest American import - the T . V . version of ' Planet Of The Apes ' . Briggs never found an audience . A similar fate befell Jason's next major show : 1976's ' Lucky Feller ' . It was not until 1977 and ' A Sharp Intake Of Breath ' that he found his first successful solo vehicle . You can see the title sequence ( along with two brief excerpts in German ! ) for this series on YouTube . Unfortunately , that is all you can see . Jason will not permit his early starring shows either to be repeated or released on D . V . D . A great shame . For the moment , however , Edgar Briggs ' life will have to remain top secret . CODA : I have seen a number of episodes recently and I'm pleased to say it stands up incredibly well .
Hedges ' First Day !	It is the first day of a new term at Fenn Street School . Bernard Hedges , a newly qualified teacher , finds himself sitting on the bus next to a young man who requests a light for his cigarette . Hedges obliges , not realising the youngster ( Eric Duffy ) is a pupil at the school . Mistakenly getting off at the depot ( which looks like the one later used in ' On The Buses ' ) , he has to run the rest of the way . Slipping in through the back gate , he faces the wrath of caretaker Norman Potter . His woes are not over ; Miss Doris Ewell admonishes him for being late , and he is given 5C - the worst class in the school - to teach . . . The seven episodes which comprised the first season of ' Please Sir ! ' were forty minutes in length , meaning that the writers had time to establish characters ( just as well as there were a lot of them ) and develop story lines . The pace was noticeably slower , in particular the staff room scene and Hedges ' first encounter with 5C . Subsequent seasons reverted to the standard sitcom length of twenty-five minute episodes . The sight of Potter lugging milk crates brought a shudder to this reviewer . I detest the sight and smell of milk first thing in the morning , and was made by my teacher Miss Eynon to drink the stuff whether I wanted it or not . Banning it was the only decent thing Thatcher ever did . Hedges wears glasses and a college scarf , giving him a passing resemblance to ' Charley Farley ' from ' The Two Ronnies ' . When he first confronts 5C , they assume him to be a push-over . Craven nicknames him ' Privet ' , and he retaliates with ' Craven Cottage ' , resulting in an outburst of exaggerated laughter . Potter seems a more menacing figure here than in later episodes , where he was regarded by teachers and pupils alike as an object of fun . He does not grovel to the headmaster either . Instead of magnifying his own abilities , Abbott does as much for Hedges , making him sound like a karate black belt . F . A . refers to his father , whom we never saw in the show . Benny Hill's sidekick Bob Todd appears briefly as a bus conductor . Funniest scene - Hedges tries to apologise to Potter for their earlier misunderstanding , but accidentally pushes him underneath a cascading flood of coal . By the episode's end , Hedges has firmly established his authority ( with a little help from a woodworm-infested desk ) , thus setting the scene for the rest of the series .
Grand Slam is Epic !	Rather like the ' Whatever Happened To The Likely Lads ? ' episode ' No Hiding Place ' , the B . B . C . Wales comedy film ' Grand Slam ' is revived whenever there's a major sporting event , only here its rugby . You would think it would be easy to tire of , but no , each viewing is an absolute joy . It traces the exploits of a group of Welshmen as they travel to Paris for the final game in the season . And what a motley lot they are ; ' Caradog ' the undertaker , seeking a girl he loved in the war whom he knows only as ' butterfly ' , ' Mog ' , who will hit any Frenchman who dares besmirch the name of Phil Bennett ; ' Glyn ' the ' Viva Zapata ' mustachioed ladies ' man ; camp-as-a-row-of-tents boutique owner ' Maldwyn ' , and ' Will Posh ' , who hates foreign beer so much he takes along his own . Caradog finds that the bistro in which he met his butterfly woman is now a strip-club , while she has degenerated into a seedy alcoholic . His son Glyn scores with her sexy daughter Odette ( Sharon Morgan ) , who shields him from the police when they raid the place . The humour is natural , coming out of the characters themselves . The depiction of the Welsh is certainly more believable than that of say , ' The Magnificent Evans ' , which could have been set on another planet . Great performances throughout , including google-eyed Hugh Griffith as ' Caradog ' , Sion Probert as ' Maldwyn ' ( don't think they could get away with such a character now ! ) , and , of course , Windsor Davies as ' Mog ' ( next to ' It Ain't ' Alf Hot , Mum ' , this is his finest performance ) . Comic highlights include Mog's horror on realising he has to share a bed with the gay Maldwyn , the latter's attempts to explain what a bidet is for , Mog's striptease , and his walking through the Parisian streets in his underwear to get to the game . The only thing wrong with the production is that a sequel never got made . These strong characters deserved a second or even third outing . In response to the user who said you need to be Welsh in order to enjoy the film , I say no more than you need to be Irish to appreciate ' Father Ted ' . Sixty minutes of inspired comedy . And the Gren cartoons are great too ! ADDENDA : On the very day I wrote this review , Wales won the Grand Slam !
Journey To Michael's Mad World !	Bowler hatted men march over Westminster Bridge . Lining up firing squad fashion , they aim their umbrellas at the Union flag and shoot . It could be the opening to an ' Avengers ' caper , instead it was the prelude to one of the zaniest comedies the B . B . C . has ever made - ' Its A Square World ' . I have only seen one episode of this fondly remembered ' 60's show ( repeated in 1976 as part of a B . B . C . retrospective ) but enjoyed it enormously . The late Michael Bentine not only starred ( his ' lecture ' sketches predated those of Ronnie Barker on ' The Two Ronnies ) , but co-wrote it with John Law . As you'd expect from one of the founders of ' The Goon Show ' , the show was rich in inspired lunacy , employing animation , puppets and Visual Effects , in sketches such as ' What Goes On In A Singer's Mind ' ( little animated men running around inside a man's head ) , a B . B . C . reporter interviewing a sexy French film-star loses his composure and tries to kiss her , a Chinese junk sails up the Thames and fires at The Houses Of Parliament , the source of the Thames turns out to be a giant dripping tap , a spy disclosing stolen rocket secrets over a public phone is astonished when the box takes off like a rocket , the B . B . C . T . V . centre is attacked by cowboys and Indians and , in a later episode , is shot into space . Many believe this to have been a major influence on later flights of fancy such as ' Monty Python's Flying Circus ' and ' The Goodies ' . Anything could happen in ' Its A Square World ' and usually did . The supporting cast included ( though not all at the same time ) Clive Dunn , Ronnie Barker , Deryck Guyler , Frank Thornton and Dick Emery . Bentine later took the show to A . T . V . - resulting in the less successful ' All Square ' . After a spell on children's television , in 1977 , he tried to revive the show . A pilot entitled ' Michael Bentine's Square World ' was screened , but led to no series . Which was a pity , seeing how it was directed by the brilliant Jim Franklin . Two sketches stick out ; office workers doing acrobatics in the workplace , leaping over desks and so on and a superb World War Two sketch about witches and warlocks forming their own air force . The sight of women in pointed hats on broomsticks taking off from an airfield ' 633 Squadron'-style had to be seen to be believed ! With more and more archive television appearing on D . V . D . , given the talent involved in its making and its importance in the development of British comedy , is it too much to ask that ' Its A Square World ' be considered for release in the not-too distant future ?
Give Us A Song , Monique !	The fact that ' Secret Army ' was spoofed by a long-running sitcom ( ' Allo , Allo ' ) does not imply it was a bad series . Far from it . It would be like saying ' Brideshead Revisited ' was awful simply because it was ( partially ) spoofed by the I . T . V . comedy ' Brass ' . ' Secret ' was a superlative drama set in wartime Belgium , concerning the exploits of the underground organisation ' Lifeline ' , whose task is to find crashed Allied airmen and then send them home to carry on the good fight against the Nazis . The leader of the organisation was , in the first series , at least , Lisa Colbert , codenamed ' Yvette ' . ' Lifeline's ' headquarters was the Cafe Candide , run by Albert Foiret . Each episode saw ' Lifeline ' pitted against the evil Kessler , marvellously played by Clifford Rose . Being a co-production with Belgium television , ' Secret Army ' was able to achieve some remarkably authentic looking wartime location footage . Amongst the female cast members Angela Richards was outstanding as ' Monique ' , and its astonishing she did not go on to enjoy the success she so richly deserved . Of the three seasons , the last was the best ; set near the end of the war it had a wonderful sense of immediacy , also because it introduced the brilliant Terrance Hardiman as ' Reinhardt ' , a truly mesmerising performance . When , in the final episode , Reinhardt is executed by his fellow Nazis , it is impossible not to feel sorry for him . Compared to modern wartime dramas such as ' P . O . W ' . and ' Island At War ' ( both full of factual inaccuracies ) , ' Secret Army ' stands head and shoulders above them all .
" Here He Is , The Lad Himself , Benny Hill ! "	Mention ' Benny Hill ' to most people and the first thing they'll think off is the great man himself , a lecherous grin on his face , fleeing from scantily-clad girls to the strains of ' Yakety Sax ' . Yet his Thames show , which spanned an incredible twenty years , was about far more than mere sexism . Nobody did spoofs better than Benny Hill ; when he took off ' Sale Of The Century ' starring Nicholas Parsons , for a long time afterwards it was impossible to view the real thing without laughing . He also spoofed ' Who's Afraid Of Virginia Woolf ? ' with himself playing both the Burton and Taylor roles , Tennessee Williams , ' I Claudius ' , French language movies , and ' The Collector ' starring Terence Stamp . So his show wasn't as crass and mindless as some would have us think . Yes , he went out of fashion in the ' 80's , but should not have been sacked . The alternative comedians who railed against Benny and helped end his career have yet to match him for sheer entertainment value . Besides , Hill did not humiliate women as much as Ben Elton did with his awful ' Maybe , Baby ' .
Jack's Country	I was staggered to see ' Out Of Town ' included in ' The 100 Greatest Moments From T . V . Hell ' , broadcast on Channel 4 in 2000 . Which numbskulls chose it , I wonder ? Probably the sort who unreservedly condemn ' Curry & Chips ' without ever having seen it . Made by the now sadly defunct ' Southern T . V . ' ( also responsible for ' How ' and ' Freewheelers ' ) , ' Out Of Town ' used to go out at Sunday at noon ( peak viewing time if you were a British farmer back in the ' 70's ) , alongside ' Farming Diary ' , adverts for pesticide and worm tablets , and a ' weather forecast for farmers and growers ' . Bearded , pipe-smoking Jack Hargreaves was a wise old sage who lived and breathed the countryside . Sitting in a mock-up study or allotment shed , he would chat to camera , conveying tremendous enthusiasm for all things country , such as rabbit skinning or the best way to catch trout , without ever once becoming boring . It came as a shock to learn he was for years controller of programmes for Southern ( but I then I also believed Johnny Morris was a real zoo keeper ) . The short films Jack introduced were simply but beautifully shot by the late Stanley Brehaut . No intrusive background music either ! I got my love of nature from watching this show . It was the sort of country programme even us townies could appreciate . I can only assume that the reason it wound up on the Channel 4 hatefest was because it did not feature bad language , violence , and gratuitous sex , unlike 99 % of most modern shows . That says more about the viewers than about the show itself . Can anyone explain to me why a lovely old man talking at length about a subject he knew and cared about should be considered a suitable candidate for T . V . Hell ?
Boffo Laughs From Mike And Terry !	Hot on the heels of John Cleese's first post-'Python ' project ' Fawlty Towers ' came this splendid spoof of stiff-upper-lipped schoolboy adventure tales from the days when Britain had an empire . Michael Palin and Terry Jones obviously had fun writing this , as well as performing ( although Jones only appeared in one edition ) . ' Ripping Yarns ' stretched Palin's acting abilities far more than ' Python ' ; check out ' The Curse Of The Claw ' in which he played the utterly disgusting ' Uncle Jack ' ! Beautifully filmed , with wonderful period atmosphere , ' Yarns ' featured impressive guest-stars such as Denholm Elliott , Iain Cuthbertson , and John Le Mesurier . The quality of the humour varied from Pythonesque romps such as ' Tompkinson's Schooldays ' to the genteel , touching ' The Testing Of Eric Olthwaite ' . My favourite , however , was ' Murder At Moorstones Manor ' , a whodunnit so convoluted its impossible to tell who did what to whom ! Palin and Jones were wise to only make nine episodes of this gem .
Gulley's Travels	Ronald Neame is , like Lewis Gilbert , a British film maker who it seems to me has never had the credit due to him , despite producing an impressive body of work , with films such as ' The Prime Of Miss Jean Brodie ' , ' The Card ' , and ' Tunes Of Glory ' to his name . ' The Horse's Mouth ' , made in 1958 , was a favourite of mine , and used to play regularly on television , but for some reason or other has not been seen anywhere in years . As soon as I discovered it was on D . V . D . , I snapped up a copy . I was a bit fearful of watching though in case my memories did not live up to the reality . I need not have worried . It is absolutely wonderful . Based on a book by Joyce Cary , it stars the brilliant Alec Guinness ( will the person who said he was not one of the world's greatest actors please tell us who they think is better ? ) as ' Gulley Jimson ' , an eccentric artist . Gulley only has to walk past a blank wall for him to be compelled to paint , and often his visions are quite remarkable . He is not a particularly pleasant man , looks as though he has not had a bath in years , is prone to borrowing money ( with no intention of returning it ) and making crank calls to the rich in an effort to secure work . In appearance , he resembles ' Albert Steptoe ' , right down to the Homburg hat . He lives on a dilapidated house boat , and when let loose in someone's home will think nothing of getting drunk and stealing valuables . If you think all this makes him sound a nasty piece of work , you would be right . But it is a tribute to Guinness that he makes this horrible man not only immensely likable but strangely lovable . The most important thing in his life is art . He uses everyone around him , such as barmaid ' Cokey ' ( Kay Walsh ) and stammering youthful admirer ' Nosey ' ( Mike Morgan ) , but they put up with him because they admire his genius . I thought artists such as Gulley were far fetched , until I read an ' Observer ' article about the late Francis Bacon . From all accounts , a brilliant man , but rather dreadful , often prone to drunkenness and openly insulting those he did not like . The plot is episodic ; with Gulley involved in one happening after another . I am not going to spoil your enjoyment with detail - watch for yourself . Suffice it to say , it is hilarious , sad and intelligent , with Gulley's observations on art being rather profound . You will feel for him as one of his pictures does not turn out as expected . " Its not the vision I had ! " , he mutters , echoing those of us who at one point or other in our lives have seen a good idea fail badly . Wonderful supporting cast , particularly Kay Walsh and Renee Houston as Gulley's first wife ' Sal ' . Mike Morgan , who plays ' Nosey ' , sadly died a week before the production ended . He was only eighteen . Guinness was in good company here . Gulley's paintings were by John Bratby , an artist with a distinctive visual style . He never used a brush , preferring instead to squirt tubes of paint onto the canvas . His eye catching pictures are just what you would expect from someone like Gulley . No music was composed specially for the film , but instead classical pieces by Prokofiev were employed , fitting it to a tee . This is a charming , quirky movie , one of a kind . Guinness wrote the script himself , as no-one wanted to make a movie about a painter . One wishes he had done more writing for the cinema . I would say without a doubt that this is his second best movie performance ever , the first being ' Colonel Nicholson ' in David Lean's ' Bridge On The River Kwai ' . If the hallmark of a good movie is that when it ends , you immediately want to see it again , then ' The Horse's Mouth ' qualifies . Be warned though - afterwards you may feel an overwhelming urge to paint the next blank wall you see .
" Its Alright ! "	After six excellent seasons , ' One Foot In The Grave ' finally came to an end . David Renwick could have kept it running , but decided to quit while he was ahead . Paul Merton and Hannah Gordon both guested on the final show . It opens with Margaret , now a widow , complaining that a portrait of her late husband Victor bears an uncomfortable resemblance to Alistair Sim . The story of Victor's death is told in flashback . Right the way through we see the aftermaths of various incidents , such as Victor stabbing a syringe into the naked bottom of a boy racer . Its only at the end do we get to see these incidents in all their glory , accompanied by an upbeat number from ' The Travelling Wilburys ' . It would have been easy for Renwick to have closed the show with Victor's death , and have the credits roll in silence . But even with a story as tragic as this , he finds humour . Its British comedy at its best . Such was the impact of ' Grave ' on the public that the spot where Victor was killed was strewn with floral tributes and messages of sympathy within hours . Not bad for a fictional comedy character . How mean-spirited then of I . T . V . to spoil this episode by deliberately trailing in advance the ghastly Judith Keppel's win on ' Who Wants To Be A Millionaire ' , ensuring a ratings advantage . No matter ; ' One Foot In The Grave ' will be remembered long after Chris Tarrant's shabby greedfest is forgotten .
" If I see your cat again , I'll have his tail for a lavatory brush ! "	Let me get one thing straight - this is not the B . B . C . ' s ' Born & Bred ' from a few years back , but a Thames comedy series written by Douglas Livingstone . It ran from 1978-80 and centred on the exploits of two London families - the poor Tonsleys , among them grumpy ex-music hall artiste Tommy ( the priceless Max Wall ) and the well-off Benges , headed by the ultra-snobbish Frank ( James Grout ) . I recently acquired the second series , of which this is the first episode . Marge Benge ( ' Love Thy Neighbour's Kate Williams ) is at a railway station , having walked out on dopey husband Ray ( Gorden Kaye ) . She ( literally ) bumps into an attractive young woman named Nina Farthing ( Sally Grace ) . Nina recognises Marge from an old family photo . She has come to visit Tommy , who is her real father , and whom she has not seen since she was eight . Tommy's wife Rose ( Constance Chapman ) is quite happy at having her husband's long-lost illegitimate daughter living with them . Their own daughter Iris ( Susan Tracy ) has gone on a cruise . " She always did like sailors ! " , says Rose . Meanwhile , Frank Benge is organising his grandchildren's christening as though it were a military campaign , with guests being designated code names and numbers . The new area manager of Frank's insurance agency has agreed to be the godfather ( Frank hopes he will get promotion for this ) . Everyone is naturally confused by his plans . Frank has not invited the Tonsleys . But when Rose turns up unexpectedly and begins nosing around , he has no choice but to relent . Rose goes home to tell Tommy , who is not at all pleased . He has made alternative arrangements for the christening day . Without telling his wife , he has sold their home and bought a new flat . The first Rose knows of this is when a removals van pulls up outside the front door . Horrified , she looks herself in the toilet and refuses to come out . Tommy goes off to Molly Peglar's pub with Ray , Paul Redstone ( Ian Redford ) and Stephen Benge ( Richard O'Callaghan ) , the naive young man who nearly married Iris ( and got cold feet at the altar ) . Paul is depressed at the thought of losing his individuality by being part of the Benge clan . All proceed to get legless . Angered at the absence of his son-in-law ( and most of the other invited guests too ) from the christening , Frank decides to that it should proceed regardless . More troubles ensue for Tommy when he arrives at the new flat only to find the owner ( Paul Luty ) has changed his mind about selling . Tommy orders that all his furniture be put back in his old house . This in turn brasses off the man who had bought Tommy's house - he had planned to move in that very day . Luckily Nina is on hand to administer some of her legendary ' Personal Services ' . . . Though my copy was not terribly good ( containing some iffy editing around the commercial breaks ) , I found it an absolute joy to watch . The cast are uniformly great , with Max Wall and James Grout fabulous as ' Tommy Tonsley ' and ' Frank Benge ' respectively . And though it is a large cast , no-one gets sidelined . All play their roles to perfection . A critic at the time likened this to ' Till Death Us Do Part ' but personally I found it closer in style to ' A Bit Of A Do ' . Whereas that David Nobbs-scripted show was hampered slightly by the format ( the same people meeting each week at different social functions ) that was not a problem here . The christening scene is hilarious ; as it proceeds , the drunken guests enter the church one at a time and annoy the vicar by providing explanations for their lateness . So that is one episode down . I've five more to go . I cannot wait to see them . ( If you're reading this , Tim Beddoes of ' Network ' , please push this show up in the D . V . D . release schedules a bit quicker , would you ? )
Espionage In Greece	Of the thirty episodes of ' Suitcase ' , I would say that this is probably my favourite . Though primarily a detective show , occasionally spy stories featured , of which this is one . Dalby ( Vincent Ball ) , an oceanographer , walks away from his job just minutes before a board meeting is due to begin , taking with him a self-penned report into the viability of deep-sea farming in the Adriatic . He flies to Greece where he tries to sell the report to foreign powers . McGill is hired to persuade Dalby to return to London . But Dalby has teamed up with American agent Packard ( Rex Everhart ) , and they are making mysterious trips into the Mediterranean in a speedboat . When McGill looks round the boat , he is attacked and thrown overboard , nearly drowning . He is saved by Dalby . Dalby's theft of the report was simply a cover for a much bigger operation . The Russians are planning to build a secret submarine base , an Albanian scientist has obtained the plans , which he intends passing on to Packard . Dalby is there to verify the plans ' authenticity . But the two men have underestimated the scale of the opposition - in the area is sinister enemy agent Rudnik ( Peter Arne ) . . . Wilfred Greatorex's script has a ' Danger Man ' feel to it , effectively deglamourising espionage . There are no women in this episode ( apart from Dalby's secretary , seen fleetingly at the start ) . Everyone's motives are suspect and no-one can be trusted . Even McGill is never sure just what is going on , and the best he can do is to stay alive . Vincent Ball , who plays ' Dalby ' , is an Australian actor who lived here in the ' 60's , appearing in amongst other things the film ' Carry On Cruising ' . Peter Arne , cast as ' Rudnik ' , was a familiar British supporting actor , who made headlines when he was murdered in 1982 . Ed Bishop , later to star as ' Commander Ed Straker ' in Gerry Anderson's ' U . F . O . ' , has a small role as an American agent . Don Chaffey , the director , made more ' Danger Man ' episodes than anyone else , and also worked on ' The Prisoner ' . This was his only ' Suitcase ' outing . It is the ending which gives the episode much of its impact . Mac escapes from Greece with the plans , and on returning to London , asks a C . I . A . agent what he intends doing about Packard and Dalby ( both were captured and shipped to Albania to stand trial ) . " Plainly , McGill , we never heard of them ! " , he snaps . The callous abandonment of these men by their own side leads one to conclude that being forced out of American Intelligence was in fact a blessing in disguise for McGill .
McGill Digs Up The Past	This was the first episode of ' Man In A Suitcase ' to go out in the U . S . A . In Britain , ' Brainwash ' was chosen as the premiere story . I have no idea why this was the case . Schoolteacher Rachel Thyssen ( Angela Browne ) spots a man in a London street she recognises as her late father Harry . She gives chase , but loses him . A concerned policeman comes to her aid . Harry Thyssen was the number two man in American Intelligence , officially declared ' dead ' six years before when his plane crashed , although no body was ever found . The story leaks to the press , reaching the eyes of McGill ( Richard Bradford ) who has good reason for wanting to find Harry . He had ordered him to allow a top scientist named LaFarbe to defect to the Russians . Mac did this , only to then inadvertently trigger a major spy scandal . Harry ' died ' before he could clear McGill , hence Mac was made to resign from U . S . Intelligence . Since then he has made a living as a private detective . Harry's boss Coughlin ( Lionel Murton ) warns him not to take the matter further or else he will be deported back to the States to stand trial . Determined to clear his name , Mac enlists the aid of seedy private enquiry agent Pfeiffer ( Timothy Bateson ) who begins shadowing Rachel . He is not alone . The Russians are interested in her too . . . Written by Stanley Greenberg , this effectively establishes the back story of the ' McGill ' character , and gives Richard Bradford a good opportunity to do what he is best at - expressing anger . The revelation that LaFarbe's defection was deliberate gives him plenty to get steamed up about . Compared to the wooden acting served up by Steve Forrest in ' The Baron ' and Gene Barry in ' The Adventurer ' , it is an Olivier standard performance ! Two things about this which immediately tell you its the ' 60's - a policeman can be seen on the beat and later Rachel walks alone at night near the Thames . Freed from the constraints Patrick McGoohan had placed on ' Danger Man ' ( no kissing ) , the production team had McGill romance a succession of pretty British actresses over the course of the series , such as Jacqueline Pearce , Felicity Kendal , Rosemary Nicol , and Judy Geeson . Here it is the beautiful ( and sadly deceased ) Angela Browne as ' Rachel ' , McGill's ex-girlfriend . But what really set the show apart from its contemporaries was the level of violence . Not Peckinpah standard admittedly , but the number of vicious beatings McGill endured must have stunned viewers all the same . Pat Jackson , the episode's director , worked on both ' Danger Man ' and ' The Prisoner ' . Stuart Damon , who plays ' Williams ' ( McGill's successor ) went on to play ' Craig Stirling ' in ' The Champions ' . Other actors in smaller roles include Timothy Bateson as ' Pfeiffer ' and Dandy Nichols as McGill's landlady . There is a great climax at the Regal City football stadium ( which alas no longer exists ) in which McGill tries to decoy Russian agents to give Harry time to flee back to Southampton docks . The downbeat final scene would be the first of many in this show . ' Man In A Suitcase ' , while not exactly overflowing with gritty realism , nevertheless managed to be closer to reality than say ' The Saint ' .
" I'm going to shoot you , McGill ! "	' Brainwash ' introduced British audiences to McGill , although in the States a different episode entirely - ' Man From The Dead ' - was chosen . McGill travels by train to the countryside , to meet a client named LaPorte who wants to put him on a divorce case . He is met by John ( Colin Blakely ) and they exchange friendly chat . But when Mac gets into his car , John knocks him out cold , before injecting him with a sleeping drug . When Mac awakes , he is in an unfamiliar room . The door is locked . Guards stand outside . Bars are on the windows . A young girl , Judy ( Suzan Farmer ) brings him food . McGill has recognised ' LaPorte ' as Colonel Davies , the former head of the newly independent African state of Ikwala . Davies was ousted in a coup he believes to have been backed by American Intelligence , his place taken by the academic Dr . Gwabe ( Edric Connor ) . Mac is subjected to gruelling mental and physical torture - he is made to think he is a patient about to undergo an operation , forced to watch old news reel footage of Ikwala over and over again , is repeatedly shot at by Davies , and put on trial for his life . Davies promises to let him go provided he first sign a statement disclosing the involvement of the Americans in the coup . . . This was the nearest ' Suitcase ' got to the kind of cerebral drama to be normally found in such shows as ' The Prisoner ' . The trial sequence alone in which Mac is bombarded by weird sound effects and strobing lights would not have looked out of place in that series . The plot also bears a strong resemblance to an episode of ' The Champions ' called ' The Interrogation ' written by ' Suitcase ' co-creator Dennis Spooner . Colin Blakely played the interrogator in that too . The director of this episode was Charles Crichton , an Ealing graduate whose other television credits include ' Danger Man ' , ' The Avengers ' , and ' Space : 1999 ' . Bradford said in an interview that he had McGill recite the names of the months of the year during the brainwashing so that the character could be seen to be making an attempt to keep his sanity . The late Howard Marion-Crawford , who plays ' Davies ' , was ' Dr . Petrie ' in the ' Fu Manchu ' films starring Christopher Lee . Suzan Farmer was in the Hammer film ' Dracula Prince Of Darkness ' . Blakely , a fellow Method actor , worked so well with Bradford he was brought back to play a different character in ' The Whisper ' . The climax has a wounded and exhausted McGill staggering out of Davies ' house in a half-daze . In an era when heroes such as Simon Templar and John Mannering barely got a hair out of place in a fight , it stands out as an extraordinary moment .
Which way did Donald Sutherland go ? Straight to the top !	Like Colin Blakely , Donald Sutherland was one of the few actors to make a return appearance - as another character - in this show , his first was as drunken ' Willard ' in ' Day Of Execution ' , here he plays ' Keith Earle ' , a newly-released convict who's as mad as hell . He has served a five-year sentence for his part in a gold bullion robbery , but now he's out and wants his share of the hidden loot . His fellow robbers did not get caught , so one by one he tracks them down ( using a motorcycle as transport ) , roughs them up and kills them , rather like the Lee Marvin character in ' Point Blank ! ' ( 1967 ) . McGill's involvement starts when garage owner Eddy ( J . G . Devlin ) finds a group photo taken just before the lads pulled the job . Eddy wants Mac to find the gold first , so they can split it . But Mac is not alone in tracking Earle . Scotland Yard are interested in recovering the money too . . . Written by Francis Megahy and Bernie Coooper - also responsible for the excellent ' Brainwash ' - this is an exciting yarn , directed by Freddie Francis , a noted cinematographer who , like Jack Cardiff , switched to making films . He is best remembered for Hammer horror classics such as ' Dracula Has Risen From The Grave ' and one of my favourite Amicus anthology films ' Torture Garden ' . He found time to work in television , pitching in episodes of , amongst other things , ' The Saint ' , ' The Champions ' , and , of course , this show . The plot is hampered by a few implausibilities ; why have the robbers all stayed in England where Earle can easily find them ? And why don't any of them head for the hills when the news of Earle's attack on a detective ( Michael Hawkins ) is reported in the press ? Sutherland's delivery of lines like ' I did five years ' bird ! ' sound bizarre coming from a Canadian . Perhaps the role was written for an English actor . He gives the character a sinister laugh which might have come in handy had he guested on ' Batman ' . It feels strange to watch this now knowing that Sutherland went on to become one of the world's biggest movie stars , while Richard Bradford , who plays ' McGill ' , did not . That's show business , I suppose . The lovely Jennifer Jayne is ' Joy ' , the girlfriend of one of the robbers who harbours a guilty secret - she knows where the gold is to be found . Francis must have liked working with her ; she also appears in his ' Dr . Terrors ' House Of Horrors ' ( as does Sutherland ) ( 1964 ) and the ludicrous but enjoyable sci-fi film ' They Came From Beyond Space ' ( 1967 ) . Irish actor J . G . Devlin , who plays ' Eddy ' , was one of the two escaped convicts ( Leonard Rossiter was the other ) who invaded Oil Drum Lane in the classic ' Steptoe & Son ' episode ' The Desperate Hours ' .
" We three kings of Orient are . . . "	The students ' entertainment committee plan to put on a show , which naturally means strippers . But the Dean takes an interest and advises them to ' keep it clean ' . So the strippers are out . Mike sends for his brother Terry , a theatrical producer camper than a row of tents . The first people to audition are a trio of Christian Union men , who sing ' We Three Kings Of Orient Are ' despite it not being Christmas . Next up are two nurses performing ballet ( badly ) . Terry tries to get them to do a number from ' West Side Story ' instead . It does not work out . Duncan insults Terry and he storms off , hence the students are left with little option but to drag up . . . Very funny Garden / Oddie episode , with the late Barry Justice camping it up wonderfully as ' Terry Upton ' , who appears to have wandered out of Mel Brooks ' ' The Producers ' . Adam Verney returns as the ' Christian Union ' man last seen in ' Settling In ' . Here he is named as ' Kenneth ' , and would reprise the role in the second season's ' May The Best Man Win ' . A young Mike Grady plays his sidekick ' Patrick ' . Funniest moment - Collier , Evans and Briddock in drag doing a Beverley Sisters impersonation for the patients ' amusement .
The ( First ) Trial Of A Time Lord	So enamoured was I of Patrick Troughton's interpretation of the Doctor that I very nearly didn't watch the final part of ' The War Games ' . If he died , I did not want to see it . Reason prevailed , though , and I did watch . It opens with the Doctor , Jamie and Zoe fleeing in the TARDIS from the scene of ' The War Games ' adventure , materialising in various locations ( nice re-use of old footage from ' The Web Of Fear ' and ' Fury From The Deep ' ) , but the Time Lords prove too powerful ; the TARDIS is forced to land , and the Doctor put on trial . That booming voice - " Doctor , your travels are over ! " - sent a chill up my spine . Here the Doctor is forced to justify his ' cosmic nomad ' lifestyle . The ' War Lord ' is on trial too ; and the Time Lords bestow on him their harshest sentence imaginable - total non-existence . Jamie and Zoe's touching farewell , the monster flashbacks , the Doctor's attempts to remain rebellious even after the sentence has been passed - all add up to a magnificent conclusion to ' 60's ' Who ' .
" Dog ! "	The students attend a lecture by the eccentric Dr . Towers ( Peter Bayliss ) , an expert on hypnosis . When he requests a volunteer , Duncan steps forward . After making a fool of the doctor , he is then hypnotised for real by Mike . Duncan wakes up normal except for one thing - whenever anyone uses the word ' dog ' in his presence , he barks ! Mike tries to reverse the condition , but Duncan does not respond and goes off , wandering about St . Swithins in a hypnotic trance . His friends must find him before he does serious damage to himself . . . Robin Nedwell gets here to do some of the visual clowning he later brought to ' In Charge ' and its sequels . He is particularly good when sending up Towers . Later in 1970 , the first season of ' The Goodies ' ( scripted by Garden & Oddie ) also featured a character ( in this case , Bill Oddie's ) wandering about in a daze while his friends endeavour to rescue him . The reason though is different ; instead of hypnosis , Bill has drunk some of Grahame's cocoa ! The late Peter Bayliss is ' Dr . Towers ' . He is best remembered as Dennis Dunstable's drunken Dad in ' Please Sir ! ' and ' The Fenn Street Gang ' ( he was apparently an eccentric in real life . His answering machine contained the following message for callers : " Hello , this is Peter Bayliss ' budgie speaking . He's not at home at the moment as he's gone out to buy me some bird seed ! " . ) Funniest Moment - Dr . Towers about to stick a hypodermic needle into Duncan's arm , only to stick it in his own by mistake !
" Can You Get B . B . C . - 2 On That Thing ? "	The second run of ' In The House ' was prefaced by repeats of eight episodes of the first , marking the first time the show was seen in colour . Summer break is over . Upton returns to St . Swithins , sporting the beginnings of a moustache , only to find that his friends have them too . His father has provided him with an expensive stethoscope , as well as a little blue book for making diagnoses . He doesn't have the latter for long however . Someone steals it ! A cracking episode this , signalling the series finally emerging from the movies ' shadow and establishing its own identity . Graeme Garden and Bill Oddie wrote every episode of season two ( it was a busy time for them . They had ' The Goodies ' waiting in the wings for take off later that year ) . Thankfully , Huw Evans has gone to Portsmouth on a midwifery course , meaning we are spared Martin Shaw's unconvincing Welsh accent and annoying habit of going " Wahey ! " at every opportunity . The future ' Doyle ' of CI5 was not cut out to do sitcom , and never did one again , although he briefly returned as ' Huw ' in an episode of ' Doctor At Large ' . Replacing him is future ' Yes Minister ' co-creator Jonathan Lynn as drunken Irish student ' Danny Hooley ' . Lynn's Irish accent is no better than Shaw's Welsh one , but at least he looks more at home in a comedy . Donna Reading is ' Miss Walker ' , the poor girl whose breasts he has to examine in front of Loftus and the students . ' Monty Python ' fans will remember that she played a bimbo in the ' You're No Fun Any More ' episode of Season 1 . Funniest moment - Duncan and Upton shaving off their moustaches , only for Dick and Paul to expose theirs as fakes !
" My baby has gone down the plug hole ! "	Upton cannot study because his friends are too busy trying to organise a car rally . He finds himself paired with the lovely , frightfully posh ( she talks exactly like The Queen ) Fiona ( Angela Scoular ) . En route Fiona suggests they drop in on her sister Diana ( Bridget Armstrong ) and her husband Mungo ( Jonathan Cecil ) . Diana is expecting a baby . It rains so Mike and Fiona decide to stay overnight . Diana goes into labour . While Fiona and Mungo go off to fetch a doctor , Mike is left with Diana and has not got a clue what to do . . . A nice Garden & Oddie episode with some good guest stars . Bridget Armstrong , who plays Diana , was in the film ' The Amorous Prawn ' with Ian Carmichael and Cecil Parker , and would later play the wonderfully named ' Hazel Nuts ' in ' The Lost Tribe Of The Orinoco ' episode of ' The Goodies ' . Jonathan Cecil also appeared in ' The Goodies ' - as ' Arthur Minion ' in ' Charity Bounce ' . He was also in ' Dad's Army ' . Cute Angela Scoular was ' Ruby ' in the Bond film ' On Her Majesty's Secret Service ' , and a year after this went out , played fashion model ' Ophelia O'Brien ' in the last of the ' Doctor ' movies - ' Doctor In Trouble ' - in which she co-starred with future husband Leslie Phillips . Funniest moment - Upton attempting to practice midwifery by pulling a teddy bear through the back of a chair . When he tips it upside down , though , its head comes off !
The Priest Who Never Was	Ruthless African plantation owner Marcus Spencer ( Patrick Allen ) recently gave the local natives overtime , and is now having second thoughts about paying out the extra money he promised them . His wife ( Sheila Brennan ) is an out-and-out racist who thinks they will squander the money on drink . Acting as an unofficial spokesman for the natives is Father Ignatius Loyola ( Colin Blakely ) . Spencer becomes suspicious of the man and hires McGill to investigate his background . Obtaining a Bible containing one of the father's thumb prints , Mac learns that he is in fact one Alfred Porter , a mercenary wanted all over the world for fraud and murder . He is also officially registered as dead . So what is he doing in Africa , alive and well , and masquerading as a Jesuit priest ? Colin Blakely had earlier appeared in this series as ' John ' in ' Brainwash ' , also directed by Charles Crichton . Like star Richard Bradford , he was a Method actor , and got on so well with him he was brought back . He is excellent as the repentant ex-mercenary who has had a fit of conscience and decided to help the people he was once guilty of slaughtering . Patrick Allen's ' Marcus Spencer ' ( now there's a joke name if ever I heard it ! ) is the real villain of the piece . His refusal to honour an agreement with the natives is the catalyst for the story . Written by Moris Farhi , also a writer on ' Strange Report ' , ' Out Of The Unknown ' , and ' Strange Report ' . ' The Whisper ' is full of religious symbolism ( the plot parallels St . Paul's conversion on the road to Damascus ) such as the final shot of the little African boy watching Father Loyola take to the skies ( ascending to Heaven ? ) in a helicopter . No actual location filming in Africa was done , nor was it for most of the I . T . C . shows of the time , but it does not matter . The story is strong enough to overcome this obstacle . Some nice touches of humour too , such as the Vatican representative jiving with Mac in a discotheque !
McGill chases a million - Part 2	The second episode opens with an ( edited ) recap of the first's climax . No ' Previously On . . . ' of the sort popular with many of today's shows . After the titles , we see McGill locked in the hold of the ship he has stowed away on . Back in London , a briefing by Michaels of his men effectively brings us up to speed . The C . I . A . boss orders them to fly to Lisbon to stake out banks . Teiko is kept under surveillance , in case Mac tries to make contact . The Captain ( Norman Rossington ) demands from Mac a further payment of $500 in addition to what he has already received . He also warns him to stay away from the crew , describing them as ' crooks ' , a comment that brings a smile to our white-haired hero's face . Some men challenge Mac to a game of poker . It ends with a fight , and Mac is wounded badly . He is smuggled off the ship in a packing crate . When it is opened , the sailors knock him out and take his money . Mac awakens and staggers towards Lisbon , determined to get the million at all costs . . . The story begun in Part 1 reaches a thrilling conclusion . Poor Mac not only has to contend with Russian and American spies but a greedy ship's captain and crew . Some solace comes his way when he meets Lucia ( Gay Hamilton ) , a woman who lives alone who helps him get better . Bradford is at his best here ; being a friend of Brando's there was a noticeable influence in his performance . The look on his face when he finally opens the deposit box is great - not one of greed , but pride on having outwitted his former employers . Anton Rodgers ' ' Max ' , though killed off in Part 1 , reappears in a dream sequence in which he holds out the palm of his hand , and it is covered in blood . If this had been a movie , the plot would probably have been filled with car chases and shoot-outs , but as a television product it is more sedate , therefore more believable . A nice moment occurs when Michaels confesses to Johnson he almost wishes McGill would find the money . That guard in the bank looks familiar - it is Ricardo ( billed as ' Richard ' ) Montez , whom would play ' Juan Cervantes ' in the L . W . T . sitcom ' Mind Your Language ' a decade later . The late Norman Rossington , cast as the ' Captain ' , is best known for comedy roles in movies such as ' Carry On Sergeant ' and ' A Hard Days Night ' . Yoko Tani's ' Teiko ' vanishes from the plot somewhat abruptly , almost as though her contract for filming had elapsed too soon . ' Bucks ' is good enough to make one wish that other two-part ' Suitcase ' episodes had been made .
McGill chases a million !	The only two-part ' Suitcase ' adventure opens in Lisbon . Max Stein ( Anton Rodgers ) , paymaster of a network of Russian agents , is confronted by an official who accuses him of having stolen a contingency fund . There is a fight , which Stein wins . We then see him placing the money ( one million dollars ) in a deposit box in a bank . He clutches the key excitedly . Some time later , Stein is in London , hanging out with old friend McGill . While Mac rekindles a romance with Teiko ( Yoko Tani ) , Stein is being closely observed by both American and Russian spies . He is later shot by one , and before he dies tells Mac where to find the key - secreted inside a chess piece back at his flat . Mac is warned by Michaels ( Ron Randell ) of the C . I . A . not to go after the money . Every bounty hunter worth his salt will be after it . The deposit box also contains important papers both sides badly want . Of course Mac is not going to listen . He eludes his watchers and boards a ship bound for Lisbon . . . It could be the plot of a Robert Ludlum novel , couldn't it ? ' Bucks ' is excitingly done , with a fine performance from the late Anton Rodgers as the doomed ' Max ' . Richard Bradford got on well with the actor during filming and I think it shows . Some nice humour touches - a dying Max tells Mac : " I am losing a lot of alcohol ! " . There is very good continuity here too ; with mention of McGill's former superior ' Coughlin ' - whom we saw in ' Man From The Dead ' - and the C . I . A . office is the same set from that episode . Warren Stanhope , who plays agent ' Johnson ' , reprised the role for ' Web With Four Spiders ' . The late Yoko Tani appeared in the last two ' Danger Man ' stories - ' Koroshi ' and ' Shinda Shima ' . I love the idea of a Russian spy called Bert ! ( probably a codename . His real one may have been ' Bertovski ' or something like that ) . Penny Spencer - the original and best ' Sharon Eversleigh ' of ' Please Sir ! ' - is seen dancing at Mac's party . The late Mike Pratt appears briefly as a detective . Two years later , he co-starred with Kenneth Cope in the wonderful ' Randall & Hopkirk ( Deceased ) ' . Pat Jackson directed this first instalment , with Robert Tronson taking over for the second . There is no real difference in style between them . The episodes were later edited together to produce a feature film entitled ' To Chase A Million ' , which David Deal and Matt Blake's book ' The Eurospy Guide ' gave a right pasting , although by the standard of television movies it is pretty good . This review will be continued . . .
A Strip The Viewers Missed !	The doctors - Bingham included - are excited at the prospect of new physiotherapists at St . Swithins . Loftus gives the girls a lecture on what to expect , describing Dick as a ' lanky , straw-haired , tailor's dummy ' . Bingham he ignores completely . Duncan falls for busty 18 year old Emma Livingstone . Thinking of her as a lady , he treats her accordingly , taking her to Cliff Richard concerts and keeping her away from Dick and Paul's social orbits . But at a charity fund-raising event , Duncan grows over possessive ( brawling with Paul ) and in retaliation she humiliates him by stripteasing in front of the staff . The next day , she ends the relationship , describing Duncan as ' dull ' . . . The tables are well and truly turned on Duncan in this episode . Deborah Watling , who plays ' Emma ' was ' Victoria Waterfield ' opposite Patrick Troughton's ' Dr . Who ' in the late ' 60's . Note her line : " I hate Cliff Richard ! " . The following year , she acted opposite Cliff in ' Take Me High ' ! According to an interview Robin Nedwell gave to ' The News Of The World ' years later , Deborah was to have worn ' cups ' to hide her modesty , but stunned the cast by going topless . She thought it would get a better reaction . Of course this was edited out of the television broadcast ( damn ! ) . Funniest moment - Mary and Duncan jiving on the dance floor . Helen Fraser is surely a natural for ' Strictly Come Dancing ' !
" Pollock ? That Pillock ! "	Plans are drawn up to merge St . Swithins with Highcross , turning the former into a hotel , while Loftus becomes Professor of Surgery at the new hospital . Duncan and the gang endeavor to put a stop to it . They enlist the staff to make Sir John Pollock and Lord Wagstaff think St . Swithins is the worst hospital in the world ( not too difficult ! ) . The V . I . P . ' s are treated to the sight of doctors smoking and drinking in corridors , cuddling nurses , not bothering to wash after operations , running around with organs in buckets , and using patients in trolley races . But Bingham goes one step further - he tells the rugby team about the merger . Duncan must stop them before they commit murder . . . This excellent Graham Chapman and David Sherlock scripted episode got the second season of ' Charge ' off to a flying start . Henry McGee was best known for ' The Benny Hill Show ' . He turns yellow at the end , but jaundice has nothing to with it . Harold Bennett - previously seen as ' Mr . Reeves ' in ' Doctor At Large ' - played ' Lord Wagstaff ' . The dripping spleen must have put people off their dinners in 1973 . What a great week for Richard O'Sullivan fans - three days earlier , he'd been seen in the ' Its Only Money ' episode of ' Man About The House ' . Funniest moment - Duncan using his stethoscope to eavesdrop on Loftus ' office , only to be nearly deafened when Lofty bellows into it : " Get out ! " .
Eric & Ernie Plunge Into The Thames	A battered old van bearing the legend ' B . B . C . T . V . ' stops alongside the Thames Television studio at Teddington Lock , London . The rear doors open , and two figures in raincoats and flat caps are flung out . As it speeds off , they regain their composure , and are greeted by a camp-sounding producer . " Welcome to Thames ! " . The new arrivals - Eric Morecambe and Ernie Wise - look at one another . " This is just like the B . B . C . ! " , says Ernie , to which Eric responds : " Only quicker ! " . Yes , after ten years , the unthinkable had happened . Morecambe and Wise had jumped ship , leaving the B . B . C . to join Thames T . V . They would not be the first comedians to do this , of course , Benny Hill took the same route a decade before . But Eric and Ernie had seemed so at home on the B . B . C . , so much a part of it , that a move to the commercial channel looked as likely as Granada surrendering production of ' Coronation Street ' to B . B . C . Wales . Indeed Eric had decisively ruled out the possibility of such a move a year before it actually happened . " There's no way we're going over to I . T . V . ! " , he had stated . The first show they did for Thames went out on 24th October 1978 . As it was their first since their record breaking Christmas Show the year before - watched by a staggering 28 million people - a lot was expected of it . Eddie Braben , their regular writer ( and arguably the man behind their greatest television triumphs ) was still under contract to the B . B . C . , hence new writers needed to be found . Or rather a pair of old ones . John Junkin and Barry Cryer had written at least one of Eric and Ernie's B . B . C . Christmas shows , and seemed the right men for the job ( like their predecessors Dick Hills and Sid Green , they made brief appearances as themselves ) . That first show contained all the familiar ingredients - songs , sketches ( including one of Ernie's legendary dreadful plays ) , and guest stars . Continuing the tradition of great British actresses appearing alongside the lads ( such as Glenda Jackson and Diana Rigg ) , Judi Dench ( before she was made a Dame ) joined the club . Donald Sinden ( then appearing as stuffy ' Robert ' in the sitcom ' Two's Company ' ) did a sketch entitled ' Butler Of The Year ' , before singing ( if that's the right word ) ' You've Either Got Or You Haven't Got Style ' . Old favourites Ann Hamilton and Peter Cushing ( still after his money ) returned . Leonard Sachs , chairman of ' The Good Old Days ' , made a fun cameo in a spoof version of ' Dr . Jekyll & Mr . Hyde ' . Amongst the musical numbers was a fabulous recreation of ' I Want To Talk Like You ' from Disney's ' Jungle Book ' with Eric and Ernie miming to the soundtrack . In short , it was every bit as good as their earlier B . B . C . shows . So why hasn't history been kinder to their Thames work ? Possibly due to massive public affection for the former . When it went out originally , what do you think B . B . C . - 1 were showing at the same time ? It was ' Morecambe & Wise At The B . B . C . ' . Yes , you read it correctly . To act as a spoiler , Bill Cotton Junior scheduled a repeat to overlap with the start of their first Thames special . The continuity announcer was even instructed to describe it as ' the best years of Morecambe & Wise ' , cattily implying that the new show would in some way be inferior . Many agreed - the Thames shows never got the high ratings as those of the B . B . C . - but even so I do not think they were anywhere near as bad as chroniclers of Morecambe and Wise's history have liked to make out . The decline in their fortunes only came about when Eric suffered a second major attack , necessitating the need for a scaling down of their act , meaning that their later work came across as tired and flat . Even Braben's return did not help matters . They really should have called it a day . Instead they ploughed on , their shows continuing until the end of 1983 . Eric died a few months later . Now that the Thames shows are available on D . V . D . , we can see that they are a lot better than they have been given credit for . Morecambe and Wise continue to bring us sunshine after all these years .
The Nightmare Sunday	The third episode of the first series of ' Fall & Rise ' begins with Reggie at Sunshine Desserts . The model for a new ice cream pagoda has been left on his desk . Unsurprisingly , he hates it . The broken window in his office still needs fixing . A call to the 24 hour maintenance man establishes that he has gone home . When Elisabeth goes to visit her mother on Sunday , Reggie asks Joan to pop round , on the pretext that ' something has come up ' . Once they are alone , he gives her a quick kiss , before apologising profusely . To his amazement , his affectionate gesture is reciprocated . Joan has waited for eight years for him to make the first move . She meekly leads Reggie upstairs to the spare room ( in a lovely touch , he reverses the picture of the Queen so that it faces the wall ) . But before they can get down to it , Reggie has the first of several visitors . . . There is something farce like about this episode . Pretty woman in a bedroom , and her would-be lover frantically trying to keep her presence secret . It is still good fun though , with Rossiter's mounting terror at the thought of being caught with Joan hilarious ( listen to how quickly the actor speaks . It is like a machine-gun in full flow , yet every word can be perfectly understood . I know of no other actor - past and present - capable of doing this ) . First visitor is Mark , Reggie's out-of-work actor son ( David Warwick ) . Mark would only appear in one other episode - ' The Memorial Service ' - before being killed off completely . With his long hair , left-wing sloganeering T-shirts , and fondness for Cockney rhyming slang , the character is neither particularly interesting nor amusing . He is also a bit of scrounger , always taking money off his parents . Perhaps David Nobbs decided he was a little too similar to Jimmy . Speaking of whom , he is here too , and yes , there's been a ' cock-up on the catering front ' . Tom is the last to arrive , smoking what Reggie describes as ' one of those revolting brier pipes ' , and uses for the first time what became his catchphrase : " I am not a something-or-other person ! " . Funniest moment - Reggie nervously awaiting Joan's arrival . Then he notices he has B . O . and goes upstairs to wash . The next time we see him , he is wearing a clean shirt . Sniffing his armpit , he exclaims : " Its getting worse ! " and goes off again .
" There's something fishy going on here ! "	Loftus ' quest for a knighthood continues . . . After showing a Harley Street consultant named Sir Desmond around the Research Unit , Loftus notices he has left behind his little black bag , so tells Duncan to return it . Duncan's car , with the bag inside , is taken by Paul , wishing to impress his beautiful date . Duncan thinks it has been stolen and informs the police . Finding it outside a classy restaurant , Duncan takes it back . Paul too informs the police . Patrolmen arrest Duncan and take him to the station , believing him to be a thief . He tells the Sergeant who he is . But Paul is there also , and is also calling himself ' Dr . Duncan Waring ' . . . George Layton had written a number of episodes for ' At Large ' under the alias ' Oliver Fry ' , but by the time of ' In Charge ' felt confidant enough to use his real name . Just as well because this is a cracking episode , with lots of farcical twists and turns , and a hilarious performance from Benny Hill regular Bob Todd as the befuddled Police Sergeant . Jonathan Lynn , who played ' Danny Hooley ' in Series 2 of ' In The House ' co-authored the script . Good continuity - Dr . Aziz from ' The Black & White Medical Show ' is mentioned briefly . Apparently his last act before leaving the hospital was to help Paul with his wine making ! Funniest moment - Loftus arriving at the Police Station , and announcing himself . With three doctors currently in his cells , the Sergeant looks aghast at the arrival of yet another !
" She's an old boot ! "	Noticing that Bingham's mind is not on his work , Duncan asks what is wrong . Lawrence tells him that he has proposed to Mary Parsons and , to his surprise , she accepted ( mainly because no-one else wanted her ) . But that is not the main reason for his melancholia . She is up for a top medical job and fears the marriage may damage her suitability . Duncan has an idea - conceal the marriage right up until the last minute . It will take place on St . Swithin's Day ( 15th July ) , when the sight of two men in top hats and tails in the hospital will go virtually unnoticed . The big day arrives , and Duncan and Bingham dash through an operation with great speed , much to the bemusement of Loftus . On their way to the chapel , they are confronted by Dick and Paul , who assume that Duncan is marrying Mary , and want to stop it . . . Continuing the storyline begun in ' A Night With The Dead ' , this Bernard McKenna and Graham Chapman scripted episode sees the first time in the show that a major character got married . Though Waring and Bingham have not exactly been friends in the past , the former graciously agrees to being the latter's best man . In fact there are signs of genuine friendship here , something the earlier shows did not allude to . In one of the best endings of any episode , a fight breaks out between the doctors in a fountain , resulting in a group photograph outside the chapel of some very wet and bruised looking participants . Funniest moment - Bingham accidentally punching out the Chaplain !
Reggie's Rebellion Begins	With the ' Reggie Perrin ' series starring Martin Clunes now underway on B . B . C . - 1 , I thought it might be a good time to review the first episode of the classic series starring the late , great Leonard Rossiter . Clunes has been dismissive of the old show in interviews ( why do people these days think the most effective way to promote a remake is to rubbish the original ? ) and there have been several comments on internet television forums of the ' it was good in its day , but its very dated now ' variety . I have not seen the original show in many years , not since it was last repeated on B . B . C . - 2 ( late ' 90's , I think ) . So what did I make of the first episode after all this time ? Every second of it was first-rate . The title sequence , as everyone remembers , has Reggie running along a beach , stripping off his clothes , and taking a dip , accompanied by Ronnie Hazlehurst's wonderful theme . This scene is not in the opening episode , of course , it happens much later in the run . What I found interesting was the way the episode was structured . It starts with a typical day in Reggie's life ; everything is done to order , he and Elisabeth ( Pauline Yates ) swap the same farewells each morning ( " Have a good day at the office . " . " I won't ! " ) . He walks along streets named after poets , catches the train where he finds himself sharing a compartment with hay fever sufferer Peter Cartwright ( Terence Conoley ) who never thinks to bring along tissues , and then finally , its off to ' Sunshine Desserts ' whose sign loses at least one letter a day . Reggie throws his umbrella at the hat-stand but never hits it , and notices Joan's legs as she dictates a letter . Then there is the usual encounter with the appalling Tony Webster ( Trevor Adams ) , whose favourite word is ' Great ! ' and nervous David Harris-Jones ( Bruce Bould ) , whose favourite word is ' Super ! ' , interplay with C . J . ( John Barron ) , a man whose cruelty to his employees is borderline sadistic ( farting chairs in his office no less ! ) . The second day sees Reggie developing signs of anxiety , he even manages to throw up in the middle of a tasting of a new range of exotic ice creams . On the third day the madness begins proper , and here the show takes full comic flight . I don't accept the ' dated ' argument because the themes dealt with here are timeless . People like ' Reggie ' ( trapped in hum-drum jobs ) still exist unfortunately . In the first episode of the new show , they decided not to show us what Reggie was rebelling against , and to use a popular phrase ' cut to the chase ' with him insulting people at every opportunity . In today's multi-channel world , a series needs to get to the point quickly or else the impatient audience changes channels . A great pity . Details like the streets named ' Coleridge Close ' and ' Tennyson Avenue ' are not funny in themselves , but they gave depth to what otherwise could have been a run-of-the-mill sitcom . Rossiter as ' Reggie ' is simply magnificent . Had ' Rising Damp ' not happened , this would have been the show he would today best be remembered for . Even when nothing very funny is happening , he keeps you amused . Just look at the serene expression on his face when Esther Pigeon ( Jacki Piper ) witters on about sales figures ! This was the only episode directed by its producer John Howard Davies . From then on , Gareth Gwelan assumed directorial responsibilities . Davies certainly knew how to cast . Every actor in this is perfectly chosen , even the minor characters such as Peter Cartwright . Funniest moment - Reggie is in the Italian restaurant having a three-course meal - ravioli , ravioli , and ravioli . Guess what Elisabeth has waiting for him when he gets home ? The series was off to a flying start .
" He called me a village idiot ! "	Loftus has become even more irascible of late , bellowing insults at staff during operations , and generally making himself even more unpopular than usual . Duncan gets to the heart of the problem - Loftus and his wife are no longer speaking to one another because she refuses to buy an expensive piece of medical equipment for the hospital . Duncan and Kate have to play matchmaker to get normality resumed . . . A very good episode by Bernard McKenna , giving Ernest Clark and Joan Benhan a much wider scope to their characters , both together and with Robin Nedwell and Jacquie-Ann Carr . Loftus has never been so aggressive before or since . Molly Weir , who plays chip shop owner ' Winnie ' , would have been familiar to viewers through the advertisements she did for ' Flash ' washing powder . Funniest moment - Duncan running his boss down to Winnie , before turning and walking straight into him !
" What a hospital ! "	All in a day's work for the staff at St . Swithins ; an annoying little man wants an operation even though there's nothing wrong with him , an Italian family ( all thirty of them ) with no command of English moves into Casualty , a Welshman is in grave need of physiotherapy , and to cap it all , a convicted criminal has been brought under guard to undergo a gallstone operation . The trouble starts when the trolleys get mixed up ; the Welshman winds up in the operating theatre , a corpse is left unattended in a corridor , while Mr . Melia - the convict - is placed in the morgue . . . One of the funniest of all ' Doctor ' episodes . George Layton and Jonathan Lynn's blackly comic script is packed with subplots - any one of which could have made for an adequate episode - which merge magnificently , and there's a nice twist before the final credits roll . Alison King - who plays ' Nurse Sheila Reynolds ' - looks like a female Marty Feldman and no , I do not mean that as an insult . Frank Jarvis steals the show as ' Melia ' ; the funniest moment has him waking up in the morgue . Thinking he is on a ward , he begins idly chatting to the corpses . Realising where he is , he panics !
" Its not what I expected ! "	This week , I . T . V . - 1 devotes an edition of its ' Comedy Classics ' series to ' Doctor In The House ' . So now seems the right time to look back at the very first episode . London Weekend Television were on something of a lucky streak in the late ' 60's ( thanks to Head Of Comedy Frank Muir ) , having launched ' Please Sir ! ' in 1968 and ' On The Buses ' the following year , they then gave us this , loosely based on the novel by Richard Gordon ( which had formed the basis for a hit movie starring Dirk Bogarde in 1954 ) . Other ' Doctor ' movies followed , even after Bogarde's departure , in fact the series was still continuing as this went on air . ' Doctor In Trouble ' , with that old smoothie Leslie Phillips , hit British cinemas in 1970 . Because the movies were so well known , it was decided to avoid plundering them for jokes ( such as " you , what's the bleeding time ? " ) , and to change the names of the characters , hence ' Simon Sparrow ' became ' Michael Upton ' , ' Sir Lancelot Spratt ' was rechristened ' Professor Loftus ' , ' Benskin ' transmogrified into ' Dick Stuart-Clark ' ( named after a real-life Footlights member - and friend of John Cleese and Graham Chapman's - called Chris Stuart-Clark ) . Cleese and Chapman penned the opening episode , but would never collaborate on the show again . Chapman teamed up with Barry Cryer , and Cleese left , returning two years later to write some first-class episodes for ' At Large ' . This episode begins with a nervous-looking Upton arriving at St . Swithins . His father , also a surgeon , is keen for his son to continue the family tradition of working in medicine . The interview is a terrifying ordeal ; Upton is confronted with The Dean ( Ralph Michael ) and Loftus ( Ernest Clark ) who ask him irrelevant questions such as ' who is Vice President of the United States ? ' . When Upton mentions his rugby prowess , the Dean is impressed . The hospital had lost the trophy to Highcross the previous season . He qualifies , much to his own surprise . September arrives , and he finds himself in a lecture theatre sitting next to Duncan Waring ( Robin Nedwell ) . Late arrivals include ' Paul Collier ' ( George Layton ) and Dick Stuart-Clark ( Geoffrey Davies ) . The latter in particular is a cool customer , and so he should be - this is his fifth year as a first-year student . The Dean's speech , in which he spells out in detail the hospital's rules , is long and tedious . Upton and Waring are sent to Stebbins ( Michael Burrell ) to procure a frozen arm which they then must take to the dissection room . Collier , displaying the mischievous sense of humour we would see in later series , sends them instead to a maternal clinic . . . It is a good opener , effectively setting the scene and establishing the characters . The sight of Mike and Duncan wandering about the hospital corridors with a severed limb is unusually ghoulish , possibly Chapman's contribution . As Upton , the late Barry Evans is perfectly cast , being naive to the point of charming . He was younger than Bogarde had been when he did the movie , and this added gravitas to his performance . It was rare to see a sitcom in those days with such a young cast . As George Layton recently put it : " We were the ' Friends ' of our day ! " . Funniest moment - a policeman asks the students what they are carrying . They show him , and he faints !
" What you don't see you'll never miss ! "	Ian Hendry shot to fame as the star of the first series of ' The Avengers ' in which he played crime busting ' Dr . David Keel ' , with Patrick Macnee as his sidekick ' John Steed ' . He then left to pursue a career in film , leaving Macnee to assume star status in the show ( which became an international hit ) . Hendry made several films , of which ' Live Now - Pay Later ' was one . In it , he played ' Albert Argyll ' , a door-to-door salesman for ' Callendar's Credit Stores ' . Slick , quick-witted , irresistible to women , this man could sell anything to anybody . As a bonus , he gets to sleep with some of his customers . Indeed early on in the film one of them , called ' Treasure ' ( June Ritchie ) turns up at the shop , demanding to see Albert . He has run out on her , leaving her to bring up a child born out of wedlock , as well making her responsible for a mass of bills . He is out on his rounds , so she vents her anger by wrecking the shop . As the film progresses , her anger subsides and she and Albert once more become an item . When he is promoted to manager , he takes her to the shop and they fool around using the goods ( Albert does a stunningly brilliant ' Charlie Chaplin ' impression at one point ) . But he bites off more than he chew , and his boss Mr . Callendar ( John Gregson ) demotes him back to salesman . Treasure goes off Albert too , leaving him alone once more . But is he downhearted ? Is he heck ? As the movie ends , he once is out and about ( he has a habit of jumping out of his van while it is still moving ) and working his charm on a new customer , called Coral ( Justine Lord ) . Another reviewer has rightly commented on the similarity between Hendry's ' Albert ' and Michael Caine's ' Alfie ' . I have always believed that Hendry deserved greater success than he ultimately got - he should have been up there with Oliver Reed and Richard Harris and Stanley Baker as a major international star . He had the talent . He just never found the right role ( like Reed and Harris he also had a terrible drink problem . My late father-in-law once told me Hendry came into his local pub one afternoon , and stood a round ) , becoming instead a supporting star , albeit a good one , appearing in ' The Hill ' ( opposite Sean Connery ) , ' Get Carter ' ( opposite Michael Caine ) , ' The Internecine Project ' ( opposite James Coburn ) and my favourite Vincent Price picture - ' Theatre Of Blood ' . In all these films he was marvellous . June Ritchie , who plays ' Treasure ' , holds the distinction of being the first topless woman in a major British film - John Schlesinger's ' A Kind Of Loving ' , also made in 1962 . She was also the second topless woman in a major British film , as she takes a bath in Albert's flat . She too was tipped for stardom , which never materialised . All British films of these period seemed to have wonderful supporting casts , and this one is no exception - Nyree Dawn Porter , Geoffrey Keen , Peter Butterworth , Bridget Armstrong , Jeannette Sterke , and an early sighting of Peter Bowles . Particularly impressive is Liz Fraser as ' Joyce Corby ' , wife of an ambitious Councillor . She is up to her neck in debt and when the bailiffs come knocking , flees from the house in terror - only to get knocked down and killed . For anyone accustomed to her bubbly roles in the ' Carry On ' series , it is quite shocking stuff . Writer Jack Trevor Story and Jay Lewis had earlier collaborated on a dire wartime comedy starring Bill Travers and Spike Milligan called ' Invasion Quartet ' , so it makes this film's quality all the more surprising . Lewis only made one more film after this - the silent comedy ' A Home Of Your Own ' with Ronnie Barker - before his death in 1969 . So this works both as a cautionary tale of the dangers of getting heavily into debt , and a comedy with charming acting from the leads . It really deserves an official D . V . D . release .
" It'll go through him like boiling oil ! "	Duncan panics when the 497 raised for charity by St . Swithins - and entrusted to him for safekeeping by Loftus - goes missing . Unable to find it , he , along with Dick and Andy , decides to go on a inter-hospital cross-country run , and get the money back by betting heavily on Highcross . The only thing he needs to do is ensure now that St . Swithins doesn't win . . . ' Dad's Army ' did a not-dissimilar plot , entitled ' When Did You Last See Your Money ? ' . The highlight here is , of course , the run itself , as Duncan and the gang endeavor to ' nobble ' their own side , using dirty tricks that Dick Dastardly and Muttley would have been proud of . Poor Gascoigne has been given cascara , which means he keeps dashing into the bushes every few hundred yards . Funniest moment - Stuart-Clark stepping off the coach , dressed in flat cap , pinstriped suit , and puffing on a big cigar . Loftus shrieks : " Ye Gods ! Clark , this is not a ruddy fashion parade ! " .
" Did I Run Over A Cat Just Then ? "	Duncan and Kate are planning a weekend trip to Paris , but two unexpected crises crop up ; firstly , Gascoigne gives the wrong treatment to the wrong patients because he cannot read Duncan's handwriting properly , and secondly , Loftus orders Duncan to fetch a kidney from a nearby hospital and bring it to St . Swithins to be used in a transplant operation . Collecting the organ , Duncan makes the mistake of letting Dick get behind the wheel of his car . The anaesthetist drives the way he practices medicine - fast . The car catches fire and the police give chase . Duncan hitches a ride with a holidaying family but they pull over to allow their son to be sick . With time running out , the doctor heads for the woods . Enter an R . A . F . helicopter . . . My favourite episode of ' Doctor On The Go ' , this harks back to the classic ' Honeymoon Special ' instalment of ' Doctor In Charge ' , most notably during the driving sequence . Dick goes through red lights , nearly kills both himself and Duncan whilst overtaking a lorry , and does a James Bond-style leap over a hill . Had there been a ' Doctor On The Go ' movie , it could have served as a fitting climax . Finally , thanks to the R . A . F . , the kidney reaches St . Swithins and Duncan and Kate go off on holiday . But there's a final unpleasant surprise in store for them . . . Great fun !
" Kiss Me Where It Counts ! "	Timmy Lea ( Robin Askwith ) swaps his window cleaner's bucket for a microphone in this , the second of the money-spinning romps based on the novels of Christopher Wood . Sid Noggett ( Tony Booth ) signs a pop group called ' Bloater ' ( whom he renames ' Kipper ' ) , with a view to making a fortune as their manager . There's one problem - he has not heard them play . When he does , his worst fears are confirmed . They are terrible . Nevertheless , by seducing the wife of a local theatre manager ( Bob Todd ) he is able to get them a booking . Mrs . Lea ( Doris Hare ) helps out by sending along an enthusiastic crowd composed of elderly women . One of the band is accidentally injured back stage , so Timmy goes on in his place . ' Kipper ' go down a storm . Soon they are in the record studio , and appearing on the top-rated talent show ' Star Knockers ' . Fame and fortune cannot be far away surely ? With Val Guest having declined the chance to direct the follow-up , the job went to Norman Cohen , whose other credits include the movie versions of ' Till Death Us Do Part ' and ' Dad's Army ' , and ' Adolf Hitler My Part In His Downfall ' , based on Spike Milligan's war memoirs . He stayed on board for the next two pictures . Doris Hare replaced Dandy Nichols as Timmy's mum . The use of sitcom actors was a major part of the ' Confessions ' success story . It amused audiences to see ' Mrs . Butler ' from ' On The Buses ' and ' Pike ' from ' Dad's Army ' surrounded by bare bottoms and boobs . Three of the cast had previously appeared in ' Please Sir ! / The Fenn Street Gang ' - Peter Cleall , Carol Hawkins , and Richard Warwick . Two went on to sitcoms - Diane Langton in ' The Rag Trade ' and Linda Regan in ' Hi-De-Hi ' . Both were cast here as the nymphomaniac ' Climax Sisters ' . Another - Jill Gascoigne - was to be found chasing criminals a few years later in the L . W . T . series ' The Gentle Touch ' . I'm sure she is not proud of her role in this film . Peter Jones ' ' Maxie Naus ' looks suspiciously like Hughie Green of ' Opportunity Knocks ! ' . A recent television documentary appeared to suggest that the main audience for the ' Confessions ' films were old men in grubby macs . Not so . Do you know who were ? Teenagers . When ' Pop Performer ' came out , I was one of many youths loitering nervously outside the theatres where it played , fag in hand , trying to pluck up enough courage to go in and buy a ticket . The films might not have been well written or acted - no-one gave a stuff about that then - but if you were under eighteen and you'd seen a ' Confessions ' film , you were a hero to your mates . They were also great ' date ' movies . If you had been going out for a while and had not progressed beyond kissing , you took your girlfriend to a ' Confessions ' film in the hope it would act as some kind of aphrodisiac . Of course you dare not let on it was a sex farce . " Its a comedy . " , I remember telling my girl : " Bob Todd's in it . You know , him off ' Benny Hill ' " . She wasn't impressed . We saw ' Herbie Rides Again ' for the second time instead . The relationship ended soon after . Funniest moment ? Timmy making love to a girl in a record shop while Spike Milligan can be heard reciting ' In The Ning Nang Nong ' to music .
" I want my red medicine ! "	Paul is temporarily working at Dr . Neilson's practice . Upton agrees to cover for him one night so he can go on a date . All goes well until the police ask him to check to see whether a man they have arrested is inebriated . He calls himself Mike Upton . . . A great Graham Chapman / Bernard McKenna episode . James Hayter was known for his voice-overs for the ' Mr . Kipling ' cake commercials . ' Liz Hickel ' , the nymphomaniac receptionist , was a change of role for Patsy Rowlands , best known for ' Bless This House ' and the ' Carry On ' films . May Warden's ' Mrs . Thompson ' isn't far removed from ' Grandma ' , which she later played in the television version of ' Billy Liar ' . But the best performance comes from Tim Brooke-Taylor lookalike Gareth Forwood , as the dim-witted ' P . C . Mansell ' . Funniest moment - Mansell repeating ' You've really landed me in it this time ' ad nauseam , causing the Sergeant to wonder whether or not he may be as drunk as Collier .
" I do like your leg ! "	Loftus sacks Dick for making one mistake too many . Unable to get him to change his mind , Duncan resigns in protest . Out of work , he and Dick sign up as ship's doctors aboard the passenger liner M . S . Begonia . They look forward to a new life of sun , sea and . . . surgery . And being free of Loftus . But they've a shock in store . . . The title refers to the unusual nicknames given by the sailors to the medical staff ; ' Sir John ' ( Duncan ) is ' surgeon ' , ' Baby Doc ' ( Dick ) means ' junior surgeon ' . Alan Tew's theme has been given a nautical remix , and excellent it is too . ' Sea ' gets off to a splendid start with this Gail Renard / Phil Redmond scripted opener . With many of the original cast and crew having moved on , it took the opportunity to look back and remind the viewer how far the characters had come in a short space of time . Duncan's fierce defence of Stuart-Clark is proof of the bond of friendship between them . I doubt whether such a scene would have been possible in the earlier series . There's a lovely moment near the beginning where Dick and Duncan plan a surprise farewell party at St . Swithins , only to realise they're the only ones left from their student days . Collier moved on three months before , while the Binghams are bringing up triplets ( ! ) . The past is represented by a series of monochrome snapshots ( Upton is in a few ) backed up by a mellower arrangement of the theme . Even Dick sheds a tear for days gone by as the sequence ends . Before sentimentality takes over completely , we move onto a naval outfitters ' shop , where Duncan and Dick wreak havoc pretending to be Zorro and Long John Silver . Using a plot device borrowed from the film ' Doctor In Trouble ' , the new Captain is the twin brother of Loftus , enabling the role to be played by the same actor . Funniest moment - Duncan and Dick arriving at what they think is their ship , only to find it is not what they expected . Rats infest their cabin , a sewer pipe hangs over the woodworm-infested bunks , a mad sailor periodically has violent fits , and the Steward has the hots for Duncan ( a brief but funny appearance from Christopher Biggins ) . Fortunately , it turns out not to be the Begonia after all and as the episode ends , we see our heroes running across the docks , carrying a heavy-looking trunk between them . St . Swithins may have gone , but for the moment , it hardly matters . A classic episode .
Upton's Fatal Attraction !	Its Saturday afternoon , and Upton is on call at Dr . Whiteland's practice . Dick has gone off with the lovely Tanya , but forgotten to cancel a previous date with photographic model Maxine . An angry Maxine turns up at the practice , demanding to see Dick . She bursts her way into an examination room , only to find The Minister for Inland Development naked , having turned up for an appointment one week early . Upton is confronted with a nightmare problem - Maxine is hysterical and on the point of suicide . Chasing her back to her flat , he becomes trapped when she locks the door and drops the key down her dress . . . In need of money after a failed business venture , John Cleese penned several scripts for ' Large ' , of which this was the first . There's no Pythoneseque humour on display , but the writing style he later brought to ' Fawlty Towers ' is in evidence , as seemingly unconnected plot strands - such as Lady Ashley and her teddy bears - converge at the end . Upton's boring conversation with Colonel Aystrop anticipates Basil Fawlty's meaningless exchanges with Major Gowen . Offered a drink , Aystrop replies : " No no no no yes . " . This was many years before ' The Vicar Of Dibley ' . The late , lovely Hilary Pritchard was all over television and cinema screens in the late ' 60's / early ' 70's . One film of hers - ' Under The Doctor ' - was a terrible low-budget British sex farce which starred , ironically , Barry Evans . Maureen Lipman attacks the role of the demented ' Maxine ' with relish , though why she thinks Dick worth committing suicide over is a mystery . Even so , ' Saturday Matine ' is twenty-five minutes of expertly written and performed farce . Funniest moment - Upton tries to calm Maxine by slapping her . She retaliates in kind !
" Twice an hour ? Twice a day ! "	Upton is called to the home of rich hypochondriac Mr . Medwin . Finding nothing wrong with him , he prescribes a tonic . No sooner has he returned to Dr . Whiteland's surgery than he receives a phone call informing him that Mr . Medwin has died . Medwin's family are a greedy , grasping bunch who cannot wait to get their hands on his fortune . As the will is read out , they receive a terrible shock - Mr . Medwin has bequeathed his money to his doctor . . . By ' Doctor ' standards , this is a dark episode indeed , with an elderly patient dying suddenly and Upton fearing being struck off for accidentally over prescribing medication ( the tonic contained strychnine ) . Even Dick briefly suspects Mike of ' bumping off ' Mr . Medwin . The studio audience don't sound very amused by the proceedings . Even so , its a welcome change of pace for the show . The late Jack May is well remembered as ' William E . Simms ' , the butler to Gerald Harper's ' Adam Adamant ' in the cult B . B . C . series of that name . John Nettleton was a regular in ' Yes Minister ' . Funniest moment - Upton's Bergmanesque nightmare . As Mike dashes about in slow motion across a mist covered landscape , he is menaced by the Medwin family amongst others , a sequence which pulls off the impressive feat of being both disturbing and funny .
Hancock's Masterpiece	Following the success of ' The Rebel ' in 1960 , Tony Hancock and his writers , Ray Galton and Alan Simpson , planned a follow-up . Various ideas were kicked about ( such as having Hancock go on a round-the-world cruise , or him playing a double role ) , scripts were written , but none pleased the star . Eventually , he fired Ray and Alan , and wrote the script in collaboration with poet and novelist Philip Oakes . ' The Punch & Judy Man ' was no average British comedy film , indeed its an astonishingly bitter piece , casting Hancock as ' Wally Pinner ' , a depressed , middle-aged Punch and Judy man in the English seaside town of Piltdown . His marriage to the lovely but aloof Delia is on the point of collapse , and he is looked down upon by the pompous dignitaries who run the town , such as the Mayor ( Hancock hated snobbery in real life ) . Pinner's only friend is the Sandman , a local eccentric who makes historical sculptures out of sand . Pinner is persuaded by Delia to give a show at a forthcoming dinner to commemorate 100 years of Piltdown , at which a member of the aristocracy will be present . Needless to say , it gets out of hand , degenerating into a bun-throwing fight . The film's main strength is that it does not try hard to be funny , the humour flows naturally , and even when not particularly amusing it manages to engage , such as Wally's conversation over tea with the Sandman . Only the bun fight at the end looks as though it were written in at the last minute , but its a minor criticism . Hancock gives a superb performance as the cynical ' Pinner ' , and is supported by such talented actors as Sylvia Syms , Ronald Fraser , Barbara Murray , Hugh Lloyd and . of course , John Le Mesurier . Hattie Jacques is fleetingly seen as a fortune teller . Public apathy ensured that Hancock and Oakes did not collaborate on another project . A great shame , as it is a cut above the Norman Wisdom and ' Carry On ' series of the day . Be warned , however , the D . V . D . is missing a scene where Pinner works off his rage by inserting a bunch of flowers into a ceramic pig's rectum . Presumably it was deleted to enable the D . V . D . to get a ' U ' certificate . Funniest moment - Pinner's ice cream eating contest with the little boy played by Nicholas Webb . As good as anything Chaplin ever did .
