Not just bad . . . real bad .	Some film's are so bad they're good . . . or good enough to watch and laugh at . Chuck Norris ' " Breaker Breaker " is one which I enjoyed watching because it was such an awful almost Vaudevillian production . Others , such as " Terror Firmer " , are bad enough to be enjoyable on some level even though they're aren't good enough to garner Razzie nom's . " Out in Fifty " is an awful film which languishes somewhere between the funny / good-awful and the Razzie candidates with its pathetic attempt to tell the story of a grudge between a macho ex-con and a psycho cop . Among the film's attributes are a stunningly horrible performance by the Osenbeck and co-Director Leet's narcissistic infatuation with his own musculature as he pumps iron . " Out in Fifty " is the real deal . . . the real awful with zero potential . The producers should seriously consider getting out of the film biz and cutting their losses . ( F )
Socially irresponsible redundant crap	" Our America " tells of two black juvi's who are given recorders so they can do a radio documentary of their project / ghetto . An unfortunate but well intentioned flick , " OA " has nothing new to offer and appears to be a misguided attempt to expose the real truth behind the projects ( drugs , gangs , crime , cockroaches , etc . ) as if we haven't had our fill of ghetto flicks . What is worse , our heros play a game called " Knockout " which involves dropping rocks from a freeway overpass which everyone knows is as potentially lethal as the gangbangers shooting up the " hood " with their Uzzis and for which they receive a mere reprimand . Stupid tripe not worth the time . ( F )
Quick ! Hit DELETE ! !	" Antitrust " is sophomoric hokum about a very Microsoft-like company run by a very Bill Gates-like guy who is going to take over the world . . . the world of communications , that is . . . . and hires a young genius / geek / programmer who is morbidly allergic to sesame seeds and . . . blaa , blaa . Same old stuff in a new wrapper which is not worth the time . (
Don't waste your time .	" Diary of Sex Addict " is a pathetic attempt at a serious drama about sexual compulsiveness . Probably a movie marketing scam , this flick is a stylish shoot with a good cast and little else going for it . Bottom line , " Diary . . . " would have us believe that our sex addict character has the dumbest wife in the world , a stable of babes on the side who have nothing better to do than drop their panties for him at his whim , and no job in spite of being a restaurateur . At the best , this flick could have been good drama . At the worst , cheap softcore . " Diary . . . " isn't either and nowhere in between . This one's for the dumpster . (
Don't waste your time .	" Life Without Dick " is a romantic / comedy though you'll be hard pressed to find any of either in its vacuous plot . In spite of a good core cast , this to-broadcast-in-a-heartbeat flick is a waste of time not worthy of further commentary . (
Oh , the pain ! The suffering ! The Agony !	And that was just the audience . " Battlefield Earth " is every bit the clunker the critics said it was . Based on what one can only assume was a really awful novel by charlatan L . Ron Hubbard , the film uses all the low budget short cuts available from close-in shooting to sucking the color out of the film to filming through haze to poor quality miniatures , etc . all the while telling us of a story in which the bad guy is more charismatic and / or fun than the good guy leaving us in a quandary as to whom to root for . Etc . Etc . Frankly this travesty doesn't deserve reviewing . Succinctly put . PU !
The title says it all	" 8 Heads in a Duffel Bag " is a lame comedy built around a duffel bag which contains 8 human heads and all the nonsensical things which can happen to 8 heads . Except for Pesci , the film has a bunch of second rate acting talent involved in a silly make-it-up-as-you-go story about a gangster who's transporting the duffel bag and , of course , gets it mixed up with a similar duffel bag in airport baggage claim ( how original ) and . . . . blaa , blaa . Bottom line ; this no brainer offers marginal entertainment for the hard up couch potato and little else .
Think " The Substitute " couldn't get any worse ? ?	Guess again . " The Substitute IV " is an even more sophomoric knock-off of it's predecessors . While most sequels try to capitalize on whatever the original had going for it , " Sub IV " doesn't seem to care that it ever had anything going for it as it departs from the " Kick-ass High School teacher takes on punks " theme and wanders mindlessly into a military academy breeding white supremacist cadettes . Everything about this film is sub-B junk from the silly plot to the poor acting to the cheesy action scenes . Williams must have really been hungry to have taken on this flop which should kill whatever market the previous sequels managed to scrounge up . This is one for the dumpster .
An abysmal failure	" Ordinary Decent Criminal " is sad because it is obviously trying to succeed and equally obviously hasn't a chance in hell of making it apparently owing to the absence of a clear sense of purpose . A abysmal failure at droll Irish comedy with Spacey as a thief who enjoys outsmarting the cops and his competition becoming a sort of folk hero in his own mind , this flick manages to be mildly amusing when it's trying to be funny , slightly more than boring when it's trying to be interesting , and forget sentimental or poignant or endearing though it takes shots at those qualities as well . " Ordinary Decent Criminal " has a clumsy screenplay , naive direction , journeyman execution , thin story , poor casting , mediocre acting , and eventually becomes lost in itself and sinks into a mire of hopeless mediocrity . Pass on this one . ( D )
Lousey	" R Xmas " peers into the lives of a middle class married-with-kid family of narco-distributors during the Christmas holiday season . There's no story here - just a disjointed collection of events . Ferrara seems to get off on the juxtaposition of the holidays and home life with narcotics peddling in NYC , jumping back and forth between each . The players appear to be improv'ing and adlibing now and then making for an unconvincing watch . Overall a poor effort not worth the time . ( D )
A pathetic flop of a film	" R . P . M . " , a silly saga with David Arquette as an international car thief , can't manage to get itself out of park . From casting to acting to simple props and stunts and everything in between , " R . P . M . " is a loser . The only good thing in this film is Emmanuelle Seigner who seems awkwardly out of place and in need of a good script .
Whadda bunch of crap !	In " Eye See You " , Sly plays an FBI agent who crawls into a bottle after burning out and then goes into detox with a bunch of alcoholic and / or suicidal cops in a remote facility in the dead of winter . From there people are murderer and Stallone has to stop the killer and save the token babe ( Walker ) . This flick suffers from a hackneyed story , atmospherics so oppressive its difficult to see the action , and the absence of anything new , creative , or interesting . " ESY " is just a drone of meaningless Hollywoodish busyness which fails on all levels . Not recommendable and another big step down for Stallone who should take lessons from Eastwood on aging gracefully in the film biz . ( D )
Awful	I can think of no construct of criteria by which one could measure " The Unbelievable Truth " and arrive at the conclusion that it is anything more than an utter waste of time . The believable truth about this flick is it is pure amateurish tripe . The unbelievable truth is that some people have found a basis for recommendation . (
Perfectly awful .	" Women vs Men " is an uninspired regurgitation of all the same old trite and tired battle of the sexes stuff with a few new buzz words pounded into the pathetically flat script to give it a contempo edge . With a svelte Lahti and a bearded Metegna as the lead couple in the war , you'd expect this tv fare to be a shoe-in . Instead it plays out like one long and incredibly boring drone of endless banter . Simply awful . PU ! Yuck ! ( D )
If it looks like a turkey . . .	" Full Frontal " looks , walks , and talks like a " turkey " and it is just that . It doesn't matter who stars in it or who directed it . This movie is just a " turkey " ; amateurish crap not worthy of a recommendation . Fortunately , I can work and " watch " films at the same time . . . . assuming they aren't subtitled or have alot of visual stuff . I was able to just listen to " FF " ( it is mostly dialogue with little to look at ) while working . Otherwise I would haven't been able to stand the monotonous droning of small talk and would have pulled out early . Pass ( substitute vowel of choice ) on " Full Frontal " . ( D )
A waste of talent and time .	" Beyond the City Limits " is a good example of how not to make a movie . Director Gaston manages to lead her decent cast into a sort of mindless oblivion where nothing works . An uneven conglomerated mess of lousy acting , directing , editing , cinematography , music , etc . , this uninspired doggie can't seem to find a genre and stick with it . If this is the only movie on t . v . , just turn the box off and play solitaire . Yuck ! ( D )
Insulting sensationalistic crap	J . Lo sinks in a morass of Hollywood hogwash as a victim of spousal abuse who gets fed up and fights back . One of those flicks which makes one wonder if everyone in Hollywood is stupid or just thinks we're stupid , " Enough " is pure sensationalistic crap not worthy of further commentary . ( D )
Silly tripe !	Not to be confused with the Madonna film " The Next Best Thing " , " The Last Big Thing " is a silly , campy , off-the-wall comedy about a man who yearns to start a magazine called " The Next Big Thing " which reviews a variety of up and coming artists . This low budget indie makes " Chuck and Buck " look like a masterpiece . Fraught with lousy acting , poor sets and costuming , etc . , " . . . Thing " has earned some awful reviews and to date has only been nominated for one fringe award . Pass on this one .
Naive flick	" Slaves to the Underground " , a grungy and immature flick about some young Seattle slacker-types with issues , is unable to escape the naivete of the creative forces behind it . Built around a story about a sexually and otherwise confused girl with two lovers and no qualities which would explain one lover , this flick also makes shallow and off-target attempts at social commentary and is fraught with awful music . " Slaves . . . . " underscores one axiom : A film can be no smarter than the people who make it . Not recommendable .
A colossal waste of talent	" The King is Alive " is a flawed and contrived mess of a movie which comes off like a self indulgent auteur's excuse to transport a bunch of actors to a Godforsaken Namibian desert where he can play major-Dogme-domo and film his selfishly conceived , silly , overwrought drama with utter disregard for the real forces of human nature , market appeal , common sense , and even good art . In other words this is one dumbassed flick and if you don't believe that , your penance is watching it . Only for filmheads , critics , dilettantes , and the like . ( D )
A waste of time and celluloid .	" American Pimp " is NOT investigative journalism or an in-depth look at the underbelly of street pimping . " American Pimp " IS distorted , egocentric , self-aggrandizing speak from a handful of pimps jumbled with some old film footage and muddled by poor camera work . A disappointing waste of time . Know what I'm sayin ' ?
Boring	" Baise Moi " ( Kiss Me ) tells of two young women who go on a killing and fking spree . So , there's lots of killing and some graphic sex ( penetration , oral , etc . ) . Add to those two elements a pretty awful production with color shifts , graininess , lousy editing , poor effects , etc . ; unbelievable characterizations ; and other problems to numerous to mention here and you have your basic porn flick . Worst of all , there isn't enough sex for it to be good porn and too little story for it to be anything else . Conclusion ? Don't waste your time . ( D )
Kind of like watching grass grow .	( Spoilers ) " Cash Crop " goes something like this . Down-on-their-luck farmers grow pot to make ends meet . DEA agent blows into town . Farmers hide the pot . DEA agent leaves town . End of story . This flick features solid performances by some second tier actors , mediocre direction , and a so-so screenplay . . . but it ain't got no story . And since the story is the foundation of every drama , " Cash Crop " is an utter failure . Too boring to recommend .
A good film if you're drunk .	You have a choice . You can stick your finger down your throat or watch this pathetic attempt at comedy / drama about young adults in search of relationships . In all fairness to the actors who doggedly go through the paces of trying to bring something meaningful to a thoroughly inane script , the film fails because the characters are shallow , two dimensional , plastic replicas of people for whom we're made to feel nothing . The film ricochets off humor , bends around reality , and ignores pathos . It's shallow , hollow , empty , and is about as satisfying as tofu .
Pure crap	" Delusion " is what you experience when you watch this flick and then believe you saw something worthwhile . This flick , which tells of a trio of semi-psycho travelers who are up to no good somewhere in the CA desert , is amateurish and just plain stupid . The film suffers from an awful story , a lousy screenplay , and some terrible direction just to mention a few of the deficits . If the flick has anything at all going for it , it's B-movie diva Rubin's even performance . Don't waste your time on this turkey . ( D )
Garbage ! ! !	Stupid , boring , and a complete waste of time . PU ! This thing was awful . It is possible that baseball fans might find something to enjoy in this loser . However , I don't like baseball and could only stomach about half this flick so I did the Tivo fast-forward thing and estimated the rest was as bad as the first .
A waste of time	The title " See the Sea " suggests the same lack of creativity and substance which makes this film a huge waste of time . An austere , bleak so-called thriller , " See the Sea " is so devoid of anything and everything is simply isn't worth the time it takes to watch it . Bottom line ? Some freaky weird broad shows up at a woman's house and they sorta get to know each other and the freaky weird broad begins to act more freaky and weird . . . blaa , blaa . " See the Sea " is one for the dustbin . ( D )
Not good enough for a Razzie	" Africa " is a drama which is sooooo bad it's funny . The film is about a blonde babe / model who is driving somewhere near Johannesburg , S . A . when her car overturns rendering her unconscious . When she comes to , she takes off in her miniskirt across the African wilderness instead of staying by the road ( duh ) and hitching home . After that , the film becomes and odyssey of survival where our cute little protag has to eat bugs and run from lions and all that exciting stuff . If you can swallow that premise , then maybe you have a chance of swallowing the whole horribly directed sham of a flick which follows . A real stinkeroo ! ! ( D )
So awful it's funny .	There's no point in typing a litany of all the things which are wrong with this movie . It would be a very long list . And , the list of things right with this movie . . . . well , it doesn't exist . " Code Hunter " is one of those junk flicks which is so awful it's funny . So , if you want a good laugh at some pretty awful film making , give it a watch . ( D )
Much ado about nothing	" Irma Vep " ( an acronym for " vampire " ) is a critically lauded film about the making of a French movie which seems to be devoid of value and purpose . Probably a failed attempt at satirical commentary on the film biz , this flick has only a wisp of a plot , the look of a documentary , the feel of an indie , and manages to conjure little more than a whole lot of busy-ness . Devoid of everything people go to films to see , " Irma Vep " is a colossal waste of time . Recommended for film critics only . (
Don't waste your time .	" Falling Like This " is a jiggle-cam no-budget indie loser not worth the time . The flick has no story , no point , no purpose , no moral , no message , and comes off like a bad class project . What is supposed to be a slice of life flick about a couple of rebellious teens goes something like . . see the kids take a bath , see them drive a truck off a cliff , see them play darts and look at the sky and drink beer and get busted and hang out and pitch a fit and go to juvi and . . . yada , yada , yada . If you want to watch amateurish films , there are much better amateurish films than this on late night t . v .
Bottom of the barrel sludge	" Hiway " is the scum from the bottom of the cable tv barrel . Telling of a couple of loser / druggie-type punks and their encounters while on a road trip , this flick is a par production which loses everything on story . One can only wonder if anyone read the script before taking on this project which is little more than a clutter of uninspired nonsense with a naive make-it-up-as-you-go feel . Pass on this junk flick . ( D )
A catastrophic flop .	" Diplomatic Siege " tells of those involved in the siege of the American embassy in Bucharest for the purpose of compelling the UN to release a Serbian officer being held for war crimes . The film is an ambitious project which self-destructs in the process of trying to do too much . An utter failure not recommended for anyone .
Gratuitous garbage	" Pretty When You Cry " is a klunker from beginning to end . Shot as a dark and brooding drama , this B-flick tells it's story of sex , drugs , and murder through a series of annoying flashbacks . Character development is nonexistent , the story weak and uninteresting , and the acting very ordinary . Cinematography is okay but can't save this very mediocre flick which is like a bowl of wax fruit : Looks good but you wouldn't want to eat it . A waste of time .
Don't get sucked in by the roster	Step right up , folks and bear wittiness to the most sorrowful bunch of characters ever to inhabit a film . Yes , you'll see " Vegetable Guy " in an Oscar worthy performance fleshing out his character as he lies in a coma . You'll see the incredible Barbie doll who talks and never moves her lips . Oh , and don't forget the little kiddies playing " touch my penis " or " let's smoke our first ciggie " . Howz dat for original ? " The Safety of Objects " is a classy bunch of crap with a great cast and little else going for it . A sort of marathon of stereotypes and hacked situations , this flick and its aired plot gives us a slew of really lame and inept characters and no reasons to care one whit about any of them leaving us to sit and watch as detached voyeurs while they wallow in suburban angst with cliche heaped upon cliche as meager sustenance . Hogwash not worthy of serious commentary . ( D )
Amateurish crap	" Visitor Q " is a failed attempt at black comedy which focuses on what might be the world's most dysfunctional family including physical abuse from beatings to murder to incest to sodomy to necrophilia to a lactating mom who nurses her husband and adult daughter , etc . The film is so outrageous it garnered some critical praise and established a small cult following . However , with home video quality and a slapdash production , " Visitor Q " just doesn't hold up even as a curiosity . Genitals are blurred out and sanitary appliances clearly visible , make-up is awful , and everything else is amateurish at best . A waste of time . (
Miss it and you won't .	" Jericho Mansions " is all about Caan as the super shy Super of an apartment building of the title name where people are dying to live while someone is whacking them with a ball pein hammer . Caan seems to be going off his nut trying to figure out if he's doing the dirty deeds as the film wears on and wears out . An awkward attempt at the ever popular psycho-thriller-horror-drama genre , " JM " is an amateurish production which uses brain farts and bad ideas where creativity should be . The result is a lame bunch of nonsense with a mediocre ensemble cast , an awful screenplay , and no CC's or subtitles ( on the DVD I watched ) . Everything an indie shouldn't be and a good film to miss . (
Sux	" Dopamine " is one of those all to many little one man band indie start-up flicks sorely lacking in resources . . . financial , creative , etc . The flick wanders around the lives of three guys who are into creating a virtual computer character while focusing on one ( Livingston ) and his romantic involvements with a teacher ( Lloyd ) . A bleak exercise in pseudo intellectualism , this flick delivers a big dose of the cold and clammies where the warm and fuzzies should be as it ploddingly and boringly meanders drunkenly into a variety of issues . Obviously contrived , clumsily written , stiff and awkward with characters it's difficult to care about and horrible music , " Dopamine " is a good flick to miss . (
Awful	" Soho Square " is a British drama which follows a troubled homicide detective as he sorts through personal issues while working on a serial killer case . An unfortunate piece of work , the only redeeming thing I could find between the credits of this flick was the shorter-than-usual 78 minute run . A choppy mess of poorly lensed and poorly edited scenes with horrible color and music , " Soho Square " seems to be an attempt at art house fare which just went wrong . The story is muddled and confused and sorts itself out only when it's too late to care . Character depth is superficial , nothing scenes are dragged out for no apparent reason , plot holes are everywhere . . . . I could go on . . . and on . However , suffice it to say , this film is not recommendable . I happened to rent it mail order by mistake and only stuck with it because it was in English and I could type these comments while it was running . (
Not worth 15 cents	" Nickle & Dime " is a lame little subpar comedy about an unscrupulous heir tracer ( Howell ) and his unwanted sidekick and CPA ( Shawn ) and their escapades with a couple of babes , some crooks , etc . A poorly written and assembled piece of work barely worth the time which has little to offer save a few laughs and a few poignant moments .
I would like my time refunded , please .	I think the best way to describe " Swimming " is to just call a spade a spade and say it's a waste of time . Yeah , I could pull an Ebert and pretend to climb into the psyches of the characters and type a bunch of subjective personal projection mumbo-jumdo but the fact is we don't know any more about them at the end of the film than we did in the beginning with a few minor exceptions . " Swimming " is a low budget lemon floating in that vast wasteland of lemonade called " broadcast " . Pass on " Swimming " . (
A directorial disaster	" Love Walked In " tells of a piano man ( Leary ) and a beautiful cabaret torch singer ( Sánchez-Gijón ) who work and live together and get caught up in an extortion plot . This floparoo could have been a good B-flick with some decent direction as in lose the stupid parallel substory , get the noir going , blow some smoke into the lounge , back off the lights , warm up the beach with filtration , make ' em sweat , use some angles , recast the PI , blaa , blaa . An unfortunate mess which ends on a sour note and wastes the efforts of a decent cast who desperately needed some good direction . Catch this one on broadcast when you need something to doze off to . You won't be missing much . (
Best men , worst film .	" Best Men " can't seem to make up its mind if it wants to be a comedy or a drama and scrambles both while compromising each only to cap the confusion with some mediocre action . A technically okay production with a decent cast of 2nd tier talent , this film is a directorial disaster with a sloppy make-it-up-as-we-go-along storyline . Character development is not sufficient to allow the audience to summon the emotions the film seems to demand and comedic purpose is lost in quotes from Hamlet and a lot of sappy personal relationship issues .
Flat as stale beer .	" The Foreigner " is a tale of foreign intrigue with Seagal at the center as a deep cover operative who has a package which everyone wants and are willing to kill to get . The flick is uninspired with less of the usual action stuff which put Seagal on the movie map ( fire fights , hand-to-hand combat , pyrotechnics , stunts , etc . ) and more of a story which is convoluted , uninteresting , and full of meaningless filler . What action there is seems token and gratuitous while Seagal , looking more and more like a pork chop , meanders through this insipid flick expressionless and bored while manifesting no improvement in acting ability . Somewhere around " The Glimmer Man " or " Fire Down Below " Seagal flicks took a nose dive and " The Foreigner " is just an continuation of that trend . Nothing here worth watching except for the most die-hard Seagal fans . (
Junk food for couch potatoes	" The Apartment Complex " is a campy comedy full of kookie characters created in lieu of a real story which tells a young psych student ( Lowe ) who takes a job managing an apartment complex and becomes embroiled in a murder mystery . . . um , if you can call it that . This low cal watch contains no suspense , no thrills , no drama , no action , precious few funny moments , a dash of nudity , and almost no romance . " The Apartment Complex " is passable , forgettable junk food for only the most needy couch potatoes .
All RPM . No horsepower .	" Driven " is silly , contrived , poorly written nonsense about racing with more producers than core cast . Not a good racing flick and not a good people flick , " Driven " has little to offer save a lot of high speed racing and some crashes . The people part of the flick is simplistic offering the pretense of depth while leading us to believe auto racers can drive 195 mhp through Chicago with no penalty save a fine . Yeah , right . Silly stuff for the immature male mind .
A messy inconsequential little indie	" Searching for Paradise ' tells of a Gilda ( Pratt ) whose father dies and leaves behind evidence of an extramarital affair which she discovers . Wanting to become a movie industry camera operator , Gilda carries a small camcorder everywhere which doesn't have anything to do with anything . She also falls in like with a young man and then creates a scene in a library when he won't just drop everything and have sex with her . Posing an an Italian journalist , she goes in search of a handsome leading man , ends up cornered by him in his flat where she creates another scene . During the film she periodically has strange visions / dreams about her father . . . etc , blaa , blaa . If this sounds messy it not because I can't write a cogent commentary . It's because this is a mess of a film which doesn't really ever make sense of itself . It's obvious that Gilda has issues but they never crystallize and we're left wondering what the hell is wrong with the lovely and otherwise likable Gilda whose character is superficial at best . " Searching for Paradise " is a novice auteur's teeth cutter which is floating around on the Sundance channel and available on DVD . Bottom line ? If you can't find something better to watch than this turkey , you're not really trying . (
Don't waste your time with this inane nonsense	" The Photographer " is one of those one man indies and it shows . The film is awful drivel . . . a pathetic attempt to piggy-back some dumbassed apocalyptic revelation into a Wizard of Oz'ish kind of thing with a bunch of weird people wandering around NYC looking for lost photos . Hey , you can't go a gallery show with 8x10's , OK ! Jeeesh ! This film sucked and was one huge waste of time .
A directorial failure	In " Red Letters " , Coyote is at the vortex of as a college professor who writes to a female prison inmate and gets more than he bargained for . There are two reasons to watch this flick . . . Kinski is one and Piven the other although it's difficult for their sparks to shine in such a complete directorial disaster . Everything is wrong with " Red Letters " . . . convoluted , lousy screenplay , camera , editing , and most of all acting which is subpar for Coyote , etc . Battersby has taken a story with potential and turned it into a seriously flawed and amateurish flick not worth the time .
A raucous and wacky failure .	" Ready to Rumble " is a wacky comedy about the comeback of a down and out pro wrestler . In spite of an obvious effort on the part of the actors and film makers , " R2R " inspires a only few LOL's and fails to achieve the Rocky-esque thrill of victory it is so obviously aiming for .
Who cares ?	Small college town coed OD's ? ( Why do we care ? ) Acting sheriff investigates the incident . ( Why do we care ? ) The interviews show us the comatose subject ( Kirshner ) as different as the opinions of the subjects being interviewed . ( Why do we care ? ) Result ? A mess of flashbacks in this mess of a movie featuring a handful of one-hit wonders and B-flick divas which begs the question . . . Why do we care ?
Ho-Hum	" New York in the 50's " is a sort of single-minded documentary of narrow appeal and opinion which boils down to a drone of yammering about the experiences of a few ( mostly Dan Wakefield ) , their subjective perceptions and opinions , etc . , does not paint much of a portrait of New York or the 50's or even New York in the 50's , and is sorely lacking in objectivity . In other respects the film is quite ordinary as well . Passable stuff which somehow got a three star rating by Tivo .
It ain't easy being a Skinhead	See the Skinheads party . See the Skinheads beat up Asians . She the Skinheads get beat up by the Asians . See the Skinheads run away . See the Skinheads raid a mansion . See the Skinheads suffer from poor leadership and attrition . See the Skinheads get busted by cops . And so it goes in this shabby film from down under which sticks Crowe out front as the leader of a motley gang of neo-Nazis who are learning that being a Skinhead ain't easy . I found this flick difficult to take seriously because the production was so poor and can't find any reason to recommend it . (
Audience betrayal	" Lady Jayne : Killer " is a bottom of the barrel B-flick from the get go . You only have to scan the roster to see the personnel are a bunch of B-listers and maybe seeing ex-Playmate Eleniak get naked is the most one can hope for . Unfortunately , this lame flick doesn't even deliver a little gratuitous T & A as it limps along though its trite and cliche-ridden story about a beautiful hitwoman , a bunch of money , and a broke mom and son destined for a showdown . Pretty awful stuff not worth the time . (
Lousy	" Press Run " tells of a newspaper publisher ( Bergin ) who's framed for murder . A sub-B whodunnit in which everyone knows whodunnit except the police , " Press Run " is a shabby , amateurish production with more holes in it than a tennis racquet . Forgettable noir-wannabee junk flick not worth the time .
This movie sucks like a Hoover	And I mean that in a bad way . " Happy Campers " is not just another summer camp flick which is about sex and s'mores and sex and food fights and sex and water sports and sex and counselor pranks and sex and Kumbaya , etc . No , this loser is about sex and sex and sex and sex and sex and sex and sex . Not creative and fresh sex stuff but stupid , infantile , and boring sex stuff . " Happy Campers " is a flick only a sexually preoccupied juvenile could love . Another blotch on Swain's resume , files this one under " D " for dog . (
Pass on this puppy	" Four Dogs Playing Poker " is an inept attempt to develop interest in a quintet of lame international art thieves who rip off a valuable statuette , proceed to lose it ( duh ) and then have to retrieve it or risk being whacked by their unhappy objects d'art customer . It is very obvious early on that this film just doesn't have much talent behind the lens as it is even more obvious in what it is trying to do and more obvious still in its failure to do it . One of those awful flicks where some capable actors in need of direction provide more drama by sinking helplessly into a mucked up mess of a movie than they do by delivering the film's story , " For Dogs . . . " is for the dogs . (
A very ordinary , lackluster , and unconvincing rehash	In " Treasure Island " 1999 , Jack Palance follows such notables as Robert Newton , Orson Wells , and Charelton Heston as Long John Silver with this second-rate knock-off of the R . L . Stevenson classic novel . An unfortunate attempt at film making , this version plods along dutifully telling the story without the passion , mystery , and intrigue penned into the pages of the novel . Pretty much a waste of time unable to live up to the precedent set by Disney .
Watch any of the " Scary Movie " series instead	" Cherry Falls " is a poorly conceived bad idea B-flick about a slasher who's is offing virgins at a High School in VA . At least that's the conclusion drawn by the town Sheriff after two confirmed virgins bite the blade compelling said Sheriff to advise the school kids so they can all get laid to avoid being slashed . Um , duh . Apparently trying for black comedy slasher slampoon this loser doesn't work in any genre except " stupid " . Those who feel compelled to see it for whatever reason - like Murphy's early work - should Tivo it and breeze through the dumb parts . Just plain garbage now on broadcast . (
B is for " blows " , " bad " , " bogus " , and " boring " .	" The Invitation " is a B-flick from the get go . Telling a silly story about a man ( Henriksen ) who invites a bunch of friends to his island home only to poison them and hold back the antidote so they'll have some kind of near death experience or life altering epiphany or whatever , " The Invitation " starts off like a B-flick , ends like a B-flick , and everything in between is claptrap B-flick drama with poor performances , an awful story , psychodramatic overtones which don't work , a hidden agenda ploy which is utterly ridiculous , and huge plot holes which aren't even spackled up with titilators . Watch for this one on broadcast . . . . so you can miss it . (
Very ordinary . . . nothing here worth recommending .	" Happy Face Murders " is a below par whodunnit which has little to offer and is very ordinary in almost all respects . Ann-Margaret is not believable as a quirky old woman ; Helgenberger isn't believeable as a tough cop ; the script is sophomoric ; directing abominable ; etc . Unless you're really bored and happen upon it on broadcast , don't waste your time .
More Hollywood romantic comedy flotsam .	" Deal of a Lifetime " almost makes it to second rate . Trying to be a teen " feel good " flick with a message , the film has a few " moments " but nothing to make it worth sitting through . It features Pollak and Rubin in silly roles , a couple of fresh faces with potential , and little else . Very passable .
I've got a proposal for Gale . Get a real job .	" The Proposal " tells of an undercover cop ( Moran ) , somewhere in some city investigating some bad guys who are doing something . . . um , something bad no doubt because they laugh at bad things and look bad . . . that ' s how we know they're bad . Said cop needs a " wife " as an excuse to keep underworld meetings short . Enter Esposito . . . a cop with a desk job who goes undercover , but not under the covers , as the wife . Bottom line ( drum roll , please ) the good guys win . Yea ! A typical lackluster , no-brainer B-movie cop flick with some Maxwell Smart techno-gun thingy thrown in , and an obvious lack of the " juice " required for car crashes / chases , stunts , explosions , sex / nudity . . oh yeah . . . and REHEARSALS . With a very tame R-rating for a couple of shootouts , " The Proposal " ignors the Hollywood maxim " When in doubt , titillate " , fails to deliver anything substantial , and doesn't work well on any level except late night t . v . when the viewer is too tired to care . ( Note - The only place you'll see Esposito's thigh is on the box . And what the hell did they go to Scotland for ? ? Bad weather in Vancouver ? One more piece of advice . When in a shootout , don't hide behind cardboard cartons . Duh .
This flick sucked	If you see Randy Quaid at the top of the bill , you know you're in for a mediocre B-flick at best . " Black Cadillac " is a messy , amateurish , and silly bottom-of-the-barrel film and probably one of Quaid's lesser projects . According to this website , writer / director Murlowski has directed 9 films which all scored 5 or below . So far , " Black Cadillac " is his crowning achievement which exists as just so much clutter on broadcast . If you're really into vehicular stalker flicks watch " Joy Ride " ( 2001 ) or better yet Spielberg's " Duel " ( 1971 ) . Pass on " Black Cadillac " . (
Stupid stuff	" Electra Glide in Blue " is a slow moving B-flick in which Blake plays a desert motorcycle cop who wants to be a homicide detective and becomes embroiled in a murder investigation . A mediocre film at best , " EG in B " features some members of the band Chicago , a whiff of action , some philosophizing , and lots and lots of boring dramatic filler . Not worth the time .
Epic emetic	In " Beyond Borders " we are forced to bear witness to romance between an unlikely pair of international relief workers . Jolie is a married American UN admin type in the UK who neglects her family while Owen is a doctor who goes wherever the wretched , diseased , and starving masses required his services and takes his bad attitude with him . Neither is particularly likeable , something of which the makers of this film are apparently completely unaware . " Beyond Borders " slams us with Razzie quality histrionics in every scene as it clunks its way from beginning to the much too distant end where its dedication to relief workers everywhere is a sad testament to the film makers ' exaggerated sense of import for their abysmal product . ( Note - Owen's slobbery tongue kissing grossed me out .
A typical lackluster not-as-good-as-the-original sequel	Berenger is back in " Sniper 2 " taking on an assassination mission in Eastern Europe unaware that his superiors have a secret agenda . The story is convoluted and messy and the screenplay doesn't help with events unfolding more as afterthoughts than as part of a coherent plan . During the run it's never quite clear who the bad guys are , what their cause is , and , most of all , why we should care . There's a babe in the flick for a heartbeat but no titillation ; some sniper vs sniper action lacking the cat and mouse psychodynamics ; and the usual pyrotechnics , fire fights , and stunts all seem token . Not as good at the original which was Razzie material anyway , this sequel is a minimal watch even for jarheads , action junkies , and Berenger fans . (
Awful .	In " Joe Dirt " , Spade appears to be trying to create a loveable loser folk hero while telling of the character's odyssey-like search for his parents in a radio interview conducted by Dennis Miller . An unfortunate make-it-up-as-you-go junk comedy , " Joe Dirt " is sorely bereft of creativity and humor and wears itself out early on with nary a LOL to be found . Recommended only for die-hard Spade fans . . . if there is such a thing .
Sin sucks !	I've been watching this stupid movie for an hour and boy does it suck ! Rhames just saved a woman from a fate worse than death and she had a hissy because he called her " baby " . That's just an example of one in a long string of stupid moments in this unninspired , unoriginal amateurish junk flick . If it gets better , I'll let you know before posting this comment . Otherwise , just pass on " Sin " . (
Boooooooring !	" Charms for the Easy Life " is a pretty awful low budget Showtime flick about a 1940's North Carolina woman who the film would have us believe is ahead of her time . Rowlands plays protagonist " Charlie Kate " , a midwife , herbalist , and matriarch who preaches feminism , self reliance , and common sense . An unfortunate adaptation , " Charms . . . . " is bland , scripted , stagey , uneventful , and downright boring . Completely predictable with everything right on cue , there's little meat on the bones of this naive chick flick which is not likely to be much appreciated beyond some more mature females . (
Amateruish	" Set It Off " tells of four poor black women who rob banks to get money . A simple minded film with too many flaws to go into here , " Set It Off " just doesn't work . From the outside looking it , it appears as though a good cast was hamstrung by mediocre directing and a really awful screenplay . May have some value for black women into " sister " flicks . ( C )
Dumb !	" Sirens " is all about Delany as is a top corporate exec who sets out to get the cop who shot her ex-husband to death during a routine street incident . The film's premise has merit and even the story has potential . However , the execution is an abomination with huge , gaping plot holes at every juncture . Young asks us to swallow huge portions of nonsense as we see everything from police procedure to human nature malformed to fit an awkward , unbelievable , and amateurish screenplay poorly concealed by a thin varnish of trite Hollywoodistics . From its dumb title to its lame conclusion where small talk is interjected between credits , " Sirens " is a good film to miss . (
Same old stuff . . new location .	" Samia " tells an old story about a teenager who rebels against her family values asserting her demands to be her own person . In the case of " Samia " , the teen is an Algerian girl living with a traditional Muslim family in France . During this short film we get to see Samia sulking , fighting with her brother , sulking , hanging out with friends , sulking , going to the seashore , sulking , refusing to have her hymen examined and , yeah , more sulking . The film shows some traditional and presumably Algerian costuming , dancing , music , meals , etc . in this little indie sorely lacking in story and execution . Pass on Samia . ( Note : The version I Tivo'd had white subtitles with no outline making it very difficult to read the white words on light backgrounds .
Sophomoric sex comedy for the juvenile mind	I could only stomach the first half of " 40 Days . . . " before finally cutting my loses well past the point of diminishing returns . The film is all about a single San Francisco man ( Harnett ) who give up sex for Lent and other reasons . Apparently screenwriter Perez was never in boot camp . Duh ! The film is a good shoot , lively , with okay technicals . However , the short list of flaws is too long for this website . . . the humor is sophomoric and Harnett obviously is not up for romantic comedy at this point in his career . The chemistry between him and main squeeze Sossamon is poor , the Kodak moments don't work , the side characters are stupid cliches , and the film is generally inane and boring and focused on crotch humor . Not recommendable , " 40 Days . . . " is a flick which could only be appreciated by its off-target demographic who are mostly too young for the R rating . (
Utterly boring	If good stories make good movies , you can forget " Margarita Happy Hour " . The flick follows a Brooklyn single mom , Zelda , through one pedestrian activity to another interminably . A sort of slice-of-a-dull-life flick , " MHH " is 95 % girl talk and 5 % plot none of which are likely to be , as movies go , of much interest to anyone . The flick does flesh out some characters well and offers good art and technicals . However , without a story , there's probably too little substance here for anyone save some single moms who can relate and fans of the players . (
Insignificant and marginal comedy	" Lone Star State of Mind " is all about Joshua Jackson's character who spends the whole run trying to return drugs and money to the rightful owners while his girl friend ( King ) is trying to convince him to move from their Podunk , Tx home town to L . A . The film derives its comedy from a hatful of kookie characters who get into silly situations while good old Joshua calmly takes a bullet here and a bullet there without letting it spoil his day . A silly little flick , " Lone Star . . . " may have some appeal to some folks but taken as a whole is a pretty shabby film product with marginal entertainment value at best . (
Amateurish crap	" Lies " tells about an affair between an 18 year old bucktoothed female student and a scrawny 38 year old married man with the pair of protags spending about half the screen time engaged in naked sex and hokey whipping and the other half meandering through the pathetically naive storyline which seems little more than an excuse for the sex scenes . With very poor production value including obvious sanitary appliances and phony softcore sex to a story which is a messy mix of comedy and drama , " Lies " quickly becomes redundant ad nauseam . With an almost 2 hour run , subtitles , and so little substance , " Lies " is simply not recommendable . (
Film directing at its worst .	The auteur of " Prince " manages to take an excellent cast , a decent story , a mediocre script and carefully assemble them into one boring , monotonous , amateurish mess . In spite of a strong central performance by Frank Nasso , the Prince , this disjointed film wanders aimlessly from scene to scene , painfully disintegrating into hash . The result brings a sigh of relief at the end where the tears of joy should be . A sad waste of time and talent and a good example of how NOT to direct a film .
Cheap B-flick	Take a simple-minded story and leave out parts so as to mystify the audience and then plug them in later so we can relish in the revelation . Rent a handful of 2nd tier talent . Drag the shots out because you can't afford to be busy . . . busy costs money . Pump up the atmospherics because they're cheap . Avoid expensive action like blazing fire fights and blow up a cardboard cabin instead . And , voila ! You have " Backflash " , a cheap B-movie set in the BFAZ desert which tells of a video store owner , a babe , and a bunch of mob heavies all trying to get their mits on some ill-gotten dinero . This no brainer explains everything with flashbacks so it would make an ideal soporific for the weary couch potato . (
Like belly dancing ? ?	Well , you'd better if you plan on sitting through this amateurish , bland , and pokey flick about a middle-aged widowed mom who has a little more in common with her young adult or old teen daughter than she would like . Set in Tunis , mom piddles around the flat , gets antsy , and decides , albeit reluctantly ( she just can't help herself ) , to don the costume and dance in a local cabaret . Meanwhile her daughter is taking dancing lessons . The common denominator is a Tunisian band drummer . This film is so full of filler I watched the DVD at x2 and read the subtitles , fast forwarding through much of the very ordinary dancing and loooong shots of walking ( they walk everywhere ) and more walking and just plain dawdling at x4 just to get though this boring , uneventful , low budget flick which some how garnered some pretty good critical plaudits . Go figure . (
Quantity over quality and a giant step back for Carrey .	" Me , Myself , and Irene " is a lame road trip comedy with Carrey and Zellweger wandering into one silly situation after another . The film fails as a romantic comedy , relies heavily on crass shock humor , is devoid of sophistication , has a paper thin make-it-up-as-you-go-along plot , lacks cohesion , runs 30 minutes too long , wears itself out , and makes Carrey's performance look like a bad impression of a young Jerry Lewis . In short , the flick is very passable and will play best with young audiences . Not for the jaded .
A contrived , over-acted mess .	" A Promise to Carolyn " tells of the investigation of two middle aged women into the death of their little sister 30 + years earlier . A contrived mess fraught with herky-jerky flashbacking , over-acting , and poor technical consulting in hypnosis , law , forensics , etc . , this flick is an obvious fabrication with one purpose ; to jerk the audience around emotionally . Should be most appreciated by soaps junkies . At this writing the IMDB user rating of 7 . 8 computed from 37 votes is grossly distorted by 16 votes , almost half , giving this mediocre film a maximum score of 10 with no semblance of a Gaussian distribution .
Perhaps Altman's greatest . . . . dud .	Gere makes an appropriate centerpiece for this shallow and trite comedy about an OB / GYN and the many women in his life . The plotless film touches on all things female from birth to menopause to marriage to lesbianism . . . etc . Unfortunately its all-star female cast is reduced to playing silly , prattling , snoopy , ditzy , shallow , vain , self absorbed , neurotic stereotypes while the film meanders with no apparent purpose through a seemingly endless 2 hour run time . One can only wonder what the hell was Altman thinking when he made this dud . PU !
For the unsophisticated sense of humor	" The Sweetest Thing " is all about Diaz , Applegate , and Blair , in that order . A contempo chick flick about . . . um , well , nothing really though it does try to get into a romantic comedy state of genre at the end , " TST " is packed with wall-to-wall nonsense , simple-minded crotch humor , and raunch . I do have to admit to LOL'ing once at the motorcycle thing and the whole " Pina Colada " girl thing was cute . Not for the jaded , " The Sweetest Thing " has eye candy for the dudes and lots of silly girl stuff for the less than sophisticated chicks . (
Misuse of star power with luke warm results .	I sat through " Boy's Don't Cry " wholly involved emotionally , empathizing with the characters , feeling the horror , indignation , etc . On the other hand , I sat through " The Laramie Project " asking myself , " Who's that actor . . . oh , yeah , that's the guy from ' Happiness ' " or " Jeeez , Garafolo's looking older " . . . . etc . Bottom line ; this film may have a noble purpose but it is entirely less efficacious than a drama or a real documentary . " TLP " is a misfire .
Tacky melodrama .	" Everybody's All American " tells of a college football hero's trek through life . This film is fraught with over-acting , terrible southern accents , obvious ploys to push viewer's emotional buttons , and a wandering story lacking in cohesion and integrity . . . to name but a few of the many flaws . A directorial disaster . Pass on this dog . . . or punt .
An undisputed dud	" Undisputed " is a slick flick about a world champ boxer ( Rhames ) , an obvious Tyson knock-off , and a prison champion boxer ( Snipes ) who get together to find out who can kick whose butt is the slammer . This glossy flop features 2-D characters we couldn't care less about and unvarnished filler to shore up the weak plot . Who wins ? Who cares . All sizzle , no steak , this one's best saved for a slow night on cable . ( Note - Boxing fans should pass on this film and stick with the real deal . 100 " Undisputeds " don't equal one Ward-Gatti .
Seagal reaches new low	Seagal reaches a new low in " Out of Reach " in which he plays a guy with a past ( we don't know what exactly ) who hangs out in a forest and looks for injured animals so he can heal them while communing with nature . He also corresponds via snail mail with a young girl in a Polish orphanage . When she is sold into slavery , Seagal has to travel to Poland where , of course , he gets to hang out with a babe , shoot it out with a bunch of heavies , and do some hokey martial arts stuff as well as try to act and conceal his big , fat gut . A sorry attempt at film making , " Out of Reach " has too many deficits to list here . Suffice it to say this B-flick is probably not worth your time and will probably be the last Seagal flick I'll be watching . (
More corn than Nebraska	In " Hear On Earth " , Sobieski is a small town girl who's been with Harnett forever . Enter Klien , a spoiled rich kid with a bad attitude who burns down her family's restaurant in a chicken race , and Sobieski falls head over heels in love with him because ( a ) she sees him naked to the waist and sweaty and ( b ) they like the same poem . Duh . If you sucked the Kodak moments out of this poorly written sophomoric claptrap , you'd be left with a poorly acted thin story which is completely predictable , obvious , and wreaking . Don't waste your time .
Losers	A low budget B-flick out of Canada , " Posers " introduces us to an unlikely posse of four single female clubbers who beat a woman to death in the ladies room of a nightclub . What follows is nonstop nonsense which spends most of its time trying to build a murder mystery around the ditzy gaggle of poorly developed characters who come off like old " Mall Rats " or " Valley Girls " . Failing in everything from cinematography to screenplay with a script which is punched up with lots of contempo buzz word banter , " Posers " is in fact , a poser of a film ; shallow , affected , and phony . Best saved for the small screen where , if it doesn't show up , it won't be missed . (
Potential lost in a morass of vulgar nonsense	Four best friends young male chauvinist pigs ( with the emphasis on pigs ) meet weekly at a NYC diner to recount their dating sexploits in this misanthropic and visceral comedy . Peet is the common denominator who dates the three bachelors in the group which leads to conflict and the inevitable " whipping " . Although the film's premise has potential and there are some funny moments to be had , overall the flick doesn't work especially in the end where the girls are made to appear no better than the guys which runs contrary to the crux of the story . One of those one-man band flix with a dozen producers , " Whipped " is likely to be enjoyed only by the kind of young males who think " The Man Show " is Emmy material .
Lame	" Tokyo Eyes " tells of a 17 year old Japanese girl who falls in like with a man being hunted by her big bro who is a cop . This lame flick is about 50 % filler and 50 % talk , talk , and more talk . You'll get to see the less than stellar cast of three as they talk on the bus , talk and play video games , talk and get a haircut , talk and walk and walk and talk , talk on cell phones , hang out and talk , etc . as you read subtitles waiting for something to happen . The thin wisp of a story is not sufficient to support a film with low end production value , a meager cast , and no action , no romance , no sex or nudity , no heavy drama . . . just incessant yadayadayada'ing . (
Amateurish nonsense	" Kissed " takes on the daunting issue of necrophilia as it focuses on Sandra ( Parker ) , a necrophiliac who has sex with the dead people in the funeral home where she's employed . If whack job Sandra isn't enough on our plate , the neophytes behind this film serve up an even more whacked out head case in a med student love interest who has similar aberrant psychic proclivities . In an obvious effort to make the disgusting , illegal , and immoral practice of necrophilia ( which is never really shown ) palatable , the film goes off into a sort of transcendental lalaland where it's kinda / sorta okay to have sex with dead people as long as you respect them in the morning . The result is a bunch of hokum which is difficult to swallow and a cowardly , illusory attempt to illuminate a taboo subject . Combine that huge deficit with the film's obvious indieness and you have a movie which is probably not worth your while . (
PPPPPPPPPPPPPPPPUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUUU ! !	" The Wedding Planner " is an amateurish and perfectly awful series of contrived situations in which Lopez looks awkward and is upstaged by the more beautiful , poorly cast Nicholson while McConaughey is just his usual one dimensional , zero-depth self . Nothing works in the flick from the stupid statue scene to the ridiculous tango scene to the terrible horse scene to the horrible Italian accents , etc . . . . one clumsy or rigged or sappy or obvious or sophomoric scene after another with lousy continuity and flow resulting in a more revolting than engaging watch . If you have to see this dog , wait for tv . It's bound to die a slow and agonizing death on the cable for years to come .
Boooooooooooooooring !	" Final " tells of an institutionalized man ( Leary ) and his psychiatrist ( Davis ) who sort through his confused mental state only to find the aberrations are more outside his mind than in it . An unfortunate film with much unrealized potential , " Final " starts slow , builds slow , and then fizzles . What could have been a darkish psychodrama or a gleaming love story becomes , in the " Final " analysis , little more than excessive tedium in spite of the best efforts of two well cast actors . Recommended only as a last resort for the bored channel surfer or fans of the players . (
Booray for Bollywood	" Bollywood Bound " will show you some East Indian young adult wanabees who want to make it in Bollywood films . You'll see them waiting around , being interviewed , walking and talking , eating a burger . . . . um , not much else . Pretty boring stuff . (
Perfectly awful	" Leila " is so awful it's painful to watch . The DVD I rented had all the zits and dust of the original film . The video was contrasty and grainy as if the film was " pushed " for speed as most indoor scenes were poorly lighted like a really bad noir . The color was off , the English subtitles were poor translations and blurry , the sound was awful and the voices on the " other end " of the phone conversations sounded like they were standing next to the person on screen , etc . The story was simple and didn't have to be any more than 1 . 3 hours but the film ran for a boring almost two hours owing to dawdling and filler . The plot was a no brainer which is blown way beyond any common sense with characters who are so stupid they do things like have a " fast of speech " which seemed like a euphemism for " not talking because I'm upset " which , of course , would create relationship problems and does which is why it's factored into this stupid film . Etc . Etc . I could go on . Long story short , don't waste you time on this awful film . If you're into Iranian , there are many better flicks out there from Iran . ( D )
Messy , clumsy , convoluted , and weak .	The film " Simpatico " tells its marginally interesting story through a succession of annoying flashbacks and unlikely present-day events . Character development is sufficient to make us realize that we don't much care about what happens to the characters and the drama unfolds like so much chaff from the cutting room floor pieced together in a futile attempt to whet audience interest . " Simpatico " is a poor showcase for some fine actors .
Lame little time waster	" Blood and Concrete " is a lame little low budget comedy about a small time hoodlum ( Zane ) who hooks up with a neurotic babe ( Beals ) and then learns they have something more in common than mutual admiration . . . specifically a drug called " Libido " . Playing out like something contrived by a bunch of drunken college students , this flick invents wacky characters and then has them pop up as necessary to sustain it as it dogs its way through its meager plot . Although the film does have a few funny moments and a hint of a creative edge , it is a sub-B flick which wears out early on and most will not find it worth the time .
Don't call me . I'll call you .	" Call Me " is all about Anna ( Charbonneau ) who is smart enough to be a NYC newspaper columnist but not smart enough to hang up on an obscene phone caller . A lame B-flick which smacks of indieness and amateurish autuersmanship features a mediocre performance by Charbonneau , Strathrain for a heartbeat , Buscemi in a bit part , poor production value , and a hokey script / screenplay . Just more flotsam bobbing on broadcast . (
The usual broadcast tv miniseries stuff .	Dumbed-down and sanitized for commercial television , " The Deliberate Stranger " turns the sensational story of infamous serial killer Ted Bundy into a very ordinary miniseries . With a run time of 185 minutes , this flick makes for a very long and boring watch . Note - The version I watched on cable had no closed captioning .
Disappointing	I've been looking forward to watching " Wirey Spindell " since having happened across Schaffer's " Fall " . Unfortunately , I found " WS " to be a wandering , unengaging , boring bunch of claptrap pieced together with , what apparently is Schaeffer's signature , a mix of story , narration , and poetry . The film recounts the sexual and other experiences of a Manhattan man about to be married through self-narrated flashbacks . Like beads on a string , Schaffer apparently has strung together every little sexual life experience , while neglecting to tend to the beauty of the necklace . The result is a disjointed rambling story about a boy growing up which fails to engender empathy and leaves the viewer disconnected , unsatisfied , and with a bad after taste which taints the mechanical feel-good ending . A mediocre indie and a step backward for Schaeffer .
Wrestlers are people too .	" Beyond the Mat " takes a superficial behind-the-scenes look at professional wrestling with a disappointing conglomeration of the spectacle and the performers and few hard facts . The film gets schmaltzy over the big guys as it shows their human side which we could all pretty much guess anyway . . . the good and the bad . What it doesn't show is ring death stats , injury stats , CT scans and medical reports ( except for some knee x-rays ) , wrestling politics , corruption and payoffs , drug abuse ( except one bit on coke ) , insurance issues , contract fine print and exploitation , the ex-wrestler paraplegic or homeless person , sex with groupies , and all the stuff one would expect of an expose or investigative report . What we do learn is Blaustein really likes wrestling and it shows in his this one-sided perspective . Fodder for WWF fans and the like . ( C )
Hoo-ah hooey	" Basic " tells a story about the investigation of murders during an Army jungle training exercise which uncovers layer upon layer of intrigue much of it via flashback . The film offers a good cast under the crop of a good director and manages to build some charisma in its cavalier DEA agent protag ( Travolta ) . That's the upside of this critically panned turkey which sinks into a mire of convoluted nonsense so messy you'll need Cliff notes to connect the dots . The downside is everything else from a story only a " grunt " could love to the absence of everything a " grunt " would like to see such as romance , fragfests , stunts galore , T & A / sex / nudity , and all those macho titillators which spackle the gaping plot holes in B-movie dramas . Passable and forgettable . (
Earnest tv flick about an American who lived to die for Vietnam	" Bright Shining Lie " is a tv miniseries bio-docu-drama novel knock-off which tells of the exploits and adventures of an idealistic , single-minded maverick U . S . Army officer and curious mix of saint and sinner , John Paul Vann ( Paxton ) , who lived for the war which eventually killed him . An earnest journeyman production , this 70 % drama and 30 % action flick gives a reasonably realistic , non-exploitive overview of the messy Vietnam war , its futility and its failures . Worth a look for those interested in the history of the Vietnam war .
Saw it all on CNN .	" Osama " tells of a fatherless pubescent Afghan girl who has her hair cut so she can impersonate a boy and help her mother get around by acting as the male escort required by the oppressive Taliban regime . Like so many third world films , " Osama " is a slow moving and laconic film with low end production value which , when compared with major films of today , doesn't measure up . On the other hand , " Osama " is a good first outing and helps illuminate yet another wretched dark corner of the world for those who may have missed the many documentaries about Afghanistan of the past few years . Will play best with foreign film buffs . Keep expectations real . (
Brain fart	" Desert Blue " , the nickname of a central character , tells of a handful of young adults in a ramshackle desert town who have too much time and too little to do with it . The film is long on talent but so short on story one can only wonder how it ever got into production much less distribution . Slow , monotonous , boring , and dumb , " Desert Blue " is one of those B-flicks which one watches with detachment always cognizant of the fact the characters are actors going through the motions required for their paycheck . For fans only . ( C )
Peculiar . . . . in a bad way .	Imagine dining at a four star restaurant with wonderful ambiance , service , linen and dinnerware ; great wine ; a superb salad ; and exquisite dessert but a totally botched and messy entree which you can't even identify . Well , that's " The Adjuster " . An excellent film technically and artistically but a mess of a story which leads to an unsatisfying and eventually boring watch . Peculiar for the sake of peculiar a good film does not make .
A big little chutney-flavored film .	" Chutney Popcorn " is a warmhearted , earnest , sincere story with a subtle sense-of-humor . With all the ear marks of a low budget independent film , this flick moves with serenity and honesty through the lives of some New York City dwellers including a surrogate mother , some Indian-Americans , some lesbians , and some others . Not for the mindless masses , this flick will play best with those who appreciate brave independent films .
Far from perfekt	" American Perfekt " is a lukewarm psychodrama which spends its run time on a four travelers of questionable character bound by circumstance and highway in an arid Nevada desert . A slow starter , the film requires a whole lot of faith to get into and a broad attention span to stick with . However , for viewers who can suspend disbelief at the drop of a body part , " American Perfekt " may prove captivating . An okay no-brainer now on cable . ( C )
Long on style . Short on everything else .	" Spider's Web " tells a convoluted tale of deceit , murder , and other treachery with a woman exec ( Wuhrer ) who falls in love with the son ( Baldwin ) of the wealthy tycoon for whom she works and the sets about to embezzle $40 mil and abscond with the son . . . blaa , blaa . At issues is ; who's scamming who ? The film plays out like a paperback crime novel on film trading character depth and a solid story for some cheap sex and a showy veneer . Mediocre stuff best saved for cable which may be of some interest to fans of the principals or couch potatoes who can overlook the countless plotholes . ( C )
A confused mess of a movie .	" 3 a . m . " shuttles between a half dozen characters having to do with a struggling NYC cab company and a diner frequented by some of the drivers during the reign of terror of a cabby killer . A confused and unsatisfying watch , " 3 a . m . " is a jambalaya of people and circumstances which , for the most part , are uninteresting , poorly developed , and lacking in cohesion . Pass on this one .
Lame	" The Big Empty " is not only the title of this movie , it's also an apt description of it . Telling of a struggling actor who runs an errand to a desert town in California for some paranormal weirdo only to become embroiled in a bunch of nonsense which goes no where , this lame comedy is packed with some quality acting talent from the B-list and little else . Cost cutting is evident everywhere and the novelty in this quirkfest's screenplay wears thin at the mid-point only to sink into oblivion as the end draws near . Not worth the price of a DVD rental this darkish comedy with sci-fi overtones is best saved for broadcast where it will be in the company of its kindred . ( C )
Loses something in the translation	' Friend " is a very Korean film about four best friend boys who grow up in Pusan ( circa 1970ish ) but take different paths through life . An artistically and technically good treatment of an old theme , this film is a slow moving drama which buries itself in typically Asian melodramatic style in angst and woe over issues of loyalty , friendship , betrayal , honor , etc . " Friend " eventually becomes a bit of a mess spending too much time on long shots during which we're supposed to relish in the sentiment of the moment while dedicating too little time to explaining exactly what these gangster guys do beside talking tough and trying to look cool . One gets the impression being a gangster in South Korea is quite like any other occupation and there are probably ads for gangsters in the career ops section of the local newspaper . This film is made for and was a big hit with Korean audiences . It does not , however , make it well across the East / West divide . A subtitled watch for young adult males into Eastern films . (
Okay action B-flick with some personality	" Acts of Betrayal " , a typical B action flick , tells of a macho FBI agent ( McColm ) who spends the entire film killing bad guys as he protects a federal witness ( Alonso ) from a small army of hitmen . The film has little going for it but does manage some par or better firefights and a kinda-sorta fun relationship between the stalwart and silent agent and the always jabbering , ever sassy Alonso character . For action junkies only .
A mediocre history lesson	" Benedict Arnold " is a typical made-for-tv historical melodrama about a small portion of the life of the American Revolutionary War General whose name has become synonymous with " traitor " . This A & E production takes a squinty look at the man's life , showing only the most historically significant portions which flank his defection to the British loyalists . The film shows spit and polish costuming where no such luxury was available while portraying Arnold as a man of poetic eloquence when he was more well known to be profane if not drunk or both . Etc . Etc . Melodramatic for entertainment value while taking liberties with history and providing only a piecemeal bio of the man , this film is marginal at best . Better entertainment is easy to find and there's plenty of solid historical info on B . A . right here on the Internet . (
Good but over touted	" Time of Favor " seems to be an earnest attempt to tell a somewhat mundane tale , as films go , of a religious military man who has to weigh matters of faith with conscience , love with duty , sacrifice with fulfillment , etc . - nothing particularly new . The film comes off like a low budget indie with obvious cost cutting throughout and muddles the core issues with too much busy work . Somewhat esoteric , Israelis would better empathize with the circumstances and probably glean more from the cultural subtleties . A gentile who's never been to Israel , I found the film to be marginally interesting , minimally entertaining , and anticlimactic . ( C ) Note - The cover of the DVD I rented bore a quote from the Village Voice calling this film " exotic " . . . " erotic " . . . . " highly atmospheric " . I wonder if they saw the same movie . The one I watched was only exotic because it was a foreign film from Israel , had no sex ( one kiss ) , and the atmospherics were ordinary at best . Moral - beware the box cover B . S .
An action / comedy no-brainer for audiences with no brains .	" Made Men " is the kind of flick where the shoot-outs expend more ammunition than the shooters could carry . It's the kind of flick where an auto gas tank explodes like a case of dynamite , not 10 gallons of gasoline . It's the kind of flick where a Brit plays a red-neck sheriff with both accents prevalent in his speech . It's the kind of flick where a guy pulls a gun which hasn't been fired and there's smoke coming from the muzzle . It's the kind of flick you'll want to miss unless you're 14 and male .
More dismal , dreary stuff about Ireland	" The Boxer " tells of a man ( Day-Lewis ) who returns to Belfast following a 14 year prison sentence for IRA misdeeds and sets about opening a community boxing gym while renewing an acquaintance with the woman he loved before being sent to prison . The film offers solid performances in a doggedly plodding and somewhat unsatisfying story which lacks cohesion and seems to come off like just more woebegone sniveling over the age old Irish rift . A good watch for those with the stomach for yet another flick about people caught up in Irish issues .
Repli-this !	In " Repli-Kate " , a college microbiologist clones a beautiful woman , takes her home , and teaches her to be the stereotypical male's ideal : A woman who is a slob , chugs brewskis , burps , curses , gobbles pizza like a pig , wants sex all the time , etc . A surprisingly enjoyable but unsophisticated little comedy romp with babe-alicious Landry as both the clone and the clonee , " Repli-Kate " will likely appeal most to the college crowd . (
A fun flick about honesty and the dating game .	" Nice Guys . . . " tells of a 30-something male school teacher who is frustrated with dating because he follows the rules and always strikes out . Well , almost always . This little " sleeper " offers a fresh , honest , and amusing look at the foibles of first dates , doesn't try to out do itself , and knows when to quit . No blockbuster but an enjoyable watch worth renting .
Scores a touchdown but no extra points .	" The Replacements " are a motley bunch of misfits and pro-football scabs who manage to create some funny moments on and off the grid-iron . Hackman is always good and Reeves works in his not too challenging center stage role . The film treads with minimal success into romance , can't quite conjure up the goose bumps the climax aims for , and doesn't work in the philosophical with it's clichés about winners and losers . However , the comedy does work in a big way on the field . A fun watch for football fans .
A pretentious , pseudointellectual mediocre indie .	" Henry Fool " tells of a stoic young garbage man who is encouraged to write poetry by a transient dilettante , Henry Fool . The story has little substance and , with the exception of the principals , is cluttered with sundry characters who serve no useful purpose and whom were not made to care about anyway . The plot is simpleminded and the story not particularly entertaining . There are no underlying morals of any significance and the end is a meaningless truncation . There is little art value in the film which pretentiously takes itself much too seriously . Watching this flick is like waiting for the other shoe to drop for 2 . 5 hours only to find out it was a one legged film . I'm not sure who would appreciate this flick . College students or indie freaks maybe .
Could have been better .	" Not Just Another Teen Movie " is another in a string of slampoons which takes on the teen romantic comedy genre with a kaleidoscope of characters , situations , and scenes borrowed from a host of past teen flicks . A raunchy , vulgar , irreverent morass of exaggerations which tries to maintain story continuity , this flick has its moments but burns out prematurely lacking the creative fuel to keep the laughs coming . An okay watch for those into grosser than gross humor but a turn-off for all others .
Sitcom quality full length feature	On cable as " Strange Relations " , this romantic comedy with light drama tells of an adopted well to do NYC psychiatrist ( Reiser ) with cancer who goes to the UK in search of his birth mother and marrow doners and gets more than he expected . Reiser delivers a marginal sitcom level performance at the center of this flick while being upstaged by the more talented host of costars who give much better performances even though their characters have obviously been tweaked for quirkiness . " Strange Relations " manages some humor , some fabricated poignant moments , and some fluff . . . . did we really need a guided tour of Liverpool complete with yellow submarine ? ? Passable stuff for hardcore cinema aficionados but okay fodder for sitcom junkies .
Pooparazzi	" Paparazzi " tells of a rising action movie star who suddenly becomes aware of guys which cameras who chase him around because he's a celeb . They chase him in cars so he has to drive like a maniac and then stop in the middle of an intersection and almost gets killed . ( Sound familiar ? ) They are , in fact , so evil they will stop at nothing to get their photos thereby forcing our hero , who just can't seem to figure out how to live with the paparazzi , to start off'ing them one by one to buy himself and his family some peace of mind . Make sense ? Kill photographers so you can have peace of mind , right ? This unfortunate waste of time was seriously slammed by the critics and not very well received by the public at large . A B-flick at best , " Paparazzi " is one to pass by or save for a free TV watch . ( C )
A journeyman chick-flick with a Latin heart and flavor .	" Luminarias " tells of four middle-aged , middle class Latina best friends , Mexican-American women , who meet at the title restaurant in L . A . periodically for conversation . Andrea ( Frenandez ) , a lawyer , is the centerpiece of this slice-of-latin-life flick and also the playwright . A mediocre film as films go , " Luminarias " deals with issues of family , ethnicity , romance , and more as it wanders around the genres from sitcom-like comedy to more serious drama , uncertain of its purpose but unabashedly delivering heartfelt entertainment regardless . Should appeal most to Mex-Am females . CNote - If we can trust the IMDB . com stats , this is a real love it or hate it flick with over scoring it a 1 and over giving it a 10 and everyone else scattered in between .
Precious little " docu " in this docudrama	It would seem that the creators of " Jack the Ripper 1988 " decided to capitalize on the enduring " Ripper " mystery , build a miniseries very loosely around some of the " Ripper " case facts , introduce their own characters and facts so as to make the protracted 3 . 5 hour watch endurable , and then peddled it to the public on commercial television with the usual musical crescendo , cliff-hanger punchline , and fade-to-black every 15 minutes or so . The result is a tedious , staged , theatrical , and not particularly interesting or entertaining film which has much less to do with " Jack the Ripper " history than it does with trying to make a buck off the small screeners . Only for those into " Ripper " stuff who are up for a long watch .
Tedium ad nauseam	" Invincible " slogs through a 2 hour fable-of-sorts as it tells of a rural Jewish blacksmith ( Ahola ) who takes up with a theater troupe as a strongman and finds himself embroiled in a variety of Nazi-Jew issues ( Circa 1932 ) . There's little to recommend in this theatrical , obvious , and poorly assembled film save a nice try by Roth as a mercurial clairvoyant which fails because he's surrounded by such travesty . Ahola's performance is petrified wooden and the film doesn't manage to conjure any kind of emotion or intrigue as it yada-yada-yadas it way tediously though a slew of nonsense including dream sequences , a romance which never materializes , time wasting musical productions , etc . Recommended only for the most serious Herzog fans . Yuck . ( C )
Another cops vs hitman ho-hummer	" Desert Saints " is an oddly titled and obviously contrived journeyman drama which tells the tale of a hit man ( Sutherland ) and a female accomplice of questionable allegiance ( Walters ) . The film has all the ear marks of a low budget tv-direct flick with the usual plot holes , staginess , and obvious scripting . Don't expect much action , pyrotechnics , chases , firefights , stunts , sex , nudity , romance from this mediocre drama with an awful ending . An okay watch for the hard up couch potato but little more .
Ordinary unimaginative fluff from an over worked genre .	The makers of " Forces of Nature " wisely cast Affleck and Bullock in roles which don't require acting and then kept the spotlight on them so they wouldn't be upstaged by a supporting cast with some talent . This ho-hummer is just another mediocre romantic comedy which may have a few moments for die-hard couch potatoes who are easily entertained .
A colossal mess of a movie .	The up side of " The Cell " is good casting , special effects , acting , etc . The downside of this masterpiece of surreal cinematic junk food is the story which is no more than another trite serial killer drama with a sci-fi twist which comes off like an excuse , not a reason , for special effects . The film may find a market among viewers who can get past the ridiculous premise and plot . Others will regard this as another sad waste of excellent talent on a flick which is a schizophrenic as it's villain .
What a waste .	" 3000 Miles to Graceland " is a testosterone drenched junk flick with story which doesn't work , numbing excesses of mindless action , and a huge waste of star power and budget bucks . Deserving of the numerous Razzie nominations it garnered , this is one for the dumpster . Nuff said .
A shallow time wasting wannabe	" Gangster No . 1 " , a B-movie quality Brit crime flick , spends its first boring hour telling of the rise of a street punk to top mob boss ( Bettnay / McDowell ) before anything interesting happens . Then is suddenly goes into a frenetic mess of infantile nonsense in the guise of drama with dumb effects and overacting to balance its lack of substance before finally burning itself out . The story in shallow and full of holes , the characters aren't even remotely interesting , and the auteur gives us no reason to care . Passable junk with the usual Britflick washed out color and low budget feel not worth the time for other than crime flick junkies . ( C )
For maximum enjoyment , turn off brain before viewing	Flawed on all levels , " One Way Out " plays out with the look and feel of a low budget t . v . drama . Belushi is at the center as a homicide detective with gambling debts who finds himself on the wrong end of a murder investigation . With pervasive mediocrity , the tortuous plot is the only reason to spend time with this flick and it is so full of plot holes as to require a sort of viewer numbness to be all it can be which little more than is a nice little time waster . For couch potatoes only .
A waste of time	" A Handful of Dust " is a period film ( circa 1935 approx ) which tells of a woman ( K Scott Thomas ) who becomes restless rattling around in a huge English mansion with her family and servants and decides to take a flat in London for he purposes of a liaison with a handsome young man of dubious character . Her affair results in an upheaval which sees her husband going off on an Amazon expedition while she stays and frets about her divorce settlement . The film doesn't end so much as it just quits with many dangling loose ends . There are no highs or lows of emotions in this very well crafted bit of nothingness and the story is so bland and uneventful there's little reason to recommend it . A knock-off of a story by Evelyn Waugh who penned the wonderful " Brideshead Revisited " , this film seems to have needed much more time to tell its abruptly truncated tale . Passable with no CC or subtitles on the DVD I watched . (
On the edge of what ?	" On the Edge " is a somewhat flat flick which focuses on a suicidal young man and woman who meet in a mental institution and discover that living and loving may be their most difficult option . The film offers good performances , a solid premise , and little else . An okay Irish flick with unrealized potential for couch potatoes into drama . ( C )
A marginally funny spoof about an undercover DEA agent	Neeson is a top undercover DEA agent suffering from loss of confidence and flatulence . In this nominal comedy , he is caught in a crossfire between a Colombian cartel , an Italian Mafia , and DEA corruption . Can his gastroenterologist's beautiful assistant ( Bullock ) bail him out ? That's the question the film sets up and then answers with lots of tongue-in-cheek humor . Neeson , Platt , and Bullock manage to shore up this marginally funny flick and make it worth watching . Barely .
A thriller with no thrills .	" The Minus Man " follows the rather boring activities of Vann ( Wilson ) , a young man who drives into town , settles in a rented room , becomes a postal worker , and apparently kills people . The film gives insights into Vann's off-beat thinking with over-dubs and annoying vignettes which are fantasies or remembrances or whatever . The story doesn't build , it meanders and Vann is so uninteresting that , well , the film is uninteresting too . Monotonous , boring , passable .
Typical sequel ripoff	" Anatomie 2 " is a typical sequel which attempts to capitalize on the inertia of the popular first edition while not delivering the star power , creative juice , atmospherics or substance . This flick tells of a young medical prodigy ( Metschurat ) who falls in with a secret society of doctors who experiment with human bionics . Eminently predictable , less than horrific , with a meager human story , a mechanical and rote execution , and only a token appearance by rising star Potente , " Anatomie 2 " pales next to it's predecessor . See " Anatomie " first and don't expect much out of the sequel . (
WWII chick flick	Blanchette turns in a solid performance as the title character of a not-so-solid WWII drama about a British woman who volunteers to work with the French resistance hoping to find her lover who was shot down over France . A kind of lyrical telling of a gritty story , this bland film tries to squeeze too much into the run time leaving a feeling of shallowness and superficiality , lacks the passion and suspense of the subject , and plays out much like a soap opera . Nonetheless , there's beauty to be found and enough emoting going on to give " Charlotte Gray " some appeal . Most likely to be enjoyed by females old enough to know something about WWII .
A surprisingly enjoyable little " sleeper " .	After such a long string of so-called romantic comedy junk flicks made for the college crowd , " Loser " is a surprisingly enjoyable little film about a very square college newbie's triumph over the cool crowd . Though the film is obvious and predictable it doesn't pander to the audience with gratuitous sex , booze , and banality and manages a sort of real sense of itself while keeping moving so the run time passes quickly . The film is also has numerous bit parts played by comics . No biggie but better than most of this ilk .
Mediocre stuff for the less than mature audience	" Entropy " is a principle of thermodynamics which has to do with the ever increasing randomness of the universe . It's also a mediocre cult-type flick which Dorff self-narrates in real time and in flashback as it tells about the increasing chaos in his life . A no nonsense , fast moving , get-to-the-point tongue-in-cheek drama , Dorff plays a film director who falls in love , begins to get his career on track , and then , through a series of bad decisions , slowly loses it all . This off-beat flick leaves the audience with one all important question unanswered . Why do we care ?
Bland , obvious , and lacking in chemistry and personality .	Not unlike a simple-minded Nancy Drew , McGillis plays a nosey but reluctant witness to Nazi war criminal underground railroad skullduggery who foils countless bad guys while falling in like with an FBI agent ( Daniels ) who doesn't carry a gun because they're too heavy . Yeah , right . Good old fashioned melodrama , " The House on Carroll Street " is a stagey , obvious , scripted , stiff , and sanitized for your protection . Recommended for viewers who prefer melodrama over reality .
Fire cop or fire bug ?	" Point of Origin " takes the viewer into the life of a workaholic top Los Angeles arson investigator ( Liotta ) who is married with children , having some extracurricular activity on the side , writing a book , and investigating a serial arson case . Jeesh , talk about burning the candle at both ends ! On the upside , this HBO product has a promising plot with some twisty-turny stuff . However , pinched at the end , fraught with plot holes , and cluttered with surreal visual effects , " Point of Origin " is likely to ignite little interest beyond that of the wayward channel surfer .
The " 100 Mile Rule " doesn't .	" 100 Mile Rule " is a comedy about three Detroit salesmen on business travel who become embroiled in scheming and scamming in L . A . This journeyman little low budget B-flick is a nominal no brainer watch for anyone interested in the something to chill to . Just keep expectations low and don't expect any LOL's . Lightweight entertainment for the male sofa spud sans tit-illators . (
Weak and flawed	" The Fall " , a technically and artistically okay flick filmed in Budapest , tells of a frustrated American writer ( Scheffer ) who finds himself involved in drama and intrigue when his flat is invaded by a beautiful woman on the run ( de Fougerolles ) . A flawed screenplay with a thin story which doggedly wrestles with its own flimsy plot , " The Fall " makes for the kind of monotonous watch which is most likely to be enjoyed on late night tv when the picking is slim .
Unadulterared crap	" Unadulterated " as in not made for adults , " Butterfly Effect " offers some marginal performances in a silly make-it-up-as-you-go story which seems to be little more than an excuse to serve up huge helpings of gratuitous garbage for titillation of the those young people Hollywood just loves to rip off . You'll see a pedophilia , animal cruelty , sex , nudity , frat hazing , car trashing , prison fights , insane ravings , countless excuses to use the ever popular " F " word , and much , much more cinematic junk food designed to separate the old teen and young adult audience from the price of admission as this sensationalistic crap-filled flick wanders through the deranged mind of the central character ( Kutcher ) . Scorned by the critics but hailed by young males , " Butterfly Effect " is not worthy of a recommendation . ( C )
Unoriginal , nominal whodunnit drama .	A homicide investigator ( McCarthy ) finds himself caught between his young daughter's life / death struggle with disease and a serial killer's rampage in this nominally watchable whodunnit drama . An good shoot but one of those flicks which you feel like you seen many times before . Okay material for channel surfers .
" Monster's Ball " it ain't	In " The Badge " ( bad title ) , Thornton plays a sheriff in Louisiana's LaSalle Parish who has to solve a murder case involving sexually atypical types whom he regards with contempt . The film attempts to show Thornton's character coming to grips with his prejudices while wrestling with other personal issues such as his estranged family and job security but never manages any serious level of tension or believability and finishes anticlimactically . " The Badge " is a messy , ill focused , conglomerated mystery / drama with a solid cast , a clumsy screenplay , and a slick noirish execution full of comic book characters ; a kind of classy dud . Passable stuff worth a look for Thornton fans . ( C )
Movie by numbers	In " Murder by Numbers " , a miscast Bullock fails to nail the nuances required of her role as a tough homicide cop with issues while awash in a forensic la-la-land trying to wrest confessions from a couple of high school students who think they have committed the perfect murder complete with victim , perp , and clues up the wazoo . An unfortunate Hollywood bowzer , the film is busy enough and polished enough that the dozing couch potato may overlook the many plot-flaws , predictability , and clumsy thriller-filler ending . All others beware of the old Hollywood hype scam and watch this on video as you may want to do some fast-forwarding . (
Nominal UK dark comedy for the couch potato	" Beautiful Creatures " is a light-hearted dark comedy which tells of a pair of chance meeting babes who have had trouble with the men in their lives . So , armed with a mix of ditziness and defiance , they decide to do something about it which results in more men , more trouble , murder and mayhem . A not-to-be-taken-seriously silly little flick , " BC " is a series of setup situations with unexpected outcomes which makes it full of surprises although contrived , unsophisticated , mediocre and obviously low budget . " BC " should be most appreciated by feminists and others who enjoy Brit flicks with off-beat humor .
A poor telling of a socially significant story	" Too Young to Die " tells of an attractive young woman of low intelligence who's raised by a degenerate mother in a low class environment and sexually abused by men resulting in tragedy . This unfortunate flick has a story of some social significance but fails to bring it to the screen with the bitter reality , heart and compassion is deserves . Lewis and Pitt offer good performances but the film suffers from melodrama , stereotypical clichés , poor directing , and a mediocre screen play with an obvious made-for-tv presentation . Recommended only for those interested in the early work of Lewis and Pitt .
The wrong actor got on the plane .	Old premise , new film . A reasonable attempt at film making , " Bounce " is fraught with problems not the least of which is casting Affleck opposite a fine actress . This light drama starts okay but fizzles . The chemistry between Affleck and Paltrow is predictably nonexistent . Affleck and Bullock , maybe . Affleck and Paltrow , no way . The drama in all corners of the film , from alcoholism to the Kodak moments to the " can I love the guy who killed my husband " paradox doesn't work because the film builds a weak foundation , develops characters poorly , and just plain unravels in the denouement . Wait for broadcast on this one .
Shoestring indie snoozer	Jerome , AZ is the destination of this road trip flick about a not too bright welder who walks off the job , leaves his family , and hits the road in his boss's car . A shoestring indie , " Jerome " is one of those shallow character-driven dramas where the camera lingers endlessly over every scene as though we're supposed to be wallowing in the pathos of the moment when we're really just getting bored out of our socks . Not totally unsatisfying , this flick delivers too little too late and in the end and seems to have no purpose other than showing us how much trouble a guy can get into by simply passively defaulting to the consequences of situations as they arise . For indie lovers only .
An Edsel	" No Such Thing " is an absurd comedy knock-off of the old " Beauty and the Beast " or " Hunchback of Notre Dame " or " Phantom of the Opera " theme where a grotesque and misunderstood male is juxtaposed with a beautiful female who understands him . In this film the monster is a scaly , horned , fire breathing murdering man / monster with a drinking problem who killed protag Polley's boyfriend and wants to die ; something only the petite Polley can arrange . Yeah , right . Whatever . Full of time wasting filler and shallow characters , this flick is about as interesting as the barren Icelandic landscape which provides the habitat for the monster . Fast forward through the filler and you can get through this critically panned turkey in about 30 minutes . ( Note - the cover shot is just a trailer moment .
Sizzle turns to fizzle	" Woman On Top " tells of a Brazilian woman / chef ( Cruz ) who leaves her husband because he cheats on her because she gets motion sickness and so she conjures a spell from some god of the sea . . . aw , never mind . Suffice it to say this film , which is supposed to be a romantic fable / story laced with sensuous Brazilian sambas , cuisine , and hocus-pocus is a silly , awkward attempt to pound square pegs through round holes and just doesn't work . Cruz mopes through most of the film while her ex-to-be-husband / hero isn't even likeable . Acting is stiff , the story ambiguous , continuity poor , and the sensuality and romance lost in the struggle to get from beginning to end . Recommended only for channel surfers desperately in need of a little something romantic .
Just sucks .	" Just a Kiss " sucks like a Hoover . I only made it about halfway before ejecting . I showed the DVD cover to my SO and she just stuck up her nose at it . Even my cat tried to cover it up . The film has a good cast ( why I rented it ) but no story , goes no place , and really needs to get over itself . It's salted with cute little effects . . . not cute cute , just dumb cute . One star from Ebert and 86 % rotten according to RottenTomatoes . com , I shoulda known better . (
Booooooring !	" Sweet Hearts Dance " is about a two couples . . . one married , one not . Beyond that there's little worth mentioning . Although the film sports a good cast and is an okay production , it is a movie in need of a story as it wanders from chapter to chapter exploring the vicissitudes of a quartet of people who are probably much less interesting that yourself . In a word . . . . boring .
Inside this film is a good movie trying to get out .	" Holy Smoke " meanders schizophrenically through comedy , drama , realism , and farce serving only to obscure a sound premise and muddle a potentially interesting plot . Though their characters are as vague as the film's purpose , Keitel and Winslet are the only reasons to spend time with this flick .
Kookie comedy for young adult females	Something old , something new , something borrowed , and something that blows . . . such is the screenplay of " Desperate . . . " , a kookie comedy about an all night odyssey of two ditzy females through the clubs and parties of Hollyweird . Brewster gets all the good lines and steals the show while Taylor plays straight man in this lukewarm low budget little comedy which has it's moments , few and far between though they may be . Recommended for young adult females who , at this writing , have not voted sufficiently on IMDB . com to offset to inordinately low marks given by the male audiences .
No mark left unmissed	" The Client " , another marginal film from the master of the marginal film , is a B flick trying to look like an A flick . Schumacher manages to wrest some second rate performances from an excellent cast and Renfro's debut is no exception . The sweaty Southern noir atmospherics don't work any better than the music which seems always off target in this clumsy film which only squeaks by on the sheer charisma and talent of heavyweights Sarandon and Jones . Barely watchable , eminently forgettable , and for needy couch potatoes only . ( C )
Nice try but no cigar	" Dancing at the Blue Iguana " goes round and round , showing us snapshots in the lives of a bunch of L . A . " Blue Iguana Club " strippers all of whom are having problems . Apparently this plaintive between-the-acts and behind-the-scenes look at stripping is a brain fart from the director . . . something about improv . Whatever . The film , however , hasn't legs of its own in spite of its attempt to desensationalize stripping , peeling away the glitzy g-strings to reveal the sad realities of stripping life . Rather , it comes off like a nice-try-but-no-cigar melodrama without the documentary foundation required for credibility nor the story arc for a drama . A plaintive , stylish , somber , and superficial look at stripping life for the couch potato . (
Don't hate the director . Hate the movie .	About the only good thing I can say about " Purpose " is it does try to deliver a message about what's important in life on the heels of a boom / bust cycle of a new generation of materialistic status-oriented X-gen yuppies with dot-coms in their eyes . As a film , " Purpose " tries too hard to be hip with a script packed with buzz words and comtempo cliches and some guy who looks like Ray Liotta's kid as an upwardly mobile hotshot Bill Gates wannabee in the lead . Obviously the product of a newbie auteur , " Purpose " doesn't build much depth in its characters , is waaaay too cute , and seems to be little more than a slick new wrapper on an old story . Pass on this one unless maybe you're a computer geek who aspires to be another Micheal Dell or Steve Jobs . ( C )
Kid's stuff	" Fulltime Killer " out of Hong Kong has a silly and convoluted plot which is about two young male assassins and a babe . The relationships between the characters are poorly developed as are the characters themselves and the storyline plays out in a superficial make-it-up-as-you-go manner . The flick is difficult to follow , part subtitled , part English with no CC ( on the DVD I watched ) , music which doesn't work and only serves to drown out much of the dialogue which is spoken with accents . There is no sense of good versus evil in the film , no one to care about , and no real good reason to spend time with it unless you want to see a whole lot of shooting by guys who don't have to look at the target to aim and never reload . . . you know the type . When all is said and done , " Fulltime Killer " is little more than kinetic high voltage kid's stuff which will have narrow appeal ( eg : male gamers and the like ) . ( C )
Sex , drugs , rock & roll and other stuff	" Prey for Rock and Roll " sticks B-movie diva Gershon in the spotlight of yet another B-flick as the lesbo lead of an all-girl small time club rock band . This slice-of-rock-life look at the aging rock musician almost works but can't seem to avoid those oh so very Hollywoodish excursions into lesbian sex , sex for drugs , rape , revenge , etc . More music and fewer gratuities and this could have been a reasonable representation of the plight of the aging rocker , the narcotic-like hold music has over the musician , and the trade-offs and sacrifices they make for their art . However , when all is said and done , " Prey . . . " plays out like just another B-flick wannabe . Recommended for rockers and Gershon fans . (
A journeyman mystery / drama worth a look on cable	" Indiscreet " is a so-so journeyman flick with numerous plot holes which tells of a P . I . ( Perry ) who gets involved with the woman ( Ruben ) he's paid to follow and events leading to murder and more . A good shoot around a mediocre story which spends too much time developing a thin character in Perry only to reveal the real substance about the halfway point , " Indiscreet " has been running on cable for a considerable time and makes for an okay watch if nothing better is to be found among the channels .
Ode de parfum	" Perfume " is apparently supposed to be a behind the scenes look at the world of high fashion ; designers , models , photographers , gurus , wanabees , divas , dilettantes , etc . all involved in their daily esoteric industry activities in NYC . In spite of an even temperament and a sense of earnestness , this project just proves again that a good cast a good film does not make . A lackluster flick which wanders from one stagey scene to another showing us stammering characters with little depth while leaving us feeling disconnected , " Perfume " is marginally entertaining at best . With no story per se , no one to care about , and no clear insights into the fashion biz , there's little reason to recommend this fragrance . ( C )
Pretty awful	" Shattered Innocence " , loosely based on the short life of porn star Shauna Grant , tells the story of a girl from the midwest who moves to California , gets into drugs and porn , and commits suicide . There's nothing new here and it's presented in an obvious , watered down , made-for-tv style with annoying over-acting by Lee . Very forgettable stuff .
Off beat and unsatisfying	" Johnny Suede " is a slice of life flick which tells of a peculiar fictitious character , Suede ( Pitt ) , who has a 10 inch pompadour , worships Ricky Nelson , is a wannabee musician / star , is naive or stupid or both , and has little else worthy of mention . The slice the film presents ( the story ) is off-beat and creative in the minutia and anticlimactic in the whole . Pitt and Keneer and Levels work well in their roles but can't make up for a story which is about as satisfying as a baloney sandwich on Thanksgiving Day . A no brainer for channel surfers .
A middle of the heap romcom	A typical starving artist ( Eigeman ) is unable to sell his paintings until a scam artist creates a mysterious identity for him and proves that one can find wealth and true love through fraud as his art becomes " The Next Big Thing " . There is as little to praise and there is to fault in this easy-going B romcom now on cable . An okay time killer for couch potatoes . ( Note - Farley Granger , 50's heart-throb , makes a rare appearance in this film .
Plenty of Cherot	" Hav Plenty " is a little Afro-Am romantic comedy which tells of the wax and wane of an unspoken but simmering love between an unemployed writer , Lee Plenty ( Cherot ) , and a beautiful career woman , Havilland Savage ( Maxwell ) . . . hence the title , " Hav " and " Plenty " ( Get it ? ) . The film has a stagey feel from being shot on sets with characters occasionally speaking directly to the camera , avoids excesses ( excesses cost money ) , and relies mostly on a " less is more " philosophy to get from start to finish . Nonetheless , " Hav Plenty " has a sort of quietly endearing charm which must flow from Cherot as he is the auteur and lead actor and it - is - a true story . . . . or so he tells us in the film ( and I Tivo'd is from the " True Stories " channel on cable ) . Okay stuff for those looking for a low cal watch on tv . (
Man , woman , french fries , and a wall .	" The Wall " lampoons an old conflict between Belgium's Flemish and French populations with a short and marginally humorous story about the owner of a french fry stand , his love interest , and the government's decision to partition Belgium with a wall which happens to run smack through the middle of our hero's one-man business . A cute little flick , " Le Mur " has all the ear marks of a low budget indie . Nonetheless , it manages a fresh appeal , some fun moments , and keeps itself to conservative one hour run time . Recommended for channel surfers who happen across it but not worth a trip to the video store .
Meager	" Taking on the Kennedys " is a short 45 minute documentary about the 1994 Rhode Island campaign for Congress which pitted 26 year old Democrat Patrick Kennedy against a 39 year old Republican physician Kevin Vigilante . The film , which has all the ear marks of a one man hand-held minicam shoot with poor quality audio and video , follows Vigilante around as he goes through the usual campaign hand clasping and stumping slowly but surely losing his naiveté as he see his image tarnished , his campaign outspent , and his hopes dashed by his younger opponent who is shoe-horned into the office thanks to his politically savvy and well connected family . A meager DVD offering , there are no surprises in this film about a not very interesting campaign though it may offer some insight into the campaign process for a few . ( C )
" Mistress " misfires	" Mistress " , a misnomer , tells of a bunch of Hollywood hacks slogging through the process of networking , schmoozing , compromising , and sucking up required to launch a film project . A messy flick with little to offer considering the talent behind it , " Mistress " seems to be trying to make the point that making a film is often about everything but the film . . . careers , quid pro quos , personal agendas , etc . Unfortunately , " Mistress " is a poorly focused comedy / drama which doesn't work well in either genre . Most likely to be appreciated by people like the IMDB . com users who are not Hollywood insiders but have above average interest in films . ( C )
Typical B-flick	" The Stickup " is all about Spader as a burned out LAPD cop on the run after being shot for robbing a bank in some fictitious small town in California's Sierra-Nevada mountains ( played by Canada ) . Spader takes up with a babe who happens to be a nurse and the ex-wife of the town Sheriff , etc . , etc . Toss in a lame FBI rookie , some Indians , and a bunch of flashbacks about Spader's past , mix them with a low budget and poor direction , and you have a film which will make you cringe when you're supposed to be enthralled or yawn when you're supposed to be thrilled . The only thing this loser has going for it is an unexpected twist at about the halfway point which doesn't make it a good film but it may keep you from ejecting your DVD prematurely . Best saved for broadcast . (
A movie only a teenager could love	" The Girl Next Door " is one long series of excuses for serving up huge helpings of sex in an apparent attempt to separate the tween / teen male from the price of admission . This very unromantic lol free comedy tells of an about-to-grad HS student body prez who falls for the house sitting babe next door and then learns she's a porn star and sets about to save her from herself so she can be the person she really wants to be . ( Ahem ) Hirsch makes a suitable centerpiece while Cuthbert provides the babe-a-licious eye candy as this lame comedy only a teen could love kerchunks though huge gulps of sex obsessed filler . Scoffed at by the critics with poor marks from mature adults , this flick is fodder for teens chock full of shameful subliminals , T & A , and sex talk . A guaranteed winner for teen males and their bimbos and a loser for all others . ( C )
A film which proves " creative " is not synonymous with " good " .	" Run Lola Run " depicts three scenarios , all with the same characters and beginning circumstances but with different outcomes . Each is about Lola running to rescue a small time crook who has lost a large sum of underworld money . The film focuses on Lola running with brief encounters along the way while mixing in some animation and bursts of still shots which serve no useful purpose . Heralded by some as creative , this huge waste of time gives us no reason to care about Lola or anyone in the film and no reason to watch beyond the first scenario except the hope that this incoherent mess will somehow manages itself to an enjoyable conclusion .
Two stars : One in the head and one in the heart .	" Angel's Dance " features Belushi as the hitman's guru who tests a young protege with an assignment to " hit " a beautiful but freaky woman , Angel ( Lee ) , selected at random . Both get more than they bargained for in this darkish comedy with some action and lots of quirky humor . The film is fresh in the beginning , languishes in the middle , and pulls itself together in the end making for a lukewarm watch overall with some deliciously sardonic tongue-in-cheek humor . An okay small screen watch for channel surfers looking for comedy / action .
Boring	See Jack take pictures . See Jack bang a babe . See Jack with his mom . See Jack bang another babe . See Jack with his wife . See Jack bang another babe . See Jack get divorced . See Jack bang another babe . Etc . Etc . " Jack the Dog " is a crisp , clean , slick shoot with solid performances . " Jack the Dog " is also naive , simple minded , and shows us nothing we haven't seen many times before . Oh , and BTW , the cute little novelties ( euphemism for brain farts ) , such as flashing Estella's name on the screen when Jack can't remember it , only serve to remind us we're watching a movie . This flick deserves and E for effort , a P for promise , and a B for boring .
Bagger Vance it ain't	" A Gentleman's Game " is all about a teen boy with a natural golf swing who caddies for a country club and learns there's more to life than golf ( duh ) . This lame little coming-of-age flick is packed with lessons in life such as don't bury your guns in sand traps or it's okay not to swim with half naked babes or don't believe old drunk guys . Although this film's heart is in the right place , I'm not sure its director was . A jumbled , messy indie which never quite coagulates , " A Gentleman's Game " has so much golf stuff in it that it would probably be more enjoyable for those who know something about the game . Personally , I thought the film was much like the game ; slow moving and boring . ( C )
Kind of like watching grass grow .	Save pure voyeurism , it's difficult to see the entertainment value in a film which simply portrays the pedestrian , sublunary vicissitudes of ordinary people who are probably less interesting than ourselves . " Barcelona " , a journeyman light comedy / drama indie , features postcard shots of the title city , a bevy of babes , and two pretty ordinary guys who just banter incessantly about the most uninteresting stuff . Flawed and with plotholes aplenty , " Barcelona " is a film in need of a story and fails to distinguish itself in any significant way . Passable , forgettable stuff though the auteur may be a work in progress with potential .
" Shiner " . . . down for the count	" Shiner " is a gritty character-driven drama all about Caine as the title character ; a shady , unsuccessful , aging British boxing promoter whose world begins to implode when he gambles everything on one fight featuring his son in the main event . The story in this B-flick becomes an overwrought mess as Caine's character becomes an overwrought mess , making Caine's performance the only reason for spending time with the film . Okay for Caine fans and passable stuff for all others . ( C )
Do-do-do-do-do-do-dee-dee-wop !	" Looking for an Echo " is a slice of 50-year-old life flick with Asante as a widower , a bartender , a has-been pop singer / musician , and the father of a daughter with cancer . The flick offers a whole lot of doo-wop singing and carousing with old singing pals while working in side plots involving the daughter's illness , romance with a nurse , and family issues . Ill focused , " Looking . . . . " seems to have little plot or purpose but makes for an easy-going , soapy watch which tries hard to leave the audience feeling good . With little to fault and little to praise , " Looking . . . . " is a lukewarm but sincere film product which will be most enjoyed by lovers of vocal harmonizing ( circa 50's-60's ) and Asante fans . ( C )
Welcome back to whoop , whoop , holler and boom !	" Rikky and Pete " are thirtyish Aussie sibs who leave Melbourne to escape a dictatorial patriarch and Pete's problems with a local copper and to seek their fortune in the outback where they take up with silver mining and a bunch of quirky characters . " R & P " is a fun little Aussie comedy romp which wanders without clear purpose through it's marginal plot conjuring up moments droll , offbeat , and awkward humor and little else . Worth a look for those into Aussie flix .
Pass	" Bandit Queen " tells the story of Phoolan Devi ( circa 1970ish ) , a lower caste woman from the boonies of northern India who was abused and mistreated by a male dominated misogynistic culture , rebelled , turned outlaw , and became a folk hero of sorts in her own time . Not much of a movie , this two hour melodramatic biopic and adventure flick offers precious little historical context but rather dwells on the brutality . Given what in the grand scheme of cinema is very poor production value and the fact it was made prior to Phoolan Devi's last years and ultimate murder , " Bandit Queen " is a good film to pass over . Recommended only for the curious or those with a specific interest in Devi . ( C )
Not all that	In " The Missing Gun " , a small town cop in China loses track of his sidearm when he gets drunk at a party . The first hour this film is dedicated to the cop running around town asking everyone if they have seen his gun to which all reply . . . . " Nope ! " . It's not until later in the film we begin to see a plot develop and realize what has appeared to be a comedy is really a drama when our hero / protag / cop finds out his ex-girl friend has been murdered . . . apparently with his missing gun . The balance of the flick is about finding the gun and the killer . Pretty ordinary stuff by Western film standards , this flick is uneven and less than engaging with marginal English language subtitle translations . Story aside , however , it is a moderately enjoyable blend of contemporary Western filmmaking with the traditional Chinese feel and a small step forward in Chinese action / drama filmmaking from behind the bamboo curtain . A subtitled watch recommended only for those with a taste for traditional Chinese cinema . ( C )
Okay if you're drunk	" The Trigger Effect " tells of a suburban couple who have to get along without electricity during a Los Angeles power outage . At issue : Can one couple make it through a few days without electrical power ? Duh . Such is the bleak premise of this meager dramatic offering with a linear make-it-up-as-you-go story which dabbles in anarchy , tries to be a thriller , but is too hard to take seriously as it stumbles over itself all the way to the end . Fraught with Shue's poor acting , Koepp's poor directing , and a story which pounds square pegs into round holes . . . such as when Mulroney embarrasses himself by peeking in the window and then explains that the door bell didn't work because of the outage - as if he never heard of knocking . Hello ! Double duh . An okay-to-zone-to TV watch and little more . ( C )
A weak film lacking the passion of it's subject .	" Center Stage " , a film about young students of the ballet trying to succeed , is diluted by too many characters ( most of them sophomoric stereotypes ) and soapy subplots and plagued by bad acting , melodrama , juvenile music , and even mediocre choreography . The film lacks the verve and passion of the art it attempts to represent though it does showcase plenty of dancing . This flick will be appreciated most by young females and dance enthusiasts .
Another grain of sand on that great beach called cinema	" Fast Food , Fast Women " has little to do with either . A somewhat inept , light-hearted slice-of-life indie , this flick revolves around a single 30-something woman , Bella ( Anna whatever-her-name-is ) , who waitresses in a NYC diner , and her assorted friends / acquaintenances with loneliness and the need for relationships being the central theme . A very forgettable flick , " FF , FW " is not without its moments and manages some poignancy , quirkiness , and heart . However , in the grand scheme of all things cinema , this is just another marginally entertaining film with a bunch of where-have-I-seen-him / her-before character actors which will never be more than a so-so small screen watch . ( C )
Boring , stupid , and not worth the time .	An ill-conceived mess of a movie , " Buffalo Soldiers " tells of a Sgt . Bilko type Supply NCO , cumshaw artist , and narcotics chemist who falls for his Top Sarge's daughter while the Top Sarge is gunning for him . . . etc . With no sense of genre , characters which aren't interesting or believable , and a lame plot / story , this hacked flick has little to offer . Personally I was bored with it from the get go . A forgettable waste of a good cast best saved for broadcast . ( C )
Another Hollywood ripoff .	" America's Sweethearts " drives home the point that star power alone does not make for good movies , just big audiences . Telling of a Hollywood celebrity couple ( Zeta Jones & Cusack ) whose marriage is on the rocks , this clumsy , over wrought Cinderella knock-off begins with some mildly amusing moments , lags in the middle trying to get to the point , uses sophomoric stunts like Cusack on the roof to hold attention , tries to caulk the splitting plot with silly crotch gags , and grinds wheezing and gagging to a predictable conclusion . Wait for broadcast .
Dud	" Bejing Bicycle " tells of a Bejing messenger boy who has his bike stolen by another boy . A feud ensues with a more or less amiable compromise , etc . The flick is marginally entertaining , offers good art and technicals , and has minimal dialogue , long and redundant scenes , a simplistic plot , an anticlimactic conclusion , and by most standards provides too little to chew on . " Bejing Bicycle " will likely have very limited appeal .
LOL's and yawns	" Pecker " ( Furlong ) is a young urban Baltimore man who photographs his family and friends , consisting entirely of kookie stereotypes , only to become a photoart icon . The film manages to conjure up some funny moments though most of the comedy is trite and crass one-liners from the cast overlaying a shallow story . Nothing new here but there may be some LOL's for the diehard couch potato .
College comedy romp slightly above average for a novice indie	" Puddle Cruiser " is slightly more clever than your average low budget novice indie . Amusing , somewhat wacky , situational college comedy which is more fun than funny , this little campus romp avoids the usual raunch as it tells it's lightly romantic story . An okay watch for bored students .
Well , the camera was in focus .	" Iran , Veiled Appearances " isn't much of a documentary . However , it does transport the viewer behind the Islamic curtain and offers a sense of what contemporary Iranian life is like . It begins with a dab of history including brief file footage of the Shah and the Ayatollah Khomeini before launching into an exploration of the Iran of today much like an inquisitive tourist rather than an investigation of political , social , and cultural orders . Too much time is spent dawdling over visual spectacles such as parades , martial arts training , a dance class , paragliding , etc . , all of which are done in other countries ( a minute on each would have sufficed ) . The interviews with Iranians are man-in-the-street type with college kids espousing liberal ideals as do college kids everywhere while elders preach the usual conservative doctrine . The schism between the theocratic fundamentalist elders and the more western-thinking youth came as no surprise . However , if we are seeing the seeds of change or revolution , we weren't shown the forces keeping a lid on it . Overall , the film was only marginally interesting , lacked traveloguesque scenic beauty , offered minimal history , had no interviews with officials , and conjured nothing which could be considered investigative reporting . Pass on this one unless you really yearn for a peek at Iran . ( Note - I have a theory which suggests Peter Sellers did not die but grew a beard , moved to Iran , changed his name to Khatami , and became President .
I didn't think I could get too much of Potter until . . .	" I'm With Lucy " , with Potter ( Lucy ) in every scene as an available NYC single who's dating five guys , goes round and round showing Potter in select situations with each of her suitors until - drum roll , please - she finally picks one . . . taa-daa ! Rambling on and on sans story with a tad too much of the beautiful , wide-eyed , ever innocent and always tentative Potter , " . . . . Lucy " begins to wear itself out for lack of a real story and real depth of character . A cute flick which gets a little too fluffy and sappy , " . . . . Lucy " should make an okay watch for incurable romantics and Potter fans . ( C )
So-so	In " Rhapsody in Bloom " , a widower's ( Silver ) sister-in-law ( Miller ) tends to his children for years only to find the family ties interfering with establishing her own independent identity and life . A light hearted , easy going , romantic comedy which is a little ragged around the edges , " R in B " deals with matters of family , kids , an interloping fiancee , love in bloom , etc . with marginal credibility . A par cable watch for the couch potato in the mood for a no-brainer romcom with kids . ( C )
Disappointing	" City of God " is an old story . So old , in fact , it begins in the 60's as it tells of gangsters in a Rio de Janeiro slum who do what gangsters do and have done everywhere for all the same reasons . Poverty breeds ignorance which breeds hopelessness which breeds desperation which breeds crime . . . etc . This film shows us nothing new , save the location and its paper thin characters , as it takes the audience into a slew of favela-dwelling punks with guns ( so many it's hard to keep track of who's who and who killed who for what reason ) as it attempts to impart a sense of warring in the Rio ghetto . You'll see such a convoluted mess of gang bangers there's no time for the film to provide character depth or a sense of the gangster ethos or the mechanics of the drug trade or a reason to care who lives or dies , etc . Just a whole lot of killing with numbing excess and only a hint of a human story . For reasons I am unable to deduce , " City of God " received raves from all corners and countless awards and noms . Go freakin ' figure ! Personally , I found the documentary piggy-backed into the DVD more interesting than the film and the one scene from the film I remember most ( it was shown twice ) was that of a chicken which was run over by a truck but escaped unscathed . If you like your street punk killing flicks with subtitles , go for it . (
Kid stuff for gearheads	" The Fast and Furious " , adapted from a magazine article , could have been adapted from a comic book . With a simple minded plot , some pretty awful acting by just about everyone ( Diesel excepted ) , and the usual Hollywood excesses pushing the PG-13 envelope , " The Fast . . . " gets off on high octane street racing . From cool cars to hot babes this flick is made with one goal in mind : to separate the teen male from the price of admission . Not for mature audiences .
For lesbians only	" The Incredibly True Adventure of 2 Girls in Love " is far from incredible , could be true , and is about two girls in love . The film attempts to take the audience through the evolution of a teen lesbian romance involving a butch white student who works at a gas station and a more affluent black chick who who goes to the same school . Fraught with all the usual indie problems and an awkward screenplay with limited production value , " . . . 2 girls . . . " is fodder for lesbians and little more . Nonetheless , this pic is earnest in its attempt to portray teen lesbian love mixed with the usual growing pains and received respectable marks from critical corners . Personally , as a straight male , I enjoyed " Better Than Chocolate " much more . ( C )
Campy , kookie , off-the-wall spoofiness .	" Superstar " is a love it or hate it camp comedy SNL movie which attempts to capitalize on Shannon's nerdy parochial schoolgirl character Mary Katherine Gallagher and , judging from the boxoffice stats , succeeds . Whether or not this critically panned flick is for you will depend on how much you personally enjoy ludicrous stereotypes , outrageous silliness , and deadpan humor .
Rebel without a clue	" Pump Up the Volume " is an ignoble and obvious fabrication which tells of a bookish new student ( Slater ) at an Arizona high school who is tongue-tied on campus by day but articulate by night while operating a pirate radio station from his basement under the pseudonym " Hard Harry " . His rabble rousing broadcasts of rebellious antiestablishment rhetoric and crotch talk makes him a cult hero among the student body turning them against the school's fascist principal while his lame parental units remain utterly clueless and he falls for the campus babe and preaches silly " teens are people too " sermons until everyone from the cops to the FCC are trying to track him down . Stupid stuff only a teenager could love . ( C )
Whaddaloadacrap !	" Derrida " dogs philosopher Jaques Derrida from boudoir to lectern and shows him being filmed and people filming him and him refusing to say anything personal while making the usual vague and ambiguous excursions in philosophical thought which one tends to expect of thinkers ( or so they think ) while never delivering anything of substance . We get to see Derrida butter his English muffin but we don't get to see him deconstruct deconstructionism because , of course , that's not possible . Bottom line : This documentary tries with synth music , voice-overs , translations , interviews , etc . but doesn't really sink its teeth into what appears to be a self-affected man who expects it is better to be thought an enigma than to open one's mouth and prove no enigma exists . Does the future have a future ? If you really care , you might want to spend time with this film . Otherwise , just agree that it does and find something interesting to watch . ( C )
A mediocre feel good " chick flick " .	About as realistic as Disneyland , " Where the Heart is " is one long string of fabricated Kodak moments designed for maximum " feel good " effect . Although not challenged , the almost all female core cast is effective in dishing up enough appeal to obscure most of the sham and naivete of the story . Those into maudlin and schmaltz will enjoy this film while realists will likely reject it .
Who done it ? Who cares .	" Jade " is a typical Hollywood formula mystery which features a handful of notable actors , some stylish noirish cinematography , and a convoluted and unsatisfying plot . As a typical commercial product , " Jade " doesn't care if we give a damn about the characters as its dark and sinister plot passes before our eyes like so much deja vu . Nothing here we haven't seen many times before and no reason to want to see it again .
For " wing nuts " only .	The only good thing one can say about this budget conscious , garish , cockamamie kludge is O'Toole . Telling of competing game show hosts , one old ( O'Toole ) and one young ( Gillen ) , who have more in common than meets the eye , this dark comedy has little to offer beyond the Shakespearean performance of O'Toole who trudges doggedly through the script with inevitable futility . For wing nuts only . ( C )
Only for the most gullible paranormal flick junkies	" The Mothman Prophecies " is based on true events like PeeWee Herman is based on Arnold Schwarzenegger . The film tells of a Washington Post reporter ( Gere ) who wanders into a W . VA . town where he is accommodated beyond all reason by a local sheriff ( Linney ) in an investigation into paranormal events having to do with a mysterious mothman creature thingy . Stylish to the point of interfering with the spooky atmospherics with characters obviously acting out a prescribed plot , " Mothman . . . " is a hokey bit of Hollyweird flotsam only for the most avid sci-fi / horror / thriller junkies . And don't worry , you won't be needing any mothballs to watch this polished nonsense .
Poor man's Cheech & Chong	" How High " tells of two ghetto blacks ( the African American equivalent of Cheech & Chong ) who smoke a friend ( literally ) which gets them into Harvard where they . . . um , do stuff . A classy presentation with considerable less classy humor , this flick has a much more clever premise than plot and plot than story . Okay stuff for those into raunchy outrageousness which crosses the black / white divide . Note - The DVD I watched had no closed captioning but did have subtitles were all over the screen and so large they must have been intended for the visually impaired .
Marginal fodder for TV mystery junkies	Clive Owen brings his almost complete absence of charisma and scant repertoire of nuances to " Second Sight " as a detective who may or may not be losing his sight depending on who you believe ; host Diana Rigg or the doctor characters . A much too pat and uninspired Brit detective series about a workaholic divorced sleuth with personal issues , DCI Tanner ( Owen ) , " Second Sight " is full of nonsequiturs , plot holes , and just plain shoddy work . Owen does the usual connecting of dots expected of mysteries while maintaining the pitiful I've-been-screwed-by-life attitude you would expect of a terminal cancer patient not one whose just may be going blind and especially not one who sees perfectly when required of the plot and otherwise when not . All the while , Tanner has what Rigg describes as a " torrid " affair with his sidekick which is little more than a few seconds in the sack and sees visions ( the second sight thing ) which are rationalized by some mumbo-jumbo about his medical condition . Pale in comparison with the Brit " Cracker " series , " Second Sight " is little more than par fodder for TV junkies . I gave up on it with about 10 minutes to go in the 2nd DVD . (
Nice try but no cigar .	" The First $20 Million . . . " is an easy-going comedy with a romantic bent which sticks Garcia out in front as a computer geek who aspires to be another Steve Jobs by working with some other geeks who are trying to build a $99 computer . . . . er , something like that . A happy-go-nowhere little flick which is too uncool for the young demographic and too young for adults , I'm guessing it's a movie in search of a market . Hard to swallow and hard to follow with laughs which are too few and too far between , " The First $20 Million . . . " is an uninspired albeit earnest novel knock-off which is best saved for broadcast . ( C )
A poor , melodramatic historical drama .	" April Morning " tells of the skirmish between colonial militia and the English army at Lexington , MA which is regarded as the beginning of the American Revolutionary War . The film is a melodramatic made-for-tv drama which spends more time with fictional accounts of the April 19th battle than it does with matters of history and warfare . Obviously conceived to be palatable for prime time viewing and sell commercial products , this film is a poor American history lesson . Nonetheless , poor may be better than none at all .
Much ado about nothing	" Mr . Death : The Rise and Fall of Fred A . Leuchter , Jr . " is a 1 . 5 hour biopic which tells the story of Fred Leuchter who was a self made engineer and a nobody until he naively took on the task of trying to prove or disprove the existence of gas chambers at Auschwicz . Not qualified as a forensic scientist , Leuchter testified in a Canadian court that there was no evidence of such gas chambers thereby throwing the matter of six million Jewish deaths during WWII into question resulting in his own persecution and the loss of everything from his wife to his career as an engineer who designed execution machines for prisons . The film is a solid documentary of Leuchter's life , nicely done with good music and cinematography . However , it trudges slowly through the biography with Leuchter doing most of the talking while mixing in bits of commentary from other people and never really getting into the meat of the Auschwicz death camp matter . Personally , I would have preferred less ambiance and more facts , background info , and testimony from friends , associates , and experts . When all is said and done you'll know nothing more about Auschwicz , a little bit about his controversial testimony in 1988 , a bit more about execution machinery , and a whole lot about a small man of little consequence . Recommended only for those interested in Fred A . Leuchter jr . (
Watchable but ordinary	A female P . I . , estimated to be " The Right Temptation " , is hired by a women to try to seduce her wealthy husband thereby testing his loyalty . . . blaa , blaa . So begins another plasticized , predictable , trite formula Hollywood clone noirish mystery with characters too shallow , patter too glib , and story too pat . There's nothing here for an audience to sink their teeth into leaving one to just sit back and zone .
A wild and crazy guy in uniform .	In this knock-off of the old Phil Silvers ' tv series , Martin plays Sergeant Bilko , a scam-artist who doesn't let being the head of an Army Post motorpool keep him from enjoying the luxuries of civilian life . A simple minded flick which shows us nothing new , " Sgt . Bilko " has little to offer save acting as a diversion for the needy couch potato . An okay watch for those who like Martin's " wild and crazy guy " schtick .
Second rate nonsense	" Lebestraum " , a second rate noirish drama , tells of murder , infidelity , and other stuff . It includes a hair-raising ride in a police car and some prostitute diddling stuff and a big " N " falling off the top of a building almost on our hero's head and some nightmares with the old wake up screaming thing going on and , oh , yeah , and the old cat jumping out during a suspenseful moment . Betwixt and between such trite nonsense is the real story , the real nonsense , which takes itself so seriously as to be almost laughable . Don't waste your time with this loser . Note : The audio quality of the Tivo'd version I watched was awful and there were no subtitles to help fill in the blanks . I had to watch under headphones .
Comedy culture commercial	One day a pink fog surrounds California and inexplicably all of the Hispanic people in the state have vanished . Although the premise sounds like a setup for some wacky fun , this comedy struggles with ordinariness , obvious budgetary constraints , a lack of creativity , and an obvious pro-Latino social agenda . A campy culture commercial , the film takes the viewer into the lives of a handful of people effected by the loss of Latinos while periodically conjuring statistics about the importance of Hispanics to California industry . Passable stuff which may have some appeal for Hispanics , this amateurish indie's heart is in the right place but it tries too hard to do too much with too little . ( C ) Note - At this writing , almost all of the user comments on this website are from users who have commented only on this film . That's a good indication that the comments are inordinately skewed as are the stats .
Marginal serial killer + paranormal stuff drama	' Suspect Zero " tries to be a serial killer drama with a paranormal bent as it sticks us with a demoted FBI agent ( Eckhart ) who is hot on the trail of a suspected serial killer ( Kingsley ) . Moss is factored in presumably as eye candy as she serves no practical purpose while Eckhart and Kingsley are hell bent on a showdown . During the run , the dead time and plot holes are spackled up with montages of weird pictures , special visual effects , and eerie music while we wait patiently for the film to make something of itself . Kingsley , of course , is excellent in his role and the storyline does manage to catch up with itself in the end making some sense . However , what's between the credits is still a marginal watch at best . Those into dramas with Kingsley as a whack-o should check out the much better " Sexy Beast " . (
Lukewarm indie	" Living in Oblivion " is a nominal indie comedy about a day on the set from hell of an indie film director ( Buscemi ) who struggles with technical problems , personality conflicts , etc . The film takes the audience through take after take and scene after scene , cluttering it with interjected dreams of the cast and crew , with little purpose or entertainment power . Lacking the story content and character depth of other DiCillo films , " Living . . . " should be filed under " Last to watch " and will be of more interest to film buffs than the public at large . ( C )
Roomie doom	" 2LDK " is all about two young actresses competing for the same job who spend an evening together in an apartment and get on each other's nerves . One thing leads to another and mayhem ensues . Not much of a film , " 2LDK " is a mediocre little thriller with good camera art , decent work by the players , some pretty hokey moments , and a paper thin plot . Running at about 70 minutes , this short film is all Japanese with hard-to-read subtitles and , no matter how you cut it , its no more than two women , one apartment , and one evening . Recommended for people like me who've seen just about everything in their favorite genres or anyone who thinks two women , one apartment , one evening sounds good . (
" And the Razzie goes to . . . . "	" Original Sin " tells of a 19th century coffee plantation owner ( Banderas ) who marries a mail order bride ( Jolie ) only to learn the hard way she is not who she was supposed to be . Uninspired drivel with poor chemistry between Banderas and Jolie , " OS " is artistically and technically good but so lacking in sincerity and believeability that it does not beg the question " how will it end " but , rather , " when " ? Save this one for t . v . or , better yet , find something good to watch .
Too little , too late .	" The Shape of Things " , which probably falls somewhere in genre spectrum around black comedy , is a misanthro-pic with an ensemble of four capable players and good quality production which fizzles in story with precious little entertainment to be found between the credits . Telling of a woman's ( Weisz ) makeover of a man ( Rudd ) as a post-grad art project , the story is an obvious contrivance for naught which only manages to raise some trite questions about morality and art . With potential for little more than some tongue clucking and nothing to inspire a laugh or a tear , perhaps the best thing this flick has to offer is some eye candy in the shape of Weisz and Mol . Recommended for the college crowd or fans of the players and / or LaBute . (
Groan !	" Poolhall Junkies " is about a guy who leaves his pool hustler mentor with a grudge which gets settled with a showdown at the end of the film after a whole bunch of uninteresting , uneven , unsatisfying , and ungood story including a girl friend with a rich daddy thing , an I - want - to - be - more - than - a - hustler thing , a . . . aw , never mind . It's not worth the typing . Suffice it to say the critics panned this corny little dramedy with a so-so cast led by one of the most charismaless actors ever to lead the likes of Walken and Steiger with awful jukebox music for a score and a horribly amateurish script . Possible target audience : Young males . . . oh , yeah , and Ebert liked it too . (
Good climbing action and little more	" K2 " , a rather ordinary adventure flick , tells of the assault on the mercurial Himalayan mountain by a pair of American climbers and their associates . An okay climbing flick with plenty of beautiful scenery and climbing action from rock to snow to ice , the film has a weak plot , technical oversights aplenty , and more than its share of filler not the least of which are some family issues which go nowhere . Good stuff for those into climbing , okay stuff for those into escapist adventure flix , and forgettable stuff for all others . (
Skip this !	" Skipped Parts " takes on the difficult comedy / drama genre and flops . Telling of one boy's coming of sexual age , this film could have been a solid study of teenage sex issues and rites of passage . Instead , it plays as a convoluted , bland , and ill-focused mess of silliness , stiff acting , post card scenery , dream sequences , and out-of-nowhere nonsense lacking the finesse required to weave an engaging story from the comedy and drama components resulting in a marginally entertaining watch and a story with a difficult buy-in . Only for the most easily influenced sentimentalists . (
Comedy-drama-romance spy flick with unrealized potential	" Spy Games " sets out to be like the old " I Spy " tv series with West vs East spying going on in exotic locations and lots of clever patter mixed in with a semiserious and intricate dramatic spy plot , a token babe here and there , etc . However , this unfortunate flick doesn't make it as it becomes convoluted and boring only managing to pull what's left of itself together in the end . " Spy Games " does have Pullman , Jacob , and Helsinki going for it but little else . Recommended only for the very bored .
A light hearted romantic near miss	" Loving Jezebel " tells of the romantic misadventures of a young black New York man , Theo ( Harper ) , who falls in love too easily and too often . With the look of a color blind , low budget indie full of fresh faces , " LJ " is a sweetly sentimental musing on love by the principal and narrator . An okay watch with a plodding pace which will grow tedious for some , " LJ " will be most appreciated by young adult romantics .
A gag a second	From the same mold as the " Naked Gun " series , " Spy Hard " stars everyone's favorite bumbling hero Leslie Nielson as a not-so-secret agent , WD-40 , who stumbles his way through another slampooning chaotic comic story . Sniping at everything from " Speed " to " Home Alone " and built around the James Bond flicks , " Spy Hard " features lots of babes and bunches of bit part celebs with nonstop gags and off-the-wall humor . Only for those who are into wacky for the sake of wacky . (
A typically so-so indie treatment of a grave issue	McCann's " Revolution 9 " tells of a man's sanity slipping away as paranoia takes over his life . This inconsequential and somewhat heavy-handed indie takes on the serious matter of mental health earnestly but with only nominal dramatic success coming from players who seem obviously scripted , reacting to cues , and inclined to over state their roles . Furthermore the matter of paranoid psychosis and it effects on everyone involved is so substantial as to make this film's many artistic embellishments more of a camouflaging affectation than a catalyst . This film would have been better if McCann had backed off the Hollywood stylistics and let the stark reality of the subject speak for itself from a place of austerity , slowing down the process of mental erosion while draining some of the color from the work . Nonetheless , this well intentioned drama with an ambiguous and unsatisfying conclusion should have some entertainment value for those into mental health issues . ( C )
Surf's up , thumb's down !	" Orange County " is the usual stuff . Anyone over 30 has seen it all before . The film tells of a HS senior and surfer dude ( Hanks ) who wants desperately to go to Stanford to study writing . He , the hero , of course , plays it straight as does his girlfriend while everyone else in this formula flick is a caricature making for most of the mediocre comic relief . The film has lots of fresh faces and lots of familiar ones as well and is lively enough to make it a reasonably enjoyable watch for teens and some terminally bored adults .
TV sitcom quality chick flick	Claire ( Witt ) is having trouble getting her concert piano career on track thanks to a semi-functional family , romantic woes , and kookie friends . " Playing Mona Lisa " is a formula sitcom quality flick full of cliche characters with just enough of a creative edge to keep me from thumbing the fast-forward button . There's little new here and nothing to get excited about . However , " Playing Mona Lisa " might be worth a look for the couch potato surfing for chick flix . ( C )
Okay off-kilter slow mover .	" The Pallbearer " , a schizophrenic cross-genre muddling of comedy , drama , and romance with idiosyncratic characters and a thin , marginally interesting story . Schwimmer is at the center of this slow moving , somewhat quirky flick about a young man who lives with his mother ( Bosco anyone ? ) and courts a demure unassured girl ( Paltrow ) while having an affair with an older woman ( Hershey ) . Most will find it difficult to get their head into this off-kilter story and its subtle tongue-in-cheek humor though it remains loyal to its purpose throughout . . . whatever that may be .
" Boiling Point " only simmers	In " Boiling Point " , a Treasury Agent ( Snipes ) has one week to find a killer while a scam artist ( Hopper ) has the same one week to pay off an underworld debt . The pair are on a collision course in this flick with a bunch of heavies , some T-men , and a beautiful prostitute ( Davidovich ) who knows both men biblically . The film tries unsuccessfully to build human elements into the characters . Hopper is a sentimentalist with panache who likes ballroom dancing while Snipes longs for his divorced wife and son . Unfortunately , " Boiling Point " hasn't the intensity the title would suggest and just slogs it way through a more-of-the-same cops vs bad guys plot with poor quality drama and almost no sensationalistic action . . . no chases , crashes , stunts , pyro , sex , nudity , etc . A lukewarm tv watch at best . (
Just more mindless Hollywood action	" S . W . A . T . " uses L . A . SWAT ops as an excuse for this messy conglomeration of action nonsense none of which is sufficiently original , creative , or unique to make the mind-numbing excesses worth wading through . You'll see lots of flying brass and lead , crashes , stunts , etc . but nothing you haven't seen before . All that in the absence of a human story with too much cost-conserving filler and busyness adds up to a no-brainer action flick best saved for broadcast . Recommended for police action junkies only . ( C )
A pocket full of Posey	" Party Girl " is all about Posey , tossed like a salad with a load of inconsequential side characters , as she labors to breathe life into her character ; a shallow party animal who tries to get unshallow . This flick bears the scars of cost cutting , doesn't managed to conjure any reasonable semblance of a story , and wanders drunkenly with a make-it-up-as-you-go feel as it manages a few comic moments , a skosh of poignancy , and little else . The bottom line here is : If you like Posey , you may like this film . If you don't like Posey , you probably should pass on " Party Girl " . ( Note - If you check the stats for this film you'll see a pretty obvious bell curve ( Normal Gaussian distribution ) with one obvious anomaly : The big spike at the 10 point mark . Since no one in their right mind could equate this dinky little indie to the best films ever made , one can assume the anomaly is either ballot box stuffing or the result of " cultists " or both . I only mention this because this is often seen on this website and can be misleading .
Perfect love , Imperfect movie	" Perfect Love " , an intentional misnomer , opens with a man showing police detectives how he murdered a woman . The film then flashes back to the beginning of his relationship with the victim , his lover , a beautiful ophthalmologist . The remainder and bulk of the film is dedicated to showing the rise and fall of the couple's relationship from falling in love to the souring differences and it's ultimate and irreversible dissolution . A product of a controversial auteur who is known for her graphic sex scenes , " Perfect Love " falls on the lesser side of her rather uneven body of work . Though the players work well together , the genesis of the relationship is unconvincing and the psychology behind the relationship seemingly preposterous at times . Given subtitles , only two players , very little story arc , a sloth-like pace , and an unconvincing presentation , " Perfect Love " is difficult to recommend . ( C )
A B-flick which is too nice not to like a little	" Road to Riches " is a lightly romantic dramedy about a down-on-his-luck middle aged professional game show contestant ( Forster ) who harbors affection for a beautiful stripper ( McGowan ) and befriends a fresh-faced naive young interloper from Texas ( Pardue ) - a sort of poor man's Joe Buck ( Midnight Cowboy ) - until both men find themselves competing for the same woman . A B-flick at best , this little indie is rough around the edges showing signs of low budgetness and a lack of attention to detail with plot parts which don't dovetail well . However , when all is said and done , the film's good naturedness , poignant crescendo , and feel good conclusion make it a worthwhile watch for the couch potato in the mood for some casual small screen entertainment . (
Slick neo-noir junk ( Spoilers )	" Second Skin " bets everything on a hot babe , a scenic local , a handful of decent actors , a weak story and loses . Henstridge bumps her head , loses her memory , falls for some guy , gets her memory back and remember she's supposed to kill him . The story waxes somewhat more convoluted but lacks character depth and gives us little reason to care . Camera work is artsy for artsy's sake . . . nice try but no cigar . Fonda is unconvincing as the ultimate heavy , etc . Overall , this flick is a stylish loser not worth the time .
Missed the boat	" Open Water " is all about a DINK couple who goes on a SCUBA diving trip only to find themselves stranded in the ocean swimming with the sharks . An obviously low budget indie , the bulk of this very even tempered and simplistic flick , about an hour , is dedicated to the pair of protags ( Ryan and Travis ) bobbing around in the water sorting through their predicament without the emotional highs and lows one might expect . Cost cutting is evident throughout imparting an almost documentary " feel " . And , though the film does manage a modicum of suspense , when all is said and done , one may be left with the feeling they just paid for a restaurant meal and got fast food instead . (
Ripley's believe it . . . . not !	" Ripley's Game " tells a sloppy tale involving a bunch of people running around trying to kill each other . Beginning to end , this flick is a mess of plot holes , nonsequiturs , and goofs . EXAMPLE : The abysmal story has a fat guy trying to coerce an ordinary guy and family man into killing another guy by telling him that if he doesn't kill the guy , he'll have his family killed . Of course , that begs the questions , how is he going to get anyone to kill the family if he can't even get this guy to kill the other guy ? Duh ! EXAMPLE : Malcovich is preparing for an assault on his estate . He has a shot gun and then a pistol and by the time the bad guys break in he's down to a crescent wrench . Jeeez Louise ! EXAMPLE : A guy is shot point blank in the side of his head . . . and only loses part of an ear . Hello ! " Ripley's Game " has a good cast and good locations . But , what a stupid story . Believe it or not . (
A mildly entertaining quirky , campy lite comedy	" Cheerleader " uses the sexual-orientation awakening of one young lesbian woman and her concurrent attempted reorientation in a silly center for gay rehab to make a satirical statement about mainstream misconceptions of homosexuality . The film offers an adequate cast of second tier actors , some funny moments , a Mary Poppinsish milieu , and a couple of incongruously serious lesbian love scenes to provide it's nominal entertainment value .
Nice try but no cigar . Silly , numbing , boring .	It's not surprising that ( at this writing ) the IMDB stats show the high votes for this flick coming from the under 18 group . " Ravenous " builds it's premise around some silly ancient Native American legend which states that if one eats human flesh , the eater gets the spirit of the eatee . Having someone in the attic calling the babysitter in the living room on the phone threatening to disembowel her is much more probable . Additionally , the film is fraught with peculiar incongruities , such as one run-for-your-life scene which is accompanied by up tempo banjo music which could have been the theme from " The Beverly Hillbillies " . " Ravenous " wears itself out with its thin plot and 100 min run time . The last half hour or so seems little more than people running around drooling blood as nauseam such that when the film ends the audience is numb and bored . A waste of time , talent , money .
Porn , murder , drugs , AIDs . . . what more could you want ?	Not unlike " The Doors " ( 1991 ) , " Wonderland " sticks Kilmer out front as a character of dubious notoriety - in this case 70's porn star John Holmes - and then proceeds to make up what it doesn't know while sensationalizing what it does know resulting in a typical over-hyped , over-wrought Hollywoodized no-brainer rip off . Those expecting a dose of sex and nudity can forget it while those expecting a docudrama can forget the " docu " . Those expecting a messy conglomeration of over-cooked nonsense won't be disappointed . ( C )
Only on planet Mamet .	" Homicide " is a hard drama and foible fraught screen sham which turns the spotlight on a NYC Jewish homicide cop ( Mantega ) and his personal and career problems as he makes his way through the mean streets acting as uncharacteristically as everyone else in the film . . . like on another planet where people behave according to another sort of human nature . Everyone talks in clipped and repeated phrases . It's annoying . It's very annoying . You get my drift here ? It's annoying . Mamet would also have us believe two street cops can't deal with a dog . . . mace , batons , guns . . . but it takes Mantega and a sandwich to calm down the animal . If that weren't enough we have to watch Mamet get his butt kicked by Ricky Jay in a 2 punch exchange and then takes on an armed Ving Rhames with only a chain and , well , gets shot . And then provokes him more and gets shot again . Yeah , right . Only on planet Mamet .
It is what it is and that ain't a ten	" Particles of Truth " is a one-woman , low budget indie which plays like one long string of trailer moments . Elsner sticks a couple of neurotic protags in front of us , asks us to care without good reason , and then proceeds to toss in anger , hate , self loathing , disgust , angst , woe , frustration , abuse , AIDS , yadayadayada , all of which all seem like excuses for drama rather than elements arising from the natural progression of a story . If you can't find something better than " Particles . . . " to watch , you're not trying . However , if you're an indie junkie , you may find value in this flick which did receive some positive comments from critics and all those folks who submitted comments to IMDB . com albeit suspiciously for this movie and this movie only . At this writing 64 % of IMDB . com users scoring gave this film the absolute highest score , a ten , as they apparently would have us believe this film is better than " Citizen Cane " or " Gone With the Wind " . Go figure . ( C )
Black hats , white hats , and some gray hats	B-flick . A bunch of people after a bunch of money . Sound familiar ? " Persons Unknown " tells of an ex-cop with an unreconciled past who falls in with a couple of babes resulting in a tiny bit of sex , a little bit of action , and a big fat bit of drama . Though the film smacks of the usual Hollywood contrivances , such as killing off all the unnecessary characters as an easy fix for dangling loose ends , it does manage to develop interesting relationships between the principals . Is this a good movie ? Probably not . It is worth watching ? If you're into crime dramas and happen upon it on cable , probably so . If nothing else you'll get Matenga , Lynch , Watts , some early Hickenlooper , and the option of surfing on . (
Another typical Hollywood ripoff	Take a couple of huge names and a huge studio and add a huge amount of hype and you'll get a huge return on your Hollywood producers ' investment . Even with the internet , people still rely on advertising to tell them what movies to see . So , here we go again . . . another piece of crap flick with Pitt playing a cardboard cutout character , Roberts overacting , and Gandolfini playing a mobster with personal problems . . . right out of the Sopranos , duh ! Weak story , thin plot , poor drama / action , wandering , pointless , poorly directed , generally weak flick . Wait for broadcast on this turkey .
Kung Fooey !	" Romeo Must Die " is a step backward in the succession of Jet Li flicks . Although it provides nominal entertainment and probably deserves a for technical and artistic production value , this film wanders from drama to comedy to action and back , spreading itself so thin as to have no real focus . The story is weak and its presentation muddled . As a result we're left with the impression Jet Li still hasn't found his market nich or defined his place among the great martial arts film stars . For Jet Li fans only .
Coming to a trailer park near you .	" The Boondock Saints " tells of twin brother Irish-Catholics in Boston who turn vigilante and begin offing bad guys all over town while FBI agent Dafoe follows in their wake . A B-flick with good production value , a mediocre cast , a stupid story , and awful comedy , this flick has one man indie written all over it . A sort of simple-minded " Pulp Fiction " wanabee , " The Boondock Saints " is just a whole bunch of uninspired gratuitous violence which should play well in trailer parks all over the US . ( C )
No pain , no gain .	In " Two Can Play That Game " , an upwardly mobile Afro-Am professional woman , Shante ( Fox ) , lays out the " rules " for playing the mating game as she takes the audience step by step , talking to the camera , through her own foible fraught relationship one rule at a time . Meanwhile her befuddled boyfriend ( Chestnut ) gets his own dose of rules and countermeasures from a know-it-all best friend ( Anderson ) . The 95 % comedy in this lively little romp comes from the interaction of the pair of protagonists with their kookie friends . The 5 % romance comes at the end when the flick finally gets real . Fun stuff which gracefully straddles the black / white divide and avoids " ghetto " , this flick will likely appeal most to females , particularly African-American females . (
Ka-thunk ! !	" The Terminal " tells of an Eastern European man on a personal mission ( Hanks ) who becomes stuck in a NYC airport terminal because he doesn't have the proper papers to enter the US and cannot return to his home as his country suffered a coup while he was en route . Given it's pedigree , this film is a dud . Too long at 2 hours , full of filler and commercial product impressions , and very predictable throughout , " The Terminal " tries to build a story around the Hanks character including wooing a flight attendant ( Zeta-Jones ) while bathing in a public restroom , eating at BURGER KING , buying a HUGO BOSS suit , and carrying around his precious PLANTERS DRY ROASTED PEANUTS can , etc . With yawns from the critics and a lukewarm reception by the public , " The Terminal " is fodder for fans only . (
Hokey flick for curl girl wannabes .	" Blue Crush " doesn't have the best surfing footage available but it has a lot . It also has a thin , ordinary story ; the glue which holds the film together between wet scenes . There's precious little reason to spend time with " Blue Crush " unless you're a you're a surfing enthusiast . ( C )
Oh Sandra	Sandra Oh is at the center of " Double Happiness " , a dramady about a Chinese twenty-something immigrant living with her family in Canada , struggling to find work as an actress , while being torn between the ways of the West and the traditional values of her dogmatic parents . An award winning film with nominally satisfactory reviews , this little budget-conscious effort is fraught with low end production value , scenes which simply don't work ( like the incredibly unprofessional casting call with a Hong Kong company rep ) , bad jokes ( like the peanut thing , the phone number thing , etc . ) , mediocre music , zero atmospherics ( meeting your boyfriend at a construction site ? ? ) , a poor ending , and a general absence of auterusmanship . Nonetheless , " Double Happiness " limps along with some poignant moments , a giggle here , some angst there , and maybe even a sentimental pang now and then . An okay cable watch for anyone with time to spare who's in the mood for a Chinese-Canadian generation gap flick . Note - I have always thought Oh was much more skilled than she was marketable . It's nice to see her in a leading role and though she doesn't nail all of her nuances in this flick , the responsibility for that probably belongs with the director . (
Ten Benny = 2 stars	" Ten Benny " is a slice of life flick about some young working class Italian-American men in New Jersey who are desperately trying to merge life styles with dreams . Brody , who went on to better forums for his talent , is at the center of this less than engaging and somewhat clumsy melding of melodrama and reality from first time director Bross and a small army of producers . An okay small screen watch for those with a taste for guy dramas though don't expect much action , sex , nudity or common sense .
A lukewarm two-part comedy about golf and football fans	" The Sports Pages " consists of two completely separate mini-movies in tandem . The first is a droll tale with Newhart on a courtroom witness stand explaining to a jury how he justifies killing an old friend and golfing companion ( Grammer ) by whacking him over the head with a club . Part two is a raucous tale about the " facts " behind the " Heidi Bowl " ( look it up ) . Neither film has much sporting action and both focus on the fans ( golf and football respectively ) . I don't care much for either sport and liked the first bit better . However , fans and nonfans alike should expect little more than a mildly amusing watch from " The Sports Pages " . (
An intelligence-insulting cornball	Straight from chick flick hell into your homes courtesy of Showtime comes this sappy story about a small town ( Due East ) girl who gets pregnant and then has to deal with . . . um , well , getting expelled from school and lots of people who want to help her beyond all reason , throwing money at her problem , etc . The films fails to deal with he real problems of unwed-mother-to-be-hood , offers marginally convincing performances , and distills to just so much blathering . Recommended for females only .
Dumb little movie	" Deadly Little Secrets " is another B-flick with a B-list cast , good technicals , and okay art . However it can't conceal its low budgetness nor its inability to bring coherence to its silly and convoluted pseudo-suspense / thriller / drama story . The flick has made-in-Canada written all over it , a soap opera quality make-it-up-as-you-go screenplay , and the usual movie magic techno-nonsense . Better than some of those jiggle cam no-budget indies , " DLC " is still little more than an okay watch for the droopy eyed couch potato and a pay check for a cast deserving of a better vehicle for their talent . ( C ) Note : The DVD I rented had no English subtitles and no closed captions . However , it did have Spanish language subtitles which the on-screen menu identified as English language . Go figure .
A downhill ride from start to finish	" The Business of Strangers " is a claustrophobic psychodrama which is all about Channing and Stiles as a pair of females at different ends of the corporate ladder spending a night in a hotel while on business travel exchanging thoughts , perspectives , opinions , etc . and slowly discovering the unpleasant truth of each other . The film is a slick shoot which begins fleshing out the characters in fine style with Channing carrying the moment and carefully works its way downhill to a conclusion which is little more than so much gratuitous nonsense . Passable stuff best saved for a free watch on the little screen . (
Two and a half stars and a yawn	" Say Nothing " tells of a wealthy character disorder ( Baldwin ) who stalks a woman from the inside attempting to systematically dismantle her life after having a brief affair with her . An okay shoot with decent acting , " Say Nothing " runs lukewarm as its implausible psychodrama unfolds and then turns cold for a thrown together and anticlimactic ending . Kinski's performance is solid , Baldwin is always good as an evil doer , but Bochner seems out of place as a good guy . The films shows us nothing new and is marginal fodder for couch potatoes at best .
Nice try but no cigar .	" The Pornographer " tells of a socially immature and sexually naive a young male paralegal who , frustrated with his misfires with women , dabbles in pornography and goes nowhere . This film had potential . It could have crawled into the mind of a pornographer and dealt more realistically with the sleaze industry . Instead it puts moral issues on the table and doesn't deal with them ; raises questions it can't answer ; and ends with a trite Hollywood cliche . An unsatisfying journeyman flick , " The Pornographer " is to be commended for taking on a difficult subject and not exploiting it though overall it is a generally mediocre watch which should have been better .
A mediocre film about a marginally interesting character .	" Steal . . . " is a journeyman production which tells a skewed version of the Abbie Hoffman story and revisits the domestic turmoil of the Vietnam era . Though in and of itself not a great film , " Steal This Movie " may conjure some nostalgia for those who remember the Yippie days and wet the interest of those who don't . An okay drama not to be confused with historical documentary .
Subpar boring drama made for cable .	" Mistrial " tells of a highly improbably story of a cop caught in the jaws of an imperfect system who goes over the edge and holds a courtroom hostage . Good work by Pullman can't save a mediocre screenplay and ludicrous lagging story with some good acting talent in scripted mannequin roles . Very ordinary low budget made-for-tv yawner .
This is your nose on drugs ! Any questions ?	" The Salton Sea " is a confused genrehybrid schizophrenic dark comedy / drama which attempts to tell a compelling tale of a man ( Kilmer ) who lost his identity through cataclysmic personal crisis and sunk in a morass of drug culture crank freaks morphing into a narc snitch and an underground deep cover IA mole so deep his only identity is himself which he's lost but it trying to regain through revenge . Is that clear ? ? If not , you'll get some idea of how muddled this story is . Nonetheless , the film manages some moodiness and is busy enough that people into " pulp fiction " stylistics might want to give this a try . ( C )
When is a game not a game ? When it's reality .	When is reality not reality ? When it's a game . " eXistenZ " is a terrestrial science fantasy flick which can be described as a 2-D Mobius strip with one side being reality and the other virtual reality . This dark and plodding film gets off to a slow start , grows interesting in the middle ( for those who are interested in this stuff ) , then collapses with a predictable conclusion . In general the film is an earnest effort though the story makes no meaningful human connection and the audience is taken on an abstract voyeuristic comic-book ride through what mature adults may regard as cinematic drivel and what teenagers and sci-fi junkies may regard as fascinating substance .
Flawed , corny , predictable family fun flick	" Monkey Trouble " tells of an organ grinder's ( Keitel ) pickpocket monkey who abandons his boss and adopts a young girl ( Birch ) leading to much monkey business . All of the human actors in this corny flick are upstaged by the monkey star whose antics make this predictable family comedy worth watching . Nuff said .
A very ordinary movie about a very extraordinary man	" Conviction " tells the success story of the late Carl Upchurch ; a black man who was born to the ghetto , became a criminal , and then bootstrapped his way to prominence as a speaker , organizer , author , and activist for black causes . This Showtime production is a journeyman effort which dwells too much on Upchurch's rather ordinary misdeeds and too little on his extraordinary noble deeds . Okay stuff for anyone with an interest in Upchurch . Passable for all others . (
Okay but ill focused with no real story	A kind of slice-of-Army-grunt-life film , " Tigerland " tells of recruits in boot training in preparation for duty in Vietnam . An earnest endeavor , this film offers some good performances and maintains a flawed but generally realistic representation of basic training with the focus on one platoon and one man in particular . Unfortunately the film gets mired in a morass of negatives forsaking the positives , duty , honor , and courage , with no clear purpose , a nebulous plot , and a screenplay which quickly becomes a burr of macho vulgarities and one big cluser-fk . Most likely to be appreciated by soldier-type mentalities .
Like Jim Belushi ? ?	If so , you'll like " Traces of Red " , a murder mystery in which Belushi plays a cop hot on the trail of a serial killer in Palm Beach , FL . Though the flick misses the sweaty Florida noir atmospherics of " Palmetto " and " Gold Coast " and dishes up a convoluted , not-to-be-taken-seriously plot , it does feature the same old likeable tough guy Belushi in his slimmer days . Good stuff for Belushi fans . Marginal , mediocre escapist stuff for everyone else . ( C )
Ordinary and unoriginal	" Returner " tells of an assassin who encounters a teen female during a firefight and learns she has traveled back through time to prevent a sci-fi war between good and evil and save humanity from oblivion . A kind of second rate knock-off of everything from John Woo stylistics to Mad Max contraptions , this Japanese B-flick misses the opportunity to capitalize on the girl / guy team humanistics as it ventures into CGI man vs machine silliness . Dubbed in English and with subtitles , " Returner " makes for a campy action romp which will play best with tech-heads and gamer-types into anything action . ( C )
If you like this flick , get out your Ouija board .	" What Lies Beneath " offers a thin story , a weak plot , two of Hollywood's most over-rated stars , and little else . Things go bump in Pfeiffer's head as the camera lingers ad nauseum in one fabricated suspenseful moment after another and the perfectly perfect couple's encounter with the paranormal unfolds . The film is predictable and fails to compel the audience to make the necessary leap of faith required by all such spooky flicks . A big disappointment from Zamackis and a waste of time for all but the most avid supernatural junkies .
A fable , a fraud , a huge disappointment .	" Lulu on the Bridge " is pointless nonsense featuring some fine acting talent which is stifled by the absence of a worthy story . Anybody could have written this piece of amateurish drivel which is no more than a contemporary fairy tale . Granted there are good and bad fairy tales . This is a bad one which is why anyone could have written it . Recommended for no one .
A good movie for suckers	" Center of the World " , which refers to the birth canal , tells of a young millionaire nice-guy who pays a stripper to do three days in Vegas with him . She imposes restrictions like no kissing on the lips , no talk of feelings , no fornication , etc . At issue is , will they get past the sex stuff and fall in love ? Wang has put a slick veneer on this story which spends too much time with gratuitous sex and too little time with character development . . . and what little is developed is pretty hard to swallow . Gugino's appearance is token , out of nowhere , and contributes nothing and all the lollipop and " fire and ice " BS is just window dressing for a story which is a flat as warm beer .
A directorial disaster .	" Dead Heat " wander schizophrenically between comedy and drama with no clear sense of purpose as it wends its way through a story which starts out okay and becomes increasingly lacking in purpose and vision and looking more and more like a cheap made for tv flick as it winds down . The film is not without its moments , but they're few and far between making " Dead Heat " little more than a wheezing and lukewarm small screen watch for the couch potato . (
" Kids in the Dog Park " Canadian comedy	" Dog Park " is a lukewarm , enjoyable , and critically condemned contemporary romantic comedy which is low on romance , has a quirky " Kids in the Hall " sense of humor ( for obvious reasons ) , and spends most of its time looking at the foibles of relationships . An so-so watch for channel surfers in the mood some light off-the-wall comedy .
Jeez !	" Coast to Coast " sticks Dreyfuss and Davis front and center as a middle-aged couple on the verge of divorce who take a road trip from East to West coasts to attend their son's marriage while waxing nostalgic , visiting quirky friends , and sorting through old regrets along the way . Supposedly a poignant dramedy about reconciliation , this lame dose of couch potato fodder from Showtime has Toronto standing in for the US and a big hole where the entertainment should be . One can only speculate that budgetary constraints got between the cast and crew and a quality film product result . Coulda-shoulda been better , " Coast to Coast " is an uneven , uninspired nice-try-but-no-cigar near miss . ( C )
Favreau flops .	" Made " tells of a pair of L . A . guys ( Favreau & Vaughn ) , best friends in spite of constant bickering , who go New York on an errand for a small time crook . What happens as the story unfolds isn't much . . . bickering and more bickering with encounters with a variety of hoodlums . " Made " lacks the appeal of Favreau's " Swingers " as is heaps clutter on more clutter with the interest being in snappy patter as opposed to a real story . An okay watch if expectations are kept low .
" Bright Angel " has a gaping hole where a story should be	" Bright Angel " tells of a young Montana man ( Mulroney ) and a young Canadian woman ( Taylor ) who end up on a road trip together . A plodding , tedious film , " Bright Angel " is full of characters who range from a little weird to very weird and who seem to be necessary to maintain audience interest in the absence of a story . A plotless and disappointing film which manages to do very little with a whole lot of talent , this flick is not likely to receive good reviews from the board of tourism for big sky country and will be easily forgotten by the public in general .
A slice of Beirut life with no clear purpose or direction .	" West Beirut " is a plotless , non-story , non-documentary , meandering slice-of-life flick about a teenage boy's life in the early days of the Lebanese civil war when Beirut became divided into East and West . Although the film examines Beirut civilian life under the pall of war , it doesn't deal with any specific issue sufficiently to give it purpose . It's not particularly entertaining , evocative , or compelling ; does not chronicle events well ; is a poor study in history ; and is void of romance , mayhem , comedy , suspense , or any of the things which people go to movies to see . " West Beirut " has the " feel " of a make-it-up-as-you-go low budget journeyman drama . Recommended only for those with special interest in Lebanon .
If you don't have a product to sell , sell the advertising .	" Lost in La Mancha " is a documentary which takes you behind the scenes of a film which never came to fruition . It shows a dab of this and a dab of that - costuming , casting , prop making , planning , organizing , scheduling , scouting , etc . - before working up to the problems which eventually sunk the film's production which were probably unrealistic expectations , mismanagement , and poor leadership although the film would have you believe they were jet planes , bad weather , and a bad back . " Lost in La Mancha " began as one of those short subjects about the making of specific films that clutter cable t . v . and are little more than advertising in the guise of documentaries and it plainly continues in that same vein through its 90 minute run with peek-a-boo looks at the busyness and business of making a doomed film . Recommended only for those interested in film making . (
Inside this flick is a good plot trying to get out .	" Blackout Effect " gets off to a good start and ends confused about it's own purpose . With Stoltz at the center as an NTSB sleuth investigating a midair collision , the film takes the audience into the world of commercial aviation and air traffic control . However , once there , it becomes a mess of conflicts between ATC's and management , the NTSB and the ATC management , the quirky bad guy and everyone , and even a side plot about a relationship between the investigator and a passenger on the doomed flight which serves no purpose . The film loses itself when an agitated ATC threatens to disrupt aviation with a home made ray gun . Yeah , right . An okay watch with sufficient energy to keep the viewer awake , " Blackout Effect " will be most enjoyed by tech-heads and people interested in convoluted dramas , especially about aviation .
A sub-par telling of a good story	" Price of Glory " is a journeyman drama at best . At issue is the whether the desire of a washed up Latino boxer / patriarch to see his three sons become champion fighters is for his own vicarious realization of a lost dream or to ensure his sons have a financially secure future . In spite of a good story and earnest performances , this film is outwardly a very ordinary production lacking the class and intelligence of " Resurrection Blvd " and the verve and passion of " Rocky " .
Even Kidman can't carry this dog on her back	" To Die For " is all about Kidman's character ; a small time t . v . weather-person who makes up for what she lacks in talent and brains with ambition and amorality . This doggedly plodding movie manages to stretch 10 minutes of story into a full length feature with narration heaped upon narration leading to an unsatisfying and hollow film with a voyeuristic feel and limited audience appeal . Couch potato alert : if you begin to get bored while watching this flick , surf away . It ain't gonna get no better .
Levity schmevity , burp !	" Levity " , a misnomer , slogs through a tedious tale of a guilt-ridden man ( Thornton ) , recently released from a 20 year stint in prison for murder , who goes in search of redemption . Panned by the critics , this film lays down a thick layer of haunting atmospherics , ghostly visions , etc . while Thornton moves zombie-like through its ever sinking story toward a wholly unsatisfying conclusion . From my perspective , nothing really worked in " Levity " from Dunst's bleak performance to Freeman's unexplained departure to Thornton's perpetual sedation to Hunter's unlikely attraction to a man with negative charm and zero personality , etc . During the run I was never engrossed and constantly seeing Thornton , Hunter , etc . rather than their characters . Recommended for fans and relatives of the principals only . ( SPOILERS - IMHO , " Levity " would have worked better in the end if Thornton stopped a bullet intended for the son thereby saving the kid's life , securing his own redemption , and transporting himself from the life he so lamented . Also , we wouldn't have to live in fear of a sequel .
Very ordinary	" Bug " starts with a kid squishing a bug and from there launches into chain reactions which affect the lives of a handful of people . A budget conscious indie with a so-so cast and obvious cost cutters throughout , " Bug " doesn't manage to accomplish much beyond its novel approach to story telling . In the heap of " common denominator " flix which seem to be " All the Rage " from the hit " Magnolia " with crisscrossing subplots to the mutual friend drama " Love in a Time of Money " , " Bug " is at the bottom . Mediocre stuff best saved for as a boredom-breaker broadcast watch . ( C )
An ordinary take it or leave it biopic	" Boss of Bosses " tells of the rise , reign , and fall of mob boss Paul Castellano ( Palminteri ) with the emphasis on his reign as head of the Gambino crime family . " BofB " plays as a rather ordinary made-for-tv biopic centered on a marginally interesting crime figure with Palminteri seemingly helplessly in need of some quality direction . Passable stuff only for the terminally bored or those with an interest in organized crime .
A fun little college campus romp for the guys	" 100 Girls " is a slightly naive comedy romp about a college freshman who has sex with an unknown coed on an elevator during a blackout and then spends the entire run time searching the girls ' dorm for his " Cinderella " . Tucker is at the center of this fun little romp which is chock full of babes but has little nudity , no raunch , and some heart . Unsophisticated but fun , creative though cliche , " 100 Girls " aptly dignifies women without deifying them during the self-narrated dissertation on the difference between the sexes . Most likely to be enjoyed by college age men and older guys , like me , who remember their college years with nostalgia .
Where's the money ? Where's the comedy ? ?	" Where the Money Is " is a lukewarm light comedy / drama with very little going for it beyond three excellent core actors and a cute premise . Newman , a malingering and savvy thief / convict , is upstaged by Fiorentino's refreshingly unique mix of larceny and loyalty in this so-so production which dwells too much on logistics and details and not enough on relationships .
Russian B-movie	Telling of the rise and fall of an upwardly mobile wannabe tycoon who just sort of magically makes a fortune by parlaying brooms into jeans into cars , etc . by climbing the ladder of success in the new Russia's corrupt market economy of the past 20 years , " Tycoon : A New Russian " has low production value , a story which asks more questions than it answers , a confusing herky-jerky flow which leaps back and forth through time , poor character development , etc . , and , of course , subtitles . Given so many liabilities , it would be difficult to recommend this flick to anyone save those few with a real interest in Russian cinema . Russian film enthusiasts should check out the much better Russian film : " Utomlyonnye solntsem ( Burnt by the Sun ) " ( 1994 ) . ( C )
G'bye mate !	1996 must have been a lousy year for Aussie films considering the nominations which this klunker received . " Love and Other . . . . " tells of a day in the life of Mia ( O'Connor ) , a lesbian college student who's having a bad day not unlike the audience . This kinda-sorta comedy isn't likely to evoke even a giggle from the average viewer as it staggers amateurishly through its pedestrian story bleeding and in need of a plot . . . a burial plot .
A traditional take on a timeless subject with nothing new	" Sexual Life " takes a superficial look at the romantic inclinations or disinclinations of several disparate but loosely interconnected Los Angeles couples as it flows serially from one couple to the next , eventually coming full circle in the end . The common denominator is sex and other relationship salients though the film is quite tame and has a kind of mellow and understated feel to it . The couples range from a call girl and her client to a married couple to a betrothed couple , etc . all obviously carefully planned to provide a range of possibilities for both auteur and audience . Though there's little new to be found between the credits , this is a pleasant little dramedy which handles the subject matter delicately in deference to more edgy and sexually explicit genre motifs . " Sexual Life " , built from B listers and a step down for Heche , is a winsome little indie for those who want to glean it from broadcast . (
Lost in translation	" What The ' Bleep ' Do We Know " is a sort of quasi-documentary offering the thoughts and musing of a bunch of egg heads about lofty subjects from quantum physics to neurobiology to the nature of God , the universe , etc . all built around a day in the life of Marlee Matlin whose experiences parallel or are analogous to whatever subject the film is meandering through at the time . A vague and qualitative amalgamation of dramedy , pundit discourse , and special animated effects , this flick doesn't fit any particular genre , ask more questions than it answers , and is apparently a lame attempt to get people thinking big thoughts as it reaches from contemporary science into the realm of pseudophilosophical intellectualizing . Not particularly entertaining or educational , " What The . . " might have some value for middle school or high school science nerds . (
Mediocre flick with lousy screenplay relies on star power	" Bandits " is a comedy trying to be an action flick trying to be a drama trying to be romantic trying to . . . . . etc . Levinson and Peyton conjure up the usual , the nominal , the mediocre Hollywood fare in this story about a couple of obviously manufactured characters who rob banks . The flick never really connects with the audience as it move schizophrenically through it's meager plot wearing out the charm and quirkiness of it's characters , not building , and ending predictably . Nonetheless it does manage a modest level of entertainment with some humorous moments . A good one to save for broadcast .
A typical case of sequelitis	" The Whole Ten Yards " , the sequel to " The Whole Nine Yards " ( 2000 ) , pulls together the same cast and runs with the ball again thought it fumbles and fails to make a touch down . Trying to capitalize on what made " . . . Nine Yards " a commercial comedy success , " . . . Ten Yards " suffers from sequelitis , offers nothing new , works harder not smarter , and ultimately is a creative step down . You'll see the same schtick as before with the same constant pointing of guns , threats to kill people , hit-man gags , pratfalls , and blatant silliness which all come off more like a bad after taste than a new treat . Those who haven't seen " . . . Nine Yards " , should watch it before watching this sequel . Those who saw " . . . Nine Yards " might want to give " . . . Ten Yards " a try . Keep expectations low and so for a free VCR / DVR watch . (
Zirconium film	" Diamond Men " is a slice-of-life flick about an aging traveling diamond salesman ( Forster ) , his protege ( Wahlberg ) , and their experiences on the road . In spite of being a good natured light drama with a heart , " Diamond Men " can't escape its amateurish screen play and obvious low budgetness as it wanders through fields of pure corn all the way to its feel good conclusion . A mildly enjoyable B-flick which should be an okay sofa spud watch if it makes it to broadcast . ( C )
Hokey	" Ghost Ship " tells of a 40 year old haunted derelict Italian luxury liner located in the Bering Sea by a tug crew of salvage divers who find gold and a whole bunch of scary stuff on board . The film offers a decent cast with good production value but flops big time on story . The plot is thin and hokey and the film little more than a long string of those contrived and predictable scary moments where someone creeps down a dark , dank passageway only to open a door and find something scary like rats or corpses or blood oozing from the walls . There is some action , a few worthy effects , and one lady ghost is kind enough to go topless . Otherwise this is flick is just so much claptrap which isn't going to scare anyone old enough for an R rating . Save for broadcast . ( C )
A lead balloon of a film	" The New Age " is deep satire which runs the gamut of things 90's . Using a Davis and Weller , a 40ish L . A . married couple , as a centerpiece , the film attempts to depict the emptiness of the hedonistic , materialistic , and morally bankrupt life style of the " new age " as it follows the principals from schmoozfests to open marriages to euthanasia to spiritual healing to spas and massages to orgies , etc , all the while portraying the characters as subtle exaggerations which are likely to go over with most audiences like a lead balloon . This unfortunate product by Tolkin starts like serious drama and slowly drifts in limbo somewhere between satire and realism so as to leave many wondering why the film was made and why they bothered to watch it .
The last Civil War movie to see	" Wicked Spring " is a very ordinary low budget indie which plays out like a slice of Civil War life as men from both sides spend time together during a respite in the Battle of the Wilderness . This plotless film is put together with relatively unknown actors delivering mediocre performances ; lots of reenactment battle scenes which give no sense of generaling and strategy ; and a big dose of visuals to make up for the absence of content and story arc ; etc . I'm a Civil War buff of sorts and have seen just about everything from Ken Burns CW to Glory to the Gettysburgs to the Civil War Journal , Red Badge of Courage , North vs South , etc . , etc . and , though I think I understand what Hershberger was trying to do with this movie , it just didn't work for me . Keep expectations real and make this the last CW movie you watch . ( C )
Same old stuff	" Assault on Precinct 13 " is an ordinary action / drama about a handful of cops , a couple of babes , and several criminals in a soon-to-be-defunct police station house on a dark and snowy New Year's eve who come under siege by a small army of bad guys who want to kill one of the prisoners to prevent him from testifying in court . On the inside of the of the besieged police station are a sergeant with issues ( Hawk ) and the high value prisoner ( Fishburne ) who team up to deal with the threat . On the outside is the equivalent of a SWAT team led by a ruthless killer ( Byrne ) . As this obviously contrived tale unfolds it becomes increasingly apparent it is just more of the same Hollywood B-movie material with nothing new to offer . There is , however , enough action to make for a lukewarm couch potato watch as long as the brain is disengaged and expectations are kept low . (
A film for sentimentalists and Ving fans .	" Holiday Heart " attempts to be a touching lite drama about a burly drag queen who befriends a female druggie and her daughter . Rhames works hard to fit into his character and his dresses and , to his credit , pulls it off . The film in general is a little schmaltzy around the edges , makes obvious efforts to push the viewers buttons for the desired result , and tells a story which beyond the unique premise is unoriginal . Nonetheless , the viewer who sets skeptical analysis aside and goes with the flow may just become pleasantly engrossed in this heart warming tale of strange bedfellows .
A very ordinary oft told tale	" Blue Hill Avenue " is the story of the rise of Tristan ( Payne ) from ghetto kid to drug kingpin . An attempt to show the how a kid can be strung out on money while his turf gets strung out on narcotics makes this flick old news . Production value , cast , and camera are low end but acceptable . Where this film really fails is in the script / story . For example . . . a girl doesn't want anything to do with Tristan because he's a " dealer " but changes her mind when he gives her some cheesy bling . " Blue Hill Avenue " is an old story , offers nothing new , reeks of indiness , runs too long ( at 2 hrs ) , and has characters who look like they stepped right out of a . . . . well , a bad movie . (
How's this for rationalizing ?	There's a bizarre human appetite for that which is awful . From lookie-looing at traffic accidents to Man Show mooks to Lettreman's stupid pet tricks to worst home videos , etc . , people like to watch people being stupid , outrageous , and ridiculous . Therein lies the appeal of " Turbulence " , a not-to-be-taken-seriously white knuckle ride into the realm of the ridiculous with Holly as the " Stew " who's got to save a 747 jumbo jet with a handful of passengers against all odds including one very whacked out serial killer ( Liotta ) . Ok , ok . . . this movie is stupid . However , for those who can get to that place in their heads where they don't intellectualize , just go with it , and enjoy the humor-tinged hair raising suspense and silliness , 100 minutes of entertainment awaits . ( C )
A confused mess of a movie .	" I Love You , I Love You Not " is an ambiguous and confused movie about a Jewish prep school girl in NYC ( Danes ) who spends a lot of time hanging out and acting oh so very " girl " with her " nana " ( Moreau ) and falls for a too charming and over-acting Jude Law . A mess of a movie which spins nonsense around solid performances by Danes and Moreau , this flick has little to offer . Hey , if my grandma told me scary bedtime stories about the Angel of Death and the horrors of the holocaust at that tender age , I'd have issues too . Pass on this bit of fluff .
Warn-ing !	" The Nemesis Game " tells of a college student , Sara ( Pope ) , who plays a game of riddles but who can't seem to solve the riddle of her life . The film develops a pair of wispy , marginally intriguing , and converging plot lines ; Sara and her riddle game and her father , a cop , and his interrogation of a murder suspect . However , as the story wears on it become more convoluted in its attempt to keep the intrigue going and more muddled in its ability to resolve the issues raised . The result is a frustrating mess with paper thin characters which wallows in it own sense of self importance while failing to deliver anything of substance finally ending with an epilogue much like the punch line of a shaggy dog story . Passable stuff only for the most hard up couch potato . ( C )
Yawn !	" If Lucy Fell " tells of a man and woman who have known each other since childhood , live together platonically , and are both single and looking for love unsuccessfully . Hmmm . . . what do you suppose is going to happen ? ? Schaeffer's shot at telling this old no-brainer in " If Lucy Fell " doesn't distinguish itself in any way and though it has it's moments they are few and far between . The film has many deficits with the most obvious being the lack of sincere sentiment and the usual gushing emotional crescendo at the end . What sentiment there is seems forced and awkward . A so-so little indie romcom which is watchable but not recommendable . ( C )
Eminently average	There little worth commenting on in " Black Point " , an obvious , hackneyed , journeyman , low budget B-flick which is just another in a very long line of films about a bunch of people after a bunch of money . The film has nothing original to offer and is so ordinary in every way that it's not worthy of commentary . I'm surprised this flick hasn't made it to cable yet ( at least not in my market ) as I watched it on DVD and I can't imagine it ever saw the light of a projector . Just more of the same old stuff which will have little value beyond fodder for the sofa spud looking for a no-brainer crime flick . ( C )
Zzzzzzz . . . is it over yet ?	" The In-Laws " is a busy comedy which does a lot of things and does none of them well . Built around a wedding which brings characters together so we can watch them clash , this film ventures into international spy stuff , personal and family issues , action , comedy , and even tries for some poignancy fizzling every average step of the way . I think this is what they call a " popcorn " flick because if you take it with popcorn at least you'll have the popcorn to enjoy . Best saved for broadcast . ( C )
Low end Aussie romcom	Twin brothers fall in love with the same woman ( Burrows ) as teens . Fast forward ten years and they own a honeymoon retreat , encounter their old flame who has come for her wedding , and attempt to pick up where they left off in spite of the presence of the groom . What follows in the denouement is a bit clumsy and awkward at times with low end production value and relatively unknown actors . However , factor in some side characters and an ample helping of vintage pop love songs and you have a mildly amusing little flick with some heart which should make an okay small screen watch for those in the mood for romcom fare . Keep expectations real and enjoy . (
Who cares ?	Take a little comedy , toss in some drama , add a pinch of romance , mix the whole thing with some science fiction , and you have " Donnie Darko " , which , BTW , you should not consume but flush down the garbage disposal . Novice writer / director Kelly spins a yarn about a delusional burb-dwelling WASP teen male who sees a shrink for performing misdeeds while under the spell of a monster rabbit because he's getting ready to travel through a worm hole . . . . or something like that . With no reason to give a crap about Donnie , except that he's a cute kid , one can only sit idly watching this confused mess of a movie which counts down the time to doomsday or something and then ends in another place in space / time . . . as if that were even remotely interesting . Nonetheless , " Donnie Darko " scored well on this website , so go figure . There's no accounting for taste , hmmm ?
A wee flick	" Late Night Shopping " is a little , lukewarm Brit friends comedy which follows the lives and loves of a trio of young Glasgow guys who spend most of their time trying to figure out their lives and loves . The film wanders from pillar to post seemingly searching for its story until it settles on one couple and the reconciliation of some relationship-busting indiscretions . There's probably more right with " Late Night Shopping " than there is wrong with it , but it is not sufficient to warrant a trip to the video store . Unengaging , monotonous at times , but with a solid cast and an occasionally pang of poignancy or heart , this flick may have some appeal for young adults , Scots or Brits , fans of the players , etc . All else pass . ( C )
A fun little comedy that turns a black man white .	" True Identity " is a kinda / sorta fun little campy comedy about a black man who hides from the mob disguised as a white hit man . Very mediocre stuff , " TI " does give the viewer a rare opportunity to see Lenny Henry do his shtick . Worth a look but nothing special .
Mediocre Perry Mason stuff	" The Last Innocent Man " is a predictable , by-the-numbers journeyman tv flick with Harris playing a top criminal attorney who has an affair with the wife of a man whom he later must defend . . . etc . In it's somewhat long two hour run time this - jack - of - all - trades - and - master - of - none flick manages to squeeze in murder , investigation , trial , romance , sex , dirty cops , a pimp , a sting , a crazed killer , etc . without distinguishing itself in any particular way . Filler for late night cable .
Razzie material	" Killing Me Softly " tells of a couple who has sex , gets married , and then has problems because she ( Graham ) grows increasingly suspicious of him ( Fiennes ) whom she never really got to know before the marriage ( duh ) . On the downside , the film has a thin story full of plot holes and implausibilities with ponderous music which is always off target and a perfectly awful school girl performance by Graham . On the upside , it's a good shoot with good camera work and lots of Graham skin . Overall , " Killing Me Softly " is a classy loser only for the less discerning viewer who wants a little suspense ( very little ) to zone to . ( C )
Fun romantic whimsy	In " Don Juan DeMarco " , Depp plays a man who , institutionalized after threatening to jump from a building while being dressed like Zorro , recounts the fantastic romantic tale of his life to his psychiatrist ( Brando ) and how be became the world's greatest lover . A romantic comedy of sorts , " DJD " begs the question . . . Who is more crazy : The young man who lives a romantic fantasy and enjoys the fullness of life or the psychiatrist who retires with a gold watch and a marriage with a gaping hole where the romance should be ? A fun , fanciful frolic with Depp , Brando , ample romance , a whiff of sensuality , not much sex , and one scene with no less than 40 nude women , " DMD " may not be the best flick available but it is not without its assets . A fun romp for romantics . All others ; turn off brain and just go with it . (
A sitcom quality romantic / comedy from the old school .	While not a big budget blockbuster , " Return To Me " pushes all the right buttons for those who enjoy this overworked genre . The film offers an interesting premise ; doesn't take itself too seriously ; showcases some okay acting talent ; and serves up some refreshing creativity . More than your trite chick flick , those who just go with it will likely chuckle and weep . Home is where the heart is .
Obvious , predictable , and fun	" I'll Be There " tells of a singing Brit teen with a paper route and a pink scooter who lives with her mum and learns the father she never knew is a wacky rock star ( Ferguson ) who lives nearby . On the downside , this obvious , contrived , and predictable string of feel good moments , sitcom , and song stumbles over a lackluster debut by chipmunk-cheeked Church and its own unabashed hokiness . On the upside it delivers some of Church's amazing warbling , some foot stompin ' boogie-woogie , and an ample helping of sentimental fun stuff while never taking itself too seriously . With mixed reviews and mediocre marks from the public , " I'll Be There " makes for a fun watch if expectations are kept real . If in doubt , wait for broadcast where it's sure to appear soon . (
About what you'd expect .	Arnold's getting a little long in the tooth and spending more time with his shirt on while feebly trying to act like a real actor in more serious roles . In " Collateral Damage " the muscle man plays a fireman who goes to Colombia on a mission of vengeance and returns to the US to finish the job . " CD " is pretty much the usual Swarzenegger stuff and doesn't distinguish itself in any particular way . Just more Arnold with the same old thick Austrian accent and the usual Hollywood appurtenances . Keep expectations low , turn off your brain ( you won't be needing it ) , and enjoy . (
A poor telling of an oft told tale .	" Anna Karenina " , ( circa 1997 ) is a lavish abbreviated retelling of the Tolstoy classic which tries to do too much with too little time . The capable cast seems to have mostly British accents ( except for Marceau's rather obvious French undertone ) which seem out of place in a film shot and set in Russia . This leap-frogging flick does resound with the import of one maxim : If you can't do it right , don't do it at all .
Typical made-for-tv exploitation fare .	" Against the Wall " is a journeyman tv docudrama ( with the emphasis on " drama " ) which tells of the Attica prison riot of 1971 . Okay as a gritty and violent prison drama , " ATW " fails to crystalize prison issues or make significant social commentary . Pretty much your usual run-of-the-mill Hollywood exploitaition flick fraught with inconsistencies and a poor sense of direction though , perhaps , there's no more to be found in the Attica story .
Very hip , kooky , funny .	Life , love , sex , birth , death . . . and all on the phone . This very hip comedy is all about a handful of New York guys and gals who tend to their relationships via telephone while busily hammering at computers or are otherwise indisposed with the necessities of living . Fresh , creative , and fun , " DCU " moves along quickly and runs a short 80 minutes all the while keeping the audience wondering if these people are ever going to get together . Only for those into droll , spoofy , fast talking , relationship-based , off-the-wall comtempo comedy .
I . V . to ivy	" Homeless to Harvard " tells the true story of Liz Murray who went from living with her druggie parents in a Bronx slum and living on the street while dumpster diving for food to earning a degree at Harvard University . This gritty TV flick is narrated by Thora Birch who registers a sterling performance as the wan , slump shouldered , stringy haired teen protag whose mother's death from AIDS set her free to focus her brain power and determination on academic success . Though this film is a worthy testament to the success of Liz Murray it is , in the final analysis , just another rags to ( intellectual ) riches story . Not that big a deal with an obvious made-for-TV " feel " , " Homeless to Harvard " is inspirational fodder for teen females and a worthy watch for Birch fans . (
Thackery goes Hollywood	" Vanity Fair " ( 2004 ) is an acceptable but abbreviated version of the classic Thackery Victorian period novel which tells of Becky Sharp ( Witherspoon ) , who uses artifice and charm to climb from lowly governess to aristocrat , always able to find a suitable family of peerage or property to use as a rung in her ladder to the top in spite of the tribulations of the time . At just over two hours , this film cannot deal in depth with the many characters in the story and has to content itself with hitting the high points which make for a very condensed telling suited to those who only wish the flavor of the story . Those with a particular interest in Victorian pulp fiction or more expansive dramas should turn to the BBC's 1998 six hour miniseries which offers greater character depth , a presentation much more true to the period , and a very much better cast . (
A near miss	" The Devil in a Blue Dress " is all about Washington's character , a 1948 veteran who is recently unemployed and takes earnest money for a simple errand from a man of dubious character only to find himself as the suspect in a murder case with tentacles reaching into the underworld and politics . A norish linear narrative , the flick does everything right but with less than exceptional results . Entertaining but not engrossing , interesting but not compelling , enjoyable but not provocative , " Devil . . . " is makes for little more than an okay small screen watch . (
Earnest , gritty , solid indie .	Exceptionally well done for a low budget indie with a novice auteur , " All Over Me " is a slice-of-life character study which follows an adolescent urban girl , Claude ( Folland ) , with a-typical sexual inclinations and a dream of playing guitar in a rock band through the mean teen streets of NYC's low rent district where she struggles to cope with a best friend's drug abuse , the murder of an acquaintance , a dysfunctional mom for family , and her own low self esteem . In lieu of a solid story , this gritty little flick with limited appeal conjures powerful performances from some young actors and is worth a look for realists into films about " growing pains " and the quiet courage of youth . (
Heartbreak ho-stel	The plot to " Buba Ho-Tep " goes something like this : After swapping identities with an Elvis impersonator , the real Elvis ( Campbell ) breaks a hip from too many pelvic gyrations , develops a tumor on his dingus , and then ends up in a sanatorium where he meets a black man who thinks he is JFK ( Davis ) with sand in his head where his brains used to be and together they square off with a zombie-like redneck Egyptian mummy who stalks the sanatorium at night threatening to suck the souls out of the patients via their bodily orifices . Sound good ? ? Well , if so , you may be one of the many who gave high marks to this wacky film noir comedy which has little going for it save its countless eccentricities and a sterling performance by Campbell as a porky , aging Elvis with a snoot full of problems who philosophizes about his predicament while trying to save the day armed only with his walker . ( B )
All you need to know .	If you like Austin Powers , see this movie . If you don't like Austin Powers , don't see this movie . That's all you need to know as " Goldmember " is a simple albeit extravagant sequel and cash flow conduit from the < 30 crowd into Hollywood bank accounts . Just more of the same potty / crotch humor , sexual innuendos , genital joke retreads , and shagadelic nonsense . (
More like a bad after taste than an after glow .	" You're the most fascinating woman I've ever met " , he tells her after knowing her for about five minutes . Perhaps that will give you a sense of the sophomoric nature of " Afterglow " ; a film which tells of two neurotic married couples , one middle aged ( Nolte / Christie ) and one younger ( Boyle / Miller ) , and their respective interwoven infidelities . With a solid core cast and good technical and artistic capabilities and an interesting premise , " Afterglow " should have offered more than characters we're not given to care about even if we could suspend disbelief long enough to care . Nonetheless , there's enough going for this mediocre drama to make it a worthwhile small screen watch for sofa spuds with an appetite for the subject .
See Joe get smacked . See Joe get yelled at . See Joe steal . Etc .	" Joe the King " is a slice-of-miserable-life flick about a boy from a dysfunctional family who steals . That's pretty much the premise , the plot , the story , the whole enchilada . This uneventful and seemingly pointless film is a good journeyman production in all respects with the exception of the story which is too pedestrian to be interesting and seems to have no moral , meaning , or message . One can only guess what Whaley was thinking when he made this klunker .
Good stuff if you like comic books .	" X2 " tells another tale about our favorite mutants and a few new ones too but it's not likely anyone is really going to care about the story . What the film has to offer is solid effects , heavy on the CGI , with babes , kids who kick butt , lots of cool special powers , and action and stunts up the wazoo . In other words , it's a good flick for younger audiences , comic book freaks , and the like . Personally , I grew utterly bored with it and gave up about 10 minutes before the end . Nonetheless , it's a respectable effort and probably better than " X1 " ( X-Men ) in most respects . (
An austere plodding Euro-flick psychodrama .	" La Cérémonie " is an ordinary film in every way with the exception of the foreboding , unrelenting stealth with which the ominous story unfolds . Tedious at first , this film packs a punch at the end . However , in the final analysis , with more questions asked than answered , one has to wonder if the conclusion was worth the wait . Probably not worthy of its critical acclaim but a worth while watch for Chabrol fans and those into Euro-flick head trips .
Mooooo !	" Someone . . . . " is a predictable formula fluff-filled romantic comedy which is all about Ashley . Likely to be a guy gagging chick pleaser , the film does everything by the book but is uninspired , lacking in creativity , and muddles in the middle with too much neophilliac bovine nonsense and the see-saw stuff with Kinnear , etc . Entertaining and fun but , like most Judd flicks , misses the mark . Why is that ? ? Footnote - Nice cheerleading bit by Judd . Cute .
The following comments were written by a real movie patron .	" 187 " is all about Jackson as a teacher who is driven to taking matters into his own hands when confronted by a class full of gangbangers in an L . A . high school . The film offers good stylistics and Jackson does a stand up job given the stupid character he has to play . However , this flick 187's itself with nonsense heaped upon nonsense as it tries and fails to build that bloodthirsty desire to see the street punks off'd by the teacher which made the likes of " The Principal " or " The Substitute " series popular . Instead , " 187 " outsmarts itself and veers headlong into la-la-land as its characters follow with obviously scripted behavior to a very unsatisfying conclusion . File this one under " D " for desperate . ( Note - " 187 " tries to cement its credibility with a dumb Johnny-threw-his-Crayon-at-me statistic and advising it was written by a real teacher suggesting the producers may have been more concerned about the film's credibility than anyone else .
A mixed bag	" Songcatcher " tells the story of an early 1900's musicologist who travels to the Smoky Mountains where she discovers indigenous mountain music and sets about to document it . A somewhat flawed telling of a solid but esoteric story built on a foundation of authentic mountain music , " Songcatcher " , a film too much in tune with its feminine side , features good performances , a too delicate execution , and some wonderful hillbilly music . Not likely to have broad appeal and most likely to be appreciated by more mature females . (
Zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz !	A professor ( Pearce ) obsessed with time travel climbs aboard his Rube Goldburg gyro-thingamajig and gets catapulted through time 800 gazillion years where really nice cliff dwelling people , who conveniently speak English , live in dread of evil subterranean creatures . . . etc . His mission : To rescue the a babe from the clutches of the creatures . How original . Duh . Slammed by the critics and panned by the public , " The Time Machine " features good visuals and art and a plot which is so convoluted that it's easier to just go with it than to try to follow it . If you just want some great graphics and a busy no-brainer adventure flick to go with your munchies , " The Time Machine " may be for you . Turn off brain , kick back , and enjoy . (
Too little , too late .	" Hearts in Atlantis " has all the makings of a first rate film . What could have been just a heart warming slice-of-life flick wanders sloth-like off into the paranormal threatening something ominous and foreboding and then poofs into the expected . The beginning and end with Morse is unnecessary footage and an obvious ploy to heighten feelings of nostalgia in the audience . Etc . Nonetheless , " Hearts . . . " is a beautifully shot and well acted film with faults sentimentalists can easily overlook . Too bad the story doesn't measure up .
Bored me out of my skull .	" Thirteen . . . " is a pieced together , planar , circumflex , Magnoliaesque bunch of interleaved stories about people with varying levels of happiness , fulfillment , experience , achievement , etc . : A kind of superficial overview of the human condition of some city dwellers which feebly deals with happiness . The film is a technically and artistically excellent production with a fine cast . However , it's preachy , stagey , chock full of trite little pearls of wisdom , and annoying little phrases to introduce each scene , something which serves only to yanks us back to reality after we've worked to make a difficult buy-in . . . etc . The story is mechanical and herky-jerky with too much busy-work and too little time for story dynamics and character depth . A quick look at the stats on this site would suggest this is a good watch for less mature audiences . . . young adults , perhaps . ( Note - I need at least 20 inches of personal space . Sounds pretty stupid , huh ?
The proverbial chick flick	" Lady Jane " tells a revisionist tale of Lady Jane Grey ( Carter ) , teen Queen of the empire of England for nine days , whose martyrdom , alleged to be in the name of religion , has made her story undeservedly romantic . The film sports a good cast and all the royal trappings of the 1550's period . However , the screenplay is tedious to a fault leaving gaping holes in the political understory while filling them with dawdling pomp and circumstance and silly romantic Kodak moments . Recommended for those into sappy romantic dramas and / or period films . Not to be mistaken for history . ( " If the head on which the crown rests knows not what the crown requires , the crown shall not long there rest . "
Preposterous , contrived , fantastic .	" Passion of Mind " pivots around the Moore character like teeter-totter : One woman , two personas , two love affairs . Those expecting " Three Faces of Eve " realism will likely regard this film as a preposterous , flawed , and silly fabrication . After all , Demi's dilemma could be resolved with one phone call . Those who can pigeonhole this flick in the fantasy category , however , may enjoy the idyllic double lives , the unreal repartee , and other obvious contrivances .
Action / drama / suspense and comedy ?	" Cellular " is all about Basinger as a kidnapped mom being held hostage in an attic who manages to jury-rig a broken phone and make a tenuous emergency call to a young man ( Evans ) who has to help save the day while keeping her on the line with his cell phone . From there it's more kidnapping , cops and chases , fights , stunts , shooting , suspense , and silliness . " Cellular " is a busy movie which would have been better if it didn't play out like a schizophrenic thriller-drama which occasionally decides to go comedy . The comedic moments and silly characters simply dilute the suspense and seriousness of the film in which Basinger acts her little heart out while everyone else seems to be out for a walk in the park . Okay stuff but be prepared to dumb yourself down to this film's level . Other phone flicks include " Liberty Stands Still " and " Phone Booth " . (
Entertaining tv watch best served with pizza and beer .	" Consequence " sticks Asante in the center of a convoluted noirish mystery-suspense-drama about a man who does an identity switch to collect insurance money and finds himself with a small army of bad guys on his tail . Obviously a low budget B-flick with Cape Town standing in for San Diego , the creative folks behind this flick do a good job of camouflaging the many plot holes , tight crops , and other obvious cost savers with a busy succession of intrigues , surprises , action , babes , etc all the way to the conclusion . When all is said and done , this little tv flick plays out as an entertaining couch potato no brainer . Currently on HBO . (
A convoluted mess	" Chaos " begins as story of a handyman and a married woman who conspire to extort money from the woman's husband by faking her kidnapping . But when the woman is murdered , the story begins a series of twists and becomes a cinematic pretzel . What is a stylish shoot with competence on both sides of the lens eventually sinks into a quagmire of convolution full unnecessary complications such as the Memento-like show-the-past-first incremental flow with important bits of information kept from the audience as a cheap ploy to create intrigue and mystery . The result is a movie which is likely to lose those who are busily reading subtitles which has a scant human story as it is too busy trying to untwist itself . Finally , this is not a thriller but a mystery . And the biggest mystery seems to be , why should we care ? A B-flick for Japanese movie buffs only . (
Subtly clever and cockeyed small time comedy about small time crooks .	" I Went Down " is a droll , sometime monotonous , sometimes clever comedy about a couple of guys who run an errand for a small time gangster and end up embroiled an underworld scheme of very limited proportions . The film spends most of its time studying the characters involved as its mildly humorous story unfolds leading to an eventful conclusion which may or may not be worth the wait depending on individual taste . " I Went Down " , the title , is a double entendre representative of the very subtle humor the film embodies . A worthwhile watch for those who enjoy puns and dry humor .
A flick with a brain , a heart , and a good sense of humor .	" The Crew " tells of four aging " wise guys " retired in Florida who tire of being " porch potatoes " and decide to reinvent their " crew " which leads to a series of funny escapades . The film has a solid cast , a lively joke-a-second script , and plenty of criss-crossed subplots so there's never a dull moment . Unlike " Space Cowboys " , " The Crew " never takes itself too seriously , doesn't mix genres , and it , IMHO , a more fun watch . Now , if yous got a problem with that . . . forgettaboutit !
Tedious , bland , excellent	" Under the Sand " follows a woman who is in denial over the disappearance of her husband . Rampling delivers a splendid performance ( no stretching ) as the film plods along slowly lingering over the smallest details of her life revealing her desperate grief one fragment at a time while even showing her in the company of her dead husband ; an apparent representation of delusion . For those interested in a microscopic examination of one woman's grief , this film may have merit . For just about everyone else , it will be too tedious and lacking in sheer entertainment value . ( B )
Good but vague in purpose .	" Heartburn " has Mick Nichols at the helm with Streep and Nicholson starring and an excellent supporting cast including a bit debut by Kevin Spacy . In spite of all that , the film has only managed lukewarm commentary from critics and public alike . Taking a somewhat cynical look at marriage as it follows one couple ( Streep & Nicholson ) from nuptials through the birth of two children including infidelity , this well crafted flick muddles comedy with drama to a nebulous end . An enjoyable watch for mature people who've been there , " Heartburn " will likely disappoint others because of its uneventfulness and lack of purpose .
Paint an elephant blue and its still an elephant .	A movie by Shyamalan is a movie by Shyamalan is a movie by Shyamalan . At least that's the trend which " Unbreakable " would suggest . Another plodding and tedious bunch of Hollywood dark kinda paranormal stuff , this film manages to squeeze even less plot into its run time than its Shyamalan predecessor , " The Sixth Sense " . But , hey , if you had a formula that worked and got $10 mil to do it again , you would too , huh ? So , the moral to what is hopefully not a series of Shyamalan pseudo-paranormal spooky nonsense flicks is , I guess ; if you liked " The Sixth Sense " , give " Unbreakable " a try . If not , don't .
A lukewarm French film about an HIV + man and his torment .	" Savage Nights " is a character driven film about an HIV + bisexual man and his love affairs , particularly with the female lead . As is often the case with Europics , especially French films , this movie is not so much a story as it is a study of behavior . In this case the behavior is of interest because the male lead , who really was HIV + and died from AIDS at age 35 , continues to lead a life of promiscuity in spite of his affliction , wrestling with his awareness of his disease , his inability to reconcile himself to his fate , and the temptations represented by his love interest and sexual partners . Unfortunately , " Savage Nights " is a journeyman film at best which grows tedious quickly as it gets wound up in its own confused emotions . However , it does have a sort of intriguing honesty about it and rejects the pity which is so often a part of films about people with HIV .
Less would have been more .	" The Weigh of Water " interleaves a present day story of two DINK couples on a boat exploring the New England coast where the second story of the murder of two Norwegian women took place 127 years before with the second story . Sound confusing ? Well , the film is surprisingly coherent considering it's a Rubik's cube of scenes with flashbacks within flashbacks and two stories going on simultaneously . Unfortunately , the present day story isn't very interesting unless you want to see Hurley sucking on ice and bathing her naked flesh in with it or Penn drunkenly spouting poetry . The more interesting 19th century tale is a so-so drama with Polley at the center which just takes too long to get where it's going because of the constant interruptions . " The Weight of Water " includes many interesting elements such as murder , treachery , deceit , incest , etc . but annoyingly jerks the viewer from one story to the other not allowing for a continuously engrossing experience . A clear case of less would have been more , this flick gives the illusion of quality entertainment while squandering its solid cast on a junked up screen play with Polley carrying most of the weight of the water of her delicate shoulders . (
Okay chick flick for Driver and O'Donnell fans	" Circle of Friends " tells of three Irish young women and best friends and their encounters with life , men , school , family matters , etc . Artistically and technically well done with Driver in the driver's seat nailing her part as usual , " Circle . . . " starts at a crawl and finds itself running at the end , ill timed , as though trying to squeeze its predictable story into a calculated number of minutes . The characters in the film , who are eminently obvious stereotypes , behave uncharacteristically in numerous situations as is required to make the story succeed in its attempts to elicit the desired emotions from the audience . . . hate for the villain , adoration for the heroine , etc . Overall , " Circle . . . " is an okay watch which will be most appreciated by young females and those who go with the flow while not being too discerning or analytical . .
A nominal telling of a clever story .	" Saving Grace " is a light-hearted comedy / drama about a penniless widow's creative approach to saving her estate . This very British film is only a nominal production , but Brits and non-Brits alike should enjoy the wry , witty , and clever story and some fine British actors . Will be appreciated most by those who enjoy British humor .
A mildly enjoyable mediocre no-brainer with murder , sex , etc .	" The Beneficiary " tells of a woman who is investigated for the murder of her husband , becomes romantically involved with one of the investigators , etc . Not a " thriller " but a drama with murder and sex and all that other good escapist stuff , this flick is mediocre at best with the only above average aspect being its tortuous and somewhat convoluted story which may be an interesting watch for those who aren't too analytical . So , if you happen across it on t . v . , turn off your brain and enjoy .
Looks good but delivers too many threadbare situations .	" The Glass House " tells of a teenaged girl ( Sobieski ) and her younger brother who are forced to live with a foster mom ( Lane ) and dad ( Skarsgard ) when their natural parents mysteriously die in a car crash . Wealthy foster daddy has his own agenda ; to rip off the kid's $4 million trust while Sobieski counters armed only with her wits . A slick noirish shoot with more talent in front of the lens than behind it , " TGH " is obvious , predictable , and full of hackneyed and contrived suspenseful situations with plotholes aplenty . Nonetheless , the film should make a good late night small screen watch for those who can buy into a flick with thunder and lightening in Malibu .
ZZZZzzzzzzz ( snort ) . . . Um , is it over yet ?	" In the Mood for Love " takes you back to Hong Kong in the 60's and introduces you to a married man and woman ( Cheung & Leung ) who have neighboring apartments and spouses who are abroad and suspected of having extramarital affairs . This entire film is about said couple falling in like with each other while maintaining restraint so they won't be like their spouses . End of story . Artful and technically good with raves from just about everyone , " In the Mood . . " is a sloth of a film which could have been much more than it was but it wasn't which is pretty much the point . Hence , if you like your Chinese subtitled flicks off center , underdone , moody , plaintive and all about yearning , you may buy into this snoozer which simply follows Cheung and Leung around while we watch them eat , talk , hold hands , and look woebegone as they long for one another . Cheung is always dressed to kill with bird of paradise eye lashes and a coiffure which looks like it's been sprayed with shellac . Personally , I think it would have been nice to see her let her hair down in every way . Whatever . (
Disappointing and forgettable	" Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind " is a sloppy mess of a movie which dumps sci-fi , romance , camp comedy , and mediocre drama into a Mulligan stew seasoned with intellectual grunge . The film spends most of its run time flashing to and fro between a romantically involved couple's happy days and a sort of lame white out job of their memories of each other . The upside to this flick is its solid cast and remarkable public and critical approval . The downside is it's an ill focused , pathos drenched mess with peripheral nonsense which detracts from the core theme making the " buy-in " difficult . Reminiscent of Kaufman's " Being John Malkovich " in its lunacy , this film proves once again that creativity is not necessarily a good thing . For Kaufman fans only . (
Will play best in the hen house	" Sweet Home Alabama " is all about Mel ( Witherspoon ) , a hot NYC fashion designer who's betrothed to the mayor's son but must return to her small town Alabama roots for some unfinished business before tying the knot . Most of the 100 + minute run is spent waiting for Mel to make up her mind and show us if you - can - take the country out of the girl while the audience is introduced to the eccentric , quirky , and cliche stereotypes who provide the comedic filler which constitutes much of the film . This clucking chick flick has a thin and unoriginal plot , carefully tiptoes around North vs South issues of political correctness , and tries to tug at your heartstrings with contrived good ol ' down home sentiment . In spite of its vacillation , sap , and disingenuous veneer , " SHA " does make for a fun watch which will play best with younger females . (
Surprisingly refreshing indie sleeper chick-flick	" The Girls ' Room " is a surprisingly engaging little indie " sleeper " about two college seniors and roomies . One is a proper and privileged Southern Bell " have " ( Taber ) and the other a pot smoking , beer drinking , sexually active " have-not " ( Frye aka Punky Brewster ) . The plot is about the inevitable conflict and competition which , after much ado involving friends and guys and girl issues , results in both learning more about themselves through each other . The film manages an even tone , avoids the usual excesses of filmdom , and communicates an important subliminal message about how , though we all may take different paths through life , we can learn from each other and arrive at the same destination of self-actualization realizing a happiness as unique as ourselves . A pleasure to watch and highly recommendable , especially for females . ( B )
Luckytown blows .	Somewhere in this contrived morass of stereotypes and shoddy film making is a story with some entertainment value . Good hearted street chick meets boy gambler and they hit the road for Vegas where she meets up with her long lost dad , falls in love with her traveling companion , and both learn some lessons in life . Unfortunately , this junk flick is a laughable miscarriage with the sundry heavies more fleshed out than the protagonists . Personally , I ended up liking the hitman who refused to kill anyone on Valentine's Day more than the hero and felt more compassion for the slutty stripper than the heroine . Don't waste you time with this mess of a movie which I'm sure Dunst and Caan are trying to forget .
A journeyman docudrama and rehash of old news .	Released on video as " Echo of Murder " , this film is a scrapbook docudrama which retells the history of the infamous early 80's Atlanta " Child Murders " through the investigative reporting of two journalists , Heins and Belushi . The film gathers momentum quickly and keeps up the pace though the story is more a regurgitation of history than an embellished drama . Worth a look for those unfamiliar with this dark time in Atlanta's history .
Sweet , sensitive , warm , lilting , and looooooong !	" Hush " is a dramedy out of Japan which swirls around a handful of young adults including a couple of gay men and a female who wants to have a baby by one of them . This skillfully crafted flick has warmth and charm and poignancy and heart and humor and . . . . but , damn , it sure is long and bland . About as interesting as tofu , this character-driven film dawdles interminably as the characters pour over their relationships , including families and friends , in minute detail while we non-Japanese English speakers are reading subtitles and trying to keep the male characters straight as they are very similar in appearance . My eyes were bouncing up and down between faces and subtitles like paddle-balls for 2 . 25 hours . Recommended only for Japanese films buffs into people pictures . (
Grief , grief , and more grief .	" Imaginary Heros " takes a long , hard look at a middle class family of five which , following the suicide of a son , goes into a sort of interminable funk with family members wandering around in a fog coping with grief while we sit wondering it they're ever going to get the " dys " out of their dysfunction . Weaver registers an excellent performance in what is a reasonably good but not great indie flick by a promising auteur . Most likely to be appreciated by younger adult audiences who , like the auteur , have not sufficient life experience to see the absence of depth in the characters . However , may not play well wit the 30 something crowd who have just reached the age of disillusionment . Worth a rental for anyone into a big dose of depressing minimalism with nihilistic overtones . (
Corny but cute family flick	" Frankie and Hazel " is a supersanitized perfect world family flick which tells of the antics of two best friend small town pubescent girls who support each other as they pursue radically different aspirations . Frankie is ballet student who wants to play boy's baseball while Hazel wants to run for mayor . Good family fun especially for families with girls .
A good , gritty watch for those who can make the buy-in	In " Mona Lisa " , Hoskins plays an excon who takes a job as a chauffeur for a call girl ( Tyson ) and becomes involved with seedy underworld people as he attempts to help her find a young woman also in the sex trade . Shot in the UK as a realistic drama , " Mona Lisa " runs longer than necessary considering the simplicity of its story . However , in doing so it becomes an in-depth character study with a hint of mystery focusing on the principals , showing their humanness , while avoiding exploiting its potential for sex , nudity , and sensationalism . Those who can appreciate the futility of the relationship of the star-crossed and mismatched duo , will enjoy this lukewarm film the most . However , all will have to contend with some thick cockney accents , poor quality sound , and mediocre cinematography .
Charming little romantic tale for mature women	" Bread & Tulips " is a charming and leisurely slice-of-life romantic tale about a middle class , middle aged Italian housewife who gets separated from her family during a holiday bus trip and find herself falling in love in Venice . Italian and subtitled , " B & T " spends its run time developing a handful of quaintly quirky characters as it spins its dreamy tale which could be every mature married woman's fantasy . A good shoot in all respects , " B & T " will appeal most to those into Euroflix . . . . especially mature women .
Excellent for what it is	" Capturing the Friedmans " , is a look at the lives of a middle-class , Long Island Jewish family which was torn apart by the arrest of the father and one son on kiddie porn and child molestation charges . As independent documentary film-making goes ( which isn't very far ) this one is excellent . However , the subject may not be interesting when you consider how it pales next to OJ or Dahmer or the vast panorama of past evil doers . The film could have used a narrative to fill in the blanks but otherwise makes good use of time and available material and may even conjure some sympathy for the perverted patriarch and his family . Be wary of this Oscar nominated and award winning documentary as the value is not so much in the subject , the revelations , or the entertainment as it is in the quality of execution - the production . In the final analysis , it is simply the story of one pedophile and his family and that ain't saying much . ( B )
A docudrama with the emphasis on " docu "	" Excellent Cadavers " is an HBO docudrama which tells the story of Italian hero Giovanni Falcone ; a Sicilian judge who dared to take on the Mafia in its homeland and did more to rid Sicily of its age old scourge than any other man since Mussolini . As with most docudramas , this film leapfrogs through time hitting the historical high-points while trying to maintain continuity and build a dramatic tale . The result is a better history lesson than dramatic biography and a film which will play best for those with a specific interest in the Sicilian Mafia of the late 20 century . (
" Yada yada yada " in Dutch	" Zus & Zo " is all about three adult sisters who conspire to thwart their gay brother's forthcoming wedding thus preventing him from inheriting a beautiful hotel on the Portuguese coast . Their late patriarch wanted his gay son to go " straight " , so he left the hotel to him if he married . However , the bro wants to acquire the hotel with a marriage of convenience so he can sell it to pay for transsexual surgery - something the distaff want to prevent each for their own selfish reasons . This Dutch flick gets busy and stays busy with nonstop prattling about the " this and that " ( zus and zo ) of the family , the bro , the hotel , and miscellaneous side plots making it a beautifully filmed and wonderfully cast dialogue-intensive subtitlefest for those who don't spekadalanguage . Mildly amusing , sometimes sentimental , occasionally poignant , always enjoyable , and incessantly yappy , " Zus & Zo " is just too much reading for too little payoff . (
A par Europic	" My Beautiful Laundrette " is a dramady involving a group of Pakastanis in England , some local hoodlums , and a laundromat . The story is about one Pakistani man ( Warnecke ) and a long time Englishman friend ( Day-Lewis ) who both live on the wrong side of the tracks as they grope for success in the laundromat business while coping with the usual culture clashing , old school ethnic adult attitudes , their gayness , etc . The film has little to fault but most , especially Americans not into foreign films , will find it a bit tedious and far afield . Recommended for Bollywood film fans and others into foreign flix with a mid-Eastern flavor . (
Very well done but not very interesting .	" Shot in the Heart " is an excellent HBO flick with one huge , glaring fault . It is , in a word , boring . Granted , many will be absorbed by the human drama . However , in the final analysis it's still 75 % conversation between a murderer on death row and his estranged brother in which they share perspectives on family matters , the Mormon church , personal perceptions , attitudes , etc . none of which are particularly interesting and much of which are yada-yada-yada about the turkey thing , the Mormon blood-letting thing , the book from Johnny Cash thing , the 1000 pushups thing , the 90 year old man thing , etc . Bravo for making an excellent film . Too bad the subject was Gary Gilmore . Recommended for the not so jaded who may find a rehash of a dysfunctional family's son-gone-wrong story of interest .
Shines in the shop . Lackluster outside .	" Barbershop " is a sometimes hokey , sometimes fresh , and always likeable Afro-Am comedy about a motley bunch of haircutters in a 40 year old urban Chicago barbershop which has become a neighborhood institution of sorts . Though the film does have an underlying serious story and a silly side plot about a stolen ATM machine , they contribute little compared to the constant yammering amongst the shop's crew of cutters . Their diverse personalities , perspectives , and personal issues provide the film's doggerel-laced heart , charm , and warmth . A sequel set entirely inside the shop would be something to look forward to given the same core cast and writers . (
Pure voyeurism	It is good thing Ledoyen is a seriously babe-a-licious hottie because she fills up every frame of this tedious and uneventful nonstory . In " A Single Girl " , the camera follows Valérie ( Ledoyen ) around in real time , dogging her as she walks and walks and works and talks and walks and works and smokes and talks and works some more . This exercise in pure voyeurism shows us Valérie as she sits in a cafe telling her boyfriend she's pregnant . It shows her going to her new job as a room service waitress in a hotel . . . no cutaways , no fast forwards ; just a continuum - every step she takes , down the street , around the corner , etc . We watch her put on her uniform and begin work . . . etc . On and on until about the 1 : 25 mark when we cut to a new day and Valérie , whose child is now a toddler , as she's talking with her mom in a park . Shortly thereafter the film ends . No story , just voyeurism . For what it is , it is very well done . Sound good ? If so , watch it . If not , don't . (
Elementary , my dear Adso !	In " The Name of the Rose " , Connery plays a 14th century Franciscan monk who , with his novice ( Slater ) in tow and armed with a wealth of scholarly knowledge and acute powers of observation and deduction , visits a dank European abbey to solve mysterious deaths . Little more than an enjoyable European cum Hollywood popcorn flick , " . . . . Rose " is entertaining though obvious and contrived . Now on the cable circuit , " . . . . Rose " is free and contains some comic book characters such as Pearlman's hunchback , a sexy little scene where Slater kisses some skanky local babe hello and his celibacy goodbye , and a visit from the ever-popular and always wicked Holy Inquisition folks . Fun and spooky stuff for the couch potato .
Not Crowe's best work but still mildly amusing and entertaining	Two Seattle single couples and assorted friends and neighbors work at dealing with the foibles , insecurities , games and other issues of contemporary dating and relationship building in this hip but less than coherent flick . As much as the characters are likable and believable , so the film lacks clear purpose and a sense of direction . Far from apocalyptic but with a subtle charm , " Singles " wends its way through a mildly amusing and sometimes poignant 100 minute runtime .
How you feel about this movie will say more about you than the film	" Serendipity " tells of a love-at-first-sight meeting of a Jon ( Cusack ) and Sara ( Beckinsale ) , their chance premature parting , and their hopeful but seemingly hopeless quest to find each other again years later . " Serendipity " is a an obviously fabrication . . . but a wonderfully romantic fabrication . Chock full of little signs of kismet calling two lovers together again , the film is a thoughtfully crafted piece unabashedly tailored for dreamers . Most likely to be shunned by realists and enjoyed by romantics , " Serendipity " will tell you something about yourself . . . if it is meant to be so .
A Polish artie	" A Short Story About Love " with its cast of two , not including a couple of side characters , is not short in length at 86 minutes but is short in stature as it lingers tediously over the tenuous relationship which develops between an immature and introverted postal worker and the attractive older woman he watches from his bedroom window through a telescope from across a courtyard as she cavorts nightly around her flat . A laconic sentimental flick with little to offer save the psychodynamics of a pair of peculiar characters , this tale of strange bedfellows is very well done for what it is , which ain't much . Sweet soup with no meat and potatoes or dessert , this is one for the artie crowd . (
For boxing fans only	" Joe and Max " tells the true story of two champion boxers who fight each other in the ring while forming a bond of friendship and mutual respect outside the ring . Full of unrealized ironic potential with men of different color finding common ground in a world driven to war in part by racial division , " Joe and Max " has the usual short-comings of made-for-tv docudramas ; low budgetness , melodrama , stiff portrayals , poor character development , historical inaccuracies , etc . " Joe and Max " probably has minimal value beyond edification for boxing fans . (
Old school noir crime flick	" Reversible Errors " is a three hour film noir TV B-movie which tells a convoluted tale of a homicide cop ( Selleck ) , his prosecutor lover ( Potter ) , a defense attorney ( Macy ) , and a judge ( Huffman ) who all become involved in a triple homicide investigation , a possible wrongful conviction , and another investigation to find the real killer ( s ) . As the film wends its way toward its feel good conclusion - which seems too long in coming - it delves into sex , scandal , drugs , deceit , conspiracy , politics , infidelity , and more all served up in good old fashioned Hollywood movie style ; not particularly convincing or believable but not ashamed about it either . A mildly entertaining whodunit which does an acceptable job of covering it's low budgetness with a mediocre score , Canadian locations , and an uneven production which focuses on the characters in a handful of sets ( court , prison , lawyer offices , etc . ) , this PG-13ish film will make a so-so no brainer lets-stay-in-tonight TV watch for the not too jaded or discriminating . (
Looks familiar . Sounds like blarney . Feels ordinary .	Biopic drama " Veronica Guerin " represents the title character , an investigative journalist who is out of expose the drug bosses of Dublin , as a woman who has been beaten up and threatened with her life if she continues her work and who , in spite of all that , continues while taking no counter-measures ( no Kevlar® , no body guard , nada , zip ) . How smart is that ? In the end we are told her martyrdom resulted in all but ridding Ireland of drugs and everyone can remember what they were doing when she died neither of which ring true . Additionally , the film quite ordinary in spite of actor's actor Blanchett's best efforts . Pretty much the usual drug stuff only this time set in Ireland where we're used to seeing film's about people killing each other over politics and religion . This time it's drugs . Very ordinary stuff for Blanchett fans or those with a particular interest in Guerin . ( C )
Nada passion	" Passionada " is all about Milos as a beautiful Portuguese widow and cabaret singer who mourns the loss of her fisherman husband while her daughter and gambling prodigy Rossum consorts with professional card player Issacs to get good old mom out of her funk . The result is a beautifully shot film with marginally interesting characters and an uneventful story which spends most of its time with Issacs courting a reluctant Milos with his English accent and glib patter . The film wanders somewhere between romantic drama and romantic comedy not taking a firm position thereby diluting its ability to be engaging in either genre . Nonetheless , romantics and sentimentalists will appreciate this languorous but pretty film with a cosmopolitan flavor . (
Acceptable	" Touching Evil ( 1997-98 ) is a Brit TV series about a special unit of detectives who take on the really tough crimes . Robson Green leads the way as an intense and determined workaholic cop with personal issues who will do anything to ferret out his quarry . Unfortunately mediocre , this series substitutes convolution for complexity and melodrama for psychodrama , drags out the suspenseful moments , doddles through the not-so-suspenseful moments , and never really digs into the minds or the guts of its protags . Obvious and contrived and lacking the edge of " Wire in the Blood " , the personality of " Cracker " , the realism of " Prime Suspect " , or the complexity of " Foyle's War " , this series is more sizzle than steak . Entertaining but not all it tries to be , " Touching Evil " smells a bit too much like a pretentious and simple minded Hollywood soap opera . (
A good old fashioned noir popcorn flick .	" Red Rock West " is one of those drama-noir ensemble movies where the bad guys are really bad and the good guys . . . well , they're just kinda bad . It's a movie where the brooding , plodding , and unrelenting hero , hang-faced Cage , never smiles because there's never anything to smile about . It's a movie where all the characters are caricatures and there's never a dull moment no matter how improbable the convoluted plot may have become to achieve the desired result . It's a movie where no one trusts anyone and everyone is after the loot . Overall it's a good old fashioned Hollywood popcorn movie .
Marginally entertaining run of the mill Hollywood Western .	" The Missing " , a drama set in the late 1800's American South West , tells of the abduction of a girl by a bunch of Indians to be sold into slavery across the border in Mexico . The girl's grandfather ( Jones ) , a European American who follows the Indian ways , and the girl's homesteading mother ( Blanchett ) set off to rescue the kidnapee . So begins a 2 + hour long film which portends hard-bitten authenticity but plays out as a run of the mill Western with the usual sterling performance by Blanchett and the usual good-but-not-great work by Jones . Artistically and technically just okay , this flick makes for an entertaining run-of-the-mill Western with lots of Indian talk , symbolism , shaman gobbledygook and some human issues which are rendered with marginal efficacy . Okay stuff for those in the mood for a somewhat long Western . (
Fun propaganda	" Super Size Me " ( with " super size " used as a verb , not an adjective ) is an obviously agenda-driven and skewed documentary all about its creator and his one month fast food binge designed to prove that McDonalds food is not all that when it comes to health . Indie maker Spurlock spends one month chucking down nothing but Mickey D's chow all around the U . S . while serving up heaping helpings of fat statistics , man-in-the-street interviews , info about his progress from doctors and nutritionists , and repeated attempts to hear from the other side of his war on obesity , the McDonalds corp . If you don't know that eating at McDonald's is not healthy eating , this flick is a must see . Otherwise you might want to give it a look just to see what happens to Spurlock as he pukes up the fast food , packs on the pounds , and , according to him , suffers from a vast array of symptoms . In short , take Fahrenheit 911 , substitute Morgan Spurlock for Michael Moore and McDonalds for Bush and Iraq and you have " Super-size Me " . Not documentary film making at its best but a fun watch anyway . (
Fish story	" The Big Blue : Director's Cut " is a glossy , slick mess of a movie which starts as a monochrome backstory drama and then dissolves into a color present day story which goes nowhere at the speed of light . The film wanders drunkenly from comedy to romance to drama to dolphin documentary while not serving well in any genre . All the while the players seem at a loss for a sense of character and the story drifts slowly into oblivion . A beautiful snoozer . (
I know I love you because I hurt when you're not around so to assure myself of that I stay away even though I love you which is why I hurt all the time . . . . etc .	" All The Real Girls " is a kind of contempo hillbilly love story which looks too long and too hard at one not very bright young adult couple as they stumble and bumble through the vicissitudes of love in bloom . On the up side , the film offers beautiful cinematography and solid performances by some fresh faces . On the down side , the film plumbs the depths of a couple of characters with little depth to plumb making for a watch which eventually grows tiresome . At this writing , IMDB . com stats show this film to be a guy flick with little appreciation by more mature audiences . The glowing critical reviews and the paltry 4 . 9 from the top 1000 viewers show what a mixed bag this flick is . Best saved for broadcast . (
A plaintive love it or hate it relationship flick .	" Guinevere " tells of a young woman ( Polley ) who leaves her stuffy family to move in with a middle aged photo-artist ( Rea ) living a bohemian lifestyle and ends up sadder but wiser . A technically and artistically good film , " Guinevere " is a coming-of-age flick tinged with more pathos that giddiness which plumbs the depths of a relationship in which the woman becomes self actualized while the male is exposed as an unsuccessful , eccentric , and neurotic womanizer . Recommended for anyone , especially females , into films about unorthodox relationships .
The grandmother of all chick flicks	Released as " Desire " on DVD , this flick is a love story about an unlikely pair of star-crossed lovers ; he a humble Scottish fisherman ( D'Onofrio ) and she a capricious intellectual ( Sacchi ) . The difference between male and female scores on IMDB . com makes this film out to be the grandmother of all chick flicks even though the film gives no good reason why two such very different protagonists would even be able to get along much less love one another from afar sustained only by periodic trysts over a couple of decades . In spite of the tenuous and somewhat contrived plot , the film does have a story to tell about a woman who learns the meaning of true love while the film begs the question ; is it too late ? One for the ladies , not for the laddies . (
A fresh , creative , tight tale of mischief , misdeed , & misadventure	" A Simple Case of Murder " is a tight and clever little noirish caper comedy-drama made for commercial tv . William H . Macy , that " Fargo " guy , is at the center as a film critic who has an argument with a lady friend who slips , hits her head and dies . What follows is a slow , one step forward and two back unraveling of Macy's cover up scheme which leads to extortion , robbery , murder and lots of tongue-in-cheek humor while Macy narrates from both sides of the camera . A fun little " sleeper " on video .
This movie bites the big one .	So , we're to believe everyone in France speaks with an English accent ? " Quills " is a comedy / drama / whatever which tells of the disposition and antics of the Marquis de Sade after being confined to a asylum for lunatics . The film didn't work for me on any level . It was not funny , not erotic , not good drama . . . pretty much just boring crap , terribly flawed , full of anachronisms , too theatrical , miscast , silly , pompous , nonsense . However , it received critical acclaim , good reviews , and numerous nominations and awards . So , one man's opinion is " Quills " sucked bigtime .
A very over-rated disappointment .	" Requiem . . . " tells of the downward spiral of several lives into a drug induced oblivion . A much over-rated non-story which won no major awards , this extrapolation of the " Pi " mentality treads more in the the artsy-fartsy fringe than the mainstream offering an excellent performance by Burstyn , over done artistic effects , and little else . There are many better " druggie " flicks with real stories to tell which don't make the viewer feel like a lookie-loo at a traffic accident . Because of it's overwrought creativity , which is more of a liability than an asset , " Requiem . . . " is the critic's darling . However , it is too far from the mainstream to be a popular which probably accounts for the small space occupied on Blockbuster's shelves by the new release . Blockbuster - does - know their market . As for the high marks given by IMDB . com users , one can only speculate . However , there's no way this flick could possibly score an 8 . 7 of 10 ( at this writing ) given voting by a demographically typical cross-section of the population . Over half the votes a max score of 10 . . . . I don't think so . Recommended for those into art for art's sake films and younger adults who haven't seen this kind of kaleidoscopic visual creativity before .
Let blow up Vancouver and make a movie of it . Cool !	In " Ballistic : Ecks vs Sever " , Agent Ecks ( Banderas ) and freelancer Sever ( Liu ) team up in this balls-to-the-wall action no-brainer to lay waste to an army of bad guys in one firestorm of hot lead , exploding ordinance , crashing cars , and airborne stuntmen after another . Though there is an underlying human drama and some silly supersecret microbot weapon thingy in the wispy plot , it's all lithe Liu's badass martial arts and stone-faced weapons work which makes the film worth watching . Only for action junkies like me into the more-is-more school of mindless action film-making . (
Morose and monotonous	" Fallen Angels " is outwardly a jittery , nervous , ambiguous , poorly filmed artie with clumsy English subtitles which appears to be a failed attempt to make up for a lack of story with moody visual style . Mostly shot with short lenses ( for fish eye type distortion ) and video which is either poor quality on purpose or not ( does it matter ? ) , the film follows a quartet of lonely night people with some narrated reflections on life from one of the players , a hitman . Bulked up with lots of filler , dull stretched out moments of nothingness interspersed with sudden bouts of action , " Fallen Angels " isn't much of a movie but may have some appeal for Asian film freaks who care more about atmospherics than story . (
Semper Fi to Hollywood .	In " One Kill " Heche , Stoltz , and Sherpard form a solid core cast around which swirl the events in this docudrama about a Marine Corps murder trial . The story of a Woman Marine ( Heche ) who shot her lover to death in her bedroom is laid out and developed by trial flick rote . As the characters begin dealing with the matter of trial , the facts behind the case unfold piecemeal via flashback . Taken in the whole , " One Kills " offers nothing new and the story of a love affair gone sour and a corps cover up aren't particularly compelling . Nonetheless , the film offers excellent performances with considerable dramatic clout . Recommended for trial flick junkies and those interested in military courts-martial .
Typically Eastwood all the way .	A knock-off of a fictionalized recounting of eccentric film director John Huston's safari experience in Africa during the filming of African Queen , Eastwood creates and plays a peculiar quixotic and egocentric Houston-like character . As with most Eastwood films , " White Hunter , Black Heart " follows the formula for Hollywood product success making it an entertaining but very lukewarm watch .
A film only a bop could love	" 10 Things . . . " is a typical teen campus romantic comedy romp with the usual bunch of slightly older than teen stars , a thin plot ( forget Shakespeare ) , and envelope pushing on sex innuendos required to separate the kids from the price of admission . The flick has a lively script , a bit of " tude " , and a few good moments but lacks the sophistication and insight of the trend setting John Hughes films . Not showing us anything new , " 10 Things . . . " is an ok diversion for the high school crowd which will probably be only marginally entertaining for adults .
Limping Tall	" Walking Tall " , a grossly revamped version of several previous films of the same name , all about legendary Tennessee Sheriff Burford Pusser , features " The Rock " as a badass ex-Special Forces Army sergeant who returns home to find his small town has been taken over by a local bad guy who runs rigged casino games and pollutes the local population with meth . ( Guess he hadn't been keeping in touch , huh ? ) Very derivative and reminiscent of many previous hero flicks , this stuntfest packed with fist and fire fights gets down and dirty straight away and keeps moving with more brawn than brains as it spins its ordinary tale of heroism with a dash of personal issues including some family , a friend , and a hottie . " Walking Tall 2004 " keeps The Rock's devil-may-care attitude but forsakes the comedy relief which has made The Rock popular . Okay stuff for action junkies and Rock's fans . (
I only have one good thing to say about this flick . . .	. . . and that's " Naomi Watts " . Lynch , in an apparent effort to stretch , appears to becomes obsessive about this noir nonsense which by all accounts is a huge movie but which exit polls at theaters would probably reveal to be a loser . Bottom line , I about fell asleep from boredom as Lynch took his own sweet time pulling together the pieces of a jig-saw puzzle which develops into just so much excessive silliness . On the up side Watts turns in a stellar performance and Lynch limps along with no big names . On the down side is everything else : No characters we can identify or empathize with ; no hero or anyone we can care about ; a shoddy convoluted plot which just gets more ridiculous as time wears on ; etc . . yadayadayada . Bottom line , this movie sucked except for the titillating nude chicks making out part which only engages the limbic system . Hype = boxoffice and , as with " Memento " , most moviegoers will have trouble understanding what this flick was about and why they should care . Recommended only for film fanatics , critics , dilettantes , and the like .
How do you say " Whatever ! " in French ?	" Thieves " has Techine at the helm with Deneuve and Auetuil in the spotlight and critical plaudits aplenty . However , my reaction at the end of the two hour flick was " Yeah , so ? ? ? " . Telling of the intertwined lives of a cop and his brother and a girl and her lover and a handful of other people , this character driven flick wanders to and fro interminably , jumping around in time , examining the details of their fatalistic and pragmatic lives as they fuss and stew and brood over the this and that of their existence . Given subtitles and a soup thin story with no moral , no message , no hero , no villain , just character study heaped upon character study and no character that's even likeable , " Thieves " will not have much appeal for the masses . Recommended for French speakers or French film buffs only . ( B )
Two ships passing in the night	" Brief Crossing " is all about a 30 something woman and a 16 year old boy who meet during a ferry journey across the English channel . As the ferry takes us from La Havre to Portsmouth , the characters meet , shop , drink , dance , have sex , and ultimately part at their destination . Superficially , " Brief Crossing " is not much of a film . It has marginal production value , a cast of two , and a meager story . However , as a relationship film it is finely nuanced with a very natural ebb and flow of conversation , body language , evinced emotion , and human interaction . Not for everyone , this worthy addition to auteur Breillat's resume will be most appreciated by French film devotees . (
A melodramatic Victorian soap opera	" The Tide of Life " is a 3x45 minute TV period miniseries ( circa late 1800's ) based on the novel by prolific authoress Catherine Cookson . The film follows the life and loves of the winsome , dutiful , hard-working , and ever honest button-cute housekeeper Emily ( Gillian Kearney ) as she strives to carve a life for herself from the farms and villages of rural coastal NE England . As watch Emily overcome one hardship after another in her quest for happiness , her dauntless and earnest approach to life always serving her well , this melodramatic tale passes quickly through time skimming over details and leaving many characters under-developed as though the entire novel was crammed into 3 hours giving it a rushed feel with no lingering in the moment . " The Tide of Life " is not the best of the Victorian TV dramas coming out of the UK and pales before the likes of " The Forsyte Saga " or " The Mayor of Casterbridge " . Nonetheless , it should be an enjoyable watch for distaff viewers into Victorian drama . ( B )
Making friends the hard way	" May " is a dark comedy which slowly morphs into horror as it examines the increasingly twisted behavior of the title character ( Bettis ) ; a socially inept , maladjusted , frustrated . and introverted veterinary surgical tech . An obviously budget conscious one man indie , " May " is worth a look by those with a taste for the dark , the bizarre , and the macabre . Keep expectations real . (
A fun little " sleeper "	" Rock My World " - a much better title than " Global Heresy " - tells of a stodgy English Lord and Lady ( O'Toole & Plowright ) who , in need of cash , play butler and maid in their country mansion to an American rock band on retreat . Most of the comedy in this earnest little " sleeper " comes from the obvious class / culture clashing as the story manages warmth and poignant moments with criss-crossing subplots while keeping the rock music to a minimum . Silverstone , who occupies the entire VHS cover , is little more than a prop with O'Toole and Plowright getting the lion's share of screen time . A slow starter which is a tad corny around the edges , " RMW " is probably suffering from under-marketing as the minimal interest in the film represented by this website is out of proportion to the film's potential mass appeal . Good stuff for PG-13's ( language & drugs ) and up . (
Didn't work for me .	" Bend it Like Beckham " received good marks from critics and public alike . So , color me stoopid but I just didn't get it . The film played out like a long string of sitcom quality scenes sprinkled with Kodak moments , trailer moments , and Rocky moments in a busy format of criss-crossing plots with obvious ploys at every turn . A Brit-Bollywood combo built around football with the usual generation gap , culture clashing , etc . was quite simply boring with nothing new , stiff performances by the young protags , and eminently predictable throughout . However , I'm almost certainly in the minority here , so take these comments for whatever they're worth which probably isn't much . Enjoy ! (
The worst English language subtitling I've seen	The first half of " Love Me , Love My Money " is mildly amusing romcom fare . The second half I didn't see having abandoned the DVD because what I was seeing was not worth the effort required to read the subtitles . I've watched many subtitled films and this flick probably has the worst I've seen . The font is small , the translation poor and verbose , and the subtitles aren't stacked to allow for longer on-screen durations but delivered one line at a time requiring a lot speed reading with eyes fixed at the bottom of the screen . The result is a lot of pausing to be able to catch the humor buried in the dialogue ( no sight gags ) , watch the facial expression , etc . Remember , if you watch this dialogue-intensive film with someone else ( Non-Chinese speakers ) you'll only be able to watch as fast as the slowest reader .
Chick flick for 40 and up	" Crush " is a comedy / light-drama which tells of three middle-aged single women best friends in England , one of which , a proper school headmistress ( MacDowell ) , falls in like / love with a young former student half her age . What begins as a straight forward sexually charged Spring-Autumn romance twists and turns unexpectedly and finally sorts itself out to feel good conclusion . " Crush " is an enjoyable , sometimes brash , sometime sentimental romp which will play best with more mature females . (
A top heavy film in need of a good story .	" Tailor of Panama " is a well crafted floparoo . . . a comedy / drama which will make you neither laugh nor cry and tells of a British agent ( Brosnan ) who is sent to Panama where he hopefully won't be able to embarrass the British government with his self-serving spying techniques . An unfortunate exercise which doesn't pan out , this film may make you stick your tongue in your cheek , cluck , or yawn but little else . A reasonably artful shoot which fails to breath life into the characters , jolt us with humor , or inveigle us with mystery , " Tailor . . . " just never gets off the ground . Nonetheless , there's plenty of eye candy , a good cast , and some semblance of a story , bland though it may be .
Quirky , tentative , unpredictable , lighthearted fun .	" Mumford " is an unpretentious little romantic comedy with a softspoken , creative way of whetting curiosity and maintaining interest as it wends it's way through it's quirky but charming storyline . Sans the usual commercial " chick flick " schmaltz and boasting an R-rating , " Mumford " appears to refuse to compromise its freshness . A pleasant way to wile away 110 minutes .
If you don't like this film , check-off !	Sally and her uncle work a sheep ranch in rural Australia , circ 1920 something . Along comes stiff and stilted Dad ( Blakemore ) and stepmum Debbie ( Scacchi ) . Toss in a roaming physician , some hired help , etc . and you've got " All in the Family in the Outback " . Personalities clash , eccentricities entangle , and hanky-panky ensues . " Country Life " is an endearing Aussie cum English wry and lighthearted romp which should appeal most to those who enjoy British comedy .
Kudos !	" Big Shot . . . " is a little comedy with a big message which takes the audience on a fun ride with Krumholtz as a savvy college student who plays life fast and loose and gets caught up in making book on sporting events only to find the money comes easy but the problems come easier . In the end , the film turns serious as it deftly delivers a poignant message for all those who think there's a fast track to success in life . Though " Big Shot . . . " is no more than a little journeyman B-flick , it takes the high road without getting preachy and entertains without pandering to the audience making it a good example for all the Hollywood big shots who can't see past the easy money and the big bottom line . Kudos to the producers of this very big little movie with a positive message for all the wannabe big shots . ( Note - I watched this flick back to back with Spielberg's huge " Minority Report " . Pound for pound , this is the better of the two .
A well done bit of nothing	" Friday Night " is a slow moving bit of relatively uneventful voyeurism in which the camera follows a woman around observing her activities during one Friday night . In the first twenty minutes you'll see Laure ( Lemercier ) pack up her belongings , bathe , dress , get in her car , hit the bricks , and get bogged down in a traffic jam . I ran through most of this inconsequential French artie in x2 mode slowing down occasionally for the sparse dialogue . Although what meager substance there is in this film is well done , is simply isn't enough for a full length feature . (
The only way to get more real the this is to get real .	" Laws of Gravity " is a hyper-realistic docudrama and an excellent clinic on the loser mentality of the mean streets of Brooklyn . Focusing on the tribal order of several white urban hoodlums , this flick is about as real as it gets with actors . . . many of whom are on their first outing . A good watch for those into realism and crime films .
An okay film about a rape victim coming to terms with her past .	" Things . . . " tells of a thirty-something club singer and alcoholic who still suffers the trauma of a rape at age 14 and the attempt of an unwilling participant in the rape ( sound unlikely ? ) to seek a belated resolution to his misdeed . The film doggedly pours over the suffering of the victim , her trauma and its manifestations , while building a weak story with little to offer save some insights into the matter of stranger rape victim issues . A nominal drama and tour de force by Dickens , this flick suffers from some questionable behavior and an all too obvious agenda owing to the passion of the director , a rape victim herself . " Things . . . " makes one maxim clear : Film makers wanting to make a statement about their personal issues should make documentaries .
More of the same .	" Analyze That " , the first sequel to " Analyze This " is just more of the same . Of course , if you liked the original , that would be a good thing . If not . . . not . Crystal continues as the reluctant shrink while DeNiro continues a the mob boss with issues in this madcap attempt to capitalize on the success of " . . . This " by punching up " . . . That " with strippers , car chases , stunts , shootouts , etc . Enjoyable but , like most sequels , lacking the freshness of the original . (
For Chan fans only	" Rumble in the Bronx " is one of Hong Kong martial arts celebrity Jackie Chan's earlier forays into the US market . And , since Chan has been getting better with age , his films have , with few exceptions , become progressively better with time . Therefore , the best way to watch Chan flicks is in reverse chronological order from the most recent to the earliest . Having said that , " Rumble . . . . " without the action wouldn't be worth anyone's time . However , " Rumble . . . " with the action is good enough for Chan fans but should be the last one to watch and will be of little interest to non-Chan fans . Excellent action but not Chan's best work . (
Medium rare restaurant dramady	" In The Weeds " is a mediocre ensemble dramady repartee-fest about the staff of a restaurant and their activities during one night's dinner rush . The film offers a solid journeyman cast of familiar faces but relies too much on snappy patter and clever comebacks while trying to build a storyline that is marginal at best , groping for insight and sensitivity which never fully materializes . Nonetheless , there are several crisscrossing plot threads and enough energy and wit to make is a mildly entertaining broadcast watch . ( Note - Those interested in a very good drama which also takes place in a restaurant during one night's dinner rush should check out " Dinner Rush " with Danny Aiello .
An enjoyable thought-provoking and entertaining TV drama	" Resting Place " tells of an Army officer ( Lithgow ) who accompanies the body of a black Vietnam war hero home for burial only to find the cemetery is segregated and the body is shrouded in mystery . A well cast journeyman TV drama , " Resting Place " is a thoughtful and poignant exploration of one man's search for truth among a too divided civilian population and a too unified military unit . Good stuff with a message for everyone .
So-so	" The Hit " is about two gangsters ( Hurt & Roth ) who kidnap an informer ( Stamp ) in Spain and transport him by car back to France where they intend to settle a 10 year old score . In the process they kidnap a beautiful senorita ( del Sol ) , kill some people , and generally do a sloppy job of getting from point-A to point-B while being methodically dogged by police . The film has little action and a lot of low level drama which seems to be trying for some psychodramatic substance which never really materializes . Though it sports a good cast and does have its moments , in the final analysis " The Hit " is wasn't much of a hit and distills to little more than more than couch potato fodder . (
Entertaining and forgettable	In " Maid in Manhattan " , Lopez plays an ethnic NYC single mom and hotel maid who falls for an urbane politician ( Fiennes ) making this flick just another Cinderella knock-off . The film manages to push the right buttons in between awkward moments in spite of being uninspired flotsam in the grand scheme of cinema . Scoring poorly on this website and with critics , " M in M " is a worthwhile watch for flick chicks , romcom junkies , and J . Lo fans . (
An honest , earnest simple story	" A Good Baby " is a simple story about simple people and how they deal with a not so simple problem . Set in a backwood hollow of Eastern KY's Appalachia , this slow moving and laconic film accurately portrays its location and people as it plods earnestly through its 90 minute run . Many may find this story lacking in substance though some may enjoy it for its rustic beauty and strong sense of integrity . An out-of-the-mainstream indie and a good representation of a bit of Americana unfamiliar to most .
Okay for sentimentalists but nothing special	Little Suzi is left with foster parents in Hungary while they immigrate to the USA and then rejoins them sometime later leaving emotional ties behind . Big Suzi is a typical teen living with her natural parents in the US , throwing temper tantrums , and wondering who to call " Mom " and where to call " Home " . Suzi takes a trip to Hungary to sort things out . That's the gist of this journeyman flick which is hardly rhapsodic and has the " feel " of a low budget made-for-tv drama . An okay watch , " An American Rhapsody " could have been better but plays out as just another sentimental no-brainer out of the cold war era . Recommended for sentimentalists .
Mediocre , wandering , ill-focused quasi-biopic	" The Passion of Ayn Rand " picks up the story of the best selling author and intellectual after " The Fountainhead " and continues through the publishing of " Atlas Shrugged " . Although the film spends about equal time between the bio of the brittle and eccentric Rand ( Mirren ) and the sundry affairs of her closest friends and like-minded followers it does not crystallize the philosophies which established her as a prominent intellectual of the time . In spite of excellent performances by the ensemble , Showtime has only managed another mediocre budget-conscious flick . Recommended only for those interested in Rand .
Stuntfest	" Supercop " is a cut above the early Chan Hong Kong flicks and a cut below the later Chan flicks ( eg : " Rush Hour " , " Shanghai Noon " , etc . ) The film is an ordinary comedy / action flick with some innovative stunt work which gets off to a slow start with a messy bunch of nonsense and builds to a stuntfest on par with some of the best stunt work of recent films . If you're a Chan fan you've probably already seen " Supercop " . If not , you'll probably want to view the more recent Chan flicks ( roughly " Rumble in the Bronx through Rush Hour 2 ) before spending time with " Supercop " . (
Still more Stiller	" Dodgeball " is another Stiller formula comedy which packs wacky characters and silly stereotypes into a story about a glitzy state-of-the-art health club owner ( Stiller ) who wants to add a failing garage gym , owned and operated by Vaughn , to his empire . Unwilling to give up his small time but nerd-friendly operation , Vaughn challenges Stiller to settle the dispute over a champion dodgeball tournament in Vegas . Factor in a babe and the usual good vs evil elements with the underdog issue and a screenplay which is hyperkinetic and kaleidoscopic and the result is an enjoyable comedy romp worth a look by anyone who enjoyed similar Stiller fare such as " Zoolander " or " Duplex " or " Starsky & Hutch " or " Envy " , etc . ( B )
A film only a soap junkie could love .	" Nurse Betty " , the Zellweger title character , is a passive , ordinary Kansas housewife who believes herself to be romantically involved with a soap opera character after being traumatized by witnessing the brutal murder of her husband . This much over-rated flick will disappoint many as the violence and language demands an R rating while the comedy is so sophomoric as to have little appeal for mature audiences . Zellweger's performance is good but not deserving of an Oscar nomination as it requires no stretch and only stands out because there's so little going on around her . Good fodder for soap junkies and Zellweger fans .
Fun and sincere new-edge girl stuff	" Kissing Jessica Stein " is all about Manhattan and Jewish and single and female and dating and one woman who finds love in the arms of another woman and then has to figure out if she's gay and " comes out " . . . not necessarily in that order . A sincere , fun frolic full of hip girl talk and girl stuff , " Kissing . . . " keeps busy and doesn't get too gay , try too hard , or take itself too seriously making it an enjoyable watch for most adults . (
Good popcorn flick for sofa spuds .	" Jennifer 8 " is a decade old noirish whodunit which tells of a burned out L . A . detective ( Garcia ) who moves to a small town force where he finds himself obsessed with a serial killer case and in love with a potential victim . A good old fashioned suspense-mystery , " J8 " is a solid watch which features good cast performances , above average cinematography , and enough plot twists , clue discovery , action , and somber romance to keep most viewers interested all the way through a 2 + hour run to a surprise conclusion . Recommended for those into the mystery genre who missed it first time around and are looking for something on the small screen .
Pork-que ?	A young Penelope Cruz is the centerpiece of " Jamon , Jamon " , a comedy / drama which doesn't manage to conjure up much of either . The flick is busy enough as it wanders through moments of melodrama and mild humor and the presentation is okay . However , there's a little too much ham in the ham in this flick about a poor pregnant woman ( Cruz ) who wants to marry the son of a wealthy family the matriarch of which has other plans . Given subtitles for non-Spanish speakers , sex which isn't very sexy , poor atmospherics , and a nebulous purpose as negatives , the general public can whack at least a half a star from Ebert's liberal 3 . 5 rating . Worth a look for those into genreless foreign flicks or anyone who wants to see naked bullfighting or Cruz's bare breasts . (
A reasonably good , high energy action flick .	In " The Art of War " , Snipes plays a UN deep-cover operative whose cover is compromised . Though the film features plenty of stunts , chases , crashes , shootouts , fights , and pyrotechnics mixed with a typically convoluted spy-type plot , we've seen better of all in other films . The flick does have a female protagonist but there's little romance or sexiness in this flick which lacks the spit and polish of Bond films and seems to be begging for something more than just a lot of busy heroics and magical futuristic microelectronic snoop stuff . Ok but far from Snipes better films .
Cat's in the cradle . . .	" A Loving Father " tells of a writer who is en route to pick up his Nobel prize when his trip is interrupted by an estranged son . This road trip flick focuses on the real life father / son Depardieu duo as it meanders through a spotty mire of family dysfunction issues . The sometimes engaging story is fraught with moments of implausibility , a seemingly concocted conclusion , and a trite moral which seems to be " Love your children because payback's a bitch " . With good quality in all aspects except story , " A Loving Father " has been largely ignored by the critics and received only a few fringe awards with nominal plaudits from the public . Only for fans of the players or French cinema . (
In a word . . . disappointing .	Ever see a bunch of cop cars chasing someone around the streets of L . A . ? How many times ? Ten ? A hundred ? Well , you're gonna see it again ( in Long Beach / San Pedro ) . " Gone . . " , an unoriginal and top heavy flick , sports a budget-busting and talented cast which it wastes as it fails to deliver on all levels . Too much Cage with no stretch . Not enough Jolie . A nemesis smaller than life , not bigger . Action done by rote . No human connection . Marginally creative . The list goes on and on . " Gone . . . " is a dud and a sad waste of top talent . Nonetheless , it's probably worth the price of a video rental on a rainy night .
Lot of flaws and lots of thrills .	" Vertical Limit " begins with a bang , bogs down a bit as it develops it contrived story , and then builds to one harrowing mountain climbing situation after another . Good old fashioned melodramatic escapism , this flick is a typical Hollywood product with many obvious flaws . However , if you turn off your brain and go with the flow you'll likely find watching " Vertical Limit " to be a fun and exciting nail biting experience .
Kid stuff	" The Hulk " is an obvious and simple minded effects-fest with a plot which is about as substantive as a Sunday morning cartoon . The film offers a good cast , excellent effects , and a whole bunch of surreal pseudoscientific nonsense built around a silly story line in which the good are nauseatingly good and the bad are not only bad but mean too . Lee screws around for 40 minute before we even get to see the hulk and then stretches his thin story to 2 . 3 hours in this protracted tale of the big green guy who I much preferred when " Big Louie " was playing him . Sucky but slick stuff which may appeal to infantile comic freaks . Ang Lee should go back to doing what he does best and make real people flicks again . ( C )
A movie with a latitude	" Joint Security Area " takes place entirely at the Panmunjom , Korea DMZ peace village ( a mockup thereof ) at the 38th parallel border crossing where North and South Koreans face off with a 24x7x365 military presence engaged in a tense show of force held in check by a 50 year old treaty . The film tells of the shooting to death of a North and a South Korean soldier which is investigated by a Korean-Swiss military woman . In flashback , the film shows the events leading up to the killings and then what transpires thereafter in the resolution . As such military murder / investigation films go ( A Few Good Men , The General's Daughter , etc . ) , this one has little to offer save it's unique location . The film delivers good production value but plays out like a Hollywood B-flick and fails to achieve the gritty reality warranted by the subject matter . Recommended only for those with an interest in Korea or the DMZ .
Objects in this movie may seems closer than they are . . . .	. . . depending on barometric pressure . In " Spartan " , Kilmer plays a badass who is a kind of " Swiss Army knife " of paramilitary agent types who has to help the Secret Service track down the kidnapped daughter of a high ranking USA government official . The film has some twisty-turny stuff in the story backbone and a whole lot of running around including a few small arms firefights , some 1-on-1 mutual combat , and some spy gadget stuff . No sex , romance , or relationships as the characters are too busy and too poorly developed . We the audience , have to reconcile ourselves to just going with it , rooting for Kilmer because he's obviously the hero , and savor whatever testosterone rush we can get from the film's machismo drenched screenplay . Everyone in the film talks in that clipped , contractionless , emphatic Mamet signature speaking style which is so obviously concocted it's sometimes humorous . Nonetheless , this guy flick is kind of like pizza and beer . . . not gourmet cooking but very enjoyable if you're in the mood . (
If you got the hamburger , we got the fire .	" Superfire " tells of a raging forest fire from both the perspective of some innocents caught up in the blaze and the smoke jumpers and pilots who fight it . A melodramatic and obvious B-flick , what " Superfire " lacks in class , sophistication , and budget , it makes up for in busy-ness . For example , you got your hero with the bad rap and bad rep in a love / hate thing going on with the resident babe . You got your techno junk stuff which keeps you posted on the fire so everything's as obvious as the " E " on an eye chart . You got your plane held together with spit and a prayer and a bomb thingy which could cook off at any second . You got your cute girl and her mommy and friends helplessly caught in the blaze . You got your smoke jumpin ' ground crew who's about to be stir fried . Etc . Etc . And , of course , you got your fire . . . lots and lots of fire . So , for all it's silly , hacked , contrived , and transparent nonsense , " Superfire " may keep you so busy and involved you don't notice the short side of the flick too much . I don't care much for fire flicks and yawned through " Backdraft " . But , " Superfire " I just kind of grinned , bared it , and enjoyed . A must for fire freaks and a good couch potato watch for others . ( Note - If you like this kind of flick , check out Spielberg's " Always " ( 1989 ) .
A okay dark comedy with a message .	Three male and two female liberal grad students have right-wingers over for dinner , poison them , and bury them in the back yard . An ok film which becomes somewhat redundant with all the ultra-conservative stereotypical dinner guests espousing the opinions we just love to hate , " TLS " does wind up well and makes an important point which has to do with the on-going and age old tug-of-war between left and right and its role in keeping the majority centered . " TLS " is a no frills ensemble production worth a look for those who haven't yet seen it .
Overwrought nonsense	" 15 Minutes " tells of a couple of eastern European immigrants in NYC who go on a killing spree , video taping their murders so that they can get book and movie deals after being acquitted on an insanity plea . Yeah , right ! This flick is ridiculous , preposterous nonsense with a smattering of romance , a taste of sex , and a whole lot of hyperkenitic running around and fabricated suspenseful situations . Not for the jaded , " 15 Minutes " is a okay popcorn flick at best .
The way is Monk-ey business .	" The Cup " is a lighthearted look inside a Buddhist monastery and the lives of some young expatriated Tibetan Monk soccer fans . This simple story is told in a simple way with a serenity not often found in western films . Some will find this film's slow pace tedious while others will appreciate a rare look at an esoteric and cloistered culture .
B . A . D .	B-movie tough guy Caruso leads the way in this convoluted crime drama as an exfelon-turned-good-guy who gets caught in a web of intrigue between the right and wrong sides of the law . Replete with familiar faces , this film has little else to offer with a kludge of a screen play and atmospherics and camera work right from page one of the Hollywood playbook . An okay late night sofa spud watch for those into B crime flix or fans of Caruso , Cage , Tucci , Jackson , Hunt , Rhames , Rapapaport , Erbe , etc . (
Sylvia who ?	" Sylvia " drags through long , tedious , plaintive gulps of the life of poet Sylvia Plath ( 1932-1963 ) in a self-involved attempt to wallow in the angst , woe , and misery of a relatively obscure writer . Having never heard of Plath before , I was able to learn more about her in 10 minutes on the Internet than in 100 minutes of Paltrow's sitting around looking wan and hopeless . As films about artists on the verge of madness go - and there are plenty - this one is quite ordinary . Recommended only for those curious about the life of Sylvia Plath , Paltrow fans , and the like . (
A flick only a teenager could love	" Eurotrip " tells of the misadventures of a High School grad who learns his German e-mail pen pal is a babe and not a dude and travels to Europe with 3 friends ( 2 guys + 1 girl ) to hook up with her . The result is a no brainer comedy romp chock full of all the stuff an 18 year old would like to see / do in Europe . . . . drinking with a soccer team in England ; nude beaches in France ; absinthe and beer in Germany ; brothels and hash brownies in Amsterdam ; some crass antics in the Vatican ; and lots of sex and T & A everywhere . A flick only a teenager could love , " Eurotrip " is unabashedly silly and unsophisticated fun without the raunch of the " American Pie's " . Slammed by the critics ( expected ) with above average marks from the public , this mindless comedy is a moderately pleasant time killer for those into unadulterated silliness . (
An excellent film but lacking something .	" The Substance of Fire " is a slice of life film which tells of a small time New York Jewish holocaust-survivor book publishing purist and authoritarian patriarch to his adult children ; two sons , one daughter . The slice has to do with the slow disintegration of his family owned publishing business and his mental health in the wake of his wife's death , financial woes over his inability to adapt to market demands , and his advancing age . The film sports a solid cast and excellent performances , especially by Rifkin , and is artistically and technically good . However , when all is said and done , the viewer may wonder why they bothered watching as the story just begins and ends with no apparent reason being ; no moral , no message , no lessons , not compelling or thought provoking and difficult with which to empathize . Likely to be of most interest to those who like " all in the family " relationship films .
Stir fried , not shaken .	" The Tuxedo " sticks Chan in the center of a convoluted 007ish plot involving a tux which gives the wearer super human capability , a bunch of bugs which turn water into a dehydrating substance ( go figure ) , and , of course , an evil guy who's going to take over the world by selling everyone pure bottled water . . . hmmm . Yeah , whatever . This inuring kaleidoscope of Hollyweird effects , stunts , and other contrivances doesn't bring out the best in Chan as much as it blurs and buries it . A fun though only marginally entertaining flick as megabuck flicks go , this step backward for Chan is for Chan fans only . All others either pass or wait for broadcast . (
Was the kid a PITA or what ?	" Touch and Go " is all about Keaton as an aloof , materialistic , all business Hockey star who becomes involved with his antithetical female counterpart though happenstance ; a down-on-her-luck babe ( Alonso ) with an unruly street kid . At issue : Will they be able to bridge their chasm differences and find happiness ? Well , it's all touch and go in this romcom with unrealized potential . " T & G " is watchable and moderately entertaining but could have used more heart and less filler . Worth a look for romantic comedy sentimentalists . (
70 % travelogue , 30 % story	" The Sheltering Sky " tells of a married couple ( Malkovich / Winger ) whose post-WWII travels in Northern Africa become an odyssey of self discovery . Beautifully filmed and imbued with the sights and sounds of Morocco while telling its thin , plaintive story , the film makes a better travelogue than drama . A good watch for those into North African cultures , many will find this film's story weak , ambiguous , and unsatisfying with its message buried somewhere in the sands of the Sahara . (
Rocky in a tutu doesn't does not equal dramady	" Chaos " is a subtitled French flick about a middle aged couple who make no effort to help a street hooker who is being beaten by three men . As this dramedy unfolds , the wife finds the hooker in the hospital , helps nurse her back to health , and thus begins a long relationship which carriers them into a variety of situations including revenge wreaked upon a pimp , some payback for to the bad Samaritan husband , the rescue of an Algerian girl who is about to be sold into marriage , etc . The film is a technically good effort . However , the comedic and dramatic components don't work together but rather work against each other diluting their efficacy and rendering the film a matter of curiosity rather than a vehicle for entertainment . Pass on this one unless you have a taste for clumsy feminist subtitled black comedy . (
Suspense by the numbers	" Don't Say a Word " is the usual Hollywood formula suspense product from the middle of the top tier . Douglas plays a psychiatrist who must wrest a secret from the mind of a disturbed young woman as ransom for his daughter . Although the film doesn't distinguish itself in any way it does push all the right buttons and makes for a riveting watch for suspense / thriller junkies .
Once again Cain proves he is able .	Anyone who has ever wished an annoying person in their life would just disappear will vicariously enjoy Graham Marshall ( Cain ) in the sardonic comedy " Shock to the System " who , belittled at home and passed over at the office , decides to take control of his destiny by eliminating those interfering with his happiness . Self narrated by Cain , often in the third person to impart a sense of detachment , the film manages to make the murderous Marshall both hero and villain as he courts a lovely secretary ( McGovern ) while befuddling a nosey homicide investigator ( Patton ) . Cain's performance makes this otherwise mediocre film well worth watching . (
A good film with a marginal story	" Undertow " is a drama about a feud between a hardworking father with two sons and his brother which boils over and sends the boys on the run . This well staged and directed film languishes between the few dramatic moments which constitute its meager story and squanders its time on the mundane melancholy of the hardworking bereaved backwoods Georgia family . The downside of " Undertow " is a story which is so ordinary , as films go , it could have been clipped from any daily newspaper . The upside is its ability to delve deep into the character's psyches , evince emotion , and conjure a strong sense of empathy . With good critical reviews and good marks from the public , this down home drama should play well as a DVD watch for those who appreciate the telling more than the story . ( B )
Just another sequel	" Bridget Jone : The Edge of Reason " has Zelleweger reprising her role as the socially inept , unflappable , and pudgy British journalist in the company of her co-stars ( Firth , Grant ) while breaking no new ground but rather pushing the story forward with a grunt and a groan and an obvious lack of fresh creativity . We get to see all the same befuddled smirks and grins of embarrassment as Zellweger dutifully goes through the motions of playing the undaunted , unwitting , always affable clown who is caught from scene to scene in contrived sitcom moments while earnestly attempting to manage the affections and advances of her two leading men . Unfortunately , we're not reminded of why we should care about Bridgette nor why her male leads care about her as she has no redeeming qualities beyond her ability to ignore her own ineptitude for forge ahead in pursuit of happiness . The film , which slipped a notch from the original in the eyes of public and critics alike , is well shot and staged and is not for want except in the writing department as the screenplay , in the tradition of sequels , is just more of the same . Those who loved the original B . J . film will like this knock-off . Those who just liked the original may find this sequel disappointing . (
Peculiar but charming little slow-starter .	" Bagdad Cafe " tells of a stout , laconic female German tourist who abandons her husband in the middle of California's Mohave desert and wanders into a ramshackle truck stop where she proceeds to quietly do a sort of Tony Robbins transformation of its eccentric inhabitants . A plodding slow-starter , this flick requires patience from the audience as it tells its somewhat sweet story and delivers its moral which is loosely something like " attitude is everything " . A worthwhile watch for those into quirky one-of-a-kind " feel good " flicks .
Typical Benjamin . Good but could have been better .	Richard Benjamin retells " The Pentagon Wars " story with an HBO budget and a mockumentary style in this examination of one of the Pentagon's more embarrassing faux pas ; oversight of the R & D of what's come to be known as the Bradley Troop Carrier and Fighting Vehicle . An okay bit of entertainment , this film could have had more bite , a harder edge , and more drama . Nonetheless , it does name names and recounts a true story without too much compromise . Worth a look especially if the viewer knows this flick is not 100 % fiction .
Killing with kindness doesn't always work .	" The Way Home " is a simple Korean fable with a simple moral which is so well intentioned that to criticize it would seem irreverent . Nonetheless , the film is too simple for a 90 minute run unless you have time for the modicum of entertainment it provides and a moral which trite at best . A pleasing watch for those peaceful souls who have the patience and time for a simple story about the conversion of a very annoying selfish kid to a loving and caring child by a grotesquely aged granny who shows him the kind of patience required to watch a movie about the conversion of a very annoying selfish kid to a loving and caring child . . . etc . (
A kinda , sorta cute comedy / lite-drama	" Beautiful " tells of a girl's life-long quest to become a beauty queen with Driver playing the adult version of the central figure . The film begins as a fresh , fun , and creative comedy romp but turns a little too serious in the middle wandering haphazardly into the drama genre while conjuring up a whole bit about a friend ( Adams ) going to jail which doesn't really serve the theme , plot , or purpose of the film . Nonetheless , it does manage to pull itself together in with a so-so feel good ending . Worth a look for those who don't mind sappy little comedies .
A mediocre documentary with powerful subject matter	" Control Room " offers Arab views and perspectives of the war in Iraq with candid footage from the controversial Qatar-based Arab Al Jazeera TV network studios to the Central Command media center to the fighting in the streets of Baghdad . In spite of marginal production value , no narration , no show & tell diagrams or maps or charts or graphs , and a sort of hodgepodge structure , the people in the film makes some very good points which contrast with the western view of what the war was about . Well worth a look for anyone interested in the Arab view of Operation Iraqi Freedom but a pass for those who have had their fill of the misguided American foray into Iraq . (
French-speakers only	" Un Air de Famille " is a French comedy involving nonstop dialogue which relies substantially on verbiage , context and inflection for humor ; the worst kind of film for subtitles . I encountered considerable difficulty while trying to read the subtitles , keep track of who said what , grasp the subtle humor , and follow the story finally giving up on the film as not worth my while . Recommended for French-speakers only . (
Very ordinary	" Everyday People " is a lukewarm HBO product which takes us into a day in the life of a handful of mostly Afro-Am people who are interconnected by their relationship to a Brooklyn neighborhood restaurant which is about to be bought out by corporate interests in a block-wide urban development project . You'll get to see a waitress wannbe poet argue with her mom about her future and the eatery owner anguishing over his decision to sell out . You'll get to see a street bum lecturing local blacks about their roots and a yuppie corporate type trying to close the deal . While the film tries to conjure the ethnic personality of " Barbershop " with the heart of " Big Night " it manages little more than a monotonous drone of uninspired dialogue which finally tapers off into nothingness with an unsatisfying conclusion . Nothing new here . (
I'd like the make a withdrawal , please . . . and hurry !	" The Bank " teams a math whiz kid ( Wenham ) and his proprietary computer program which can accurately predict stock market trends with a ruthless bank CEO ( LaPaglia ) as they set about to make an obscene fortune at the expense of widespread econimic ruination . The film focuses on the institution everyone loves to hate , the bank , and pits ethics against hardball business while mixing in a dash of romance and murderous intentions . Not bad for a journeyman auteur ( Connolly ) with a low budget , " The Bank " conjures some solid drama for those who can get past the technobabble and make the few leaps of faith required to get mentally in the envelope . Slick but not without its plotholes , " The Bank " is a lukewarm three star drama worth a look . (
Rare birds . Well done movie .	" Rare Birds " tells of a hapless Newfoundland restaurant owner / cook ( Hurt ) whose remote seaside restaurant is suffering from insufficient patronage due to a lack of advertising . A quirky friend ( Jones ) hatches a plot suggesting Hurt report the sighting of a nearly extinct duck to encourage bird watchers to flock to his eatery thereby stimulating his business while he's being stimulated by thoughts of his comely waitress ( Parker ) . . . etc . A fun and earnest flick which trudges through it's wry tale relying on understated tongue-in-cheek humor and quirkiness for entertainment , the film includes other salients such as a home made submarine , 22 pounds of cocaine , some much coveted sheet lights , and an RCMP SWAT team for additional substance . Overall , " RB " is a warm hearted little flick for those who don't mind off-kilteredness and the absence of the usual Hollyweird appurtenances . (
Strange and forgettable .	" Max " is about a Jewish art dealer in post-WWI Germany who befriends a nervous , neurotic , and unlikable little wannabe artist named Adolph Hitler . From there it invents history and tells a story which is curious at best . Unfortunately , for a film which usurps unlimited license over history , " Max " just isn't sufficiently entertaining . The film creates a fictional character ( Cusack ) and then doesn't do anything particularly interesting with him all the while dabbling in Hitler's life with contrivances which are probably less interesting than recorded history . In short , " Max " invents a relatively insignificant character in Rothman , builds a story around him , then proceeds to fizzle . Passable fiction which shouldn't be mistaken for history . (
A little something for everyone .	" Something Wild " tells what happens when a sedate professional family man from the burbs ( Daniels ) runs into an unabashed , unbridled babe who lives life fast and loose ( Griffith ) . The result is a fun little odyssey with some sex , romance , drama , comedy , action , etc . : A little something for everyone in this not-to-be-taken-seriously flick .
A pleasant little diversion for romantics	" Kate and Leopold " is a light hearted little romantic comedy about an English Duke ( Jackman ) from the late 19th century who travels through time and happens across the love of his life ( Ryan ) in the present day . Overall the film is a good production . However , the time travel thing makes it a bit unwieldy , squeezing the juicy stuff between a protracted setup and denouement while making the suspension of disbelief considerably more difficult than with conventional plots . Nonetheless , the film moves along quickly , spares us the usual dose of Kodak moments , and tightly knits its clever but cumbersome story . A fun watch for romantics and a possible disappointment for skeptics .
Hogan's Hookers	" Pantaleon y las Visitadoras " tells of a gung-ho Peruvian Army Captain ( del Solar ) who is ordered to staff a small corps of happy hookers to improve morale at remote Amazon jungle military outposts . The extremely efficient , straight laced , married Captain , however , finds he has his hands full ( in more ways than one ) once his troop of hotties ( aka : Pantyland ) is deployed . With mixed reviews from the critics and respectable marks from the public , this fun little Peruvian dramady gets off to a slow start , runs a tad long at two hours , and is sexy , silly , sweaty , and sepia , making for a lukewarm watch which will appeal most to foreign film freaks into flicks from south of the border . (
Slow starting , cute little sorta romantic comedy	" Just One Night " tells of a professor ( Hutton ) , in San Francisco for one night before his pending nuptials , who loses a shoe and , while in search of same , hooks up with a voluptuous disgruntled Italian wife ( Cucinotta ) and spends the night with her wandering around bumping into quirky characters , philosophizing , etc . while looking for the shoe and falling into friendship somewhat more than platonic . This fun , light hearted and easy going little romp starts slow . Those with patience will be rewarded as the film does gather momentum and sorts itself out in a most delightful way in the end . A journeyman flick at best , " Just One Night " is pleasing , simple no-brainer entertainment-lite for bored romantics .
Like so much wax fruit	" Femme Fatale " is more bloated , slick nonsense from De Palma who should probably stick to directing and stop writing lead balloons . A stylish flick , " FF " has little to offer beyond its good looks , not unlike a bowl of wax fruit . The story is a convoluted mess in which De Palma plays with the time domain , a cheap movie making ploy , punctuated with some gratuitous sexiness , violence , and serious silliness all serving to blow holes through the film's credibility . A conglomerated mess which seems to be trying to be intriguing while only managing to be confusing , this film mixes French and English languages and flashes forward seven years twice , stumbles over itself several times , and ends unsatisfactorily . Very forgettable Voila-wood stuff . (
A fun little journeyman flick with a twisty-turny plot .	" Sleep Easy Hutch Rimes " sticks Steven Weber at the center of a convoluted , busy plot as a small time womanizing insurance man who wants no more than to keep his business afloat and his bed at the Sleep Easy motel warm while the women in his life have other agendas involving intrigues and murder . What this light drama lacks in big time Hollywood production appurtenances , it makes up for with a clever story which it delivers with a snicker and a sneer . An okay watch .
Suspense , irony , and drama about people at war	" The Beast " ( a tank ) tells the saga of a band of Afghan warriors in foot pursuit of a crippled Russian tank across Afghan desert . The film , a drama with some action and no large scale battles , manages to whet the interest , build suspense , deliver some wartime ironies , and provide slivers of insight into what war in Afghanistan must be like - something much more relevant today than during the Russian occupation . An interesting film which doesn't take sides most likely to be appreciated by guys into war dramas .
What marriage and Miami have in common .	" Miami Rhapsody " is a conversational light-hearted chick flick with Parker at the vortex of a Miami's family's many relationships . The film focuses on the Parker character's musings , contemplations , reflections , and conclusions in an easy going , unpretentious , gentle , and lively way . A must see for Sarah Jessica Parker fans and an enjoyable low cal flick for all others .
Que bueno	" My Family " peers into the lives of three generations of an East L . A . Mexican-American family moving through time from generation to generation . Focusing mostly on the core family group which chooses to reside in the same house in the barrio and spending most of the time with the male family members , the film gives a skewed view of the Mexican-American condition . However , it does a good job of showing what life was like for one family albeit melodramatic , stereotypical , and contrived for dramatic value . Lacking the verve , passion , color , and creativity of Showtime's " Resurrection Blvd " ( though both share some cast members ) , " My Family " is an okay middle-of-the-marquee watch for anyone interested in Mex-Am issues or family stories in general . (
A excellent film if you can buy into it and overcome the tedium .	" Dreaming of Jospeh Lees " , a good , earnest and artful shoot , tells of the coming of age of a rural English girl and her conflict over a tentative romance with a close friend while yearning for a less available kissin ' cousin for whom she's carried a torch since childhood . Over all a good film , this story lacks substance , spends its time poorly , toys with the audience in a fraudulent attempt to whet interest in the absence of a solid story , and is too far out of the mainstream to be popular . Nonetheless , for those patient few who can buy into the characters , " Dreaming . . . " will be a very satisfying watch .
Small Time Crooks with big time laughs for Woody fans .	" STC " is a fun romp through the up and down life of a small time bungling thief ( Allen ) and his ex-stripper wife ( Ullman ) . This unpredictable film features Allen's signature nonstop stuttering dialogue and situational humor mixed with some site gags . Most will regard this as a funny above average film . A must see for Woody fans .
Cute comedy fare	" Adrenaline Drive " , a misnomer , is about money and a shy guy and a not-so-shy girl who have it and a handful thugs and one real badass Yakuza dude who want it . A busy , fun , and creative little flick , " AD " works well in the beginning and slowly wears out as it plods sweetly but doggedly towards its conclusion . Worth a look for those into Japanese films . (
A corny epic but entertaining .	Those who can abandon their sense of logic and knowledge of history may become sufficiently absorbed in this wannabee epic about American revolutionary freedom fighters to endure its 160 minute run time . " The Patriot " is a formula flick where the good are very good and the bad are very bad and no one ever has to reload . Melodramatic , historically inaccurate , improbable , contrived , but , nonetheless , entertaining .
Finally , the truth behind Watergate !	" Dick " retells the Nixon / Watergate saga with two ditzy 15 year old females ( Dunst & Williams ) leading the way as " Deep Throat " explaining many of the mysteries such as the missing 18 . 5 minutes of tape , etc . as they uncover the truth behind the scandal as the President's official dog walkers . Cute , fun , and kookie , " Dick " is 90 minutes of PG-13 silliness and a fun romp for those who remember that bit of tainted American history .
See Ryder kiss Sandler !	" Mr . Deeds " tells of a wacky , naive small town guy , Mr . Deeds ( Sandler ) , with little respect for fame or fortune who inherits $40 billion and has to deal with the responsibilities and media attention which accompanies his inheritance . Ryder plays a tv producer after the inheritance story who happens to fall in love with the Sandler character , something which pushes this flick from romantic-comedy into the realm of fantasy or sci-fi . In spite of its hard-to-swallow romantic side plot , the film offers nonstop in-your-face silliness and nonsense which should make it a fun watch for fans into Sandler's brand of deadpan kookie comedy . Non-Sandler fans can expect a lukewarm result . (
Past its prime	" Light Sleeper " tells of a burned out on-call Manhattan , NY drug dealer ( Dafoe ) with an upscale clientele who works for a woman ( Sarandon ) who dreams of going legit with a cosmetics business . This film is earnest in its attempt to tell a plaintive story about a man stuck between a junkie's history and a job with no future . However , " Light Sleeper " is also fitfully hokey in its presentation which is bland , stagey , contrived and doesn't provide a solid forum for its character-driven tale . Worth a look for fans of the players and those who haven't yet had their fill of flicks about the recreational nose candy business . (
See what happens when you read too much Deepak ?	" One Hour Photo " sticks Williams in the center as a creepy loner who runs a one hour photo concession while living vicariously through the pictures of the families whose photos he's processing . An unsatisfying flick , " OHP " is an obvious synthesis with a contrived and surreal hospital clean milieu , a heavy-handed score which overstates the substance , paper thin characters we're not given to care about , and an ambiguous conclusion which makes no clear statement of purpose . Nonetheless , " OHP " has scored decent marks and is probably a three star watch for those into weirdness for weirdnesses sake . (
Is it over yet ?	" Roman Spring . . . " is a theatrical teleplay which revolves around a recently widowed wealthy American actress in post-WWII Rome ( Mirren ) , a handsome Italian gigolo ( Martinez ) , and his pimp ( Bancroft ) . . . oh , yeah , and a bum ( homeless person ) . The film moves like molasses uphill as it delivers its meager story with heavy histrionics , minimal believability , and yammering ad tedium . Too long , too presumptuous , with an unsatisfying conclusion and poor psychodynamics , " Roman Spring . . . " is a lukewarm small screen watch which will have limited appeal . (
A junkie flick by any other name . . .	. . . is still a junkie flick . Such is " Pure " in which Eden , a ten year old son of a heroin addict , occupies nearly every scene as the film explores the highs and lows of the mother / son drug tainted relationship . The opposite of " gritty " , this sugar coated Brit flick delivers a solid performance by Parker as the mom / junkie who has to go through the obligatory lifestyle decay , agonizing withdrawal , courageous recovery , pitiful setback , etc . However , the film does little to distinguish itself and those who have seen junkie flicks before may well get the feeling " Pure " is not sufficiently creative or unique to make the viewing time well spent . (
Am I the only person on the planet who liked this flick ?	" Cold Creek Manor " tells of a family of four who move from NYC to a run down rural estate with a tell-tale history . With no spooks or paranormal nonsense , no screaming nightmares , no black cats screeching as they leap from the shadows , this film avoids horror and sticks to the suspense / thriller drama genre as it follows Mom ( Stone ) , Dad ( Quaid ) , and the kids from edgy to creepy to scary to thrilling , gathering momentum as it works through a less than inspired story . With a good cast and solid production value , " Cold Creek Manor " plays well as a B-thriller but peaks and ends predictably . Burned at the stake by the critics and stoned by the public , this flick is by all rights a real turkey . So , for what it's worth ( and it ain't much ) , I enjoyed it as some mild no-brainer escapism . Recommended for drama junkies into thrillers but keep expectations low . (
Pure corn	" The Outsider " tells of a beautiful Quaker-type pacifist woman ( Watts ) who's sheep-ranching homsteading husband is murdered by a cattleman's henchmen and is then visited by a wounded gunslinger ( Daly ) who just happens to quote scripture , play the harmonica , and is , of course , reeking of testosterone . In this eminently predictable , hackneyed story , the woman must nurse the man back to health and then reject the temptation to have him turn his six-shooters on the men who killed her husband and some other temptations which go with a widow living with a virile man in the same house in the boonies . . . well , you get the picture . Nothing new in this no-brainer from Hallmark & Showtime . Good old fashioned PG13-type ( some sex , nudity , and violence ) entertainment worth a look for anyone up for a melodramatic Western . (
Relationship soup	" Sidewalks of New York " is an emotionless quasidocudrama study of man / woman relationship set in Manhattan with the focus on three relationship ; one coming together , one falling apart , and one which is neither . Obviously tailored for the young adult audiences , the common undercurrent is sex though the film is rather tame and offers no nudity with chit-chat , repartee , and conversation being the order of the day . An okay product with a decent cast , " Sidewalks . . . " will appeal most to voyeurs and younger people who haven't been through the relationship mill many times over .
For Huppert fans and French film buffs only	" School of Flesh " tells of the ebb and flow of a sex / love relationship between a well-to-do middle aged woman and a handsome young bisexual male hustler . In typical French fashion the pair of star-crossed protags are locked in constant maneuvering in order to better define the limits of their relationship and their influence over it . Though the film is very well acted and directed with Huppert exuding expressionless controlled intensity , the underlying story seems somehow worn , unoriginal , and lacking the psychodynamics required for audience satisfaction . Recommended only for Huppert fans and aficionados of French cinema . (
Overkill	" Sleepers " is about four boys who grow up in Hell's Kitchen , get sent to reform school , are abused by the guards , and seek revenge as adults . The film offers a good cast with all the trimmings but falls apart in story . It has plenty of 1970-80's pop songs for those who can get nostalgic over them . It has a tease at front and back ends for conspiracy theorists claiming its preposterous story in true . However , it runs too long , gets too convoluted , and is sorely lacking in credibility raising more questions than it answers . For those who find the subject interesting and can tough out a long film with brain disengaged a good watch awaits . All others may want to think twice before committing to this long winded Hollywood-by-the-book tale . (
Incipient boredom	" Morvern Callar " is somewhere between a slice of life film and a character study . Though anything which could possibly spoil this very limited film appears in the plot outline and critical reviews , just to be safe . . . SPOILER ALERT ! ! This marginal film goes something like this : Callar ( Morton ) finds her writer boyfriend dead from suicide , disposes of the remains , rips off his manuscript , sells it , the end . That's the whole story . To stretch it into 96 minutes , writer / director Ramsay had to show Callar brooding , pondering , partying , bathing , eating , having sex , traveling , hanging out , etc . In other words . . . " Morvern Callar " is crammed with inconsequential filler which serves only to build some depth into a rather uninteresting character in a somewhat interesting circumstance . Nonetheless , " Morvern Callar " is a critics darling with good marks from the public at large . The art is good , the sound not so good , no CC or subtitles ( on my DVD ) , cast limited , acting good but easy , locations okay , and sundries all good . Recommended for film buffs , UK or Euro pic lovers , and Morton fans . (
I thought it would never end	" All Things Fair " has much good to offer . However , it flunks on story with a full hour dedicated to painfully slow character / plot development which focuses more on tedious trivialities than character depth . About an hour into this unnecessarily long filler-filled film the plot breaks loose when the protag , an early teen student , kisses his teacher and finds her all too receptive to his advances . From there it's in and out of the sack while dodging the teacher's husband and the advances of one of his school mates who wants to loose her virginity to him . If that weren't far fetched enough , given the boy's almost complete absence of charisma or personality , the teacher goes through a hard to swallow change of character - as we've been led to understand it - while the film grinds on with a complicating subplot having to do with a brother and WWII . When the end of this 2 + hour coming of age flick finally arrives it leaves us with a trite moral which seems to be : Don't grow up too fast as things will get complicated soon enough . " All Things Fair " may play well with film buffs into Scandinavian minimalism . However , for audiences in general , this flick is a very pretty example of too little too late . (
Serve me some too , please .	" Serving Sara " tells of two process servers in a race to see who can serve opposing sides in a divorce first with the result that the female side of the legal matter ( Hurley ) spends considerable time with her server ( Broderick ) thereby setting the stage for this romantic comedy romp with a clever premise but a less than original screenplay full of contrived silly situations . " Serving Sara " serves up plenty of Hurley eye candy with the comedy coming from Broderick , Cedric the Entertainer , and Pastore . Lukewarm fun for romcom junkies only . (
The hole in the Ozon layer	In spite of Rampling and a very good performance by Sagnier , excellent execution , and all the perks of Canal + , " Swimming Pool " plays out like second rate Hitchcock . The ingredients include Rampling putzing around for about 20 % of the flick , miscellaneous conversation for 20 % , some low level drama for about 20 % , some filler 20 % , and 20 % meat and potatoes . The only mystery in this mystery is what the hell is the film about ; something which become sadly evident when the film reaches it's unsatisfying conclusion . An audience scam , a cheap shot , and probably the worst French flick I've seen in a long time . (
A very British romantic comedy with the emphasis on comedy .	" Born Romantic " uses the revolving door approach to studying the relationships of a half dozen quirky characters and their romantic relationships which are in various states of disarray . Full of wry British humor , lots of salsa dancing , and with a cab driver playing a sort of " Dan Cupid " type , " Born Romantic " is considerably more clever than its recent American counterpart " Sidewalks of New York " , although they are at different ends of the romantic comedy genre . A fun and funny watch for those who enjoy British films .
Jeez , am I the only one who liked this flick or what ?	If you want the plot for " Say It Isn't So " look elsewhere on this site . I couldn't pass up the opportunity to raise my hand in praise of this whacked-out romantic comedy that had me laughing ' til tears streamed down my face . " SIIS " leaps from one absurdity to another for the whole run time with no lulls and lots of unabashed nonsense , crass humor , site gags , pratfalls , etc . I defy anyone to call this film predictable as , though we all know that somehow the lovers will get together in the end , you'll never guess the closing " kicker " . A fun , under-rated , and tightly knitted romp which is long on comedy and short on romance for people like me with an off-kilter and wacky sense of humor .
A pleasant comedy / drama with a minor genre conflict .	Twenty-five years ago , George , a Pakistani immigrant to England , married an English woman who bore him seven children . " East to East " picks up George's story as he's beset with a clash of cultures and befuddled trying to maintain his native old world traditions amidst his flock of " new age " kids . This humorous film makes a couple of severe excursions into serious drama which seem in conflict with it's intended comedic purpose . However , viewers unvexed by the mismatching of genres should thoroughly enjoy the film .
Thanksgiving grunge	" Pieces of April " servers up fragments of a story taking about 20 minutes to reveal its plot or lack thereof . It slowly pulls itself together and about an hour into it we become aware of the genre ( dramedy ) , the tweaked stereotypes , the contrivances , lack of depth , and its most of all , the poor development of the airheaded centerpiece , April ( Holmes ) . With strokes from the critics and a lukewarm reception by the public , " POA " is not shabby for a directorial debut and one-man-band indie but there are many films which should be viewed first ( eg : What's Cooking 2000 ) . More forgettable than entertaining , " POA " is recommended for Holmes fans or a video rental when " Lost in Translation " is not on the shelf or on broadcast when those who aren't engaged can change channels with impunity . (
Here's my " Magnum " . : - )	" Zoolander " slampoons those people we all love to hate . . . fashion models . Especially , the male fashion model . Ben Stiller in the company of his parents and a whole bunch of miscellaneous celebs in bit parts , plays an empty-headed and narcissistic top male fashion model , Derek Zoolander , who is topped by an even topper male fashion model played by Owen ( the nose ) Wilson . Yeah , Stiller and Wilson playing fashion models : Funny premise , huh ? With a kind of 007 ( that's Zoolander's IQ ) assassination plot thing going on , brainwashing Zoolander ( no detergent required ) , a runway " walk-off " and other nonsense , this flick bulges with stupid , silly , nonsensical humor . Depending on - your - sense of humor , this film may wear itself out early or leave you craving seconds . Most will find LOL's aplenty with one helping sufficient .
Kiss this !	Sean Young gets a double Razzie nod for sleepwalking through her dual role in this journeyman thriller which sticks Matt Dillon out front as an upwardly mobile man who prefers to murder his way to the top of the corporate ladder . Full of contrivances and asking many questions while providing few answers , this mediocre rehash of a 1956 thriller makes for little more than a nominal couch potato no-brainer . Okay to zone to . (
A middle of the road middle-aged romantic comedy .	" The Love Letter " tells of a middle-aged book worm ( Capshaw ) who discovers a draft of a love letter bearing the simple salutation " Dearest " and assumes she's the intended recipient . The letter , left lying about , is rediscovered by others who make a similar assumption allowing the infectious prose to spawn romance among the populace of a quaint little New England seaside community . Sledged by about half the critics , " TLL's " somewhat sappy and contrived screenplay is offset by its quirkiness and middle-agedness . A so-so production , " TLL " will likely resonate most with middle-aged females and more mature audiences .
Inept fun	In " The Guru " , an East Indian ( Mistry ) comes to America with the hope of making it big in Hollywood , stumbles into a porn studio , and then into a fortuitous position as a high priced guru . On the upside , " The Guru " is crammed with pop hit singles , has a pair of babes ( Tomei & Graham ) , and is so good natured as to be hard not to enjoy at some level . On the downside , the film is just plain marginal silliness and a lame foray into the burgeoning romcom genre which bursts into musical song and dance numbers for no good reason . Fun but inept , " The Guru " should have some appeal for Bollywood enthusiasts and fans of the principals . (
A journeyman , typical made-for-tv product .	The life of Rocky Marciano takes a beating in this made-for-tv flick which is fraught with melodrama , over acting , a mediocre screenplay , distortions of fact , and obvious attempts to wring emotion from the audience . The film features an excellent performance by Favereau in the title role with fine supporting talent none of which can save this fast-track to success Hollywoodish formula approach to the exploitation of the life of a boxing legend . Come on . . . do we really need another boxing flick where every punch sounds like a sledge hammer hitting a sandbag ?
Earnest , sincere reality film out of the UK	" Stella Does Tricks " tells of a Scottish teen female's struggle to escape a life of prostitution . Sans the glitzy appointments of the usual tinsel town fare and exploitive sex and nudity usually accompanying the subject matter , this austere film focuses on the real problems of the principle ; addictiveness of easy money , low self esteem from childhood abuse , etc . With excellent performances all around , especially by Mcdonald ( Stella ) , this film's only flaw is annoying dreamlike flashbacking which is too often ambiguous in an attempt to be poetic . Good stuff for those into sincere , earnest , hardworking reality pix about the socially disenfranchised .
So what's wrong with sentimental , Roger ? ?	" The Spitfire Grill " tells of the influence of one young woman ( Elliott ) on the people of a small town in Maine . A multifaceted , soapy , and unabashed chick-flick , this critically panned audience pleaser is sentimental almost to a fault . From its sepia tinged warmth to its Norman Rockwell stereotypes to it's plaintive orchestral score to its contrived storyline , etc . , this flick is out to tug at your heart strings and jerk that tear from your eye . Sentimentalists should kick back , turn off brain , and enjoy . All others , find something else to watch .
Coulda , shoula been better	" Igby Goes Down " is a condescending , pedantic , darkly comedic misanthro-pic about a rich kid ( Culkin ) who has too little love and too much attitude . . . etc . In spite of its critical plaudits ; excellent acting ( no stretching ) ; and slick , dialed-in synthesis , this film really sucked . Personally I was bored with it from the get go , utterly and completely detatched , and toughed it out with a piecemeal watch . What could have been a good drama was scuttled with a black skew , much too clever script , obvious but purposeless stereotyping , an unabashed absence of humanity , and zero audience empathy . Good fodder for self indulgent critics , buffs , dilettantes , etc . For those who just want entertainment , forget it . (
A wonderfully festive kaleidoscope	" Monsoon Wedding " splatters the screen with ebullience as a very westernized East Indian couple and throngs of family members in New Delhi convene for that universally most happy of occasions . A fun and festive flick with all manner of family issues expressed in and among the wedding preparations , this plotless film is a delightful hodgepodge of busy goings-on full of handsome folks in anxious anticipation the festivities . A delightful " happening " , " Monsoon Wedding " will score best with viewers into foreign films or with a specific interest in East Indian culture . (
Generic biopic	" Hemmingway " is a typical biopic with a very generic feel . Keach carries this flick on his back and his worthy costars work hard as well . However , the film never seems to dig into the psyche of the enigmatic , robust , large-living author but presents him as a two dimensional character who is all too pat . Scripted , stagey , and with the melodramatic feel of a 40's film , " Hemmingway " tells the story but can't seem to shake it's stiffness . In one scene , for example , during the Spanish Civil War , bullets crash through the window of Hem's lover's hotel room . Shaken , she gets out of bed and obviously kills time waiting for Hem to arrive . When he bolts through the door they stand right in the line of fire and embrace while we sit knowing all to well if it wasn't a movie they'd be long gone to safety . And so it goes from scene to scene , contrived and cued and missing many opportunities to show us such things as his plane crashes , his car wreck , his sub hunting , Nobel and Pulitzer benchmarks , etc . while spending it's time jumping from Paris to Pamplona to Africa to Key West to Cuba , etc . and from wife to lover to wife to lover . . . etc . And okay watch for those who want to learn something about Hemmingway via film even though more can be learned about the man with much less time simply by surfing the web . As for entertainment value , this one is marginal . (
A peppy pepper-upper .	" Bring It On " is another Dunst bop flick which shows her as the new captain of a HS cheerleading team which is fraught with problems . Lively and unpretentious teen fluff , " Bring . . . " has all the nonsense , silliness , and stereotypes required to please it's market . What more could any producer or audience want ?
All Alda	" Club Land " tells of a bitter , small time , aging New York nightclub talent booking agent ( circa 50's ) , played by Alda , who has family issues with his son / protege ( Weber ) . Claustrophobic , noir'ish , and plaintive , this solid , well scripted and acted story relies heavily on an excellent performance by Alda for entertainment value . A must see for Alda fans and an okay watch for all else .
Got milk ?	" Buying the Cow " is a somewhat stiff , run-of-the-mill , mating game romantic comedy ( emphasis on comedy ) full of vanilla actors in plastic roles , somewhat herky-jerky , band-aided with a couple of side plots , which does deliver some funny moments and finally connects with a little romance in the end . The film's conglomerated story has to do with a woman with marriage in mind who wants a commitment from her significant other who fell in love at first sight years ago and is reluctant to marry . . . . etc . Much of the film is cliche stuff we've seen before and there's little fresh creativity to be found . Nonetheless , the film's heart is in the right place and it should provide a modicum of entertainment for young adults and suckers ( like me ) for the romantic comedy genre .
Near miss	" My Wife is an Actress " is all about a man who becomes jealous of his wife's handsome costar when she's required to do boudoir scenes . A so-so romantic comedy with precious little romance , this flick fails to focus on the central question which asks : How do you know if your wife is cheating de facto , in heart or mind , while she performs in bed with another man for the cameras ? Instead , the film ruminates about the jealous husband and the tentative wife with occasional excursions into a whole side matter about circumcision which contributes nothing while managing to conjure up a few delightfully clever scenes . With good art , excellent camera work , and solid performances , this half English , half French flick makes for a nominal subtitled watch best saved for broadcast . (
An under-hyped , under-rated love it or hate it B-flick sleeper	" Forever Mine " is a somewhat flawed telling of an interesting and unpredictable love triangle story which is built around a solid core cast of under-rated actors ( Fiennes , Mol , and Liotta ) . The film , which takes place over 17 years during which a Florida cabana boy struggles with an evil politician for possession of his wife , begins as a romantic melodrama and turns into a darkly obsessive war of wills . " Forever Mine " suffers from low budget appurtenances ( music , sets , props , etc ) ; an uneven flow which runs in the beginning and crawls through the middle ; and an unnecessary murder which serves little purpose ; etc . Those who can overlook the ragged edges of the film will be rewarded by some excellent performances and an evocative and compelling drama while , as the extremes of IMDB . com's users ' perspectives indicate , the more analytical viewers will react quite the opposite . An earnest and interesting love it or hate it sleeper .
A fun little flick about wannabee crooks gone right .	" Palookaville " tells of three schmucks who are determined to be crooks but somehow just can't seem to mastermind even a simple burglary . Surprisingly well scripted , acted , and directed , given the plot , this film develops and maintains the integrity of it's inept principals while walking a tightrope between comedy and drama , avoiding falling headlong into either genre . An enjoyable little flick for channel surfers .
Would you like some roofies with your chocolate ?	Let's get real people . " Nightcap " just ain't that great . After reading some of the critical comments on this film , I decided there was as much projecting going on by reviewers as by the people who cast the film's imagery on the silver screen . Chabrol or no Chabrol , " Nightcap " is awkward , mechanical , scripted , incredible , unbelievable , monotonous , and has an unsatisfying conclusion . Yes , it has an up-side too including Huppert , Huppert , more Huppert and some intriguingly ominous undercurrents , etc . However , there's just too much wrong with execution and too little payoff in the end to make this film a worthwhile subtitle read for most non-French audiences . In short , this is like some really bad early Hitchcock . Recommended only for critics , French film devotees , film fest groupies , Chabrol fans , and the like . (
So-so fun fluff stuff	" The Heartbreakers " tells of the misanthropic misadventures of a mom / daughter team ( Weaver / Hewitt ) of con artists who prey of the male libido and ego . The mom / daughter team offer eye candy and little else while the comic relief comes from " marks " Liotta and Hackman . A so-so romantic comedy with the emphasis on comedy , " Heartbreakers " is a moderately fun way to wile away 2 hours if not taken seriously and expectations are kept low .
Where's the plot ?	" Bodies . . . " , a well crafted flick with a good cast and good acting , is a non-story which looks at a couple of days in the lives of four ordinary young adults ( 2 males , 2 females ) struggling with some rather pedestrian issues while depending on one question to hold viewer interest . . . Where's the plot ? The whole film is a character study of people who are not sufficiently interesting to make the film a memorable watch save fans of the principals . Okay but lacking in substance .
An old story and a superb performance by Holly Hunter	Big management grinds poor workers with boot heel followed by rebellion and unionization . There's nothing new in Showtime's telling of this old story about hollow dwelling coal miners in Harlan County , KY . Nonetheless , Hunter bails out this well made but potentially monotonous film with her powerful performance as a spunky and dauntless coal miner's wife . A must see for Hunter fans .
No shtick , Sherlock .	" Original Sin " is an almost 3 hour British t . v . miniseries " old school " mystery which centers on a murder at a waterfront publishing firm , numerous clues , and equally numerous suspects with the inscrutable Commander Dalgliesh ( Marsden ) and his trusty sidekicks hot on the trail . A rather convoluted mess of a story which is not particularly engaging given its length , viewers may find the conclusion to be too little too late . Recommended for those who have viewed the other films in this series , preferably in chronological order . Those unfamiliar with P . D . James ' novels or this series of films should begin with the oldest first and work forward from there . The DVD I watched had no subtitles or CC and I did have some trouble with the audio and the dialects . (
A fun little action comedy worth a look .	" If Looks Could Kill " tells of a high school French class's trip to France and one student ( Grieco ) who gets caught up in an international spy drama through mistaken identity . A fun little action comedy with not a single dull moment , this flick lampoons 007 films as its tale of comic intrigue unfolds . A silly no-brainer on cable with a little something for everyone .
Why mess with perfection ?	" The Music Man " tells of a worldly traveling salesman and scam artist who unwittingly infuses the people of a small Iowa town with hope and dreams while he suffers from the low self esteem which supports his chicanery . A suspicious and cynical librarian justifiably distrust him until she sees the goodness in his work and instills in him a sense of self worth turning him into an honest man while he restores her faith in people . Viola ! Love . This story is beautifully told in the huge hit movie of 1962 and , now , in the 2003 redux . This t . v . version has good legs and offers solid musical and dance performances and production value . However , it suffers from poor casting , halfhearted acting , and pales when compared to the original . If you haven't seen " The Music Man " , watch the 1962 version first . If you have seen it , you'll likely be disappointed by this rehash . After all , why mess with perfection ? ( B )
Not Chabrol's best work	" L'Enfer " peers into the lives of a married-with-kid couple who run a resort hotel . She is beautiful and vivacious and he is jealous . As the film wears on , it appears we're supposed to believe the husband's jealousy slowly morphs into insanity though we're increasingly confronted with what seem to be his visions of his wife in compromising situations until the end when circumstance and a messy montage leave us confused and not knowing what to think . The result is a superficial story of a man being consumed with jealousy and some underlying theme which serves only to confound and make the denouement unsatisfying . An okay drama recommended for Chabrol fans only . ( Note - The DVD is watched had poor quality remastering with less than true color ; the speckles , zits , and lines of dusty and scratched film ; and abrupt cuts which appeared to be poor editing .
Long on style , short on story .	" Miranda " , misbilled as a romance / thriller ( no thrills in this flick ) , is really a dark romantic comedy about an enigmatic woman , Miranda ( Ricci ) , who beguiles a male librarian ( Simm ) with her haunting beauty and mysterious ways . Long on style and short on story , this film spends most of its time with the title character , of course , which Ricci plays well . The film crashes , however , on story as Miranda is really a pain in the a and not something we , the audience , are inclined to wish on the more likeable Simm character . Meanwhile , bits and pieces of a story are doled out with the dots never really connected at the end making anything beyond the romantic quest little more than window dressing . Recommended for Ricci fans or dark comedy weirdos . (
Disappointing .	" Road to Perdition " is a gangster flick ( circa 1930 ) about a Tommy gun goon ( Hanks ) who is also a loving , caring family man . He has a score to settle and , with his young son in tow , goes off to take on a top local mobster ( Newman ) . Lopsided in favor of showcasing auteursmanship over audience appreciation , this drab , moody flick is an overhyped , artful shoot with a good cast which moves along at a snail's pace as it delivers its only marginally interesting story ultimately ending with a laughable scene reminiscent of something from " Lassie " . Oh happy day ! I will have to defer to critics and public alike who gave this flick high marks as I personally was disappointed , double-timed through the boring filler , never could make the buy-in , and gave the flick an undeserved for B-udget only . (
A tinseltown take on Chicano gang / prison life	" Bound by Honor " circles interminably around a trio of East L . A . Chicano gang members through decades of life . Overwrought , over acted , uninspired , and fraught with foibles and plotholes , the film spends too much time wallowing in the numbing excesses of prison gang life and politics unable to escape the varnish and tarnish of a Hollywood contrived shock-value execution . Even if we needed another prison gang flick , which we don't , this flick accomplishes too little and runs too long wearing its characters down to nubs instead of fleshing them out with insights into familia , community , heritage , and church . Worst of all , we're not given anyone to care about leaving us with three hours of mechanical detachment . ( Note - The version I Tivo'd included a lot of " Spanglish " with no subtitled translations and no closed captions .
Adam who ?	" Young Adam " is all about Joe ( McGregor ) , an ordinary working stiff employed as a deck hand on a Scottish coal barge , who knows more about the dead body he and his mate fish from the waters than he lets on . That's about as interesting as this well crafted exercise in tedium gets as we watch the laconic and stoic Joe enjoy the sexual favors of every woman he encounters without so much as a " by your leave " . When all is said and done we're left with the impression that the women of Glasgow can't wait to drop their skivvies for fresh meat and the Scottish criminal justice system consists of little more than pompous mental midgets . This foreign flavored artie dramatic fabrication received nominal reviews , some local awards , and a love it or hate it reaction from the public . Fodder for foreign film freaks only . (
Whaddawaste	" The League of Extraordinary Gentlemen " pulls together a motley bunch of extraordinary people from fictional literature ( Tom Sawyer to Jekyll-Hyde to Captain Nemo to Etc . ) and sends them on a super hero mission to save the world from global war . This comic book film builds a story , creates a hero / nemesis combo , sets the stage for lots of action and then buries the whole thing in an XS of FX . It's not long before the brain forgets who's who , what the characters are trying to accomplish , who the bad guy is , what the films about , and finally who you are and why you are watching . Simply put this critically slammed flick is a waste because Norrington & Co . didn't know when to quit . More proof that the equation less = more is a math lesson too often missed by action / fx flick auteurs . (
All about a director directing a film and little more .	" Sex is Comedy " is an open ended light drama about a film director , Parillaud ( Nikita ) , working on a film toward the sex scene between her young male and female leads . There's no story in this film which simply shows how a director might work with her cast and crew while trying to squeeze , cajole , or otherwise evoke the nuances she desires from the a recalcitrant male lead and his reluctantly willing partner while wrangling cameras and crews and the foibles which beset a film director at work . This film conjures some insights into what being a film director involves and the hard work required of cast and crew while making a film and , I suppose , the techniques and methods of this film's director , Brelliat . There are similarities between the sex scene in this film and that in another Brelliat film , " Fat Girl " , which is little more than noteworthy . " Sex is Comedy " doesn't walk on the edge of pornography as do other Brelliat films and will be of most interest to those interested in film direction Brelliat style . (
Boooooooring	" Marie & Julien " is a well crafted but painfully monotonous subtitled French flick which will put your patience and ADD to the test . Know that I gave up on this 2 . 5 hour flick at the 90 minute mark out of sheer boredom . The most interesting character to that point was Julien's cat which entertained itself while Julien tinkered with clocks in his home / shop and Marie , well , Marie just sort of remained fascinated by some room in the house and stared at the ceiling a lot . Yes , there was a blackmail thing going on but it was almost incidental and so very civilized I've been thinking about who I can blackmail . Whatever I may have missed couldn't have made up for having to sit through a couple of poorly done sex scene and every pokey and piddly mundane and pedestrian thing those two rather unlikeable characters did with their time . Just be careful before committing 150 minutes of your life to this flick . (
A good fun-flick for the 13-16 female crowd .	" Get Over It " is a silly little teen romantic comedy with a little bit of everything for the pubescent female . The flick includes some slapstick , situational humor , funny characters , and , of course , the requisite puppy love affair . At issue is not will Dunst hook up with the newly estranged and reluctantly footloose Foster , but rather when . Combine some funny shtick by the hilarious Martin Short and some really ultra-hip permissive parents played by Kurtz and Begley with a spritz of musical theater and I all spells fun for teens . " Get Over It " doesn't take itself too seriously and is what it is . . . a no brainer for bops .
Pompous drivel	A novel has a distinct advantage over a film . The novel can describe a character while the reader's imagination provides the substance of that description as individual as the reader him / herself . In film , however , the director ( casting ) must provide the description and substance and we , the audience , are robbed of the ability to assign face and form to that character . In " Portrait . . . " , Champion fills in our blanks for us with " Boxcar Bertha " and " Olive Oil " and that fat and vulgar lady from the Johnny Carson show , etc . In other words , Champion simply assembles a stellar cast , presupposes we have no association to these actors , and then assumes we'll devour what she has served up in spite of dreadful miscasting . After all , big names mean big boxoffice and one can always fall back on commercial success even if they fail in artistry . In " Portrait . . . " , a knock-off of a mediocre short novel , we're given a bunch of Americans speaking stilted dialogue with California accents or California by way of Sydney or whatever ( with some exceptions ) . We see Kidman performing mechanically , as though uncomfortably marching to the director's crop , as she portrays a woman of with no charisma or personality and yet with numerous suitors who for whatever reason are in love with her . Champion goes on to insult us with a clip of black and white film , circa " Charlie Chaplin " which comes out of no where , etc . . . etc . . . etc . The only thing " Portrait . . . " has going for it is wonderful costuming , cinematography , and locations . Better period films are not hard to find . . . period .
If Snipes sniped at a sniper , could the sniper snipe a Snipes ?	Not in " Liberty Stands Still " ; a taught drama in which Liberty ( Fiorentino ) is a powerful , well connected corporate type who is held hostage in public by a sniper ( Snipes ) secreted in a building and armed with a sniper rifle , a remote controlled bomb , a cell phone , and oodles of hi-tech gadgetry . The film is a stylish and highly improbable chess match drama in which Snipes spends much time talking with Fiorentino via cell phone as he asserts his agenda and Los Angeles gets busy trying to deal with the threat . Character development is spread over the run time and the conclusion is somewhat less than satisfying . However , the kinetics , visuals , drama , and spy stuff are sufficient to make " Liberty . . . . " a worthwhile and interesting escapist guy-flick . ( Note - Though filmed in Vancouver according to this website , the film shows frequent aerial shots of L . A .
A cut above the average horror flick .	" Anatomy " tells of an attractive young female medical student who attends the University of Heidelberg where she discovers an ancient secret society of doctors who practice human vivisection . The film is an artful shoot with great anatomical props and a story which is a little more intelligent than typical American horror flicks where hockey masked hulks go around butchering teenagers . The video release I watched was also very well dubbed . Overall a cut above your average horror flick and an mildly thrilling and suspenseful watch for most . The last two words of the film are particularly telling .
Life's a bitch and then you . . .	. . . get your braces off . " My Horrible Year " tells of a young woman's indomitable spirit and courageous struggle against being 15 . . . and having braces . . . and the chicken pox . . . . and twin baby brothers . . . and parents who may be getting divorced . . . and sundry other appalling , disgusting , and terrible afflictions . Allison Mack manages to exude sufficient energy and personality as the centerpiece of this film to bind all the fun , campy , teen comedic situations together into an enjoyable romp through year 15 . A fun watch for anyone who is 15 , is going to be 15 , or who was 15 and can still remember what being 15 was like .
Like so much Chinese food .	" Londinium " is a journeyman comedy set in London which is all about the core cast , two couples , all friends ( Binder , Firth , Jacob , & Hemingway ) and their struggle to find happiness in their relationships . Like so much Chinese food , the film is unsatisfying and inclined to leave the audience yearning for more substance by film's end . Sans an emotional anchor , the audience is left to play voyeur to the on screen antics as the players dutifully make their way from beginning to end in a bland screenplay with an incongruous stringed musical score out of the 40's . " Londinium " offers some mildly amusing moments , some quirkiness , and makes for an easy going small screen watch for mature couples . (
A solid flick in a difficult genre .	" Mission . . . " offers the audience a good cast , good special effects , good sets , some excellent production talent , and an interesting story . It builds from a hokey backyard barbecue opening to an outer space technodrama and waxes in the denouement to a ponderous fantasy . Overall the flick is solid entertainment . If " Mission . . . " has a problem , it's the daunting task of crossing the left-brain / right-brain barrier ( most people are one or the other and not both ) in a difficult genre .
A whole lot of running around	" The Hunted " tells a story of an expert survivalist and military special ops killer ( Del Toro ) who become a loose killing cannon and has to be taken out by his mentor / teacher ( Jones ) . The result is one long hunt-chase flick with Jones in pursuit of Del Toro through the woods , in the river , all around the town , etc . Shot in the Pacific NW , the film features some beautiful scenery , good cinematography , and solid performances by the two leads . However , " The Hunted " is a meager story at best as , without all the busy running around , it distills to about a 20 minute movie . Good stuff for those into one-on-one manhunter flicks , survivalism , escape / evasion , etc . (
If less is more , this is a very big little movie .	" Morgan's Ferry " is simple movie about simple people in a simple place and a simpler time . At the center of the story is a spartan middle-aged spinster and her austere , deep South , backwater existence . When she crosses paths with an escaped convict on the run , the awakening within her is thing of grace and beauty to behold .
Old news	" Seeing Other People " is all about DINKs Alice ( Nicholson ) and Ed ( Mohr ) who have lived together for years and decide to try other sex partners before tying the knot . This obviously contrived premise yields an abundance of the same old relationship problems we've all seen before a zillion times giving the film the familiarity of old news as opposed to old friends . On the downside , this conversational flick uses a plethora of stereotypical side characters and plenty of not-so-subtle sex talk for filler while Ed and Alice are clumsily making their last ditch effort to get some " strange " . On the upside , the writing is sufficiently insightful and fresh to create enough moments of humor and fun to make for a worthwhile small screen watch . With average marks from critics and public , " SOP " will play best with younger adult females . Keep expectations real . (
The absence of synergism	" Between Strangers " tells of three women with something in common . They are all laconic , slothlike zombies moving from scene to scene as though they bear the weight of the world on their shoulders . Though this film offers a good cast and execution , it is little more than a trio of short subjects with an unfortunately bland and overly ponderous result lacking the only reason to make one film from three stories ; synergism . (
Flat	" Nelly and Monsieur Arnaud " is all about a beautiful Parisian working woman ( Emmanuelle Béart ) and the men in her life . Suffering from marital ennui Nelly estranges herself from her husband and takes a job typing memoirs for an older Monsieur Arnaud as he dictates to her in his drawing room . During the course of the film we see a handful of miscellaneous characters come and go while Nelly has dinner , types , goes to a party , types , takes a swim , types , an does many more very mundane things . I was extremely disappointed in this film given its fine cast and excellent pedigree . An unfortunate drone of inconsequential busyness which ends abruptly and offers no reason for audience interest save sheer voyeurism , this film makes Nelly out to be a person without a single interesting thought in her lovely head . All in all , " Nelly and Monsieur " plays out like a whole lot of very nicely done nothingness . (
How do you say " yadayadayada " in French ?	" Alias Betty " , a mediocre French flick which tells of a woman whose son dies and is replaced with a kidnapped kid by her mother and the ramifications of same and examinations of the goings-on in the lives of the people connected to the principals , this flick is a choppy and bland bit of nervous monotony and little more . Combine that with a subtitle a second such that it's difficult to study facial expressions and mannerisms and " Alias Betty " simply isn't worth the effort required . Recommended only for French film enthusiasts , French speakers , and fans of the principals and Miler's work . (
A good ( yawn ) movie . ZZZzzzzz .	" Grand Canyon " , which doesn't have anything to do with the Grand Canyon , peers into the lives of a handful of Los Angelinos like a kind of polished soap opera potpourri . This easy going , well crafted flick with excellent acting talent is guaranteed not to rattle your cage as it juxtaposes the have's and the have-not's as though trying to make some vague social commentary . A sort of meandering contemplation on adult issues , " Grand Canyon " is yet another example of a good movie in need of a good story .
Optimistic , austere , and mildly entertaining	" Me Myself I " is a minimalistic , lighthearted film about the schizophrenic introspections of the centeral character . Save a charming and sometimes whimsical look at some ordinary lives , a good performance by Griffiths , and excellent musical punctuations , this enjoyable film offers nothing new and risks being labeled a " chick flick " .
Can a hippo change its spots ?	Stiller is an insurance company risk analyst who lives a conventional and highly organized creature-of-habit life style . Anniston is the antithesis , digs Salsa dancing and exotic food , has a butt tat , and lives in a NYC grunge flat . The film begs the questions , can these two opposite people fall in like , lust , and maybe even love and find happiness ? " Along Came Polly " is wall-to-wall fun romcom fare which is short on rom , long on com , and full of site gags , stereotypical comic side characters , and nonstop in-your-face silliness . Not the most creative thing to come along since " There's Something About Mary " , this little viva-la-difference flick was slammed by the critics and whined over by the public . Nonetheless , it should make for a fun tube watch for sofa spuds if expectations are kept within reason . ( B )
The usual suspects	" Starsky & Hutch " is a lukewarm comedy knock-off of the 70's hit buddy cop TV series of the same name . Those who remember the original Soul / Glaser duo will likely enjoy this flick more than those who don't as the film relies heavily on nostalgic blast from the past music , disco dancing , period slang , 70's clothing and hair styles , S & H TV lampooning , etc . Regardless , " S & H 2004 " is watchable and even recommendable though off par for both Stiller and Wilson . Worth a look as no brainer small screen comedy entertainment about a couple of wacky plain clothes detectives who can't seem to do anything right but still manage to save the day in the end . (
Only half witty .	" Ridicule " is a not-to-be-taken-seriously French period piece ( circa 1780's ) which tells of a young hydraulics engineer who seeks royal funds to drain foul marshes to protect peasants from disease . His problem is to work his way into the King's court where the witty repartee of aristocrats rules the day . The film is an excellent period production though a bit stilted , somewhat bland and lacking passion , and not as witty as one would expect a film about wit to be . Most filmgoers will likely be bored with the meager story and so-so humor . Recommended for devotees of Euro period flicks only .
Gen-Y crass comedy	" Harold and Kumar Go to Whitecastle " tells of two ethnic buddies and wannabe yuppie potheads who take a road trip to the not-so-local Whitecastle burger joint becoming involved in all manner of nonsense along the way . The story isn't particularly important as the film is more a conglomeration of misadventures which beset the duo as they run afoul of a bunch of street punks , cops , a really weird tow truck driver and his hottie wife , and more . Chock full of gross-out and potty humor , T but no A , blatant vulgarity , silly situational comedy moments , and some unoriginal stuff borrowed from other films , this raucous road trip flick is not for the sophisticated and will play best with " boomer babies " and the college crowd . (
Okay drama for sofa spuds	In " Dream Lover " , a prosperous architect ( Spader ) marries a too-good-to-be-true woman ( Amick ) and gets more than he bargained for and possibly more than he can handle . Done as a darkish comedy or light drama , this psycho-suspense flick features an interesting premise , okay performances by the principals , some blatant silliness compliments of Miller , and lots of semiserious drama . Full of plot holes and improbabilities , be sure to dumb yourself down for " Dream Lover " , stick around for the punchline ending , and enjoy . (
A mildly compelling B-flick with limited appeal	" Shadow Hours " is a well shot , well acted , impatient B-flick which gets moving quickly and keeps up the momentum throughout . Although the film is a journeyman production at best , it creates a curious mystique by asking more questions than it answers and keeps the audience guessing to the end and beyond . Weller's character is particularly compelling as he mentors a recovering addict , Getty , on life with a series of tours through the decadent underbelly of Los Angeles nightlife . Not for everyone , some will find this film provocative and will be looking forward to better offerings from this auteur in the future .
Old school Hollywood melodrama	" The Untouchables " tells the tale of G-man Elliott Ness ' campaign to unseat Chicago mob boss Al Capone ( circa 1930's ) . Given the Hollywood clout behind this flick ( De Palma , Mamet , etc . ) , the film is surprisingly lackluster and fraught with overacting , staginess , some hokey scripting , and fictionalizations . Nonetheless , " The Untouchables " will make an entertaining couch potato watch for those looking for no-brainer gangland melodrama . ( Note - Connery garnered both a globe and an Oscar for his role which didn't involve any special tests of his abilities . Go figure .
Good drama , mediocre history .	HBO's " Rasputin " is an Emmy winning retelling of an old story around which swirls as much legend as fact . The film stretches the emotional and dramatic moments while condensing the history as it goes for the viscera with Rickman painting a sensationalized portrait of the enigmatic and shadowy title character . A stuttering drama dumbed down for prime time audiences , " Rasputin 1996 " should be an entertaining watch for those who like a little history with their television dramas .
Love me tender	" Flirting " is a lukewarm sequel and another chapter in the life of writer / director Duigan's character Danny Embling ( Taylor ) who falls in love with a beautiful African girl ( Newton ) , both residents of his and hers Aussie boarding schools . A coming of age flick , this restrained and pleasant love story treads softly and with tenderness , ignoring its potential for sexationalism , as it focuses on the young racially mixed couple in and among just so much period and boarding school filler . Okay stuff for anyone in the mood for a flick about young love in bloom . (
Full metal bra	" A Soldier's Sweetheart " has Sutherland as a hunkered down Army medic in Vietnam telling an incredible tale to a disbelieving comrade . The tale , which is the bulk of the film , is about his experiences with another soldier ( Ulrich ) at a sort of mini-MASH outpost who manages to have his civilian sweetheart ( real life spouse Cates ) from home brought to him " in country " where the pert female finds herself enjoying her unauthorized vacation-of-sorts in war torn Vietnam a little too much . The film plays out as a sort of tall tale as it begs the question is the story fact or fantasy . . . a question it attempts to answer in the conclusion . An obviously budget conscious made-for-tv flick full of time consuming uneventful filler , the film flows like molasses though it does wax curiously if not interesting if not suspenseful . An okay watch for those into girl power and Vietnam war spook stories . (
The Bard doth rolleth in his grave .	" Titus " , a psychotic makeover of Shakespear's epic tragedy , is so surreal as to make it laughable . Hopkins gives a powerful performance but even his mesmerizing portrayal of the title character could not keep us from being distracted by the explosion in props and costumes , a creative staff on LSD , or whatever it was that turned a powerful drama into a joke . The ubiquitous and always vocal pious aficionados who think everything atypical is creative will applaud this flick as inspired genius . However , the purists will more likely loathe it . Some things don't need Hollywood glomming them up . Shakespeare is one of them .
A dark little comedy . Very little .	A tedious , dialogue-intensive story about the vicissitudes of a mentor / protege hitman team , " Jerry & Tom " is a study in understatement with a pointless plot and an ending which may make you want to " whack " yourself for having watched the whole thing .
What a croc !	In " Wild Things " , B-flick director McNaughton manages to wrest some lame performances from a pretty good cast while telling a convoluted story about a couple of babes ( Richards / Campbell ) who accuse their school guidance counselor ( Dillon ) of rape . A conspiracy flick set in sweaty swampy Florida with everything but the proverbial kitchen sink tossed in , the only question this flick raises is which of the many predictable conclusions was selected . Full of twists and turns , " Wild Things " is best watched with the brain disengaged so each switchback will come as a surprise and the mind can just zone on the titillators . An okay couch potato guy flick , those who want more info should check Ebert's review as he nailed this one . Be sure to watch through the closing credits for more scenes . (
Subpar romcom	" The Wedding Singer " is ordinary romantic comedy fare which tells of a best buddy couple ( Sandler & Barrymmore ) who are each engaged to someone else when , of course , they are really in love with each other . Sound familiar ? This flick is an old story with a new paint job which borrows a summa-dis and summa-dat from a host of past romcoms while sporting little more than Sandler's unflappable style and a jumble of kookie characters . For romcom junkies and Sandler fans only . (
Don't waste your time	" The Cambridge Spies " tells of four Cambridge grads and idealistic communist sympathizers who , in the run up to WWII , arrange their careers such that they have access to Britain's secrets which they may then divert to the Stalin regime . Unfortunately , spying of this sort is a rather dull business , something which is made eminently clear in this clumsy film which seems to have no sense of what it wants to be about . Though we have no back story , no idea of how these men support themselves , no clue how they secure their lofty positions and easy access to intelligence , we do see that women tend to throw themselves at them . Stagey and stiff with time squandered on incessant dialog about ideologies , this film bogs itself down in the mundane trivialities of the four spies lives while the world postures for the mother of all wars . I watched only three episodes becoming so bored as have no desire to sit through the last one . Not worth the time except perhaps for those with an acute interest in the period or the history and fans of the players . (
Great details but the big picture flops .	" Tea With Mussolini " follows a bunch of women , mostly English and mostly past their prime , through the WWII years . The women are part of a colony of well-to-do art lovers who reside near Florence , Italy and wile away their days with tea and idle chit-chat as the world prepares for war . The unfortunate film has much to offer . . . great cast , wonderful location shooting , costuming , etc . Many will like it's sanitized dreaminess and charm . However , it fails as a story by spreading itself too thin over too much time resulting in a disjointed screenplay with an annoying and stuttering lack of continuity all the while wallowing in pitiful trivialities and diluting the effect of what are intended to be climactic or poignant moments . An easy and enjoyable watch which fails in the overall effect .
Crazy in California	In " Forever Lulu " , an almost " chick flick " , Griffith plays a walk-away from a mental hospital who , wanting to recapture a 16 year old lost romance , calls her ex-boyfriend and tells him they have a son . What ensues is a pleasing blend of comedy and drama which is just unpredictable enough to maintain viewer interest through the film's many contrivances . Though an obvious emotional button pusher , " Forever Lulu " is technically and artistically well made with solid performances by all . A tour-de-force by Griffith and an enjoyable watch which builds to a " feel good " conclusion .
A toothless smile	" Mona Lisa Smile " is all about Roberts as a 1950's art professor at a prim and proper girl's college who struggles to breathe women's lib and independent thinking into a classroom full of snobbish boomer brats who want little more than an " Ozzie & Harriet " future . A sort of testament to the societal oppression of 50's women , this flick wanders drunkenly between storylines serving up plenty of squeaky clean drama , pathos , and Kodak moments in a contrived Hallmarkish presentation which never really makes up its mind about what it wants to be . With subpar critical reviews and a so-so reception by the public , " Mona Lisa Smile " will work best as a night-at-home small screen chick flick . (
Realism or fantasy ? You be the judge .	" My Man " is an artsy , fatalistic drama done in the typical French the-ecstacy-is-in-the-agony style . Telling a peculiar , quirky , melancholy story of a neurotic prostitute's encounters with men in an apparently futile attempt to bring meaning into her life the story overlooks obvious alternatives at every turn and meanders into dark self-deprecating blind alleys . Nonetheless , this strange drama is slick , well crafted , and worth a look by those who are into unusual psychodramas .
Pure Slapstick	" Il Mostro " is a slapsticky romcom about a little unemployed man , Loris ( Benigni ) , who is thought to be a serial sex killer who dismembers his victims . So , it is no surprise when a dinner guest see Loris stumbling toward her from the kitchen with a meat cleaver in his raised hand and a flashlight protruding under the crotch of his pants that she faints . " The Monster " is one long series of such obvious setups with predictable comical outcomes glued together with a meager story involving Loris and a beautiful cop who is out to prove him a sex fiend . Reminiscent of old school visual comics like Charlie Chaplin or Jerry Lewis , Benigni clowns it up in this unsophisticated mildly sexy Italian romp which should be a fun watch for anyone into sight gags and outrageous or ridiculous contrived but predictable situations . (
Well , the camera was in focus	" Ned Kelly " tells the story of an Aussie folk hero / outlaw of the title name with hot properties Ledger and Bloom leading the way and Watts and Rush tagging along behind with minimal roles . A technically and artistically well done biopic drama which never really manages to choose between bigger-than-life heroics or gritty / edgy reality as it waffles back and forth trying to be all things to all people , this film creates a portrait of a poor man's Robin Hood in the austere environs of 1870's Australia who really wasn't all that interesting . With lukewarm critical reviews , heaped praise from young females , and no awards outside Australia , " Ned Kelly " is a mediocre watch best saved for fans of the players or those with an interest in the Kelly Aussie legend . Those interested in quality Aussie cinema might want to check out " Rabbit Proof Fence " or " Japanese Story " which do much more with much less . (
GONG ! !	" Confessions of a Dangerous Mind " - from the pen of Chuck Barris about the life of Chuck Barris , t . v . producer / personality and self-alleged hitman for the CIA - wanders haphazardly through a muddled mess of fact and fiction ; a sort of Jack of all genres and master of none . The film doesn't work as drama or comedy or action or mystery or romance or . . . well , it just doesn't work . In spite of the star power and talent along for this ride , " Confessions . . . " is not engaging , can't find its milieu , leaves us knowing less about the autobiographer than when it starts , and proves once again that actors , as a rule , should stick to acting and directors should stick to directing . I probably know a little more about Barris than the average Joe and watched with interest on the wane in spite of that . Maybe the film will play better for those who don't remember the man or his persona . Sorry , Chuckie . . GONG ! (
For Doors fans only	Oliver Stone's " The Doors " tells of the rise to demise of Jim Morrison , lead for the title rock band , icon of the hippy culture , and celebrated / notorious / controversial rock musician . The film focuses on Morrison's brief six year career and features a fine performance by Kilmer , much of " The Doors " music , and plenty of Hollywood sensationalism . I watched the film as a matter of curiosity since I lived through the period but never really knew who Morrison was ( which pretty much makes me no expert ) and found myself doing a lot of fast forwarding through the music and concerts . Unfortunately , Morrison wasn't all that interesting making the film of questionable value to anyone who was not a " Doors " or Morrison fan .
An excellent film with limited appeal .	In " Jackpot " , the Polish brothers tell the story of a character who is more curious than interesting - a soap-selling professional karaoke hustler ( Gries ) with his own agent ( Morris ) and impossible dreams of making it as a pop singer . The film has a good premise and an excellent execution but is doubtless destined to be one of those fringe indies with earnest integrity which flies in the face of limited market appeal . An enjoyable watch for those into films about quirky , down-and-out type characters . (
A special effects orgy with an ordinary story .	A sci-fi action fantasy , " X-Men " squanders an excellent cast , powerful camera and sound work , and a visual feast of special effects on a flimsy and sometimes silly good-mutant vs . bad-mutant story . This film will play best with young Nintendo geek gamer-types and worst with mature audiences who may tire of trying to remember which mutant has what power which can thwart what mutant with which power . . . etc , blaa , blaa . Open ended and with a mission unanswered , there's plenty of sequel room .
A chick flick evens the chicks didn't like	" Little Black Book " examines the foibles of one young woman ( Murphy ) who decides to " research " her significant other's prior romantic life as an adjunct to a TV reality talk show ( think Jerry Springer ) and learns some unexpected lessons in life in the process . A lively , fun , and occasionally poignant little bit of chick flick fluff , this movie suffered at the hands of critics , public , and chicks perhaps because people like a little romance with their romantic comedies and " LBB " has none to offer . An unexpectedly busy little story to nowhere which takes the chick flick milieu off course and into a sort of genre-bending neverland , this film seems to be trying to conjure some vague moral which never quite crystallizes . Nevertheless , Murphy and Hunter make capable bookends shoring up a pleasant assortment of side characters while the story slowly erodes their best efforts . Recommended for fans of the players but don't expect the usual satisfying romcom fare . Expect a Palm Pilot commercial instead . (
Critics be damned . This film works .	" Autumn in New York " is a melodramatic , highly romanticized , and somewhat predictable old guy , young babe love story . However , Chen does a masterful job of choreographing the technical and artistic with the story making it easy to buy into this film which keeps the Kodak moments to a minimum , fast forwards past the fluff , and sticks to it's purpose of developing characters and story . Many seem to have forgotten that romantic melodrama is a genre , not a liability . When times were tough ( eg : WWII ) , this genre was Hollywood's most popular and offered blessed escapism for a needy public . Critics and naysayers be damned . Within its genre , " Autumn . . . " is one of the year's best .
Where's the love ?	" Remember Me , My Love " takes a long , hard , cold look at a somewhat decadent Italian bourgeois family of two midlife parents and two old teen kids as it examines their lives and loves with a distinct absence of the heart we've come to expect from Italian cinema . A technically excellent film with fodder for voyeurism where the story should be , this flick shows us the father as he falls for an old girlfriend , the mother as she tries to breath life into an acting career , the daughter who's sleeping her way into a two-bit showgirl slot , and a son who's just vying for the attention of a girl while smoking hash and partying . " Remember Me , My Love " , which would have us believe everyone in Italy is beautiful , is a very good looking , always busy , too long , and less than satisfying watch with rapid dialogue and white subtitles which are difficult to read on light backgrounds making it a bit of a grind . ( B )
Palatable but hard to swallow	" Mother Night " tells the story of a man who is recruited by America to serve as a spy during WWII by communicating cryptic messages while working as a German broadcast radio propagandist . The film had good potential as a serious drama but is steered by director Gordon into a niche genre ( eg : dark farce or tragicomedy or dark dramady or whatever ) making it difficult to connect with . Personally I enjoyed the film in spite of its capricious excursions into the absurd though I suspect many will find them annoying . A budget conscious and theatrical flick , " Mother Night " should be a good watch for Nolte fans and film buffs who don't mind having to work a little to get their head into a flick . All others should keep expectations low to avoid disappointment . (
Hey now .	In her screen debut , a pre-vamp Dushku plays Alice , an 11ish girl who makes friends with an older girl on the other side of both puberty and the street of her Long Island neighborhood . " That Night " is a sweet little slice-of-life flick which tells of the lessons about growing up which Alice learns through her friendship with neighbor Sheryl ( Lewis ) and her boyfriend ( Howell ) . A journeyman flick but a slow starter worth the wait , " That Night " is a charmer with a 50's flavor , some solid performances , an okay screenplay , and will be most enjoyed by teens and more mature adults .
Kevin Smith lite	Shaun of the Dead " is a Brit flick comedy romp which gaggles together a motley bunch of stereotypical young adults including a klutzy schmuck ( the hero ) , his babe girlfriend , the required gross fat guy sidekick , etc . and then plunks them down in the middle of a zombie flick . The film conjures a mix of droll and outrageous humor which wears thin quickly and then turns into a bloody Zombiefest which seems as endless as it is pointless . With few lol's to offer but the same sort of obvious tailoring for the irreverent and unsophisticated young adult crowd as a Kevin Smith ( Dogma , Mallrats , etc . ) flick , " Shaun of the Dead " manages to clunk along with good production value , a meager story , and some cult appeal . (
I'd watch the sequel .	McCormack and Driver play " one blonde , one dark , both attractive " in this fun and funny Brit flick about two babes who accidentally learn about a heist and then try to extort money from the crooks . " High Heels and Low Lifes " doesn't break any new ground but that doesn't stop it from nonstop silliness and wall-to-wall LOL's a la Benny Hill as female ditziness imposes itself on the sagacity of the criminal mind . Enjoyable stuff for those into British comedy .
Too good to last	" Street Time " takes the viewer into the life of the federal parole officer and his / her parolees . Focusing on one of each , a P . O . ( Cohen ) and an excon ( Morrow ) , both family men with problems , this series is a very smart and powerful uncompromising drama . Unpredictable , realistic , and believable , " Street Time " skillfully delivers a linear story crisscrossed with side plots and every episode jam-packed with serious , gritty , hardcore drama . Lacking the mediocrity demanded by the viewing public at large , " Street Time " is too good to last . (
Read this . I use 7 . 5 % of my brain .	Want to know what happens to you after you die ? Well , " Defending Your Life " explains it all . With Albert Brooks directing , writing , and starring in it , " DFYL " is all that unique Brooks brand of understated , poker-faced , droll comedy . The film begins with Brooks ' death and ends with his . . . well , you'll find out . A clean , crisp , creative piece , the film's romantic subplot doesn't seem to work too well . Brooks and Streep just don't look right together , IMHO . Nonetheless , those with a taste for Brooks ' comedy won't be disappointed by this tasty little flick about what's beyond life .
Mediocre drama . Good commercial .	" Live From Baghdad " is all about CNN producer Robert Weiner in the days leading up to the US bombing of Iraq from his behind-the-scenes Baghdad perspective . The film sticks little known Weiner out front and tries to build drama around his character but fails to deliver a human story as it ricochets off such issues as the emotional bond with a professional kindred ( Bonham Carter ) ; the blurring of the line between journalistic ethics and professional fervor ; a producer's egotistical self interest endangering other correspondents and crew ; and the whole Iraq perspective . What could have been real meat on this skeleton succumbs to shallow dramatic flair , lots of busy work , Keaton's too glib cuteness , etc . leaving just so much couch potato carrion . Nonetheless , this commercial for CNN from corporate sibling HBO will likely prove an adequate watch for the weary cable viewer . (
A journeyman docudrama about the CIA's most infamous mole	" Aldrich Ames : Traitor Within " tells the tale of the CIA's most infamous mole who was arrested in 1994 after causing inestimable damage to national security . An obvious small screen product ( Showtime ) , the film does a good job of showing the pressures on Ames ; how he rationalized his misdeeds ; and how justice finally caught up with him . Sans super spy techo-nonsense , this film portrays people as people ; imperfect and human . A solid docudrama for anyone interested in spy stuff .
A nominal overview of 21 century international terrorism	" The Grid " ( we never really know to what the title refers ) is a 6x45 min miniseries action / drama about international terrorism . The bad guys are a rogue terror cell operating out of Yemen , deploying operatives to the UK and the US where they are to attack with sarin nerve gas . The good guys are a joint task force of Brits and US Federal agents who are out to stop the bad guys . The film leapfrogs incessantly from Yemen to London to Washington to Saudi Arabia to Chicago , etc . globe trotting in a surprisingly well orchestrated conglomeration of good vs evil Muslims , interagency wrangling , boyish suicide bombers , covert ops , murder , love , and much more given this US / UK co-op's budgetary constraints . On the upside , " The Grid " gets busy and stays busy sufficient to engross and make some of the obvious histrionics easily overlooked as it provides an acceptable overview of the amorphous nature of terrorist cells and the international agency cooperation required to effectively cope with this 21 century threat . On the downside the film is difficult to follow at times , somewhat disjointed in an effort to be all things to all people , pushes the believability envelope occasionally , and is generally too pat to be real . Overall , " The Grid " is an acceptable miniseries worth a look for those who can commit to a 4 . 5 hour small screen watch . Those who enjoy this miniseries should also check out " Traffic ( 2004 ) " . (
The " Iceman " cometh	In " Little Odessa " ( So dubbed after the Russian enclave of the same name in Brooklyn ) , Roth plays a hit man who returns to the neighborhood of his youth only to find that family matters are not as easily settled as contract killings . The film is an excellent debut for writer / director Gray and , IMHO , much better than his follow-up work " The Yards " . " Little Odessa " may be short on story with an obvious absence of the tinselization which comes with big bucks , but it is also honest , unpretentious , and sports an excellent cast . Will play best with reality freaks into crime dramas . (
Bottoms '	" Looking Through Lillian " tells of a young single woman who is mistress to a middle aged man into kinky sex . A narrow slice-of-life indie and a commendable first outing for the Torem / Henham team , though it suffers from the usual newbie claustrophobia , low budget leanness , mediocre jukebox score , etc . , " Looking . . . " starts off with promise which is unfulfilled in the playout . Henham ( Lillian ) makes a solid centerpiece showing some range and nailing her nuances as her character grapples with the issue of keeping the easy money which is fueling her low self esteem or ditching them for the straight and narrow . Unfortunately , the film fizzles with a much-ado-about-nothing sort of denouement which will likely leave the viewer feeling like they just ate Chinese . An okay chick flick for females into serious drama with shades of kinkiness . (
Ok , ok , we get the message . Jeesh !	" Ararat " is a messy story about Armenians making a film about Armenians and lecturing about Armenians while showing historical retrospectives about Armenians . . . etc . This convoluted hodge-podge of dramas has an obvious common denominator . Armenians . Specifically the genocidal killing of 1 . 5 million Armenians in 1915 during WWI by the Turks . The film fails as a history lesson as we could learn more in 15 minutes of Inet surfing . It fails as a drama because all the characters are overacted , everything is waaaaaay too serious , and the screenplay simply tries to do too much in too little time . For Armenians or those with an interest in Armenians only . (
Too little too late .	" Mean Creek " is a film about high school aged kids who conspire to get even with a school bully with a prank which goes seriously wrong . The story is so simple that the end is almost a foregone conclusion reducing it to just so much of the obvious elements required to develop the meager plot and see it through to its conclusion . " Mean Creek " fared well with critics and public alike scoring a marginal two thumbs up and is very well executed considering its one man indieness . However , it lacks the intensity and edge of similar much better films such as " Bully ( 2001 ) " and " Elephant ( 2003 ) " and spends most of its time just showing kids behaving like kids . This film is just one of a long list of films about teens with nothing very special to offer . (
A fine little indie about issues , issues , and more issues	" The Young Girl and the Monsoon " tells of a divorced NYC man ( Kinney ) in a sort of middle-age crisis mode trying to manage the women in his life ( lover , daughter , associate / friend ) and eventually having to come to grips with them all . An all talk and no action light drama with a sense of humor , this little ensemble indie delivers a thin story about issues with solid performances by all though Muth upstages her co-stars with a sterling performance as a typically brittle teen . Perhaps the best part of the film is just watching some oft unseen actors ply their craft in fine style . . . too often a rarity , especially in indies . Recommended for mature adults who can identify with the issues .
A cheap thrill a minute	" The Panic Room " is a foible fraught suspense flick in which Foster's character and her daughter play cat and mouse with a trio of intruders in their Manhattan mansion for the full run . Lousy character development and a implausibilities up the wazoo , this film requires some serious dumbing down . However , it's busy enough with cheap thrills and a slick enough shoot to make it an reasonably entertaining couch potato watch . Turn off brain , go with the flow , and enjoy . (
I'll drink to that .	" The Wood " tells two interleaved stories of three young black best friends in Inglewood , CA . The adult story takes place on the wedding day of one of the trio while the teen story takes place via flashback . One of a recent spate of films which get " real " and desensationalize the Afro-Am male by taking them out of the ghetto and sticking them in a middle-class environment , " The Wood " is sometimes funny , sometimes poignant , and always entertaining though it is not without its awkward moments . An okay watch for those into best-friends or coming-of-age comedies about black males . (
A home at the end of its rope	" A Home at the End of the World " tells a flimsy , meandering story of a gay guy ( Roberts ) , a bi-guy ( Farrell ) , and a straight woman ( Penn ) who come together to form a family of sorts and the vicissitudes they experience given their unconventional mix of sexual orientations . A sort of lame attempt to express a sense of the basic human need for acceptance , love , family grounding , this film is little more than three paper thin characters knee jerking to the foibles of their atypical hippiesqueness with a silly teach-mom-to-smoke-a-joint side story and some nostalgic pop tunes wafting through the scenes . With a lukewarm reception from critics and public alike , " A Home . . . . " will play best for gays and hanky-wringers . Excellent mediocrity . (
Southern discomfort	" Storyville " , from the outside looking in , is a poorly directed novel adaptation with Spader as a southern lawyer from a wealthy family - the only person in the film with no southern accent - who is running for Congress in the midst of a potentially damning scandal and murder mystery which he must overcome to win the House seat and purge the skeletons from his family's closet . Supposed to have been one of those steamy / sweaty New Orleans noir dramas where everyone knows evereyone else's business and they all have secrets , this film is a jambalaya of murder , sex , deceit , corruption , a couple of babes , courtroom drama , assorted strange / weird characters , token T & A , and even the kitchen sink in a sloppily concocted B-flick with little potential beyond a late night t . v . soporific . Watch this with a nightcap and you won't remember it in the morning . ( C )
A well told but thin story	" Jasper , Texas " recounts the events surrounding the horrible killing-by-dragging of a black man by three white men near the title town which shocked America in 1998 . This Showtime product exercises restraint in exploiting and sensationalizing the tragic crime while focusing on a small town trying to cope with finding itself at the center of national attention as media , FBI , Black Panthers , and the KKK converge on it . Voight and Gossett turn in solid performances as the town's Sheriff and Mayor respectively in this thin story with little extraordinary drama beyond the headlines . Somewhat weak as a stand-alone feature , " Jasper , Texas " will play best for those with a particular interest in the infamous Jasper story . (
Jack of all issues . Master of none .	" The Human Stain " is about three characters with issues including a self loathing woman ( Kidman ) rolling a stone of guilt ala Sisyphus ; a psycho Vietnam vet exhusband ( Harris ) ; and an aging college professor with a dark secret ( Hopkins ) . Unfortunately , this hatchet job can't make up its mind what issues it wants to be about as it flashes back and forth with dizzying regularity never allowing us to make a serious emotional connection with the characters . Given three fine male actors , Kidman's star power , serious talent behind the lens , and high end production value , this film coulda shoulda been much better . However , it received only lukewarm plaudits from both critics and public and garnered only a few fringe awards . Probably worth the price of a rental for fans of the players and others into downer dramas as long as expectations are kept real . (
Over touted	" Monk " is a comedy-drama , with the emphasis on comedy , which tells of a San Francisco detective-savant with Sherlock Holmesian abilities and obsessive-compulsive disorder . The result is a peculiar sort of super cop who has to have a babe sidekick / babysitter to help him make it through the day . " Monk " is a lukewarm sitcom quality watch which is entertaining but something which probably will not pass the test of time in the dog-eat-dog world of television . Worth a look if the premise sound interesting but not all " that " . (
Mildly entertaining voyeurism and lots of girl talk	" Venus Beauty Institute " tells of 40 + Angele ( Baye ) , who prefers one night stands or " flings " , as she calls them , to normal heterosexual relationships and love , and her lack of success with men . In addition to never being given a reason to care about Angele one way or the other , the audience will find much of this film dedicated to superfluous girl talk about the this and that of their lives and vocations . Inconclusive and muddled , " VBI " has little to offer save some fine performances which seems wasted on a trite and useless story .
Not a sequel to Bullock's " 28 Days " .	" 28 Day Later " tells of a trio of people who survive a raging plague which turns infected people into blood-thirsty maniacs who in turn infect others , etc . The problem confronting our group in this post apocalyptic type sci-fi / horror hybrid is : How do we stay alive , discover other survivors , and perpetuate the human race . On the upside , the flick is well done in a smart and gritty style , only has one dream sequence , and doesn't throw cheap shots at you . On the downside , it asks more questions than it answers , neglects the human story in deference to logistics and action , and is lacking big budget Hollywoodish extras . An okay watch for those into this kind of flick . (
A little breath of fresh air	" Red Eye " is all about Lisa ( McAdams ) who is simply trying to get home during a bad weather snarl at the airport and finds herself stuck on a red-eye and flying headlong into a suspense drama . A busy , fun little no brainer , " Red Eye " begins like a romcom , morphs into a suspense / action flick , and takes you on a simple-minded but entertaining girl power ride as Lisa races with the clock to save the day . Probably worth the price of a DVD rental , " Red Eye " will play best with fans of rising star McAdams and those who no brain it to avoid it's many nagging plot holes . Keep expectations real for maximum enjoyment . (
A snoozer with some rare beauty .	Sometimes I think you could show two hours of a ploar bear sleeping in a snowstorm and film critics would find some kind of interesting if not apocalyptic story in it . Such is the ability of cinema buffs to project their beliefs , sentiments , and subjective interpretations into film . For this and only this reason can one explain the many awards and nominations of the bleak , tedious , and uneventful " Prisoner of the Mountains " . Adapted from a Tolstoy novel about the age old struggle between Russians and Moslems in Chechnya , this film follows the misadventures of two Russian soldiers who are captured and detained by agrarian , mountain dwelling locals . There a prisoner for prisoner swap goes sour . There's some brief violence and scurrying around which takes about 10 % of the movie run time . The rest of the time is spent watching the two captive soldiers getting drunk , whittling , chatting with passers-by , and making friends with their captors , etc . Were is not for the fact that the film gives a rare look ( for westerners ) into the beauty of the mountains and people of Dagestan , this film would be difficult to recommend .
Amusing and all downhill	" Warm Water . . . . " begins with a woman in a market shoplifting while water gushes from between her legs and puddles around her feet - an intriguing opening for this meager Japanese comedy about a woman who sprays water like a fountain when having sex . Imamura seems to have painted himself into a corner as this curious story becomes only less and less interesting as time runs out with a less than apocalyptic conclusion . Nonetheless , there are some humorous moments along the way though most will not find the journey worth the time . For devotees of Japanese cinema only . (
A cut above the usual black thug flick	" Slam " tells of a young black rapper , poet , and project street punk who's busted for possession and may have to do time . A cut about your usual Afro-Am street crime flicks in its humanness , " Slam " weaves slam poetry and rap into its drama creating a sense of hope through sublimation . An okay watch , especially for those into Slammin ' , rappin ' or just contemporary poetry and issues .
A noble , earnest HBO film memorialization of a bloody WWII battle	" When Trumpets Fade " is a noble albeit low budget HBO film which tells of one of WWII's bloodier and all but forgotten battles ; the battle for Hurtgen Forest . The film attempts to be a realistic representation of the carnage and horror of a battle where 24 , 000 American GI's died with some attention paid to the men who fought it , the focus of which is one enigmatic foot soldier played by Eldard . Although " WTF " may well be eclipsed by " Band of Brothers " , a much more elaborate and in-dept WWII movie / series , the film nonetheless should be of interest to those who remember the war or have an interest in WWII history .
Yada yada yada	" Swimming With The Sharks " tells of a Hollywood studio V . P . ( Spacey ) who psychologically subjugates his assistant ( Whaley ) though hollow promises of success in the film biz while verbally abusing and humiliating him . A bland dark comedy with psychodramatic overtones which relies entirely on the performances of three virtually charismaless actors , " Swimming . . . " offers a whole lot of dialogue and very little else . A middle of the marquee flick now circulating on cable , " Swimming . . . " may have some appeal for fans of the trio of principals and others into dialogue-intensive flicks . (
Ya , das güd movie !	In " House of Angels " , a staid , bucolic Swedish village is all abuzz when a lovely and vivacious young woman comes to town to claim the estate of her late grandfather . A charming , warmhearted , and fun little romp which is not so much a story as it is a study of human nature , the film seems to delight in evincing the community's eccentricities as it reverberates like jiggling Jello with the disruptive influence of its latest resident . " House . . . . " should be an enjoyable watch for more mature viewers , especially females , into foreign flicks and people watching . (
Good for a shoestring indie documentary	" Stonereader " is a shoestring indie documentary about a guy ( Moskowitz ) who reads a book which has been out of print for 30 years and then goes in search of the author . Part docu film-maker , part private investigator , and part literature freak , Moskowitz spends considerable time and effort in his quest to locate the author of " Stones of Summer " though his motives are questionable . Regardless , the result is a worthy film , given it's indieness and meager premise , and a good watch for those into literature , the creative process , or just documentaries about Americana and / or novels . It is also a good commercial advertisment for the book which the film alleges was reprinted after the film was released . ( B )
A touching drama about strange bedfellows for mature audiences	" The Last Good Time " tells of an elderly retired concert violinist ( Mueller-Stahl ) who lives on a meager pension alone in a modest flat and takes in a streetwise young woman ( d'Abo ) on the run from a scurrilous boyfriend . A bittersweet and poignant drama , " TLGT " shows the brief , tenuous , but beautiful coming together of two very opposite people with no more in common than their humanity . Well worth a look for the mature viewer .
Winchell who ?	" Winchell " , a Tucci tour-de-force and docudrama , tells a somewhat biased story of Walter Winchell , renown gossip columnist of the 30's and 40's who rose to considerable influence and fame in the early days of radio as the most listened to reporter in America only to die in obscurity in 1972 . An okay biography , this journeyman HBO flick does a good job of hitting the high points of Winchell's life but will have little value to those with no particular interest in the period or the man as he simply wasn't , by cinematic standards , that interesting .
Nuttin ' great but you gotta love that Ram Das	" Foreign Body " is a cute Brit flick which tells of a lowly , humble , and naive Calcutta flop-house clerk who manages to make his way to the UK where , with the help of a distant relative , he manages to stumble and bumble his way into a position as a physician to the rich . A fun little " East Meets West " flick with a pleasing performance by Banerjee , a bit part by Trevor Howard , and plenty of nonsense , silliness , and corn , " FB " will be an enjoyable tier-two watch for many .
Over touted esoteric minimalism	" The Return " a meager story about two Russian brothers ( ages about 12 and 15 ) who live with their mother in austerity and spend their time doing boy things . Suddenly Dad returns , from where we know not , and becomes a taciturn martinet to the boys carving out his place in the home from which he's been long estranged . He takes the boys on a fishing trip . . . yadayada . . . road trip , boat trip , island , fishing , camping . . . the suddenly something unexpected happens . This film lays it minimalistic ground work well but takes a full hour to do it . Then when it begins to get interesting it conjures up a single shocking scene and ka-put ! Much heralded by the critics with good marks from the public as well , " The Return " in not fodder for the average film goer . It's subtitled and bleak minimalism with redeeming qualities so esoteric as to be missed by most . It doesn't matter how well you cook a shoe , it's still going to be a shoe and " The Return " will be an unsatisfying meal for most . (
A par flick with a pleasantly surprising story	" The Leading Man " peers into the lives of thespians including a playwright who is having an affair with an actress much to the chagrin of his wife . Enter the leading man , Bon Jovi , who offers to seduce the playwright's wife to distract her from her constant ruminations about her husbands affair . What happens after that is probably not what you would expect which is what makes this movie a pleasant surprise . Well cast , acted , written , directed , and shot , " The Leading Man " is an enjoyable little sleeper for mature tv audiences .
I'd like a star named after me . Maybe . . um , Demi Parker ?	" A Walk to Remember " spins an old tale for a new generation of young people . A touching , sentimental love story , not unlike the " Love Story 1970 " , this unpretentious little film offers some even performances by some fresh faces , keeps the melodrama in check , doesn't waste much time with Kodak moments , and pushes the right buttons with minimal schmaltz as it goes for the heart and ignores the viscera making for an easy buy-in to its heartwarming story . Should appeal most to teen females or sentimentalists of all ages .
For Irish lovers only	" The Last of the High Kings " aka " Summer Fling " is a wonderfully charming and wry little coming-of-age film with Leto at the center of a cast of idiosyncratic characters including his eccentric parents , some lovely lasses , and sundry town folk . This witty but dry slice of Irish life flick is laced with some not so obvious humor which will please those with sufficiently educated palates and leave others cold . A great watch for those with a taste for the Emerald Isles .
So-so escapism for the action / drama junkie	" Control " is a mediocre drama which tells of a violent killer ( Liotta ) who undergoes a mock execution only to find himself as a test subject for a new drug developed for controlling violent behavior . Liotta is at the vortex of this film with Dafoe as his experiment supervisor , Walker as Dafoe's ex , Robertson as Dafoe's post-doc helper / lover , Rodriguez as Liotta's girlfriend , and Rea in a bit part as the director of the pharmaceutical company . As the film unfolds , it dips and delves into a little action , a tiny bit of romance , a lot of less than subtle drama , and some side plots which never go anywhere . Overall , " Control " is average escapist entertainment for the action / drama junkie which should play best with Liotta and Dafoe fans . (
An enjoyable mom / daughter slice flick	" Tumbleweeds " tells of a good hearted North Carolina mom with no class who , with her 12 year old daughter in tow , hits the road for California to escape from a bad relationship and find happiness . Not unlike " Anywhere But Here " and similar movies , the daughter seems to have a better sense how to manage their lives than good ol ' mom does as they meander through a slice of life with much of the run time dedicated to the mom-daughter interaction and relationship . " Tumbleweeds " is a journeyman comedy-drama with good performances by the two female principals . Likely to be most enjoyed by moms with teen and older daughters .
A macho " semper fi " no brainer with a weak story .	" Rules of Engagement " is A-Few-Good-Men-wannabee with some excellent acting and production talent which fails because of a weak and flawed story . The film is one third combat , one third trial , and one third wandering around trying to figure out what kind of movie it wants to be . Okay to zone by .
Two men , one kitchen , one winter	In " Kitchen Stories " a Swedish company sends a male research observer to do time and motion studies of an old Norwegian farmer in his kitchen in an attempt to design a more efficient standardized kitchen . The film is all about this sort of " odd couple " , one Swede and one Norwegian ( circa 1950 ) , who manage to carve a friendship out of little more than proximity during a bleak Norwegian winter . A subtitled foreign light comedy with little to offer save its very wry underpinnings and pleasingly poignant tale , " Kitchen Stories " is a not-for-everyone film which with appeal most to those into quaint and off beat little foreign flicks . (
Like an old car with a new Earl Scheib paint job .	" 50 First Dates " is about a brain-damaged woman ( Barrymore ) who has short term memory loss such that she wakes up every day unable to remember the previous day and therefore thinks every day is the same day . Such is the premise of this Hawaiian flavored flick in which the always deadpan Sandler grapples with the memory issue while trying to fall in love with a woman who greets him daily like a complete stranger . Add some kookie characters , some pretty Hawaiian scenery , a few cute marine animals , and some very ordinary music and you have one uninspired formula romcom which is nothing special but should be a pleasing time-passer for young adult females and Sandler and Barrymore fans . (
Sorely lacking in authenticity	For a Hollywood movie filmed in Hollywood about Hollywood , " Where the Day Takes You " is surprisingly lacking in authenticity . Those who believe this film about the street kids of Hollywood is the real deal haven't spent much time with such kids . On the upside the film sports a solid cast . On the downside , there's little story to be found between the scenes as we bear witness to a trite , cliched , and obviously fabricated Hollywood screenwriter's version of Hollywood street kids who in real life comprises a subculture which is far more hip , resourceful , structured , and networked than are the characters in this film . " Where the Day Takes You " is just another Hollywood concoction passing itself off as reality . (
Chop fooey	A really big chunk-of-Chinese-life flick and open ended narrative , " To Live " follows a married working class Chinese couple from the late 40's through the cultural revolution into the 70's . Unfortunately the film can't seem to find it's niche as it slips mercurially from comedy to drama never quite knowing when it's serious ; a foible with is further confounded by the old school Chinese melodramatic style , characters who do everything by knee jerk , contrived scenes ( particularly the war scenes ) , nebulous political undercurrents , and the no moral or message . Although the film received accolades from critics and public alike , I just couldn't get my head into this silly , wandering tale which I watched on the heels of " Xiu Xiu : The Sent Down Girl " , a much better pic IMHO . Recommended only for those really into Chinese film . (
An okay watch with little depth .	Lauren Velez makes a strong screen debut in this little flick about a " dis " - functional Hispanic couple married with kids in the Bronx . " I Like It Like That " is a not too serious charcter-driven , dialogue-intensive film which floats somewhere between sardonic comedy and visceral drama as it looks at the life of the Velez and Seda characters who spend most of their time sorting through a variety of woes with a yell first and think later strategy . An okay flick on most levels , this film tends to wear itself out after a while becoming a sort of monotonic drone of screaming , swearing , and throwing things .
Pure corn but a good watch for family hour	" Running Home " is a predictable , melodramatic flick full of implausibilities with all the ear marks of a low budget soap . However , there's enough stuff going on from romance to murder to bad cops to fights to chases to the quest of the street kid and central character ( Ayre ) to meet the birth mother he's never known to make it an enjoyable watch for those who can overlook the host of contrivances it presents . Also , Ayre is just off-center enough to support the multitude of clichés around him . In short , an enjoyable watch for the whole family in spite of many short-comings .
Too long and too lacking in focus	" Carandiru " is a prison flick which takes the audience behind the walls and into the halls of an over crowded , dilapidated detention facility in Sao Paulo , Brazil . Unlike the typical Hollyweird version of prison life , you'll see a panoply of unusually happy and gregarious inmates who seem to have the run of their pavilion living in sweaty cells with open doors , many of the comforts of home including surf boards , TVs , plenty of drugs , civilian clothing , etc . all seemingly coping well with prison life until the end when a riot erupts . Part of this long 2 . 5 hour flick centers on a physician and wanders via flashbacks into the lives of some key inmate characters showing us how they managed to end up in the joint . The balance is a tedious tale of the ups and downs of inmate life from a program to stop the spread of AIDS to a gay marriage to a stabbing to lots of small talk to the final riot , etc . Well cast and adequately shot with the real deal for the prison location , this colorful flick has it's upside . On the downside , however , budget constraints were evident in poor effects , emotional investment is difficult at best , and what story there is seems trite and lacking focus . I found myself completely bored with it at the 2 hour mark . Recommended only for those interested in prison life south of the border who don't mind subtitles . (
All Binoche and Reno	" Jet Lag " is all about Binoche and Reno as travelers who get caught up in delays at CD Airport in Paris and repeatedly bump into each other until . . . well , you know . Delightfully French and wall to wall Binoche and Reno , " Jet Lag " won't slam you between the eyes with hearts , flowers , or string music . However , it will prove an enjoyable romantic sojourn for French film fans who can see Binoche and Reno working together as a couple . With mixed reviews from critics and the public alike , keep expectations real . (
WARNING ! Do not watch on an empty stomach .	" What's Cooking " is yet another film which shows a short period of time in the lives of multiple disconnected characters who have something in common . In " Magnolia " the common denominator was proximity . In " All the Rage " it was guns . In " The Five Senses " is was senses . Etc . Etc . Etc . In " What's Cooking " it's food . . . . Thanksgiving Day dinner . " What's Cooking " has superb casting , direction , script / screenplay , etc . However it has one huge problem which it shares with other films of this ilk : Too many characters and too little time with which to develop them sufficient to create that all important bond with the audience . The result is a herky-jerky story flow and a disconnected audience which is reduced to pure voyeurism . Too busy and too superficial .
A good book does not a good film make .	" Waterland " puts Irons at the center as a disturbed history teacher who recounts his personal history to his class . Irons performance is excellent as always . However the story is a plaintive and peculiar reflection on what is a rather drab and uneventful life . Furthermore , the film tells the story of the teacher telling his story with constant flashbacks into which some of his student are magically transported serving more to confuse matters than to entertain . " Waterland " is an excellent shoot with quality in all aspects except the convoluted story which must have been a much better novel than film .
Good old fashioned melodramatic Hollywood Western	" Crossfire Trail " is an old school Western where the bad guys wear black hats and have names like " Snake " and the good guys never curse or spit . Selleck is the hero who abides a promise made to a dying man and rides to Wyoming in the 1870's to tend to the man's ranch and widow ( Madsen ) . The widow , however , is being courted by the town snake oil salesman who wants Selleck out of the way and hires a badass gunman . . . etc . The film is good old Hollywoodish big sky stuff with strings and french horns and cattle and branding and bronc busting and whooping and shootouts and even a kiss or two . Entertainment for the whole family with some killing from TNT . (
Like Ashley ? You'd better .	Because " High Crimes " sticks Judd in front of the camera in almost every scene as its contrived formula story full of cliche characters wells around her . Fortunately , Judd manages to hold this less than sterling film together as it worms and squirms its way through the story of a happy wife and trial lawyer who finds her husband might not be who she thought he was and has to try to wrest him from the clutches of a military courtmartial , a possible death sentence , and a coverup conspiracy . " High Crimes " is busy enough to hold interest through endless plotholes and implausibilities making for an okay no-brainer couch potato watch . A must see for Judd fans and a so-so watch for all others . (
Not a classic . For French film fans only .	" Diva " ( 1981 ) is a so-so French crime / drama flick with a curious rather than interesting story . On the long side the film mixes some peculiar characters together sufficiently to maintain interest during a two hour watch . On the short side the 20 year old ( at this writing ) film is technically inferior , grainy , with poor French-to-English translation . Not for the new millennium , " Diva " will be most enjoyed by French film buffs .
Overrated	" Barton Fink " sticks Turturro out front as a NY playwright who comes to Hollywood to write for movies , holes up in a two-bit hotel , gets writer's block , and finds himself in a variety of unpleasant situations which become increasingly surreal / supernatural . The flick has the Coen's fingerprints all over it with that same kind of sweaty , noirish , plodding " Blood Simple " feel though it is a lesser film . " BF " takes an easy road to critical acclaim by creating open-ended situations with no clear purpose or resolution ; something critics adore as it gives them fodder for subjective interpretation and their usual heady speculation about a film's meaning . Bottom line here as with most films is . . . does it entertain ? Answer : It entertained me as a curiosity but did not at any point engage me emotionally . An okay watch for those with special interest in the Coen's work , fans of the principals , filmheads and students , etc . Probably not for the general public unless surfed on cable . (
Excessive nonsense .	Someone should tell Cameron that movies which try to out do themselves can't . That's the dialectic of an audience with one hand clapping . " Strange Days " is a bloated , overwrought flick with a silly action cum nonsense sci-fi thread , a weak story , excessive excesses , and implausibilities every few hundred frames . But , hey , that don't mean it ain't a great flick . After all , that's what Hollywood does best . It's the fact that when the end of this 2 . 5 hour mind numbing movie finally arrives , we don't care if the good guys win or the bad guys win because we're too busy yawning and sighing with relief . Recommended for film junkies only .
Hardcore entertainment and blatant stupidity . . . that's Hollywood .	In " Training Day " , a bloated Hollywood action / drama , Hawke rides along with street narc Washington on his first day of on the job training as an undercover narcotics officer . The film tries to represent the tug of war between right and wrong in law enforcement on the mean streets of L . A . In spite of solid production value , the flick fails miserably to deliver a compelling story as it wears on and finally wears out with numbing excesses . An obvious fabrication full of characters who are marching to the beat of a director's crop , " Training Day " has nothing to do with law enforcement and everything to do with Hollywood's exploitation of you and me . Nominal entertainment for those into crime flix .
Meow	" Take Care of my Cat " traces the activities and vicissitudes of a diverse group of five best friend female high school grads in South Korea as they embark upon life as adults . This film quietly passes on the sensational exploitation of sex , drugs , etc . one would expect to find in a similar American film as it moves quietly through its over-the-shoulder examination of the issues confronted and the choices made . What this film lacks in substance it may make up for in its real , fresh , and even presentation . On the other hand , if following a gaggle of Korean teens around shopping malls while they yack on their cell phones doesn't sound interesting to you , perhaps you should find another film . (
Ok to zone by	" Lucky Numbers " has Travolta in the center as a schmuck weather man who , with the t . v . station's " lottery girl " ( Kudrow ) , sets about to rip off the state lottery for a cool $6 mil . An okay but very mediocre watch , this flick runs on star power . As the film wears on there is barely enough happening to maintain interest and when the end does arrive it's likely to be greeted with a stretch and a yawn . A mildly amusing no-brainer at best .
Boooooooooring	" The Secret Lives of Dentists " is a subtly sardonic dark comedy which journeys through the marriage of a thirty-something husband and wife ( Scott & Davis ) who practice dentistry together at the office and raise three small daughters at home . During the seemingly endless examination of all the perfunctory routines of married life , the husband experiences a midlife crisis of sorts including hallucinations or imaginings while being visited by an alterego in the form of one of his patients ( Leary ) . In spite of good performances and production value , this film is simply too little spread too thin over too much time . In a word . . . . boring . (
Hair-dos and don'ts	" Blow Dry " could have been about the baddest gunslingers converging on a quiet little western town for a showdown to determine once and for all who is the fastest gun in the West . Among the players would be the retired gunslinger ( the hero ) who doesn't pack his sixgun anymore ; an evil gunslinger ( the villain ) who everyone knows is a back-shooter ; a beautiful woman who once loved ( and still does ) the hero ; and some hapless townsfolk who are caught up in the whole shebang including a young couple who will eventually fall in love ; etc . Well , substitute scissors for sixshooters , move the whole thing to England , and you've kinda-sorta got " Blow Dry " , a fun little underachieving mix of comedy and drama with a solid cast and enough subplots to keep the viewer entertained in spite of the lack of overall success . Worth a look , especially for those who enjoyed " The Big Tease " .
A beautiful bit of nothing .	" The Winter Guest " is a beautifully filmed nothing of a story . As though on a carousel , the camera revolves around four pairs of people in an icy rural coastal place in Scotland , providing glimpses into their lives as it passes by in near real time . The absence of a story begs the question , why would one watch this film when they could be watching more interesting events simply by looking at their own lives ? The answer is probably " art for art's sake " .
A earnest misfire somewhere between prose and the paranormal	" Sex and Lucia " is a subtitled drama out of Spain which swirls around a head-to-toe scrumptious Vega as it wends its way circuitously through its convoluted plot . Unfortunately the story can't reach out and grab the audience in spite of fine performances and good everything else because the emphasis is not on the players but on the diddled up storyline which is about as interesting as a mobius strip . In short , the film messes with the time domain which is more confounding than engrossing , more novel than substantive , and , after a 2 + hour run , wears out more than wraps up . An honest , sincere misfire , this flick will be of most interest to those into Eurodramas with tastefully done sex , nudity , and French angst . (
Boooooooooring	" Hope and Glory " is a slice of life flick about a boy and others in an English neighborhood during WWII . A different kind of WWII flick , this naive dramedy takes a pollyannish look at English civilian life during the war and though it does have its moments they seem too few and too far between . In other words , this lovely film bored the socks off me . K ? Recommended for those into squeaky clean theatrical flicks . (
An ok period biopic which tries to stick to the facts .	" Nostradamus " is a par period biopic which tells an embellished version of the life of a man whose memory has been cloaked in myth and mystery . The film suggests the plague-fighting 16th century French physician Nostradamus " shroomed out " in the interest of science , had halucinations / visions , and wrote them down thereby creating his now famous cryptic literary works the misinterpretations of which are popularly regarded as prognostications . The truth is , the man was not , as history goes , all that interesting , so most of the film is composed of scenes of little dramatic significance . Nonetheless , " Nostradamus " is a worthy effort which may be of interest to those with an interest in the man's life .
A bad idea nicely brought to fruition	A dark comedy with sardonic overtones , " The Singing Detective " tells of an man ( Downey ) with a bad skin condition and an equally bad attitude who writes a detective novel while hospitalized . The film jumps around between converging present day and 50's novel noir plots delivering two stories neither of which is sufficiently engaging to make for a worthwhile watch . The star power behind this teleplay-turned-screenplay can't overcome its inability to engross , involve , build empathy , deliver an occasional lol or get over its own off-putting misanthorpic sense of humor . Little more than a spectacle for the curious , the best thing about " The Singing Detective " is the 50's doo-wop music . (
An adequate successor but still a B-movie .	" Shaft 2000 " is a reasonable successor to the original Shaft of 29 years ago . The film shows restraint by keeping Shaft big , but not bigger than life , as it tries to be a human story first and an action flick second . Unfortunately , in spite of good performances ( especially by Wright ) and good production talent , the story fails on the human level and hedges on the obvious alternative of exaggerated good and bad guys and a profusion of gratuitous violence , sex , and action . Worth a watch but keep expectations low .
Journeyman Hollywood noir crime flick	" Kill Me Again " is a lukewarm noir drama which tells a very mediocre , convoluted , and unlikely story about a babe ( Whalley ) who rips off her boyfriend ( Madsen ) for stolen mob money and then hires a private eye ( Kilmer ) to fake her death . Madsen is the only well cast character in this watchable but ordinary flick .
Wow ! Gwyneth really had to gain weight for this flick .	" Shallow Hal " is yet another fresh , creative , and controversial comedy from the Farrlley Brothers . With Black in the title role as a superficial dating single , the film shows us what happens when self-help guru Tony Robbins gives Hal a post-hypnotic suggestion which changes his perception such that everyone's outward appearance is in rapport with their inner beauty . An intelligent flick which illustrates the strange similarity between comedy and tragedy , " Shallow Hal " is a love it or hate it flick which has left many saying " I don't get it " . The only way to find out if you'll get it is to watch it .
Learning the rhythm system	" Drumline " tells of an Afro-Am high school grad and hotshot drummer who goes to college and learns it takes more than fast sticks to make the grade . Just okay as a light drama , this flick deserves high marks for making some positive points about the importance of rudiments and teamwork to success and for its tribute to , what is on most campuses considered un-cool , marching bands . What the film lacks in story it makes up for in marching band pageantry , music , and , most of all , percussion . A must see for anyone into marching bands and a should see for young people who dine on a steady diet of MTV and other entertainment junk food . ( B )
Roger that !	" Roger Dodger " is all about Roger ( Swanson ) , a single , horizontally mobile , self proclaimed pseudointellectual know-it-al expert on human nature and mating rituals who takes a wayward teen nephew under his wing and teaches him how to get laid . . . or how not to . The film is uses a construct built from cliches with a veneer of cynicism , biting caustically while uncannily serving up warm and fuzzies at the same time making it a deft and almost believable tale which many will enjoy and many will not . Scoring excellent marks for a first outing , " Roger Dodger will be most enjoyed by those into razor sharp wit no matter which way it cuts . ( B )
One small step for man , one giant leap for Parkes .	" The Dish " tells of a small group of people who operated a giant radio telescope in Parkes , NSW , Australia which captured the weak signals from the Apollo 11 1969 lunar landing and moon walk with its behemoth parabolic reflector . A light hearted and fun romp involving the scientists and the townsfolk , all buoyed by pride over their big dish and involvement with the historical NASA mission , " The Dish " relies heavily on the viewers sense of awe and nostalgia as the " . . . Giant leap for mankind " is taken . A easy-going and somewhat austere film which manages a subtle and lovely sense of humor and heart , " The Dish " will have broad appeal but should play best with those who remember July 20 , 1969 . ( B )
Cajun flavored drama for the masses	Apparently Sayles never sat around a table with a bunch of women gabbing . In " Passion Fish " , which tells of a NYC soap opera actress who becomes a paraplegic and begins a long rehab in her Louisiana home town , the women at the table never talk over each other and only one talks at a time . Such histrionics are an example of the good and the bad of this very palatable , spoon fed Sayles product which strikes a nice safe middle ground on all the issues it plumbs . If good films follow the rules and great films break the rules , this flick is dead on good . Not risky fare but very well received , " Passion Fish " is one for the masses . . . . especially the distaff . ( B )
Not equal to the sum of its parts .	" Personal Velocity " squanders its run time on a narrated flick which is chopped into thirds with no synergism , each delivering a powerful though brief character study of a woman with issues . With some serious talent on both sides of the lens , this flick is more likely an auteur pleaser than an audience pleaser . Recommended for fans of Sedgwick , Posey , and Balk and indie lovers . Best saved for broadcast . ( B ) Note - According to the stats on this website , " Personal Velocity " is the antithesis of a " chick flick " scoring much lower with females than males .
Visually beautiful , well crafted , but esoteric .	A drama first and biopic second , " Pandaemonium " tells of the midlife of renown classical wordsmith and critic Samuel Taylor Coleridge who's life was not terribly interesting though he was on the cutting edge of 19th century neoromantic poetry . Probably taking some liberties for dramatic purposes , the film involves the poet's relationships with William Wordsworth , his opium addiction , his troubled marriage , and , of course , his struggle with the demons of the creative process . Visually beautiful , well acted , but a tad theatrical with some annoying interjections , Pandaemonium " is probably too esoteric for the film-going public at large . A splendid effort which will likely be most appreciated by those into classical literature - particularly 19th century poetry . ( B )
Action-comedy-road trip-buddy flick blast from the past	" Midnight Run " is a dramedy about a bounty hunter ( DeNiro ) who has only to escort a passive white collar criminal CPA ( Grodin ) from New York to L . A . to collect $100K but finds his simple task becoming increasingly difficult as the FBI , the mob , and a competing bounty hunter get involved . Filmed all over the US and in New Zealand and packed with action , stunts , chases , shootouts , etc . what is a journeyman production at the core becomes an entertaining film able to hold interest over a 2 . 1 hour run . A durable blast from the past for fans of the players in the mood for a action / comedy / road trip / buddy flick . ( B )
Insightful drama about marital infidelity	Perhaps the most difficult type of film to make is a serious human drama in which the story is told as much with the flux of unspoken thoughts and emotions as with words . Such films , usually wrought best outside the commercial influences of Hollywood , require life experience , empathy , maturation , and a melding of sensitivity with the rigors of film making to be brought with fidelity to the screen . " We Don't Live Here Anymore " is a good attempt at such a film which explores the matter of infidelity between a pair of best friend , middle class , married-with-kids couples . A bit awkward at times ( the whole rocks / water / kids thing seemingly out of place ) , this drama will likely work best with 30 + audiences who can identify with the issues confronting the on-screen couples . ( B )
Three hours with three men	Dubbed " Then There Were Giants " on cable , this made-for-tv two part film spends three hours presenting a theatrical digest of the communication which ostensibly took place between FDR , Churchill , and Stalin during WWII . Against a backdrop of file footage and the various sets required for conferences ( Teheran , Yalta , etc . ) , the trio of heads-of-state build complex relationships of diplomacy as they map out plans for D-Day , the UN , and more . Lithgow , Hoskins , and Caine turn in excellent performances in this sterling characterization of the men who occasioned some of the 20th centuries most momentous events . Great stuff for WWII history buffs .
A excellent character study of a marginally interesting character .	" Affliction " peers into every nook and cranny of the Nolte character's life as it shows him , scarred from a life of abuse at the hands of his father ( Coburn ) , stumbling in every relationship in spite of good intentions and slowly unraveling like human entropy . An excellent film in all respects , this award winning drama accomplishes little more than treating the audience to some sterling performances : Nolte and Coburn in particular . Well worth a watch though of more interest to critics than the populace .
Rémy is a big fat stupid white man	" The Barbarian Invasions " builds its slice-of-death dramady around a college professor , Rémy ( Girard ) , who is dying from cancer by using his imminent death as an excuse to bring together all sorts of central and side characters including relatives and friends and even a heroine addict who pushes the final pleasures into the dying man's veins . The result is a manipulative dialogue-intensive tale which distills to little more than a string of conversations running the gamut from past exploits to philosophies of life to jocular meandering to pedantic blathering , etc . Personally , I found Rémy a less than interesting bore and the film a very slick , well crafted , but unsatisfying contrivance . However , its respectable marks from critics and public including some major awards suggest this sequel to Arcand's " The Decline of the American Empire ( 1986 ) " may have value for some . ( B )
Pleasant and enjoyable	" The Chorus " is a subtitled French film about a portly , mild mannered teacher who takes a job at a marginalized boy's school and finding his young students to be unruly and disruptive he sets about to sublimate their behavior by organizing them into a choir . A sweetly sentimental tale with a Disneyesque feel , " The Chorus " plods along predictably in flashback and winds up quickly with a somewhat anticlimactic conclusion . A very pleasant , well crafted , and even-tempered film with some lovely choir music , " The Chorus " is a bit corny but should be a pleasing watch for sentimentalists and others interested in simple and heart warming film fare . ( B )
Numbing horror	" The Gray Zone " transports the audience to the epicenter of evil during WWII's final solution to the Jewish question . The film deals with a group of doomed Jewish Auschwitz POW's who do the death camp's dirty work , herding unsuspecting Jews into the showers , carrying cadavers to the crematorium , harvesting the dead for gold dentalwork , etc . The film takes on a challenging subject with countless moral issues to ponder as it scrutinizes the nuts and bolts of mass extermination . However , it doesn't quite measure up to the potent subject with its theatrical presentation , clipped dialogue , time wasting filler , staginess , poor character depth , confusing language and dialect issues , and a rather contrived monologue at the end . Nonetheless , the films treats the subject with dignity , does not exploit or sensationalize , and recreates enough of the horror to impart a sense of what it must have been like giving it docudramatic value . Worth a look for anyone interested in the holocaust . ( B )
You just can't find any good hired help anymore .	In " Heist " , Hackman plays and aging thief who , saddled with a beautiful young wife , no pension , and the disintegration of the old school thief ethic , decides to pull one last job so he can sail off into the sunset with his babe . The film , fraught with implausibilities , is all about who's the smarter thief ( which , of course , would be the one with all the loot at the end ) and deals with strategizing , conflict containment , greed , and other thief problems while forsaking action stuff ( stunts , chases , sex , etc ) as it labors through its somewhat convoluted plot . Good old Hollywood thief stuff with a solid cast worth a watch . Turn off brain and enjoy .
This movie comes at you like a traffic accident . . .	. . . and you'll likely slow down and look with the same morbid curiosity . A well crafted and well acted flick about a day in the lives of a handful of miserable Los Angeleans , " Magnolia " brushes up against issues such as terminal cancer , infidelity , suicide , drug abuse , incest , etc . P . T . Anderson supercharges the screenplay with enough energy to make its 188 minutes of misery , conflict , and wretchedness pass swiftly . Unfortunately , there's so much going on , character development is sacrificed and when the end comes we're not likely to really care one way or another about any particular individual and are left with only one burning question . What the hell is it with Anderson , the weather , and frogs ? ? ?
What a hoot !	" Dill Scallion " , with Billy Burke in the title role , tells of the rise and fall of a fictional country / western singer . Full of tongue-in-cheek humor and endless good natured spoofing of country music , this fun flick is shot as a mockumentary with the usual jiggly shoulder cams , boom mics in the shot , grainy film , etc . " DS " gets off to a slow start and it's no frills approach may turn off many viewers early on . However , those who hang in there will find some seriously clever writing and dead pan lampooning during this 1 . 5 hour joy ride .
Heartwarmer	" Radio " is a fictional fact-based account of the relationship which develops between a South Carolina small town high school athletic director ( Harris ) and a mentally challenged black man ( Gooding ) . There's little going on in this sweetly sentimental film which juxtaposes campus life and football with family life and one man's life altering experience through a very rewarding though unlikely friendship . Oscar winner Gooding earned a Razzie nom for his portrayal while the critics pounded the film for it's sappy cornball approach to story telling and Gooding's exaggeration of his character . Nonetheless , the film earned respectable marks from the paying public who were touched by the heartwarming tale of a different kind of relationship . For sentimentalists only . ( B )
En garde !	" On Guard " , a subtitled French film , is all about Auteuil as an 18th century swordsman , mercenary , and bon vivant who finds himself the victim of treachery and the lone custodian of an infant who is the sole heir to a noble rank and great fortune . His task is to honor an oath and restore his charge to her rightful place in the face of countless bad guys with blades and his adopted daughter's growing ardor as she comes of age . Packed with evil men and beautiful women and wonderful locations and lots of swishing and clinking steel , " On Guard " should be a fun watch for anyone into swashbuckling adventure flicks who can contend with 2 + hours of subtitles . ( B )
Lotsa heart	" Danny Deckchair " tells of the adventures of a young concrete truck driver who decides to tie a bunch of helium filled balloons to his deck chair to soar aloft . His plan is to take shears with him to cut away one balloon at a time thereby making his descent . Instead , he leaves the shears behind and the balloons carry him to a new life and a new love . This sweet , cute , fun little flick from down-under is a fresh and creative new addition to the much over worked romcom genre . With lots of heart and unpredictable predictability , " Danny Deckchair " should be an enjoyable watch for those who don't mind a little schmaltz with their romantic comedy fare . ( B )
Classy trash	" 25th Hour " tells about the goings on in the life of a NYC man ( Norton ) the day before he has to report to prison for a 7 year sentence . The film offers an excellent cast and crew which manage to sink in fine style under the ever bloated ego of director Spike Lee , turning a film with potential into a protracted loser . Example : Out of no where , with no purpose , and completely incongruous , Norton goes on a rant of trite commentary about racial stereotypes in a bathroom . Example : Norton wants to be ugly when he reports to prison so the cons don't get fresh with him and then insists his best friend beats him up . . . like he can't take a hammer to his own face ( duh ! ) . For those critics in the world who get off on cinematic concoctions which ignore story for style and sense for sensationalism , " 25th Hour " may have some value . For the public at large , " 25th Hour " will be tedious , shallow , and contrived waste of time . (
A serious docudrama from HBO	" Citizen X " tells the story of " The Butcher of Rostov " , nickname for a heinous and perverse Russian serial killer who claimed 52 lives from 1978-92 . The film focuses on the novice detective ( Rea ) who doggedly pursued the killer against all odds in the face of an uncooperative bureaucracy in self-serving and convenient denial . An HBO product for t . v . , the film offers a solid cast , good performances , spares the audience much of the grisly details , but plays out like a docudrama sans the stylistics of similar Hollywood fare . An even and straight-forward dramatization of a serious and comparatively little known story more interesting than " Jack the Ripper " . ( B )
Good film , tedious story , shows us nothing new .	" Sunshine State " peers into the lives of a clutter of characters who occupy a small Florida beach town at risk of a hostile takeover by land developers examining the local's reflections , ponderings , musings , and interactions in the onslaught of imminent change . " Sunshine State " is technically and artistically excellent , imbued with a strong sense of local flavor , and hangs firmly onto that which is safe while failing to show us anything new . One can only wonder how dull must be one's life to find the lives of such boring people interesting . A tedious watch at over 2 hours and a bland PG-13 fare , " Sunshine State " will be most appreciated to more mature audiences who can better identify with the experiences of the characters and who are more inclined to be philosophical . ( B )
Now that's what I call a Band on the Run .	Telling of a rock group of four imprisoned females who escape and enjoy overnight commercial musical success because of their notoriety , " Bandits " is not of the sexsational genre of B-flicks about women in prison commonplace in America . Instead it is a stylish , artfully shot sort of quasi - musical - drama - rock - video out of Germany with verve , solid music , a creative story , and a captivating screenplay . " Bandits " , which received high marks from critics and viewers , is just real enough to get involved with while being just unreal enough to make rooting for the escapees easily rationalized . Love the ending . Worth a look for those into " girl power " and rock music .
Charming , clever , and contrived .	" An Ideal Husband " is a charming though contrived little 19th century English period comedy with the subtly sardonic sense of humor typical of Oscar Wilde . The film , which deals with the politics of society first , the politics of the heart second , and the politics of the state last , features all the trappings of the period , a solid cast , and a clever script . An amusing and enjoyable watch for those into 19th century English period films .
Interesting intellectual combat	Two couples share a home for a few days during which suspicions are hatched , intellectual war is waged , and verbal fencing dominates . " Bad Manners " is a dialogue intense film with a well wrought script and good performances by the ensemble of four . An intriguing watch for more mature audiences .
A big little movie	" Two Family House " tells the story of a 1950's Staten Island man ( Rispoli ) who finds that the road from dreams to reality is paved with difficulty but leads to happiness . A cute little romantic comedy with a big heart , " TFH " makes some big points about the importance of being true to one's own conscience above all else as it spins its simple tale . Well received by critics , " TFH " is an enjoyable watch with a message for everyone mature enough for a mild R rating .
A warm comedy romp . Bravehair .	" The Big Tease " is an under-rated , genuinely funny , and intelligently made film about a dauntless Scottish hair stylist , Crawford Mackenzie , and his quest for the globally coveted Platinum Scissors Award . A tour de force by Furgeson , the film delivers plenty of wry British humor and less subtle American hilarity with warmth and coherence , develops it's unlikely centerpiece ( Mackenzie ) , sticks faithfully to it's plot , and builds to satisfying and very funny climax .
A contrived Disneyesque feel-good flick .	" October Sky " has the feel of a purified and contrived Disney movie with the sole purpose of pushing the viewer's emotional buttons . Based on a true but thin story about a high school student who wants to be a rocket engineer and not a coal miner ( who wouldn't ? ) , this film is well shot , well acted , and full of implausibilities . For maximum enjoyment , disengage logic before viewing .
Excellent casting	He drinks and smokes and pukes and wets his pants and has sex in public places . He has a horrible attitude , a trash mouth , is mean to little kids , hates himself , and robs department stores . Ok , so he's not all bad , but he is without a doubt the worst department store Santa ever . There's not a lot of stretching required of Thornton to get into character in this flick which capitalizes on the grosser than gross sense of comedy / humor as it wends its way through a simple tale about a scamming Santa and his dwarf / elf sidekick who rip off a department store a year to avoid honest toil . A mildly creative love it or hate it flick which tries as hard to be disgusting as funny , " Bad Santa " has , for obvious reasons , received mixed reviews . Only for the thick skinned who aren't easily offended by bad language , bad attitudes , or bad , bad Santas . ( B )
Above average action / intrigue flick .	" Ronin " puts DeNiro at the center as a mercenary who is hired by people unknown to nab a case with contents unknown for reasons unknown . This international intrigue thriller set in France has all the usual Hollywood action excesses ( car chases ad nauseam , stunts , pyro , firefights , etc . ) , and excellent cast , and even a bit of a story which keeps us , the audience , wondering what's in the case , why do they want it , etc . during most of the film . " Ronin " is all business from the get-go and a cut above the average Hollywood formula action flick . Worth a look for those who few who may have missed it .
! ! lebisreverrI	" Irreversible " is an art house experience which tells a story of a happy young adult couple who suffer ; she through rape and he through revenge . There's little story in this uncomfortably harsh film full of sex , nudity , vulgarity , and violence . What story there is is told a chapter at a time in reverse chronological order so we see the unhappy conclusion first and work back toward the happier beginning . In addition to the backward flow , the film uses strange floating camera techniques which could cause motion sickness and ends with a long strobing blank screen which could induce seizure in some people and laboratory animals . Given subtitles , gross unpleasantness , and imagery which is annoying if not offensive , the only reason any normal nonpervert would want to view this film would be to experience it . . . presumably the same reason people ride roller coasters while screaming with joyful terror . Certainly not for everyone , " Irreversible " is not good or bad but it is different . Recommended for realists with a taste for art projects and bitterly harsh drama . ( B ) Spoilers - > The most offensive sequences are a long violent anal rape of a woman and a man getting his head mashed to a pulp with a fire extinguisher .
The paradise of color	Tragedy and life's vicissitudes weight heavily on a laborer with a blind son in this plaintive tale from Iran . A lovely , simple , and heartfelt tale , " The Color of Paradise " is typically Iranian in its telling of a father who wrestles with his conscience as he begins to see his son as a burden interfering with his happiness and success . Hollywood blockbuster audiences will likely find this simple film just so much underdone sentimentalism . Film purists and those undaunted by cultural differences will appreciate the pastoral and lyrical beauty of this film most . ( B )
Big man , small body	" Frankie Starlight " is a sensitive , plaintive , wistful and sometimes ethereal drama about the life of a man and his struggle with dwarfism . The film brings together an solid cosmopolitan cast as it tells the story of Frankie as both a man and a boy with scenes of each interleaved . Though the film is not evocative or compelling , it is mildly entertaining and well shot , directed , and acted . Good easy going stuff with little to fault .
An engrossing , well crafted drama .	" The Lesser Evil " tells of four grown men who have been keeping a secret since they were close friends in high school some 20 years in the past . Something has happened to bring them together again . The drama unfolds with the telling of two stories , past and present , with two casts of actors . The film whets interest , gathers momentum , and builds anticipation leading to a denouement which delivers a kick and nicely ties up the loose ends . A well crafted film with only a few subtle flaws required to make the story work , " TLE " is an engrossing , fast moving watch .
Same-O , same-o	" Ocean's Eleven 2001 " is just another classy zillion dollar Hollywood blockbuster . Top heavy with familiar faces and the usual high tech heist stuff borrowed from " Mission Impossible " which tells the old story about a slick crew of safe crackers who want to rip off the juiciest cache of dinero in Vegas . Entertaining but lacking personality , none of the players or crew distinguish themselves with this flick .
Carpe Diem !	" Jump Tomorrow " , which roughly translates to " carpe diem " , is a romcom indie which creates an unlikely duo and then sees if it can get them together against all odds . He's big , black , socially inept , and about to be married . She's petite , Latin , fiery , and taking her boyfriend home to mom . On the downside , this film is a slow starter with a low budget and a distinct absence of star power and tinselization . On the upside , it is crisp , creative , coherent and imbued with subtle warmth and charm . Those in the mood for some low cal but tasty romcom fare might want to give this little semiprecious " gem " a chance . ( B )
The real Kindergarten cop	" It All Starts Today " is an open ended slice-of-life tale which takes us into the world of a good-hearted , dedicated , and hard working French Kindergarten teacher who has a lot more on his plate than finger painting . Protag Daniel ( Torrenton ) not only teaches but runs interference for abused kids , wrestles with the local mayor for funding , contends with vandals , and juggles a host of economic , social , and school political issues all the while maintaining a relationship with his girl friend and her son . Though there isn't much of an arc to the story , this well crafted film does create a likeable character who shows us that the opportunity for heroism exists everywhere in life . . . even kindergarten . ( B )
A fresh , fun romantic comedy in a New York state of mind .	" Keeping the Faith " is just hip enough to breathe some fresh air into a stagnating genre without sacrificing the requisite " feel good " moments in the process . The film's 2 + hour run time is a bit long for it's simple plot , but it manages to stay focused and dish up enough creativity to make it time well spent . A very enjoyable fun flick .
A beautifully crafted drama about suffering and retribution	" The Devil's Backbone " , a drama more than a horror or ghost flick with the supernatural relegated to the background , which tells the tale of a war torn and isolated orphanage for boys in Spain during the civil war of the 1930's . Among the inhabitants and players are a kindly headmaster , a one legged matronly teacher , an evil young male worker , a boy ghost , a couple of female helpers , and , of course , the orphans . At issue it a small amount of gold bullion and vengeance sought by the ghost . These elements are brought together with excellence of execution and a strong sense of art in a bold and powerful drama about survival in desperate times . Well worth a look for Del Toro fans and others interested in foreign cinema .
A powerful dark drama with millieu and mood first and story second .	There's hardly a smile to be found in this dark , brooding , oppressively heavy drama which tells of an American DEA agent ( Keitel ) who comes to London to assist in the capture of a drug trafficker as the UK bends under the strain of a virulent drug trade . The camera spends most of the time examining the bleak , grim , and sad expressions of police , innocents , and others caught up in the drug war leaving the plot muddled and somewhat buried in its attempt to show that where drugs are involved there are no winners . A powerfully compelling drama for those who can appreciate the reality of the lose-lose nature of crime .
A slice of southern life .	" Rich in Love " is a slice-of-life film which takes the viewer into the goings on of a somewhat quirky Charleston , SC family . Highly romanticized , beautifully shot , well written and acted , " RIL " washes over you like a summer breeze as its plotless meandering breathes life into the characters such that at film's end you'll feel like an old friend of the family . A wonderfully crafted character-driven film from the director of " Driving Miss Daisy " , " RIL " is a somewhat obscure little " sleeper " which will appeal most to mature audiences .
The locust will be back soon . . .	. . . and " Lucas " is still a charming and sentimental little high school campus comedy with a message about what's important in life ( and it ain't football ) . Telling of a goggle-eyed " shrimp " ( Haim ) with little going for him , save his indomitable spirit , who tries desperately to win the affection of a pretty cheerleader ( Green ) , " Lucas " is a crowd pleasing blast from the past with its priorities in order . In this day when movies with messages are rare , " Lucas " is a good family flick ( for 13 and up ) worth revisiting .
Everything you ever wanted to know about the " dirty bomb "	The BBC and HBO teamed up to create " Dirty War " , a 90 minute TV movie about a terrorist " dirty bomb " attack in London . The film gets down to business quickly as it packs both the terrorist and the government anti-terrorist efforts into the film leaving little room for human interest subplots . On the terrorist side we follow the bomb from the smuggling of radioactive materials to assembly to deployment to detonation . On the government side we see PR and training exercises , intelligence gathering and analysis , interdiction , post-detonation response , and follow up . The film also imparts a sense of how Al-Qa'ida type terrorist cells are organized , the radical Islamic terrorist mentality , and terrorist strategies . A sort of anatomy of a " dirty bomb " incident , " Dirty War " will answer many questions lurking in the minds of a public becoming ever more aware of this insidious threat . ( B )
" How about that one ' Candy Cane ' , cum'on . . . break , break ! "	In " Joy Ride " , two brothers ( Zhan & Walker ) get involved with a big rig driver over the CB radio while on the open road . They set him up as a practical joke and unleash all hell on themselves as the unseen subject of their prank , known only as " Rusty Nail " , turns out to be a maniacal killer . " Joy Ride " is a well crafted thriller which methodically builds suspense while avoiding the usual gore and guts of horror flicks . With only a few plot holes , this thriller should keep most on the edge of their seats . Worth a look especially for those who enjoyed " Duel " ( circa 1971 ) which is now circulating on cable .
A worthwhile film but a nebulous presentation .	" Malena " is about many things . . . . the people of a small Sicilian town during WWII ; a woman scorned by the town's women and admired by the town's men for her sensual beauty ; and a pubescent boy's obsession with the woman as he comes of age . Obviously the product of a talented auteur because of its technical and artistic excellence and its many poignant moments , " Malena " fails to focus clearly on its story such that the end result is somewhat less than the sum of its parts . The director of " Cinema Paradiso " , Giuseppe Tornatore , doesn't deliver a cogent product in " Malena " though the film has its moments . Recommended for more mature males .
How to get a job with the FBI	" Catch Me If You Can " tells the story of Frank Abagnale , con man . With Spielberg in the director's chair and A-listers leading the way , you'd expect something a little better than this story about a kid who conned his way into jobs as a Pan Am pilot , a lawyer , a doctor , and into some serious money . Reasonably entertaining and well crafted , this film runs a tad long and is smeared with comedic overtones making it difficult to take seriously . It might have worked better as a serious rather than playful drama . Nonetheless , worth a look by anyone interested in stories about scamming . ( B ) Note - If you like this flick , you might want to check out Tony Curtis in " The Great Imposter " ( 1961 )
A solid low cal and nutritious journeyman whodunnit	" Manhunter " tells of the brooding ex-FBI agent ( Petersen ) who nabbed Hannibal Lecter and gets called back into action to catch another serial killer / cannibal / wingnut . This the original Lecter flick focuses on the manhunt while delving into the disturbing think-like-a-cannibal mindset which Agent Graham must achieve with the help of his old adversary in order to catch the killer . More of a traditional whodunnit-style drama , " Manhunter " trades sensationalism for realism by emphasizing the hero over the villain . A solid journeyman flick with no huge stars , " Manhunter " makes for an intriguing watch which requires less dumbing-down by the viewer than either " Silence . . . " or " Hannibal " .
An excellent watch if you're interested in sex change	In " Normal " , an HBO feature film , a middleaged midwestern farming community family man ( Wilkinson ) reveals his plans to change gender . The film spends the entire run examining the reactions and adjustments of his family , coworkers , and community as he begins the process of transforming himself from man to woman up to but not including the required surgery . The result is an even , well managed , and delicate drama in which all the characters are exquisitely understanding and empathetic though the guy-to-gal protag does become a bit of a pariah as he moves from aftershave to perfume and there are periodic flare-ups as folks work to get their heads around the notion of a transgender in their midst . Though well executed , there's nothing particularly surprising in the film making it a lukewarm watch for all but those with an interest in the subject . ( B )
Good stuff for more mature audiences	" Wrestling Ernest Hemingway " is an often poignant , sometimes plaintive , and always delightful slice-of-elderly-life old guy flick which , BTW , has nothing to do with wrestling or Ernest Hemingway . With the exception of Duvall's awful Cuban accent , Harris and Duvall shine in Florida's sun as they fully flesh out their somewhat eccentric and quirky characters in this wistful , slow moving , and light hearted musing . Artful and well crafted , " Wrestling . . . " is recommended for viewers with sufficient maturity to tap into the many age-related subtleties woven into to fabric of the story . Younger viewers may become impatient with the film's slow pace .
A love story	" Amour de Femme " is a French TV flick which tells of a married woman ( Fillières ) osteopath with a young son who falls in love with am unmarried female dance instructor ( Anderson ) . The film flows with the same natural grace and delicacy we've all seen in heterosexual romantic films bringing love to life from the initial encounter to the tender beginnings to the ultimate realization and beyond . Though the film deals with the married woman's inner turmoil and spousal conflicts , those tempestuous elements are minimalized with the body of the film dedicated to creating a palpable love with only brief sex and nudity . The fact that both women are extraordinarily beautiful makes this film an idealized rendering of lesbian love which is a pleasure to watch . Should be an enjoyable film for same sex couples with some appeal for the general public interested in the premise . ( B )
High drama	" Himalaya " is about as exotic as films get . Using indigenous people in a remote and harsh corner of Nepal ( Dolpa ) , an adventurous French director ( Valli ) created a film about a superstitious and aging tribal chief who leads a caravan of Yaks through hazardous Himalayan reaches to trade salt for the grain required to sustain his people . The film is interesting inasmuch as it uses native nonactors in an extremely remote region of great beauty which is seldom seen up close and personal . The result , however , is not great drama and the scenics , though beautiful , are less breathtaking than I had expected . In fact , I found the " The Making Of . . . " featurette on board the DVD more interesting than the film itself . Considering the low entertainment yield of this ambitious project , it would probably have worked better as a documentary or travelogue . Nonetheless , this exotic - for - the - sake - of - exotica film should be much appreciated by those into films about foreign cultures or with a special interest in the Nepali . ( B )
Fun , funny , fresh indie stuff .	" I'll Take You There " tells of a woebegone man who loses his wife to another and finds an unlikely ally in a blind date . Unlike most romantic comedies , this little indie is mostly tongue-in-cheek situational comedy featuring Rogers and Sheedy with little emphasis on romance . A sort of road trip flick with many fun and some poignant moments keeps moving , stays fresh , and is a worthwhile watch for indie lovers .
A somewhat over-touted but good European psychodrama	" The Vanishing 1988 " tells of the dogged search of a man for his girlfriend who disappears while they're together on holiday . Not a " thriller " , this psychodrama spends most of its time dwelling on the criminal mind of the abductor , the anxiety and angst of the abductee's boyfriend , and flashbacking to show what transpired from the abductor's perspective after setting up the story with the boyfriend's perspective . The film is well crafted realism and a worthy watch for those who don't mind subtitles . From the same novel as the later American version ( circa 1993 ) , movie purist agree this Europic is superior to the Hollywood product but then , aren't they all ? There are sufficient differences , however , to make viewing both films worthwhile .
A well managed story of friends caught up in civil war .	" Shot Through the Heart " is an even tempered , dogged , austere production of people caught in the rift in Sarajevo during the Bosnia war . The film focuses on two long time friends , both expert competitive marksmen , who find themselves as snipers on opposite sides of the conflict . Not unlike other " friend against friend " civil war stories ( eg : Gettysburg ) , the two men are on a collision course with the ultimate showdown . A well managed drama which imparts some sense of the strife in the splintering of Yugoslavia while telling its story of families and friends divided , " Shot . . . " is a worthy film making effort .
Over-wrought melodramatic history-fiction mishmash .	" Gangs of New York " mixes real American history with a weak fictional human drama and a thick coat of Hollywoodization resulting in an over wrought behemoth wannabe epic misfire . Scorcese pulls together bits and pieces of the Civil War conscription act , Irish potato famine immigration , Tammany Hall and Tweed corruption , race / slave issues , slum gangs , etc . and creates a milieu which has an off-target post-apocalyptic sort of feel and then tries to cram DiCaprio down our throats as a hero though he does nothing particularly heroic in the context of the film . The flick features blood and guts street riots reminiscent of " Braveheart " , a romance which doesn't work , an evil guy over acted by Day-Lewis and little else save a whole bunch of filler to give us a taste of the times and milk the extravagance for all its worth . In spite of all that , " Gangs . . . " received several Oscar noms and a thumb and a half up from critical corners with so-so approval from the public . Okay for fans of the principals and others into Hollywood blockbusters . Not for the jaded or those looking for substance or sophistication . ( B )
Fun , lively , hip , and all Keener and Heche .	" Walking and Talking " is a slice of life flick which focuses on two thirtyish female best friends ( Heche & Keener ) . A dialogue-intensive plotless situational relationship light comedy , " W & T " offers good performances , a lively script , and a variety of situations with which thirtyish guys and gals will be able to identify . An enjoyable way to wile away 1 . 5 hours .
More of an experience than a story	" Respiro " will take you to a small fishing village on some Sicilian Island where it focuses on Grazia , a beautiful young mother who is either bipolar or just capricious with bouts of PMS or something in between . Regardless , her minor misbehavior becomes an issue with her family who wants to send her to Milan for some unknown fix . She doesn't want to go , she disappears , and yadayadayada . A fun little foreign frolic with a shallow story and little more than a lot of charm , personality , and rough seaside scenic beauty going for it , " Respiro " makes for an enjoyable watch though its lack of substance , story , and bells and whistles should put it the " must see when I get around to it " category . ( B )
What happens when you realize you don't like the people you love ?	" . . . Chez Nous " looks at this compelling question through the life of one Aussie woman who's self esteem is constantly undermined by the men in her life . This film is a psychodramatic , realistic , and intelligent look at the clockworks of a nuclear family held together more by mutual need than love and respect . The camera studies the slow disintegration of the family unit and the rebirth of Beth ( Harrow ) , the principle character . Well made , earnest , honest , and insightful . An interesting watch for more mature audiences .
Strangely fascinating	" Talk Radio " peers into the studio and life of a late night talk / shock jock who has to keep the on-the-air patter going while juggling other issues . The film , which received good marks from critics and public alike , capitalizes on that same kind of strange fascination that turns motorists into lookie-loos at traffic accidents . Stone and Bogosian manage to deliver dramatic intensity in spite of a thin plot and little more than some of the usual love / hate Howard-Stern-esque talk radio repartee with a bunch of late night freaks and weirdos in this pseudopsychodrama which will play best with talk radio devotees ( eg : Howard Stern fans ) , Jerry Springer audiences , Roger Ebert and the like . ( B )
That's the way . . . uh-huh , un-huh . . .	" That's the Way I Like It " is a flick which would never work on paper but manages to be thoroughly enjoyable on the silver screen . It's all about Hock ( Pang ) , a Singapore store clerk who wants no more than to kick butt like Bruce Lee and own a motorcycle but meets a disco dancing hottie who convinces him there are better things to get into than motorbikes . Always fun , upbeat , and good natured , this little English language flick out of Singapore is a kind of " Enter the Dragon " meets " Saturday Night Fever " meets " All in the Family " colorful comedy drenched in nostalgic hit disco tunes . Fun stuff especially for anyone who has ever done the Hustle . ( B )
A misunderstood movie about a misunderstood disease	" Prozac Nation " is a case study of clinical depression with Ricci as a Harvard frosh trying to cope with her own identity crisis , poor self esteem , and uncontrollable mood swings ; the expectations of an over-compensating divorced mother ; the absenteeism of a shallow father ; and the sincerity of a love she can't believe is real . The film does a good job of accurately representing the destructive influences of the disease of depression in spite murky flashbacks , a hazy narration by Ricci , and a melodramatic and contrived feel . A showcase for Ricci , who meets the demands of her role , this film's lukewarm reception may have more to do with the lack of understanding of the Jekyll-Hyde nature of the depressed person than a poor presentation of the character . ( B )
A good ol ' fashioned Hollywood product in a modern wrapper	" Life is a House " tells of a dying architect ( Klein ) who razes his dilapidated shanty and builds a new home . The house in " . . . House " is a metaphor . . tearing down the old , building the new , putting asunder old regrets while erecting a legacy for those left behind . Entertaining though contrived , " . . . House " sports a solid cast , doesn't get too weepy or sappy , is full of poignancy , and sanitized for audience protection . In the final analysis , " . . . House " delivers good old fashioned three star Hollywood entertainment which will be enjoyed by all but the most cynical .
The film only Hollywood could make .	" Charlie's Angels " has it all . Comedy , drama , action ; state-of-the-art effects , stunts , pyro , sets , sound , music , costuming , makeup , etc . , crouching babes , hidden hotties , and even a hanging Chad . Nonstop in-your-face big budget entertainment front to back but sadly only worth about . Hooray for Hollywood !
A flick for the more mature chicks	" The Whole Wide World " , an old school melodrama , tells of a simple school teacher in 1930's Texas ( Zellweger ) and her relationship with pulp fiction writer Bob Howard ( D'Onofrio ) who created such characters as Conan the barbarian and Kull the conqueror . A simple tale of two people , there's little meat on the bones of this flick though it is a sincere and earnest drama which tiptoes quietly through the relationship of the two protags in fine style . " The Whole Wide World " is a chick flick which will play best with more mature audiences . ( B )
Solid Mexican drama	" The Crime of Padre Amaro " is not worthy of the controversy it spawned but is worthy of anyone interested in a subtitled Mexican drama about an ambitious young priest in a rural diocese who succumbs to the desires of the flesh only to find the one transgression leads to another . Although the plot is worn and the story melodramatic and lacking intensity , the film offers an abundance of colorful characters , rich dramatic textures , solid performances , and good artistic and technical execution . Will play best to young adult audiences and foreign film buffs . ( B )
Ya think ?	" Spinning Boris " tells a tall tale of three American political campaign consultants who are retained by the Russians to help an ill , oft intoxicated , and very unpopular Boris Yeltsin win Russia's first post-Cold War democratic election . What you'll get is lots of snappy patter as the culturally challenged Goldblum , Schreiber , and La Paglia try against all odds to spin Yeltsin with the help of his daughter and a meager cast of characters . What you won't see is anyone standing in for Yeltsin or anything really Russian save some file footage and postcard shots of Moscow . An obviously contrived but cleverly wrought dialogue-intensive synthesis about a hapless trio of election engineers out of their element , " Spinning Boris " conjures humor and heart which should appeal most to those into political comedy / dramedy . ( B )
100 weight Hollywood goo	" The Majestic " tells a tedious and melodramatic tale ( circa post-WWII ) about a man ( Carrey ) who loses his memory and through a case of mistaken identity becomes a small town hero . . . blaa , blaa , blaa . A very well crafted film with mixed critical reviews , " The Majestic " flows like honey , sweet and viscous , through countless fabrications of poignancy , romanticism , and idealism with forces of good and evil more obvious than an elephant in an outhouse . " The Majestic " heralds the golden age of Hollywood in time and milieu and will likely please sentimentalists while serving as an emetic for realists . Note - Some may consider the obvious knock-off of the renown Civil War letter by Sullivan Ballou as a tribute . I personally bristled .
Kind of like going to the dentist .	" All or Nothing " is a slice-of-wretched-life flick about a miserable dysfunctional working class London family . There's little arc to the story of walrus Phil Bassett and family who move sloth-like from day to day unhappy and unfulfilled . Undoubtedly an excellent film by film making standards , Mike Leigh puts the audience in the position of having to accept his characters ' plaintive existence on faith by not showing the psychodynamics which perpetuate their misery and just giving us the result . In other words , we see sad people stewing in their own juices which makes the buy-in difficult and the protagonists more ignoble . Personally I was happy to see the foul mouthed fat kid keel over from heart attack though I don't think that was how Leigh intended the audience to react and I suspect many a weeping wallower was wringing tears from their hanky . Given a 2 hour run , misery throughout , and character we couldn't care less about without charity , most will find " All or Nothing " more nothing than all . ( B )
Interesting , entertaining , and copasetic .	" Bojangles " tells the story of legendary hoofer Bill Robinson who tapped his way to stardom and success as America's highest paid black entertainer only to die penniless . Hines brings charisma , charm , and lots of great tappin ' to the title role in this polished and sanitized biography . A fun watch especially for those who love tappin ' .
Hypekill .	There's little doubt that " A Beautiful Mind " is an excellent film . There's also little doubt that it was buoyed from buzz to Oscar acclaim by hype , strategic PR , and a gullible public . Taken in and of itself the film is rather ordinary among excellent films and not worthy of much of the critical acclaim it garnered . I personally found much of the film uninteresting , tedious , and downright boring . After all , how does one relate to someone whose accomplishments are so abstract as to be buried in esoteric symbolism and someone whose illness is so intangible as to be a state of mind ? The beauty of mathematics and the war with the demons of delusions were not brought sufficiently into focus by the film which spent too much time trying to develop a rather uninteresting character , making his delusions our delusions , spicing it up with a car chase and shootout , fleshing out the mental ghosts , and showing the principal's eccentricism with endless scribbling on window glass . Compensate for the hype , keep expectations low , and enjoy .
Like being seduced with a hammer	" Amores Perros " is a subtitled Mexican film which tells three stories , each on a collision course with the other . Although the film is well cast and artistically and technically excellent , it is somewhat overwrought and inclined to wear on the audience at it's dramatic tales are pounded into us as opposed to making us yearn for more . One question every auteur should be prepared to answer when asked by an audience is " why should we care ? " " Amores . . . " works well on most levels but it's not likely Alejandro Gonzalez Inarritu is prepared to answer the question .
More soap opera than history lesson	" The Last King " is a 3 hour , two part miniseries from the BBC which traces the life of King Charles II who ruled from 1649 until his death in 1685 . The upside of this film includes its sumptuous appointments and excellent cast . Well directed and crafted , the film is engaging , passionate , and delivers a strong sense of Charles II , his Monarchy , and the period . On the downside , however , the film is very difficult to follow given the absence of any prologue or didactics , the mixing of sir names and titles , and the presumption of some knowledge of the history of the time . The film squanders time on the sexual intrigues and personal relationships of the womanizing King while largely ignoring the more historical and profound matters of state . The Dutch Wars , for example , are barley mentioned while much time is spent on the machinations of one of his mistresses , Barbara Villiers making the film a bit more of a soap opera than a historical chronicle . Nonetheless , this elegant film is a must see for anyone interested in King Charles II and a should see for those into stories of the history of England's monarchy . No one does English period films better than the Brits and this one has production value equal to any similar films from Hollywood . ( Note - the DVD I watched has no CC's or Subtitles with much dialogue spoken in whispers or thick English , French , of Portuguese accents ) .
More of the same and that's a good thing	" CSI : Miami " follows the very successful formula of it's parent , " CSI " ( Las Vegas ) with Caruso heading a team of criminologists who spend most of their time connecting the forensic dots to solve murders . Those who can get past Caruso's incessant smug smirking , an ME who talks to her cadavers , some very undeveloped characters , far fetched stories , and fast and loose science / technology will find fast moving and solid no-brainer entertainment with color , educational value , a social conscience , and good IL ' family values subliminals . Season 1 develops a story thread involving the Caruso character's dead brother / narc and the cop / widow ( Milos ) which is carried over and pushed forward in season 2 making it of some import to watch the seasons in chronological order . As with the original " CSI " , this series sibling has high end production value , a beautiful Miami Beach venue , cool show & tell didactics , and a never-a-dull-moment flow . Newcomers to " CSI " should check out the top of the Nielsen's " CSI " ( Las Vegas ) first as it sports the most popular ensemble . Once into " CSI : Miami " you'll find the cross-over to " CSI : New York " in the next to the last season 2 episode which puts Caruso in NYC working with comrade in gloves , Gary Sinise . Good prime time TV entertainment not to be taken too seriously which makes for an enjoyable continuous DVD watch for the not too jaded palate . ( B )
Overkill	Less would have been more in " Windtalkers " , a story about two WWII Marines who wage war on Saipan while forging a reluctant unspoken bond of friendship . Cage plays a battle hardened Sergeant whose is assigned to protect from capture at all cost an American Indian ( Beach ) " codetalker " who uses his native Navajo language to encrypt radio messages in support of the ground assault . The film offers state-of-the-art war action but buries the human drama in excesses during its protracted 2 + hour run . O'Connor , for example , was completely unnecessary fluff as were the Native American rituals , scenes in Monument Valley , etc . An enjoyable product from action auteur Woo for those into war flicks . ( B )
A film about " America's Schindler " but no Schindler's List .	" Varian's War " tells of Varian Fry , an American citizen who sets about to liberate the great minds of Europe in the years prior to American involvement in WWII . An entertaining historical drama built for Showtime , this well made but somewhat scripted and theatrical film illuminates the mechanics of Fry's mission but is more stilted than engaging , more mechanical than compelling , and possibly bit off a piece of history bigger than what it could chew . Worth watching more for historical than dramatic value .
Outstanding ! !	" Bootmen " is one of those films which will not have mass appeal but which will appeal massively to those with whom it resonates : A fact which accounts for a meager 1 . 5 stars from Ebert with a critical majority voting " awesome " according to efilmcritic . com . A sort of " Footloose " meets " Stomp Out Loud " down under , " Bootmen " tells of a young Australian steel worker who puts together a steel-on-steel tap show benefit against all odds . Thumbing its nose at the typical Hollywood excesses ( sensationalism and melodrama ) , " Bootmen " sticks earnestly to it's purpose mixing love , sex , violence , death , angst , and woe with music and tap dancing in a rough sort of Aussie style while waxing to its climactic " feel good " conclusion . A great watch for anyone into rhythm or tap in film , Aussie flicks , or just plain creative movies .
Sweet stuff for romantics and sentimentalists	In " Map of the Human Heart " , a down and out middle aged Eskimo man recounts his life story to an Arctic cartographer ( Cusack , who has only a few minutes on screen ) which constitutes the bulk of the film via flashback . His story begins with his puppy love relationship with a young half-breed girl in a hospital . From there the adorable child couple are torn apart only to have fate bring them together again as adults under the less than idyllic circumstances of WWII . The film meanders from the dramatic to the poignant to the romantic to the horrific and back to square one where it continues the story in present day . Beautifully filmed and well executed though a bit clumsy at times , " Map . . . " spackles up its many plot holes and provides a thoughtful fantasy camouflage for its lack of resolution in the end while serving up very pretty Kodak moments such as making love on a barrage balloon or dancing in the rafters high above an orchestra . " Map . . . " is sweet stuff for romantics and sentimentalists who can overlook it continuity and credibility issues in the interest of the human heart . ( B )
Painfully sad	" Aileen : Life and Death of a Serial Killer ( 2003 ) " is a documentary about the life of the notorious Florida serial killer , Aileen Wornous , who inspired the much lauded film " Monster " . Not to be confused with " Aileen Wornous : The Selling of a Serial Killer ( 1992 ) " , also by Nick Broomfield , this film provides background on Wornous who was selling sex for cigarettes as a 9 year old child in Michigan and follows her life from criminal trials to death row up to her execution ( which was not shown ) . The film paints a portrait of a troubled woman who descends into paranoid schizophrenia as the end nears all the while maintaining the unexpectedly undaunted , matter-of-fact demeanor of one very much reconciled to her fate in spite of being trapped in a system with no recompense for abuse in childhood nor insanity in adulthood who well may have been failed by the criminal justice system as well . A worthwhile watch for those interested in the Wornous story , especially as a follow-up to " Monster " . ( B )
No hitch in Hitch	" Hitch " is all about Will Smith as the Alex Hitchens aka the Date Doctor , a dating consultant to socially inept men who need some polishing to become skillful navigators of the dating scene . A fresh and fun new age flick with old school values which mixes good advice with wit and charm as we watch the Date Doc work miracles with a portly and clumsy client while wrestling with his own foible fraught relationship . " Hitch " is a thoroughly enjoyable little flick with good casting and solid production value which makes a creative foray into the tired old romantic comedy genre with very pleasant results . Worth a look by anyone 13 and up in a romcom state of mind . ( B )
Shoudla been titled " Jack and Amy "	" Jack and Sarah " is all about a British man , Jack , who finds himself stuck with a new born daughter , Sarah , while mourning the loss of his wife . As he struggles with his grief , he takes on an American nanny , Amy , ( Mathis ) who , with and in spite of assorted family and friends , helps him find happiness again . A tad long for a romcom at almost 2 hours , this easy-going and light hearted flick gets moving and keeps moving with enough side characters and subplots neatly knitted together that the time passes swiftly . Unabashedly sentimental but with a little edge to it , " Jack and Sarah " works well , doesn't stereotype too much , ignores the obvious opportunities for culture clashing , and passes on the schmaltz . Cute , fun , and fresh , " J & S " should make an enjoyable watch for anyone looking to wile away a couple of hours with some romantic comedy fare . Now on broadcast with R-rated language and G-rated CC's . ( B )
A slow moving drama about hope and despair .	" Journey of Hope " tells of a poor Turkish family and their odyssey of hope which spirals downward into despair as they travel to Switzerland in search of prosperity . Although this Oscar winning film is fairly well crafted , it is lacking in substance and has many implausibilities . Much of the film's 1 . 7 hour run time is get on the bus , get off the bus , get on the boat , get off the boat , get in the van , get out of the van , etc . ; time which could have been better spent or left out completely . The story has a predictable conclusion , especially for those who have an awareness of the common crime of trafficking in illegal immigrants . A worthwhile and reasonably entertaining watch but over-rated .
Stu stands still	" Phone Booth " is all about Stu ( Farrell ) who is held captive at gun point in a downtown Manhattan , NYC phone booth by a psycho sniper ( Sutherland ) dictating his demands via phone from somewhere in the surrounding buildings . An intense , high energy psychodrama , " Phone Booth " is pound for pound better than most flicks including " Liberty Stands Still " which has almost the identical premise . For those who can make the huge leap of faith required to swallow a boat load of plotholes during this Farrell tour de force , a spellbinding 80 minutes of entertainment awaits . ( B )
A excellent but marginally interesting film	" Pollock " tells of the life of American abstract expressionist painter Jackson Pollock . A excellent film in most respects , this tour-de-force by Ed Harris has one glaring flaw . Pollock simply wasn't a sufficiently interesting subject to expect his biopic to have mass appeal . We've all seen films of alcoholic , neurotic , tormented artists and " Pollock " is just another to add to the muddle of Van Gogh , Picasso , Toulouse-Lautrec , and others . " Pollock should appeal most to those with an interest in painting .
Under-rated girl talk film about what makes women special .	" Moonlight . . . " is a slightly massaged and sanitized but insightful and warm look at a woman ( Perkins ) coping with grief with help from a distaff trio of family / friends . A beautifully crafted piece of work at all levels , this dialogue-intensive film spares us much of the usual mourning melodrama and gets right into the healing process with humor , charm , and sensitivity while exploring the principal's relationships and not lingering too long on the central grief issue . Overall , an entertaining piece which , IMHO , was scored too low by IMDB . com users because of the male side of the jury . Recommended for more mature audiences . . . and Ebert , wake up and smell the roses .
One man's crusade against the holocaust and the Pope who did nothing .	One of a plethora of films about the WWII Jewish holocaust , " Amen " is a fact / fiction accounting of German SS officer Kurt Gerstein's futile attempts to ameliorate the extermination of Jews in Nazi death camps ; particularly his appeals to Pope Pius XII whose papacy was at the center of a firestorm of postwar criticism for everything from negligence to cowardice . This serious minded film portrays Gerstein , a technical consultant who reluctantly helped plan the gassing of Jews , as a man tortured by conscience who attempts to exploit his position with the SS in support of the Jews . " Amen " offers good production value for a story which is probably too esoteric and anticlimactic to have broad dramatic appeal among movie patrons . Given that the ratio of fact to fiction is lost in history and the outcome is a given , " Amen " will find little appreciation beyond those with an abiding interest in the holocaust . ( B )
Oh yeah . . . umm-hmm . . . kick that booty , bad boy ! !	" The Transporter " tells of an Brit ex-Army macho mercenary driver-for-hire in the South of France who will deliver whatever wherever with no questions asked and gets embroiled in a thrill a minute escapade when one of his packages turns out to be a passenger . An obvious and predictable formula action flick with some okay stunts , firefights , thrill rides , and even a little sky and scuba diving , " The Transporter " is just a good old fashioned machoduck not-to-be-taken-seriously funfest with all the requisite titillators except T & A , sex , and nudity . For action junkies only . ( B )
Music was his passion . Survival was his instinct .	" The Pianist " is doubtless well crafted and technically and artistically sound albeit naive and conventional . The film parses into one hour of a stereotypical and exploitive regurgitation of the horrors of the Nazi reign over the Warsaw ghetto , where every German soldier is more evil than Satan and every Jew a pathetic victim , and one hour of Brody living like a rat foraging for sustenance amid the Warsaw ruination . Only in the very end does the film introduce a bit of irony and a sympathetic Nazi after countless missed opportunities to breath something fresh into what is just another in a very long list of films about the infamous ghetto ( Families torn apart , summary executions , etc . ) . Brody delivers a fine performance as a pianist and the film's centerpiece but is not required to perform the range of emotion deserving of a little gold statuette . Overall , the film is worthwhile but shows us nothing new and exploits rather than honors the memory of those Polish Jews who died in the conflict . " The Pianist " will play best with those who have not yet had their fill of Warsaw ghetto films . ( B )
Good fodder for film buffs .	The Coen's much heralded breakthrough flick " Blood Simple " is devoid of just about everything we go to movies to see . No wondrous exotic locations . No awesome stunts , action scenes , martial arts , car crashes , or shoot outs . No enticing romance , love , sex , nudity . No sumptuous sets , elaborate costuming , etc . Rather , " BS " is a simple tale of simple people told in a simple way which has been lauded by critics and public alike . How the Coen's could pull off such a coup with such a simple indie is the art and the paradox of " BS " . Now a noir classic , " BS " is full of plot holes but lulls the escapist audience into a sense of reality . Good fodder for film buffs which will be quickly forgotten by the common man .
Funny , wistfully sentimental , and utterly charming	" Shall We Dance ? " , a light-hearted flick from Japan , tells of an overworked accountant and family man who is attracted to a dance studio by a beautiful woman he see's from the train during his daily commute . What he finds in the studio are lessons in dancing and , most of all , himself . Funny , poignant , and utterly charming , " SWD " is an award winning film well worth a look by more mature viewers . ( B )
Solid entertainment and a must see for jazz lovers .	A romanticized dramatic biography , " For Love or County " tells the true story of trumpet virtuoso Arturo Sandoval's escape from Cuba and oppression of artistic expression . A well composed and entertaining production , this film packs ideological and political conflict , a love story , and plenty of authentic Sandoval music into a two hour run . Perhaps most importantly , the film makes clear that freedom of musical expression is , to the musician , as important as freedom of speech ; especially when that music is jazz .
The Substitute : Failure is not an option	" Not One Less " tells the story of a teen girl who takes a job as a substitute elementary school teacher in a poor rural village and must keep her flock of kids in tow despite her obvious lack of qualifications . Like most traditional Chinese films , this one has a moral which is something like : A good heart and determination will lead to success even in the absence of resources and ability . The kind of film people will likely describe as quaint , sweet , charming , etc . , this flick is all of those things including dreadfully slow . When all is said and done , one can only wonder if this lovely little tale was worth the time spent . Will play best with those into traditional Asian storytelling . With English subtitles and CC . ( B )
Upbeat , hip , fun , and deceptively smart	" Committed " is all about Graham as an irrepressible optimist who goes in search of her self-estranged husband who has gone in search of himself which all leads to a sort of kookie , upbeat comedic odyssey involving a bunch of side characters and issues . A fresh , fun , and unpredictable little flick , what " Committed " lacks in story it makes up for in good naturedness and subtle morals and maxims . If you enjoy this little chick flick , which received slightly above average reviews by critics and public alike , you might want to check out Lisa Krueger's hit Indie " Manny & Lo " ( 1996 ) . ( B )
Checkmate !	" Fresh " ( Nelson ) , the title character and a black kid in his early teens , is a runner for low level drug distributors in the mean streets of NYC with a plan to get out of the ghetto . He plays speed chess with his estranged father and stashes money in a tin can but his plan goes well beyond just saving for a bus ticket . " Fresh " offers good production value , par performances , somewhat stereotypical characters , and lots of grit . However , what sets this critically lauded flick apart from its peers is a human drama with a clever storyline which transcend the usual stuck-in-the-ghetto flicks full of sensational crime stuff . An engaging watch for those into drug / ghetto / crime flicks . ( B )
Another compelling drama from the Emerald Isles .	" Some Mother's Son " is yet another in a long list of films dealing with the strife in Ireland . This film examines the ebb and flow of policies and sentiments surrounding a hunger strike by IRS prisoners . As interesting as the divisive issue is the drama depicting how deeply into the " soldiers ' " families the tragedy of the Irish conflict penetrates . An excellent shoot in full color ( most of these IRA films are near monochrome ) with superb performances and no agenda , " SMS " is a worthwhile watch for anyone interested in serious drama ; especially Irish drama .
Beautifully told but incomplete	" Iris " tells of British novelist Iris Murdoch and her husband as they struggle together with her Alzheimer's affliction . The couple is portrayed in youth by Winslet and Bonneville and in old age by Dench and Broadbent with all delivering sterling performances . The plaintive and wistful story is told through interleaving scenes of the older couple's struggle with moments from the younger couple's life . As far as it goes , the film is an excellent product . What it doesn't deliver , however , is a deep sense of Murdoch , her philosophies and complexities of thought thereby giving greater depth to the character and a sense of the significance of what she is losing . In short , the film dwells too much on the disease and too little on the woman . Recommended for more mature viewers (
Edwardian soap opera	" Berkeley Square " is an Edwardian period TV 10x50 minute miniseries which examines the lives of three young women , all nursery maids for wealthy families in London's Berkeley Square . The series revolves around the trio of neighboring young women , their nannies and associated co-staff ( butlers , footmen , etc . ) and the members of the families which employ them . Themes include murder , illicit affairs , affairs of the heart , a baby switching , and a whole lot of nursemaid issues with an ample assortment of side plots all very nicely woven together . This multiplicity of stories follows a nice arc building ample depth into the characters , developing plenty of tension on a range of levels , and sorting everything out , albeit rather quickly , such that all is well at the end with a only couple of unhappy exceptions . " Berkeley Square " is very much a soap opera ( circa 1902 ) as it focuses on women and women's issues with restrained melodrama though it is much more thoughtfully produced than the usual commercial soap . Lacking the mood and polish of a " Brideshead Revisited " with some of the intricacies of an " Upstairs-Downstairs " , this series has some obvious production deficits , though they are easily overlooked . All in all , " Berkeley Square " is an acceptable TV product which should make for a pleasant watch for women , lovers of soaps , and others into early 20th century English drama . Note - the DVD I watched had no CC's or subtitles making some of the dialogue difficult to understand . ( B )
A good watch family men and women .	A sort of contempo redux of Dickens Christmas Carol , Cage plays a wealthy and very eligible bachelor on Wall Street who suddenly finds himself married with children . Yeah , this is another romantic comedy in a very tired genre . However , it is a cut above the average sap dripping chick flick as it doesn't wade in goo , has a crisp script , keeps moving , is genuinely funny , and tries hard not to be predictable . Fresh stuff with good chemistry between Cage and Leoni .
Dreamy , sentimental , sweet , and soothing film fare .	Sandy Bottom is a picture postcard perfect little midwestern town where everyone is perfect right down to their imperfections which , if course , being perfect , they always apologize for having in the most perfect way . " The Sandy Bottom Orchestra " is a dreamy , sweet , sentimental little made-for-tv film about a family of three who infuse the population of Sandy Bottom with a dash of culture by creating a classical orchestra . . . etc . , etc . An excellent little unpretentious " feel good " flick , " TSBO " does what is sets out to do and quits . . . in a perfect sort of way . Enjoyable stuff for anyone in need of a break from the usual frenetic film fare .
Fun , fun , fun	And cute too . " Big Fat Liar " tells of a 14 year old boy ( Muniz ) who bumps into a film producer ( who happens to be in his hometown making a movie ) who gets his hands on the boy's homework assignment , a story of the title name , and turns it into a movie which the boy sees previewed . The boy and his friend ( Bynes ) then set out for Hollywood where they raise all kinds of hell in an attempt to wrest creative credit for the film from the evil producer ( Giamatti ) . A simple " David vs Goliath " flick with obvious forces of good and evil in opposition , " BFL " is a fun comedy romp with great casting , an excellent score , lots of zany antics , and direction which is reminiscent of early John Hughes and Chris Columbus kid films . Good stuff for what it is and worth a look by anyone into kid flicks . ( B )
How - do - you get four elephants in a Fiat ?	" The Way We Laughed " is plaintive , unhappy drama about two Sicilian brothers who migrate to Turin , Italy in the late 50's where the older and somewhat duller brother toils as a laborer so his younger brother can reap the benefits of school . This very Italian film peers deeply into the brotherly relationship as it skips through time and circumstance ultimately revealing the true character of the principals . Slow moving , methodical , and two hours long , this film will likely test the patience of most American audiences , especially those less familiar with the subtleties of Italian culture , who may question whether the payoff is worth the wait though the talent of an able auteur and cast are above reproach . ( B )
An excellent mystery / drama Europic .	" The Lost Son " tells the story of a French private investigator ( Auteuil ) working in England who is retained by a wealthy family to find their adult son which leads to an investigation into a child slavery ring . A top tier film with all that we've come to enjoy about Europics and an excellent cosmopolitan cast , " TGS " has probably garnered more negative criticism than it deserves for taking on the subject of pedophilia . If so , it's simply a sad testament to a public mentality which will laud such sensationalistic garbage as " Pulp Fiction " or " Lock , Stock . . . " and their horrific violence while rejecting a more real treatment of a difficult issue which was not exploitive and offered insights into an evil underground of which too few are aware . Kudos to those who brought " The Lost Son " to fruition for an excellent film which did not sensationalize or pander to the people though it had the opportunity to do so .
A compelling dark psychodrama .	" C & P in Suburbia " is a dark and somewhat staged psychodrama with misanthropic overtones which focuses on the teen daughter of a family in crisis and her search for self-actualization . This well cast , well acted , well shot , well directed flick's story is likely to be too black or severe for many . However , those who feel inclined to write this film off as " unrealistic junk " should remember one word . Columbine .
Where's Buffy when you need her ?	The B-Man is back slicing and dicing legions of a new breed of suckpuppies in an orgy of special effects which makes the original " Blade " pale by comparison . Hardcore horrific action from start to finish with a smattering of plot , a ton of silly putty , and a thousand gallons of red Kool-aid , " Blade 2 " is a must see for those who enjoyed the original " Blade " . ( B )
Like watching grass grow	" The Man Without a Past " is a doggedly plodding , austere , wan , and uneventful exercise in minimalism about a man who is beaten by thugs , gets amnesia , and then , with nothing but sheer determination , reconstructs his life anew . In spite of its critical acclaim and Oscar nom , this laconic subtitled Finnish film has none of the things we ordinary folk go to movies to see and in retrospect I can't think of a single reason to recommend it . There are no beautiful vistas or great sets or costuming , no intrigue or mystery or romance ( 1 . 5 kisses ) , no bigger than life charismatic stars , no action or effects , no moral or message , no sex or nudity , and , as near as I can tell , no reason or purpose for existing . Having said all that , I did enjoy this flick for whatever that's worth . (
A stroll through an art gallery	" Beyond the Clouds " is an over-the-top artsy group of four vignettes each a offering a glimpse into a man-woman relationship from the tenuous to the turbulent . Although the film offers superb cinematography , some exquisite visual beauty , and a cast of fine performers , there's little meat on the bones of this fragmented work . A taste of a relationship cannot impart the fullness of it and synergism suggests that much more can be accomplished with one story in 2 hours than with four . Nonetheless , " Beyond the Clouds " will be fodder for dilettantes and a visual feast for the all albeit superficial , stilted , and lacking in substance .
Yous got a problem wid dis ?	Set in an Italian neighborhood of the Bronx in the 60's , " A Bronx Tale " is a coming of age flick about a boy ( Capra / Brancato ) who becomes a protege of the urbane boss of the hood ( Palminteri ) after refusing to rat him out to the cops for a shooting . From there the boy gets some serious lessons in life in the hood under the wary and watchful eye of his hard working bus driver father ( Dinero ) . Dinero's directorial debut , this film is a by-the-numbers production with a slew of stereotypical mob type caricatures and histrionics which echo of Palminteri's stage play which offers some solid light dramatic entertainment . Not too be taken seriously , " A Bronx Tale " will be a worthwhile watch for those into wise guy flicks with some heart . ( B )
Grrrr ! Woof !	" Best in Show " is a mockumentary spoof of one of those things which people do but which most outsiders can only view with raised eyebrows and quizzical looks askance : The championship dog show . This cute lampooning of the complete dog lover looks at a handful of stereotypes ( gays , yuppies , a good old boy , etc . ) and their pooches as they prep for , converge on , and participate in a dog show spectacle . A lively , clever exercise in over-the-top understatement .
All for one and one for all !	A fun French comedy / adventure flick which resurrects the " Three Musketeers " and creates a beautiful daughter , Eloise , ( Marceau ) for an aging , portly D'Artagnan . The plot is a tad convoluted with subtitles which use some archaic English and nonstop dialogue making the story a bit of a challenge for non-French speakers to keep up with . Nonetheless , the 2 + hour run is full of swashbuckling adventures , funny antics , comedic dialogue , and the beautiful European countryside with misty moors , autumn forests , castles and all those things we love about Euro-period films .
Sometimes you just gotta go with it	" Phenomenon " is about a small town auto mechanic ( Travolta ) who experiences something he can only describe as being " light " and suddenly has peculiar powers such as being able to learn to speak Portuguese in 20 minutes or understanding Dianetics . At issue is , will these powers , which make him the object of fear and awe by the townsfolk , help of hurt his chances with his reluctant love interest ( Sedgwick ) . An pleasant little folksy , Mayberry RFDish flick , " Phenomenon " sticks to the people story and doesn't go off into sci-fi-land as it conjures up the warm and fuzzies , takes a romantic turn with the best haircut & shave since " Wrestling Ernest Hemingway " , and tries hard to deliver a message about what's important in life . Yes , the film gets a little sugary sweet but . . . okay , it gets a lot sugary sweet . . . but , if you go with it and don't fight it you'll be assured of a pleasant three star watch . Good stuff for sentimentalists . ( B )
A good movie .	" Moonlight Mile " is a by-the-book drama which tells of a handful of grieving people in a small New England town circa 1966 though the location , the time , and the title have nothing to do with anything of import to the film . The film has a big upside including a stellar cast registering good performances , lots of 60's pop music , good technicals and art , and a clear vision and sense of direction . The downside , however , is the film is just too pat . The histrionics are a tad too obvious , the characters are a tad too glib , the situations a tad too contrived , and the conclusion a tad too neat . " Moonlight Mile " is by anyone's standards a good film but similarly there is no way it deserves the four stars Ebert gave it or the disproportionate numbers of perfect 10's registered on this website . How much you enjoy this film will simply depend on your taste in film and what you expect from a drama . There's lots to like , little to fault , so keep expectations real and enjoy . ( B )
Dysfunction junction	" The Hanging Garden " is a slice-of-dysfunctional-life dramady with a coming-of-age flashback which takes you into the tangled web of peculiar family matters and relationships of a Nova Scotia family who live in shadow of a drunkenly abusive patriarch . The quirk infested family includes a gay asthmatic son , a foul mouthed daughter , a wishy-washy mother , a senile old granny , the abusive gardener father , and a kid . The film centers on the grossly overweight son who hangs himself from a tree and remains there as a sort of macabre metaphor for familial dysfunction while living on as a skinny adult and achieving some semblance of normalcy . In spite its obvious weirdness , this earthy flick manages to ground itself with a sense of reality while showing the constant struggle to function in spite of the characters ' fractured coping skills . Not for everyone , this fist outing for writer / director Thom Fitzgerald is , IMHO , better than his more recent film " The Event " . Fodder for those into quirky flicks about dysfunctional families . ( B )
Equal sequel	" Shanghai Knights " , sequel to and by most accounts equal to " Shanghai Noon " , sticks the same Chan and Wilson characters in another adventure which takes them to London where they become embroiled in convoluted intrigues neatly worked around everything from Big Ben to Charlie Chaplin to Jack the Ripper to Queen Victoria . . . etc . Fun stuff ( maybe funnier , depending on taste ) which features equal parts of Chan's inventive martial arts and stuntmanship and Wilson's poker faced off-the-wall comic relief , " Shanghai Knights " is an enjoyable three star comedy romp and I could go for another helping . What's next ? Shanghai Daze ? ( B )
Wham ! Pow ! Bam !	" The Hard Way " is a good old fashioned popcorn flick which gets off to a fast start and keeps moving until the credits roll . Fox plays an Indiana Jones type adventure movie star who goes to NYC to hang with a badass cop ( Woods ) to learn what being a cop is like and becomes embroiled in a serial killer caper . The well crafted , unpredictable screenplay is chock full of action , comedy , stunts , suspense , light drama , etc . with nary a dull moment to be found . Good not-to-be-taken-seriously Hollywood fun stuff worth a second look for those who saw it a decade ago .
I laughed my a off . Thanks Eric , I'm now ale !	" Never Again " tells of a single middle aged man ( Tambor ) and woman ( Clayburgh ) who find each other , have good sex , and then begin to wrestle with issues as they search warily for deeper meaning . The film jerks from the outlandish to the sublime and back again making for an unpredictably bumpy ride while conjuring moments of hilarity and warmth . " Never Again " is another Schaeffer love it or hate it flick which is the work of a creative genius or sexually obsessed hack depending on who you talk to . Given its middle aged focus and explicit sexual content , " Never Again " will play best with more mature audiences who can handle vulgar language , absurd comic relief , and still appreciate the sentimental and poignant moments without rationalization . ( B )
An excellent small screen drama	" Primal Fear " is a solid drama in which a defense attorney ( Gere ) and a prosecutor ( Linney ) square off and do battle from opposite sides of a courtroom and opposite ends of a defunct love affair . All business and no pleasure , " PF " is 40 % courtroom drama , 40 % investigation , and 20 % plot backbone with Gere , Linney , and Norton turning in excellent performances with a good supporting cast . A taught drama which includes a sex scandal in the Chicago archdiocese ( something apparently more relevant today than when the film was made ) " Primal Fear " makes for good small screen fare .
Excellent unpleasantness	" 21 Grams " tells a story of three people : A man who needs a heart , the widow of a donor , and the man who killed the donor . The film has critical plaudits aplenty , a couple of Oscar nom's for acting , a fine cast , and the work of budding " Ameros Perros " director Alejandro González Iñárritu . Unfortunately , the latter plus is also a minus as Iñárritu force feeds us two hours of pain and suffering with sledgehammer blows while chopping up the story a la " Momento " and never giving us anyone we can really care about . I double timed the last 30 minutes in X2 mode reading subtitles because I was disengaged , didn't like any of the characters , didn't care what happened , and was only interested out of idle curiosity . Good stuff if you don't mind a heavy handed approach to a morose drama of wall to wall unpleasantness with poor character development . ( B )
Odd , dark , and not for everyone	" Deep Crimson " , a subtitled Mexican film , tells of a man who uses his hair-piece , good looks , and charm to bilk mature women out of their money . When he woos a very large and homely woman longing to be loved , she divests herself of her children , insinuates herself into his life , and goes off scamming with him while pretending be his sister . The backbone of the story is the strange symbiosis which develops between the partner / lover duo as we watch their relationship grow deeper and their scheming more nefarious . A moderately entertaining though schizophrenic film , " Deep Crimson " is too much of a comedy to be taken seriously and too much of a drama to be funny . The result is a marginally engaging film which will play best to those with a taste for black comedies from south of the border . ( B )
An excellent no-frills film about conscience and morality .	" La Promesse " , from the makers of " Rosetta " , is an award winning drama which gets down to business quickly . The film is shot with no frills and the hard edge of a documentary . It tells of a father and son , both of questionable character , who make their living on the backs of transient illegal aliens in Belgium and the schism which developes between them as they engage a serious matter of conscience . Viewers with an appetite for reality in film will extol this flick while fantasy lovers may hate its grit .
Tedious and over zee top	" Humanite " appears to be a film about a child murder / rape and the search for the killer . In fact , the film is a character study en masse which tediously examines a handful of players with Schotte at the center as a rural cop . A critic's darling because it is oh so different , " Humanite " could be said to be avant guarde neo-hyper-realism . Or , it could be said to be a load of crap . The film does not equal the sum of its parts and is frustratingly incongruous for no apparent reason . I personally found it strangely fascinating . However , I suspect the film going public at large will reject " Humanite " as tedious and too over-the-top . Good stuff for cinema sophisticates into French film but certainly not for everyone . ( B )
Sentimental comedy confection	" Seducing Doctor Lewis " tells of a French-Canadian fishing village which is on the dole and on the list of locations for a new factory . The latter would get the fishermen of the played out waters new jobs and off welfare , so the townspeople conspire to seduce a doctor to coming to their village with the hope he'll stay on as their resident physician . The result is a charming little comedy full of good natured and earnest characters and their inept attempts at deception and fraud which lead to the inevitable happily ever after fairy tale conclusion . Enjoyable , light hearted . mildly amusing family film fare , " Seducing Doctor Lewis " should appeal to anyone into Disneyesque films who can contend with subtitles . (
A gem	" Everybody's Famous " tells of a middle-age Belgian ( ? ) father who wants see his overweight wannabe singer daughter become a celebrity / success and takes desperate measures to make that happen when he loses his job . The result is a warm hearted comedy romp which delivers more fun and sentimental bang for the buck than most films as it deftly builds to a dramatic crescendo and a feel good conclusion which just might leave you with a smile on your face and a tear in your eye . An Oscar nominated , critic befuddling , audience pleaser , " Everybody's Famous " should be a fun watch for anyone who doesn't mind a little corn with their subtitles . Turn brain off before watching and enjoy . ( B )
Chic-Ana flick	Pleasingly plump journeyman actress Ferrera is the centerpiece of " Real Women Have Curves " ; a slice-of-life , coming-of-age Chicana flick about a Mexican-American high school girl , Ana , from an East L . A . barrio who struggles with the opposing forces of American feminism and Mexican family tradition . An easy going , warm hearted film with a salsa flavor , " . . . Curves " is a tad awkward in parts , doesn't nail all of its nuances , and uses " Spanglish " with some subtitles . Nonetheless , those with an interest in the Mex-Am culture , especially the distaff , will find this an enjoyable and worthy watch . ( B )
What's not to like ?	Sarah ( Lane ) , the film's centerpiece , is fortyish , recently divorced , and , of course , cringing at the prospect of getting back into the dating game . The body of the film is all about Sarah , surrounded by assorted kith and kin , struggling to cope with the difficult process of finding Mr . Right . A light hearted romp which is just a new take on an old but tried and true premise , " Must Love Dogs " avoids the extremes of edginess , quirkiness , schmaltz , and corn and concentrates on just being a pleasant up-beat ride to a foregone conclusion . Hard not to like but not likely to be memorable , this little bit of fluff got respectable though nominal marks from IMDb . com's voters including an average score from that hardest of all demographics to please , the 30-44 age of disillusionment group . " Must Love Dogs " should play well with females and their significant others , Lane and Cusak fans , and anyone in the mood for a low cal romcom DVD watch . ( B )
Somewhere between a 1 and a 10 .	" Pumpkin " slips mercurially through the genres ending up somewhere around black comedy with farcical overtones and biting undercurrents as it tells of a privileged , superficial sorority sister ( Ricci ) who " gets real " and falls for a mentally challenged man ( Harris ) while coaching him for a Special Olympics type event . The film boldly treads on thin ice , clumsily at times , as it tramples social constructs from decorum to morality while managing to maintain a marginally interesting storyline . Probably a real achievement given the experience of the auteur , " Pumpkin " will likely end up a love it or hate it flick of modest significance . Worth a look as a curiosity if nothing more . ( B )
A wonderful retelling of a classic romantic comedy	" Sabrina " 1995 tells of a young chauffeur's daughter ( Ormond ) who grows up in the shadow of a wealthy family with two eligible bachelors ; one all work ( Ford ) and the other all play ( Kinnear ) . Forever in love with the latter as a girl , Sabrina studies in Paris and returns years later to the estate and the dreams of her childhood which she must now address as woman . A wistful contemporary Cinderella story with a solid cast and plenty of dreamy John Williams music , " Sabrina " is a must see for all lovers of romantic comedy .
High marks	" High Art " peers into the lives of two NYC apartment dwelling women , the love which blossoms between them , and the effect of it on each of their lives . Sheedy plays a photographic artist of some renown living a Bohemian lifestyle while Mitchell plays the love interest as a heterosexual asst editor of an artsy magazine . A plaintive , somber film of considerable sensitivity , " High Art " is somewhat ill focused with a poor soundtrack but showcases excellent performances by the principals . A worthwhile watch for those into relationship films about lesbian love and off-beat characters .
A poignant , sentimental , and warmly humorous story about living	" Marvin's Room " tells of two long estranged middle aged sisters ; one who's spent 20 years caring for her bed-ridden father in Florida ( Keaton ) and the other , a hair stylist who's raised two boys in Ohio ( Streep ) . When one is diagnosed with leukemia , the sisters reunite and begin long over due reconciliations . " Marvin's Room " is a warmly humorous film which tiptoes around the matter of cancer while telling a sentimental story of a dysfunctional family pulling together in a time of need . An enjoyable , middle-of-the-road dramady with an excellent cast and both Oscar and Globe nominated performances worth a look . ( B )
A good flick which tries to do too much .	" Such a Long Journey " is a well crafted film , a good shoot , and a showcase for some good performances . However , the story is such a jumble of subplots and peculiar characters that it becomes a sort of Jack of all plots and master of none . Also , Western audiences will likely find the esoterics of the rather obscure Parsee culture a little much to get their arms around in 1 . 7 hours . Recommended for those with an interest in India .
It's not what you see , it's what you don't see .	" Winter Heart " is a character study which examines what happens when a beautiful violinist falls in love with a violin maker who is devoid of the passion and emotion which is so much a part of French film and life in general . The antithesis of almost everything Hollywood represents as it does not depict the presence of things but the absence of things , " Un Coeur un Hiver " is more interesting than entertaining and will intrigue some and bore the socks off others . A smart film for smart people but placid waters for popcorn flick surfers .
More noble than interesting . More interesting than entertaining .	" The Fast Runner " is a pedestrian story of treachery among a tribe of primitive natives - in this case the Inuits of the arctic region of Canada . On the upside the film has an abundance of raw Spartan arctic beauty ; haunting music and percussion ; real native actors speaking what is presumably the Inuit tongue ; and a fascinating sense of authenticity . On the downside , the film is viscous , long , esoteric , difficult to follow , and plays better as a documentary with the thin story of murder and deceit among peaceful people being buried under ice and snow as we watch the Inuit's simple day-to-day survival tasks and never see the more interesting activities such as a caribou hunt . In short , the film doesn't work well as either a drama or a documentary though it seems to try to straddle both . Possible target audiences ? Subscribers to National Geographic . ( B )
Booty kickin ' boobies-to-the-wall babe power action flick	" So Close " is about two Hong Kong hottie sister assassins ( Qi & Wei ) who use martial arts , guns , and hi-tech gadgetry to take out an army bad guys . . . something about evil corporations and a score to settle for killing their father . Toss in a female cop with perpetual PMS ( Mok ) , a whiff of pathos , lots of sass , pop culture trimmings , plenty of cool action with personality , classy stylistics , stunts , effects , CGI , etc . and you've got one fun girl power action chick flick . Jackie Chan & John Woo , look out ! ( B )
Another excellent historical docudrama from HBO . . .	. . . on the heels of " The Gathering Storm " . " Path to War " begins with Lyndon B . Johnson's inaugural ball and ends with his rejection of candidacy for another term . Between , unlikely Brit-cum-Texan Gambon delivers a masterful portrayal of President Johnson as a crude but sagacious politician who struggled with the demons of the Vietnam era not unlike another American president who served during an unpopular war which tore at the fabric of this country a century before . A well crafted HBO documentary which needs and takes little license with history , " Path to War " will likely prove a spell-binding watch for those interested in American political history and a good historical review for anyone with an interest in the Vietnam era .
Boredom for the many . Amusement for the few .	" My Life So Far " is a light hearted and somewhat stuffy coming of age film about a boy ( Norman ) and his father ( Firth ) living on a Scottish estate with sundry family members , servants , visitors , etc . in the years following WWI . A nicely laid out period piece , this film ventures into the busy-ness of the manor as we watch the inquisitive boy and his crack-pot inventor and smitten father grow up together to the accompaniment of curling tournaments , visitations from a pilot , a hairy man skulking in the woods , etc . , and , of course , the sometimes unseemly family matters . " My Life So Far " is not one of the better period film as it spreads itself too thinly over numerous inconsequential matters of little interest beyond the characters . However , for those into British period films , this one may prove mildly amusing and entertaining . ( B )
So ?	In his review of this film , Roger Ebert begins " It's so rare to find a movie that doesn't take sides . " Well , DUH ! People like movies that take sides . . . as in the good guys and bad guys . We like heroes and villains because we want to see good win over evil . " House of Sand and Fog " doesn't take sides which is its liability . The film builds its base of three characters ( Kingsley , Connelly , Eldard ) piecemeal developing Kingsley as a highly principled Iranian-American best while leaving protag Connelly as a kind of misguided whack-job and her lover ( Eldard ) as an unlikely trouble making deputy sheriff . On the upside , this well directed piece with a solid cast is moody and manages to whet and hold interest throughout by creating a succession of unresolved issues . On the downside , it doesn't " take sides " and give us someone to care about leaving the audience somewhat disconnected . The principals all seem misguided and responsible for their own problems so watching them stew in their own juices with many questions left unanswered makes for a somewhat unsatisfying viewing experience . For fans and drama junkies only . ( B )
Intelligent , sophisticated , and elegant drama-lite .	" Up At the Villa " is a plodding , understated , dialogue-intensive " little " drama about love , sex , misdeeds , and other intrigues of decadent British aristocrats occupying Florence , Italy in days prior to WWII . Built around the Thomas character , what the film lacks in depth it makes up for with a well crafted script , excellent performances , and grand scenery .
The highest common denominator	" The Cuckoo " is tells of the coming together of two wayward soldiers in the Arctic north of Finland at the farm of a lone Lapp woman during the end of WWII . The trio of players speak in different tongues making verbal communication impossible and though the men are sworn enemies they find common ground in a shared humanity which sees them through the difficulties of surviving wounds , coveting the same female , and learning lessons like the importance of being able to say " Don't Shoot ! ! " in your enemies ' language . " The Cuckoo " is an minimalistic light drama with low end production value which distills life to the bare essentials of humanity with its bold austerity . Recommended for foreign film buffs only . ( B )
If it itches . . . .	. . . scratch it . Just as African's created rhythms with the jawbone of an ass and Virgin Islanders welded oil drums into ear pleasing steel bands , so did urban DJ's itch to scratch in the pursuit of new methods of creative expression . " Scratch " is a wholly unnarrated documentary which will take you to the heart of the hip-hop / rap movement and explore the genesis of turntablism , the art of scratching vinyl , and the ultimate DJ / MC contempo entertainment expression . The film reveals some surprisingly intelligent and articulate " Scratchers " with startlingly unique abilities in concert and competition where the beat meets the street . Good stuff for anyone interested in grass roots or ghetto gutter movements in sound art . ( B )
An excellent love story for those who love love stories .	" Message in a Bottle " is a beautiful and well told , highly romanticized story about a man letting go and a woman competing with a " ghost " . The film is obviously designed to tug at the heart strings and bobbles in the end but still offers some good old fashioned romantic melodrama under a slick contemporary veneer . Technically and artistically well crafted , " MIB " is well cast , has solid performances and an excellent screen play along with the usual accouterments of Hollywood filmdom . A wonderful film for those with an appetite for romantic melodrama and tear jerkers .
Ranks with the better Victorian soaps	" He Knew He Was Right " is a 4x55 minute TV miniseries adaptation which is very much like the usual Victorian melodrama fare from such notables at the Brontes and Austen . The backbone of the story is about a young man of property who marries and then becomes obsessively jealous of attentions paid his wife by her Godfather . Crisscrossing the main plot are several subplots involving the societal clockworks of middle and upper class Victorian society with all the usual scheming for peerage and property , premarital posturing , courtship and affairs of the heart , and busybody bickering among the staid and stuffy pomp of the times . Although " He Knew He Was Right " has a darkish central theme , it never takes itself too seriously and manages a very subtle and wry sense of humor as it cavorts among the many characters with charm , wit , grace , and beauty . A worthwhile watch for anyone into Victorian melodrama . ( B )
The ugliness of children caught up in war	" Red Cherry " follows a pubescent Chinese girl , ChuChu , and boy , Luo Xiaoman , from their prewar children's camp in Russia through WWII as they become de facto orphans caught up in the horrors of war . The film leapfrogs through time and bounces back and forth between the two kids , who become separated , making for a herky-jerky flow while giving us peek-a-boo glimpses of how they are coping against a backdrop of the deprivation and tragedy that is war . On the upside , the film is a well acted , engaging , evocative drama . On the downside , the DVD I watched had only mediocre video quality and poor , near monochrome , color . Recommended only for foreign film buffs into war dramas . ( B ) Note - This is not the best movie ever made , it is not propaganda , and it is not seen through the eyes of the child .
Brrrrr !	" The Claim " tells the tale of a ' 49er ( Mullen ) with the glitter of gold in his eyes who swaps his wife and baby for a claim in the rugged California Sierra-Nevada mountains . A beautifully filmed period piece which attempts to portray the difficulties and realities of the time with fidelity , " The Claim " offers excellence in all aspects of the film though it may be too austere , too Spartan to have broad appeal . A great film for realists into stories of the old West .
The square root of " Clueless "	" Mean Girls " is another bop fodder comedy about a high school junior who , having been outschooled all her life , goes to public school and tries to become one of the in crowd , a trio of shallow hotties called the " Plastics " , only to find she's become a back stabbing beyotch like them and subsequently realizing the error of her ways . . . yada-yada-yada . Always lively and light hearted , this slampoonfest of the teen female's peer pressure cooker problems is a fun romp full of the usual high school peer group stereotypes all slogging their way through campus social life . Fresh and funny if a tad silly ( ok , a lot silly ) , " Mean Girls " will play best with teen females . ( B )
Lotsabots	In " I , Robot " , Will Smith is a cop with a sense of humor and a grudge against robots in the year 2030 something when humanoid robots are everywhere thanks to a giant corporation in a giant building in Chicago which manufactures friendly , helpful robots who have been programmed to protect humans . Sent to investigate the apparent suicide of the genius who created the robots , Smith uncovers an insidious plot - which will pit robots against people in an apocalyptic culmination of action , CGI and effects - and must save the token babe and the world from the big bot revolution . Short on human story , this sci-fi action / dramady hyperkinetic mech-fest pushes the envelope of believability with its overwrought CGI . Worth a look for sci-fi and CGI junkies . ( B )
Only for those with specific interest in Honoré de Balzac	" Balzac " , the 200 minute French TV docudrama , cannot portray Balzac the man with fidelity and be any more interesting than the man himself . And , judging from this film , Balzac was not all that interesting as historical characters go . Though the series beautifully represents 19th century France with perfection in costuming , sets , locations , props , etc . and Depardieu turns in a solid performance as the title character , the teleplay spends most of its time buried in the minutia of Balzac's many relationships with women to the exclusions of countless other aspects of his life and times . A " must see " for anyone interested in life of the classical novelist , " Balzac " is not likely to be a satisfying watch for those interested in the period piece solely for entertainment . ( B )
A testament to the mundane	" La Cienaga " ( The Swamp ) spends its 1 : 45 run examining the trivial daily activities of two families spanning three generation as they vacation in the sweaty climes of a run down Argentinian resort . There's no story arc in this film which ends much as it begins with bored family members who seem as uneasy with each other as they are with the humidity and temperature while they do the most mundane things . " La Cienaga " is so flat , in fact , that there's hardly a reason to recommend it save the fact that is so real and so much spot on with writer / director Martel's vision of bourgeois discomfort that it compels the viewer to watch vicariously and voyeuristically eking out moments of resonance . Not for the average film goer , this flick will work bests for foreign film buffs into plaintive studies of daily life . ( B )
The higher your station the farther you fall .	" The House of Mirth " is a tour-de-force by Anderson who is cast as an early 1900's New York socialite who wrestles with conflicts between her integrity and her station . Beautiful but without a fortune of her own , Anderson must deny the opportunities for happiness which are numerous but tainted as she is slowly strangled by the protocols of polite society . A solid period piece , " House . . " is technically and artistically well done with a script which may be a tad too clever and a screenplay which may muddle rather than clarify the archaic notions which will seem foreign to the contemporary audience . A must see for Anderson fans and lovers of period films .
Excellent bone crunching varsity football flick	" Friday Night Lights " follows a season of football in a dusty little Texas oil town where varsity football is not just the only game in town but the only way out of town and the only hope for the future for many of the players . The film examines the team's key players and their good guy coach ( Thornton ) as they wrestle with personal issues and work their way through the season one bone jarring touchdown at a time . Working more with montages than linear plot development , Director Berg brings life and verve to the screen culminating in the mania and frenzy of the statewide championship . An excellent football flick , " Friday Night Lights " is all about football and what it means to the town that lives through it vicariously . (
Seen it all before	There's little new in " Open Range " ; a cowboy tale with the tight lipped cow puncher who happens upon a town ruled by a cruel cattleman who owns the sheriff but not the doc who's sis is a babe who falls for the cowboy . . . blaa , blaa , etc . In spite of its apparent attempt to tell an old west story the way it really was , " Open Range " can't escape its Hollywoodness . You'll still see guns fired without reloading , men knocked ten feet by a bullet , a woman making nice with a wounded man as though his wound didn't exist , etc . Nice stuff if you're into big sky scenics , bigger than life heroics , and the " Unforgiven " approach to western film making . ( B )
Muddling through midlife crises together	" The Upside of Anger " is all about a laid back retired baseball hero ( Cosner ) who becomes involved with a neighbor woman ( Allen ) who has a perpetual bad attitude because her husband has run off to Sweden with his secretary . The film is sweetened by the woman's four beautiful but disparate daughters who thicken the plot with their own growing pains and family semifunctionality . Though it's been a long road from Mike Binder's debut in the raunchy romp " Hollywood Knights " ( one of my guilty pleasures which helped launch the careers of Michelle Pffiefer , Tony Danza , Roberft Whurl , Fran Drescher and others ) , he score's a hit as director , writer , and character actor with this enjoyable and insightful cross-genre ( comedy / drama / romance ) tale of a mature couple sorting through their midlife crises together . Not a blockbuster but a very pleasant little film with a twist at the end worthy of a DVD rental . ( B )
Like soul ?	You'd better like soul music if you're planning on watching " The Commitments " . The film is all about a young Dublin man who decides to assemble a rock band from his local cohorts and friends and that's all the film is about . From beginning to end , this raucous comedy tells of the coming together of a motley crew of musicians and wannabees who manage to harmonize on stage while dissonance prevails off stage . A raucous and ebullient musical comedy which is more lively than sophisticated and more profane than profound , this assembly of first-time acting talent is a must see for anyone into that Motown sound . All others , beware . ( B )
Worthy	" Sometimes in April " attempts to tell the story of the 1994 wholesale slaughter of about 800 , 000 mostly innocent people during the 100 day national ordeal when the top blew off the powder keg which Rwanda , Africa had become . This film of civil war and genocide focuses on one man , Augustin ( Elba ) , a Rwandan soldier and his extended family as it jumps around in location and time using his story to connect the dots . Although this HBO docudrama makes a satisfactory dramatic watch , is asks more questions than it answers and leaves one wondering , among other things , how it is possible that so many helpless and innocent people could be savagely murdered by their own countrymen . The historical background and Rwandan zeitgeist are not sufficiently presented but the brutality of the horrific genocide perpetrated by the Hutus upon the Tutsis and Hutu moderates , stands out in bold relief . Snapshots of US State Department bureaucrat Prudence Bushnell's ( Winger ) frustration with her own government's slow reaction to the crisis and the seemingly inadequate UN war crimes tribunals only hint at the problems associated with intervention in civil strife and prosecution of war criminals . Overall , the film is a worthwhile entertaining and educational watch with language , violence , sex / rape thoughtfully maintained at a level which would probably yield about a PG-13 rating . ( B )
Adultery medium rare sans jus	" The Bridge " is a slice-of-French-life flick which , like many French films , is fatalistic , character-driven , and an almost plotless film about life . The film tells of a middle class housewife and mother who has an affair . The adulterous relationship is treated cooly by the husband ( Depardieu ) , the wife ( Boquet ) , and her lover ( Berling ) in this film in which , beyond the principals , everything else is just so much window dressing . Well acted , not particularly artistic but technically okay , " The Bridge " will appeal most to aficionados of French cinema while other will miss the sex , nudity , melodrama , and other appurtenances of a typical Hollywood product .
What a hctib !	" The Last Seduction " is all about Fiorentino , a NYC hardened vixen and man-ipulator who spends the whole flick using her guile and unscrupulous ways to separate her husband from their his ill gotten gains . A well crafted , well cast , and not-to-be-taken-seriously darkish flick which gets out of the blocks quick and keeps you thinking and guessing all the way to the conclusion . Light entertainment for adults on cable .
Zensational	" Spring , Summer , Fall , Winter . . . and Spring " is a very East Asian art flick which moves like molasses with mesmerizing beauty as it spins its simple allegorical tale of the seasons of nature and life . The film centers on an elder Buddhist master and his young charge as the boy grows into manhood with considerably less grace than the passing of the old man to the next life . Mostly visual with minimal dialogue , this flick tells its tale with stunning cinematography , keeps subtitle reading to a minimum , and allows the disengaged and those who don't want to languish in many tedious moments to fast forward at x2 of x4 through most of the film reducing its100 minute run to 20-30 minutes . Recommended for buffs into Asian art flicks . ( B )
A journey though a devastated land .	" Lamerica " takes the audience through the devastation of post-communist Albania as it follows the odyssey of a young Italian man who has come to make some easy money but finds himself caught up in the same curious mix of hopeful despair etched into the faces of people he's come to swindle . The film has little plot , the feel of a documentary , and most of the scenes are perfunctory . Nonetheless , " Lamerica " will beg a strange fascination from those who find grizzled realism interesting .
For insiders only	" My Best Fiend : Klaus Kinski " is a documentary retrospective by acclaimed film director Werner Herzog ( " Fitzcarraldo " , " Aguirre : The Wrath of God " , etc . ) which looks back at the peculiar symbiosis of the adventurous and obsessive Herzog and the volatile , explosive , and oft irrational Klaus Kinski . The film is a sort of Kinski-according-to-Herzog tale , released about 8 years after Kinski's death , which uses archival footage , feature film clips , interviews with other people who worked with Kinski , and trips to places where the two men worked together bound by their love / hate relationship to tell its story . Not likely to have much value for the average film-goer , this documentary is recommended for fans of the two principals and others interested in film industry personalities . ( B )
If you don't love the Irish , find another movie .	" An Everlasting Piece " is a lively , smart little comedy which tells of two barbers in 1980's Belfast , one Prot and the other Catholoic , who start a toupee business and struggle to succeed against the adversity of a divided Ireland , commercial competition , and their own religious / political alignments . " AEP " is solid throughout with fresh faces , a good musical score , a clever and spunky story , lots of wry Irish wit and a few poignant moments too . Not your usual slappy-sticky comedy fare , " AEP " will appeal most to those who appreciate wry comedic subtleties . If you don't love the Irish , find another movie .
A good watch for those who missed it in 1996 .	In " Lone Star " , a skull is found in an isolated part of a Texas border county which begins an investigation by the local Sheriff who must unlock a closet full of skeletons to solve the mystery . Critically acclaimed and a high scoring flick on this website , " Lone Star " is a film to be reckoned with . It features solid performances without the usual blockbuster star power , an engaging story , a real feel , and masterful editing which allows for a seamless presentation of the numerous flashbacks required to tell the story . You'll find little emoting or little reason to emote in this matter-of-fact contemporary film which ends with a kicker . Worth a look for just about anyone mature enough for the subject matter .
Powerful hokum	" Open Your Eyes " , later knocked-off as " Vanilla Sky " , is a bunch of hokum which muddles dreams with reality with an unsatisfying conclusion . However , for those who can get their head around sci-fi or paranormal flix or those who can overlook simple minded plot ploys , this flick will prove to be a worthy effort . ( B )
Naked pictures of women ? ?	" Shattered Glass " tells the true story of Stephen Glass , a young upstart hotshot investigative journalist who wrote fiction or partial fiction and represented it as fact in the esteemed New Republic magazine and other publications . The film is a smartly pitched hardcore no frills drama which recounts events leading up to the explosive 1998 scandal created when the magazine went public by exposing itself as the unwitting purveyor of countless fraudulent articles . Most of the film is set in the offices of TNR magazine and the film is devoid of the usual Hollywood tinsel . . . . no action , violence , sex , thrills , exotic locations , megastars , etc . However , for those into tales of ethics , journalism , and / or aberrant personalities , " Shattered Glass " may well be a spellbinder . Good stuff with plenty of critical plaudits for drama enthusiasts and those interested in investigative journalism . ( B )
A different kind of love story	" The Girl From Paris " tiptoes liltingly though a slice of life of a young French city woman who buys a farm and finds herself wrestling with the rigors of farm life and the stoic , laconic , and crusty old previous owner . The odd couple put of with each other at the outset but as time passes they find something of value in one another and a tender , sensitive but mostly unspoken relationship emerges . A light drama about mutual needs in a bucolic milieu which explores a different kind of relationship , " The Girl From Paris " is a lovely little film with minimal dialogue worth a look for anyone into people flicks of the French persuasion . ( B )
What's with the jet plane ?	" Under the Sun " is a bucolic , warm , charming , and sentimental story about a 40 year old Swedish farmer who hires an attractive housekeeper who tends to somewhat more than cooking and cleaning . He's illiterate with an inheritance , she's smart and pretty , and he has a young male friend who may be after both his money and the woman . A lovely bit of romantic melodrama laced with humor and rustic beauty which could steal your heart or make you gag depending on your taste . Recommended for more mature sentimentalists . ( B )
A very different love story	In " Heaven " , we get to watch a woman whose committed the ultimate faux pas wrestle with her humanity with the help of a quixotic police translator . On the upside , Blanchett carves out a compelling character with her powerful portrayal in a worthy character-driven cinematic effort which is technically and artistically sound . On the downside , " Heaven " doesn't equal the sum of its parts , has an ambiguous ending , and comes off like a sort of fatalistic foreign flick ( which it is ) which filmgoers on this side of the pond tend to think of as artsy . Half English and half Italian with subtitles , " Heaven " is fodder for film buffs and fans of the players . ( B )
An excellent film for a niche audience .	An obsessive , seziure-plagued , sociophobic genius crunches numbers in his apartment with home-grown super computer in an attempt to reach the ultimate conclusion of his obsession while being sought after by Hasidic and Industrial operatives . " Pi " - a creative , low budget , award winning independent flick shot in black and white on grainy / contrasty film - is moody , frenetic , idiosyncratic , cerebral and not for everyone . However , its unique story , artsy milieu , skillful direction , and creativity and energy make it pound-for-pound better than most big budget studio films . Will probably play best to the college crowd .
A fine , uncompromising retelling of a classic gothic romance .	" Jane Eyre ( 1996 ) " does a good job of telling Bronte's oft told tale . The film's two central characters avoid the usual inclinations toward schmaltz and melodrama which romantic films often use to capitalize on the market potential of the mindless masses . Instead , Eyre is rigid and unemotional while Rochester is anything but urbane and most of the romance is understood as opposed to demonstrated . Those who appreciate such fidelity to the period will likely appreciate this version of " Jane Eyre " . The film is well shot , costumed , cast , scripted , and acted thought it does lurch through time periodically . Not a chick flick but an earnest retelling of a wonderful old gothic tale .
A good film you'll want to miss	" Intermission " is a mediocre but well managed dark comedy which takes the slices of life of a bunch of Dubliners ( mostly bad people with bad attitudes ) and shuffles them like a deck of cards while keeping sufficient interconnectedness to hold the film together ala " Magnolia " . A high energy misanthro-pic built on a good cast in Dublin , " Intermission " has very little heart and an abundance of aholes which will make it a less than enjoyable watch for all but those who can appreciate annoyingly bellicose films such as ' Lock Stock . . . " , " Pulp Fiction " , etc . Long on talent and short on story with only modest critical and public praise , " Intermission " is difficult to recommend . Personally I was bored numb by the film's end . ( B )
A warm , sincere look at a musical prodigy's struggle with her parent's handicap	" Beyond Silence " is a tender look at the rift which develops between a young girl and her deaf parents as she and her interest in the clarinet grow . The film delivers it's story with a soft touch , avoiding extremes while maintaining an earnest sense of legitimacy . Excepting a few minor glitches , the film is technically and artistically well done , the acting good , the directing superb , and the story warm and thoughtful . A worthwhile watch .
An excellent French people / reality film .	" Dreamlife . . . " is an award winning , much heralded , French people-flick shot in the typical austere Euro docudrama dogma-esque style . The film peers deeply into a short period in the lives of two footloose and broke young women who come together out of mutual need . A study in human nature sans the commercialism of Hollywood , " Dreamlife . . . " is an earnest and well constructed over-the-shoulder look at the principals very different character which will be most enjoyed by those into reality / people films .
A chick flick for all seasons	A chick flick for chicks of all ages , " The Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood " tells of four Louisiana ladies who establish their secret Ya-Ya sisterhood , bound by blood and oath and honor , at a young age and who remain friends over the years providing each other with friendship and support . The film's thin storyline is about one such " sister " ( Burstyn / Judd ) who has issues with her adult daughter ( Bullock ) and her sister Ya-Ya's who come to her rescue much to her dismay . What ensues is a warmly funny kind of jambalaya which makes up for its gaping plotholes with personality , charm , and rambunciousness as it stumbles through it story finally arriving gasping and wheezing at its feel good conclusion . Gagging material for grinches , most will find the " Ya-Yas " are just too damned much fun not to like on some level . ( B )
A Bertolucci pet project	" The Dreamers " is all about three young adult upscale hippy types who languish in a flat in Paris in the late 60's and talk about cinema , politics , sex , and other stuff while sharing some first experiences . Two are brother ( Garrel ) and sister ( Green ) identical twins ( or so we're told ) who have an almost metaphysical bond and the third is an interloper ( Pitt ) who falls in lust with the sister . There's little plot to this slice of young adult life flick which seems to be more of a Bertolucci pet project than a commercial product for the masses . Less than engaging and much less than compelling , " The Dreamers " immerses itself in the esoterics of the place and time to the exclusion of anyone who wasn't there then . Beautifully filmed and masterfully crafted with some young actors doing superb work under difficult circumstances with plenty of graphic nudity and sex , " The Dreamers " will play best with aficionados of French cinema , Bertolucci fans , etc . Those who are squeamish about sex / nudity should pass . All others , be prepared for a marginally interesting watch . ( B )
Undertouted and underestimated	" The Fourth Angel " tells of one man's quest for retribution beyond all reason as he , the protag ( Irons ) , takes on a bunch of hijackers while trying to avoid inquiries from government agents . Typically British in its austerity of production , this flick makes for a good middle-tier drama by creating a series of believable moral and practical dilemmas to which the well portrayed protagonist must react . A satisfying though not sterling blend of action , intrigue , and human drama , " The Fourth Angel " is not a no-brainer and , considering the complexity of the intrigue over the run time , is very well managed throughout . Not for Hollywood blockbuster freaks , this little import now on cable is well worth a look for those into foreign intrigue and movies that make you think but not too much . ( B )
Too nice to not like .	" Zelary " follows Eliska , a beautiful , young Czech woman through the course of her life during WWII as she is torn from her nursing work and antifascist movement support in the city to be secreted in a rustic mountain community where she finds herself having to cope with the tribulations of a hard rural life , a husband required to legitimize her presence as a cover , and the throes of a war which spills over onto the mountain villagers from both fronts . This slow moving 2 : 20 hour film pans the gamut of rural life in war torn Czechoslovakia as it looks wistfully at the bucolic beauty and plaintively at the juxtaposed evils of war showing us life , death , love , birth , hardship , evil , and more . An Oscar nominated Czech film with easy subtitles , " Zelary " is sometimes tedious , sometimes riveting , and always full of heart . Should be a pleasant watch for more mature audiences into the foreign film fringe . ( B )
Assimilate this !	In " Simone " , Pacino plays a down-on-his-luck small time film director in need of a break which he gets when he acquires some software which allows him to create holographic virtual people . To rescue his waning career , he creates Simone , a beautiful virtual actress who quickly becomes the hottest property in all of filmdom through the magic of hi-tech telecommunications . What ensues is a fun little romp with some subtle eye gouging ridicule of the essence of Hollywood if one considers Simone to be a metaphor for all the sham in film from the perspectives of persona , public , and paparazzi . After all , do you really know Julia Roberts is no more than pixels ? An excellent , smart , and sassy film only for those who can tune into the deliciously pointed mockery . ( B )
All Caine	Michael Caine carries " The Statement " on his back . In spite of an elegant cast , without him as the central character , this convoluted mess of a film wouldn't be worth watching . Telling of an aging French-Nazi war criminal who finds himself on the run and squeezed in the jaws of subterfuge , " The Statement " is too vague in its historical flashbacks , gives poor depth into its sundry characters , breaches realism with a bunch of Brits in France , never makes its agenda clear , and doesn't sort itself out well in the end . . . to mention just a few of the flaws . The result is a film with a lukewarm reception by critics and the public at large and little reason to watch save another excellent performance by Caine . In spite of all that , I quite enjoyed this flick . Go figure . (
An enjoyable girl power flick with a mainstream message .	" Legally Blonde " is all about Witherspoon as a totally val blonde from Beverly Hills who goes to Harvard and makes good . Predictable formula fun , " LB " gets off to a good start with the freshness of " Clueless " , pushes its own envelope of believability in the middle , and ends with a major feel good moment . Along the way , this fun family flick makes some good points about life's priorities . Enjoyable stuff for 13 and up .
American & Brit actors play Soviets & Germans . Duh !	Excellent production talent provides a gritty war-torn backdrop reminiscent of " Saving Private Ryan " for this weak story and poor historical account of the Battle for Stalingrad , a pivotal fight in the WWII European theater . The film tells of a Soviet war hero and sniper ( Law ) who squares off against a dogged adversary and top German sniper ( Harris ) providing the suspense and intrigue . The love story is played out like a clumsy after-thought and the use of big name stars for box office bucks when many good European actors could have added realism to the film was a typically self-serving Hollywood decision . Hoskins playing Khrushchev with his limey accent was laughable not to mention Harris as a German or Law as a Soviet and no attempt to fake an accent by anyone . A typical could-have-been-better flick which will entertain the masses and make the money mongers of filmdom happy while movie purists grumble .
A Caine tour-de-force	" The Quiet American " tells of an eternal triangle which evolves amid the tropical backdrop of Vietnam during the end of the French War in Indochina in 1952 . The triangle includes a British reporter ( Caine ) , and American aid worker ( Fraser ) , and a Vietnamese beauty ( Do Thi Hai Yen ) . The film opens after the stabbing death of Fraser's character and spends the rest of the run explaining the circ's which led up to the killing . Caine carries the film on his back with a solid performance while Fraser is unconvincing and the local beauty is just so much window dressing . A moderately interesting drama , " The Quiet American " squeaks by as a three star watch thanks to Caine , good atmospherics , location shooting , and some intrigues . Coulda , shoulda been better but an okay watch for most , especially those who got their Vietnam history lessons from the nightly news broadcasts of the 60's . ( B )
Reality bites	" The Year of the Quiet Sun " tells of the love which blooms with considerable difficulty between an American GI and a Polish woman in postWWII Poland ( ? ) . Unlike most war romance flicks where people virtually collide with each other driven by the stark desperation and deprivation of war , this film has the pair of protags ( Wilson & Komorowska ) spending most of the film's almost 2 hour run tentatively sorting through their pain and suffering to find feelings they can trust to be real . There's little doubt this is an excellent film . However , it is as depressingly barren as the ravaged landscape it occupies and for many will prove to be too real to be enjoyable . Not an escapist film , " . . . Quiet Sun " is for realists only . In multiple languages with subtitles . (
Darkly sardonic comedy not for everyone	" Happiness " plumbs the outwardly normal lives of a handful of loosely interconnected characters and discovers everything from neuroses to depravity to criminal insanity . This bleak and very dark comedy's austerity serves to make the characters stand out as it methodically reveals its disturbing stories . Not for everyone , " Happiness " is a " ground-breaker " which many will wish had left the soil unturned .
So much with so little .	Few films have garnered so much applause ( from critics and public alike ) with so little . The plot of " Rabbit Proof Fence " can be found elsewhere on this website . Suffice it to say it's about three girls walking and walking and walking and walking and . . . . across some of the most visually austere country on the planet ; the Aussie outback . There's little story behind the film , zilch for Hollywood tinsel , and a minimal cast of relative unknowns ( except for Branagh's small role ) . It would be easy to make the case that this film is one long boring flick . However , it would also be easy to make the case it is a beautifully filmed story of courage , determination , and the triumph of the human spirit . I would argue the latter . (
Hear them roar !	" Iron Jawed Angels " is an HBO historical biopic / docudrama which turns the lens on Swank who delivers a sterling performance as Quaker , suffragist , and women's right activist Alice Paul during her campaign to secure the 19th Constitutional amendment . Director Katja von Garnier , who gave us the wonderfully hip girl-power cult flick " Bandits " , takes on the daunting task of delivering an entertaining film about a somewhat dry , esoteric subject and a relatively unknown character ( as history goes ) and succeeds . Sometimes whimsical , sometimes intense , spritzed with humor and drama , and packed with zingers and maxims , " Iron Jawed Angels " may be a chick flick but no man can deny nor should fail to appreciate the grace and beauty is delivers . (
A simple and poignant story which refuses to compromise .	" Central Station " focuses on two very different people , a poorish middle-aged spinster and an orphaned boy , who come together because of circumstance and mutual need . The relationship and journey which ensues is the substance of this simple film . The story is told with harsh reality and an uncompromising honesty which serves to make the bad times bitter and the touching moments sweeter . An earnest effort which breaks all of Hollywood's rules of commercialism and will find it's market among cinema purists .
Ahhh ! Those French !	Never mind they do drugs , vandalize , rob and steal , try to kill each other , whack one dude and torch another . After all , it amour that counts , right ? " The Lovers on the Bridge " is a look into lives of a couple of down-and-out street bums who call a Paris bridge home . The film does an excellent job of telling it's 2 hour long story and the peculiar sort of " trouble loves company " kind of relationship which abides the two principles played by Levant and Binochet . Most will get lost in the pathos of this compelling and well constructed love story of sorts . Others may find it takes too long to get to the " feel good " part .
Amazing artistry !	" Cyclo " tells of an impoverished Saigon family whose son ( Cyclo ) turns to crime and whose daughter turns to prostitution as a matter of economic survival . A magnificent accomplishment in cinematography , there's little new to be found in the film's somewhat muddled story which is told almost exclusively with the camera as Oscar winning director Anh Hung Tran demonstrates mastery over the lens in delivering this tapestry of pictures which captures the beauty and blight of a bustling Vietnamese city . Not for everyone , " Cyclo " will play best with those who appreciate true artistry in film .
Maria full of cocaine	" Maria Full of Grace " tells the tale of an impoverished 17 year old Colombian who becomes pregnant and , in need of money , signs on as a drug " mule " , smuggling cocaine pellets into the US in her GI tract . An exceptional film for a low budget one man band indie with a deubting artist in the leading role , this film imparts a strong sense of been-there-done-that reality as it follows Maria from Bogota to New York where her life begins to unravel . Unusually well managed without being junked up with the usual Hollywood tawdry tinsel and situational extremes , this very human drama does more pound-for-pound than most films many times its size . Kudos to auteur Marston and company and ingenue Moreno for this interesting and enjoyable drama . (
The less you know the better	" Red Lights " , a subtitled French film , spends it's 1 . 75 hour run following Antoine ( Darroussin ) and his wife Hélène ( Bouquet ) as they leave Paris for a night drive to Bordeaux to pick up their kids . What should have been an ordinary road trip turns into an extraordinary series of events which will leave the couple forever changed . The less you know about these events prior to viewing the better as any hint of what happens could lead to a case of mistaken genre and spoilage . This film is a human drama which doesn't attempt to entertain with extremes but rather opts to engross with a slowly seductive tale of intrigues kept to realistic proportion . " Red Lights " relies heavily on the ability to identify with the adult married couple and the problems they encounter and , therefor , will play best with mature adult audiences . A nicely managed , methodical and very believable film which spends most of its time with Darroussin , " Red Lights " received good marks from critics and public alike and is well worth a look by mature viewers into French flicks . (
Brains vs brawn	" Box 507 " ( not a PO Box but a safe deposit box ) is all about a husband and father , Pardo ( Resines ) , who loses his daughter in a brush fire and seven years later serendipitously discovers the fire was not the result of an accident but rather subterfuge . Pardo sets about to seek justice and finds himself embroiled in a web of intrigues involving Mafiosos and other criminal elements . This well crafted drama gets busy and stays busy with a coolly cerebral approach which avoids extremes of emotion , sex / nudity , romance , and other visceral appetizers though there is blood letting aplenty . A worthwhile watch for anyone into Euroflix with , of course , subtitles . (
Oh my aching feet	Peripatetic documentary host Michael Wood treks across Asia retracing the - 20 , 000 mile campaign of Alexander III of Macedonia in this historically rich film exploration of one of history's greatest conquerors . Wood and crew take you from Greece to the Holy Land , Egypt , Iraq , Iran , Afghanistan , India , and more as he uncovers shreds of evidence from artifacts to ancient stories still told by storytellers and pieces them together into a mosaic of the short 32 year life of the legendary conqueror of Persia ( circa 356-323 BCE ) . The always affable and upbeat historian / host Wood travels by everything from burro to boat to helicopter to foot over some of the most barren and rugged terrain in Asia tirelessly brining us the history and legends of Alexander . " In the Footsteps of . . . " is not only a well composed documentary but also a travelogue of places you'll not likely want to visit and will probably never see . Easy to understand didactics and great locations up close and personal makes this a should see for all ancient history buffs . (
A powerful drama with speed bumps .	" A Map . . . " offers a mature , lengthy look at the vicissitudes and tragedy which befall Weaver's character , a Wisconsin dairy farmer's wife with an unusual ability to cope . A powerful performance by Weaver and excellent support by Moore and Strathairn help to make this sometimes tedious film well worth watching .
Girls just wanna be loved	" Hysterical Blindness " , which has nothing to do with the psychogenic condition suggested by the title , is a gritty character study with Thurman at the vortex as a graspingly needy working class woman whose poor sense of self drives her like a derailed freight train into the arms of a man who uses her like a Bic . Supporting cast members Rowlands and Lewis portray characters who are also manless but with contrastingly better coping skills . An excellent slice-of-life flick set in backstreet - under - the - bridge - and - by - the - railroad - tracks Jersey , " HB " is a riveting watch for those into character driven dramas about working class people . (
An excellent no frills , no nonsense human drama .	With dogme-esque style , " My Name is Joe " takes the audience to Scotland and into a pivotal slice of life of one alcoholic Scot . . . a man named Joe who , nearing midlife , finds himself still struggling for some semblance of success and happiness . Earnest , honest , and realistic apply to both film and character in this look at the seamier side of Scottish life . An excellent watch for those who enjoy realistic Euro-flicks .
An amazing feat of filming an amazing feat .	The late Klaus Kinski plays the title character in this much heralded 2 . 5 + hour long film about Fitzcarraldo's obsession with opera which he is determined to bring to his remote village in the jungles of Peru . An obsession which leads him into an adventure in the treacherous headwaters of the Amazon . This film of considerable magnitude is an adventure / drama with the emphasis on drama . Little time is spent with action sequences , stunts , or cliffhangers . Rather , Herzog presents the depths of the jungle as a place where mystical beauty overshadows peril and focuses on accomplishments over failures . Not for everyone though many viewers will be caught up in the eccentricities of the story and swept away by the incredible beauty of a pristine jungle wilderness .
NYPD Blue in uniform	" Brooklyn South " , from the minds who brought us " NYPD Blue " , is a one-season-wonder TV drama series about the street cops at the 74th precinct in Brooklyn , NY . Where sibling series " NYPD Blue " focused on the detectives , " Brooklyn South " takes us into the lives of uniformed patrol cops spreading its complex , fast moving stories over about ten no nonsense characters weaving its plot lines into short , mid , and long term story threads while spending most of the 45 minute episode time on cops and cop issues with action , " perps " , and other characters used only as necessary . Series ' stories are a pleasing mix of humor and drama , pathos and poignancy , gritty reality and entertaining contrivances which show the Brooklyn cops to be as vulnerable and human as they are tough and determined . Worth a look by cop show junkies or anyone who enjoyed " NYPD Blue " , this entertaining DVD watch will take a little time to " get into " because of the number of characters and the intricacies of the stories . (
Ever wonder why women want to box ? Well , here's one answer .	" Girlfight " follows a project dwelling New York high school girl from a sense of futility into the world of amateur boxing where she finds self esteem , purpose , and much more . Although the film is not about boxing , boxing is all about the film . So much so you can almost smell the sweat . Technically and artistically a good shoot with an sense of honesty and reality about it , " Girlfight " is no chick flick and no " Rocky " . It is , rather , a very human drama which even viewers who don't know boxing will be able to connect with .
All Hoffman	" Owning Mahoney " tells of a bank account manager and pathological gambler who lives from one wager to the next on a collision course with oblivion . A powerful and compelling tour de force by Hoffman - who once again proves he ranks among the actor's actors with the likes of Brando , Pacino , and Nicholson - this engrossing film claims to be a true story of a man , money , and an obsession of remarkable proportions . A worthwhile watch for Hoffman fans and anyone into character studies , particularly of obsessive-compulsive types . All others stay away . (
Bravo !	" Vincent & Theo " tells of the later years of the too short lives of painter Vincent Van Gogh and his lesser known brother , Theo . I was surprised , after viewing a Tivo'd version of the film , at how little has been written about and made of this wonderfully crafted period film by Robert Altman . Roth ( Vincent ) and Ryhs ( Theo ) distinguish themselves with superb performances which make the spectacle of their work on screen as interesting , if not more so , than the lives of their humble characters . The entire cast turns in solid performances , something which must be attributed largely to Altman , and the film offers excellence in every aspect with the possible exception of sound . Running a tad long for a somewhat less than extraordinary biography , " Vincent & Theo " is recommended for more mature viewers into period films or those with a special interest in Van Gogh and / or classical painting .
A wonderfully warm and amusing character study	" Autumn Spring " tells of the misadventures of a dapper , walrus faced , 78 ( approx ) year old Czech man who haplessly befuddles and bemuses all who know him with his mischievous ways while his wife meticulously plans her funeral . Centerpiece Hana ( Brodský ) shows us how to get babes to kiss you when your 78 and how to cop a feel in an elevator and get thanked for it as he pranks his way from day to day in this warm and glowing look at old age and one man's creative , amusing , but socially unacceptable ways of enjoying life while refusing to be relegated to the old folk's home . " Autumn Spring " is a plodding , subtle comedy with messages for all ages which will have the greatest appeal with more mature foreign film buffs . (
Shallow Hugh	" About a Boy " is a Brit flick about a happily eligible and independently well off bachelor ( Grant ) who learns from a boy ( Hoult ) that his self absorbed life may be needing something more . Clever , wry , and witty with plaudits aplenty , the fun in this flick is in the slightly skewed and skewering take on the shallow protagonist . There's are some poignant moments but precious little romance in this tale of one man's awakening from a life of sleep walking and the discovery that a man can be an island unto himself as long as he's part of an archipelago . (
A must hear for lovers of Latin jazz	" Calle 54 " , named after New York's 54th street where most of the studio filming was done , is a gift from director Fernando Trueba ( " Belle Epoque " ) to lovers of Latin Jazz everywhere . The film features 90 minutes of music by some of the idiom's finest artists with bonus material including a director's voice over offering brief commentary and bio's on the featured artists and interviews which trace the origins of Latin jazz in general and Afro-Cuban jazz specifically . Artistry includes la musica picante of Tito Puente in his final weeks to the haunting sax of Gato Barbieri . However , such notables a Arturo Sandoval , Poncho Sanchez , etc . more were not included leaving plenty of room and yearning for another installment . A must see / hear for Latin jazz lovers . (
Sleeper alert	" Heart " , a lean and taught psychodrama , peers into the life of a heart transplant patient as a strange and aberrant relationship develops between him and the heart donor's mother . An excellent film for those into razor sharp , no frills drama , " Heart " qualifies as an under-rated " sleeper " . The film's only deficits are ( on the DVD version I watched ) , mediocre video quality and poor sound with no English subtitles or CC . I listened to it via headphones so as to not miss a syllable . (
The " Good Bye " guy	" City by the Sea " is all about De Niro as a New York homicide detective who views the world as black and white and has trouble dealing with the grays of interpersonal relationships . Adrift between a broken home history , an ex-wife , a companion and bed mate ( McDormand ) , and a adult son junkie ( Franco ) , the aging cop protag finds that forging needed reconciliations is more difficult than busting the scumbags on his beat . A solid three star drama , " City by the Sea " is a must see for De Niro fans and a good watch for anyone into gritty dramas . (
Splendid .	" Vatel " is a French period film with Depardieu as the title character , a master steward under the crown of King Louis XIV whose job it is to put on feasts and spectacles for the pleasures of royalty . Typical of director Joffe , the film peers deep into the character of Vatel , around whom swirl politicking and wickedness , with such depth and dimension as to make the plot of secondary importance . Replete with sumptuous sets , elegant costuming , and epicurean delights , the film fills the eye and whets the palate as few films can while it paints a portrait of a sensitive and honorable man who makes the supreme sacrifice for dignity . A superb watch for those into period films painted with delicate brush strokes and subtle nuances .
Good old fashioned fun uniquely Coen .	" O Brother " is a meandering comedy set in 1930's Mississippi which tells of the misadventures of three chain-gang escapees . A highly original and creative piece of work , the film amuses , taunts , and teases as it delivers a cleverly crafted script , some unique characters , and simple fun with little fanfare . As with other Coen flicks , the hype is after the premier and comes from the audience . . . the best kind . Good fun most likely to be appreciated or understood by mature folks . . . people who remember pomade , spittoons , sparkling oil , and phosphates . Did that car really hit the cow ?
Creamy , smooth , rich , and very sweet	" Chocolat " is a sort of light drama fable which tells of a chocolatier ( Binoche ) who blows into a French village and with her winsome smile and confections methodically cuts the corset strings which bind the populace to Catholic dogma . An elegant fable with some top tier talent , " Chocolat " will be a satisfying watch for those who can overlook its many unanswered departures from reality . Footnote : My personal favorite character was Pantouf who received no credit but should be praised for an excellent performance .
Given its resources , an excellent film	" Blue Car " looks long and hard at a middle class teen female poetry student ( Bruckner ) who struggles with unhappy circumstances , the vicissitudes of her age , and discovers the yin-yang of human nature too often leans toward the negative . The young protag , well represented by Bruckner , finds herself with inadequate coping skills as she discovers the limits of dependability of the only person on whom she can depend - herself . A very substantial drama given it's indie-ness , writer / director Moncrieff conjures convincing performances and delivers some important subliminal messages about the pitfalls and foibles of life . Good stuff for what it is . Recommended for more mature realists . (
Everything an indie should be .	" Spring Forward " has the same limited resources as most indie films but applies them intelligently for maximum effect . The story , a simple male bonding tale about a couple of Parks Dept maintenance men , leapfrogs through the New England seasons as the all-conversation male musings and reflections take the entire run fleshing out the characters so well we'd like to have them to dinner by film's end . Those looking for escapist entertainment should pass on this flick . However , those interested in a character-driven film about what it is to be male shouldn't miss it . Kudos ! (
Goooooood and Loooooong	This miniseries rendering of pulp novelist Dumas ' 18th century " The Count of Monte Cristo " runs about 6 . 6 hours in length , all of it subtitled for non-French speakers . That's a whole lot of reading . However , the length allows this version of the oft filmed story to bring the characters to life in truer fashion and with greater depth than the many abbreviated knock-offs . The result is an expansive , in-depth telling the young French sailor , Edmond Dantès , who is wrongfully imprisoned for 14 years , discovers a treasure which makes him filthy rich , then uses the wealth to sustain his own cunning schemes as he seeks vengeance under an assumed identity as The Count of Monte Cristo . This film offers a fine cast with Depardieu providing a commanding presence as the charismatic Count and no one does French period films better than the French . Deficits are small , easily overlooked non sequiturs such as having to swallow the robust form of Depardieu as a man who lived for years on the meager sustenance of the dungeons of D'If . . . etc . An excellent but long presentation which trades the usual swashbuckling and action of the more abbreviated knock-offs for a more faithful presentation of the sagacious Count who seeks to understand who he's become and reconcile that with the man who lusts for vengeance . (
One night in L . A .	In " Collateral " , an icy contract killer ( Cruise ) hijacks a cabbie ( Foxx ) who he forces to drive him around L . A . while he makes his stops to take care of business . The film neatly knits a scant human story including a babe and some cops with action , drama , suspense , and intrigues into an engrossing if not spellbinding two hour tale . When all is said and done , this taut action / drama ties up all loose ends including the question : Why would a hit-man hire a cabbie to drive him around L . A . instead of renting a car thereby eliminating the hostage / witness problem ? And , although " Collateral " doesn't break any new ground and does follow the Hollywood play-book to the letter , it is sufficiently intelligent , busy , unpredictable , and entertaining to be a worthwhile watch for anyone into cop / killer flix . (
The best gifts in life are not given . They're taught .	" Cinema Paradiso " tells of the younger years of a successful middle-aged businessman via flashback ; his life in Sicily , especially his relationship with a movie projectionist at the theater " Paradiso " . This award winning , critically acclaimed 2 hour classic-to-be if full of poignant moments , musings on life , and explains why " you can never go home again " . " CP " is a must see for all film buffs and an enjoyable watch for all .
A very well crafted film with compelling undercurrents .	" The Truce " chronicles the homeward bound odyssey of an Auschwicz survivor - Primo played by Turturro - in the chaos immediately following the fall of the Third Reich . Although Primo , an Italian Jew , is the central character , the camera spends more time on the people , places , and vicissitudes which he encounters on his journey from Krakow to Turin . This beautifully shot , somber film with an abundance of extras and a minimal core cast has no specific focus . The interest in this film is in the story and the story is in the telling . A very worthy cinematic endeavor .
One humungous firefight .	There are plenty of resources for info about the infamous and well documented Mogadishu fiasco recounted in " Blackhawk Down " . The film is both artistically and technically excellent . However , character depth and story is sacrificed in the interest of squeezing as much action as possible into a somewhat difficult to follow orgy of bullets and blood . Recommended for those interested in watching a failed close-in tactical U . S . Army combat operation up close and personal . A first rate military action film . Note - Those interested in the actual events ; planning , chronology , logistics , politics , and accounting of what went wrong , etc . should look elsewhere .
Excuse me while I go fall out of love with Cassandra	" I Capture the Castle " is a coming-of-age flick ( circa 1930 ) about a 17 year old English girl whose family takes up residence in a castle . A delightfully lyrical tale , the film spends time with the eccentric father suffering from terminal writer's block , the step-mother who likes to romp in the altogether , a sister who marries Cassandra's love , a handyman / boy who loves Cassandra , and sundry other characters . Humorous and plaintive , whimsical and surly , but always romantic , " . . . Castle " is a chick flick which scored well with males and critics as well . Worth a look for anyone into English period films about the awakenings in a young woman and unrequited love . (
A spellbinder for psychodrama fans	" The Assassination of Richard Nixon " is all about Penn as a mentally challenged man who , in spite of his best efforts , finds his life unraveling . The film is an in-depth study of the Penn character and reveals a kind of person not often examined in film . The character is a man living his life in that gray area between normal and abnormal with impaired mental capacity , low IQ , who looks and acts like everyone else but has difficulty understanding the complex relationships in life . Carrying the burden of guilt for his failures , low self-esteem for his handicap , and swelling anger from his frustrations , he focuses on the American political establishment as the source of his problems and sets about to kill the president . An excellent film in all respects based on real life events , this tour de force by Penn received only good marks from public and critics , probably owing to a lack of appreciation for or interest in the psychodynamics of the central character . Nevertheless this film is a must see for Penn fans and anyone into psychodramas . Those into " going postal " flicks might want to also check out Michael Douglas in " Falling Down " . (
A near perfect " indie " .	" Virgil Bliss " tells the story of a revolving door criminal who is released from Rikers to the streets of NYC where we watch his best intentions to go straight dissolve before our eyes . Maggio tells a moving and believable story and delivers a message about social ills while working with the obvious limitations of the truly independent film maker . . . no small accomplishment . Pound for pound , " Virgil Bliss " is more movie than most of the stuff coming from Hollywood studios . Viewers , however , should be advised the subject matter is gritty and not pleasant . Recommended for realists only .
Old but still a pretty good watch .	Wilder's Oscar winning noir psychodrama " Sunset Blvd " pales in comparison with many middle tier films of today in spite of being revered as a classic . In keeping with the public's appetite of its time , " Sunset . . . " is melodramatic , fraught with overacting , and promotes a plot which raises more questions than it answers all in the interest of entertaining a movie going public hungry for escape from the memories of global war and the realities of reconstruction . Telling of a reluctant gigolo and hack screenwriter who is kept by a has-been Hollywood silent screen star on the verge of madness , the film is rendered like a jig-saw puzzle with characters distorted as necessary to make them fit the desired end result . In spite of its shortcomings in light of present day cinematic capability and technology , " Sunset . . . " is an interesting watch and a durable film . As with another Wilder film , " Sabrina " , a contemporary remake could please Hollywood exec's as well as the public at large .
A superficially ordinary flick with great depth	" Y Tu Mama Tambien " might be analogous to the great pyramids of Egypt . Some may find them breathtakingly beautiful / magnificent while other will see little more than antiquated simplistic geometry . However , all have to appreciate engineering which went into their construction and no one can deny the mysteries they conceal . Though not epic , such is " Y Tu . . . " , a multilayered flick about two teen males in Mexico City and their road trip to the beach with a somewhat older woman . The film is not so entertaining - unless one is entertained by adolescent male behavior - as it is an obvious masterwork of film-making with depth and unspoken meaning . " Y Tu Mama Tambien " is a foreign flick with plenty of subtitles to read and none of the old school Hollywerid-style entertainment . So , those looking for obvious entertainment should pass on " Y Tu . . . " while those into honest representations of life - something many see films to escape - should not miss it . (
All you need to know	" Before Sunset " is an open-ended and worthy sequel to the very popular romantic niche film " Before Sunrise " . However , it will have little meaning or magic for those who have not seen the original 1995 film . Therefore . . . . - If you saw " Before Sunrise " and liked it , this film is a must see . - If you saw " Before Sunrise " and didn't like it , pass on this film . - If you didn't see " Before Sunrise " , check it out on this website and see if you want to give it a try . If you don't enjoy it , pass on this film . If you enjoy it , you won't want to miss this film . The pair will make a great back-to-back watch . ( B )
Good stuff in spite of being flawed and over-hyped .	" Insomnia 2002 " tells a tortuous tale about a top cop from L . A . ( Pacino ) who travels to Alaska to help with a homicide investigation while being investigated by I . A . at home . Unable to sleep under the midnight sun , he begins to unravel as he digs deeper into the crime and becomes a reluctant partner to his quarry . A slick shoot with excellent acting and good auteursmanship by " Memento " director Nolan , " Insomnia 2002 " is not without its plotholes . An over-hyped drama and not a murder mystery , this flick has little action , no sex / nudity , few moments of thrills and / or suspense , and characters who are not likely to engender empathy . Solid dramatic entertainment worth a look nonetheless . (
A gripping character-driven psychodramatic caper flick	" Read My Lips " tells of a strange symbiosis which develops between a plain , socially maladroit female office worker ( Devos ) and her workplace trainee , a crude excon ( Casel ) . As the film fleshes out this unlikely duo down to their ids they become embroiled in a chilling merging of the minds , each using the other for their own selfish reasons with an extraordinary outcome . Good stuff for anyone into character-driven films with strong psychodramatic undercurrents . In French with easy to read subtitles and good translation . (
Not so much a wonderful story as a wonderful telling .	" The Age of Innocence " takes the audience into the pages of 19th century New York's social register as it follows one eligible blue blood , Day-Lewis , and his love interests ( Pfeiffer & Ryder ) . The film , which boasts many awards including several Oscars , is a 2 + hour long tale of the this and that of the upper crust's elite replete with lavish sets , elegant costuming , and a narration which is required to explain the film's esoterics . The fun of " Age . . . " is not so much in the story as it is in the telling . A feast for those interested in period flicks and the social innerworkings of high society .
Man , woman , knives , love .	An artfully shot , black and white contemporary French film , " Girl on the Bridge " is a peculiar sort of romantic drama about a man and a woman bound together by an alloy of danger , fatalism , luck , libidos , and sharp steel . On one level the film is preposterous ; on another , implausible ; and yet on another a compelling , fantastic drama . A good watch for the jaded .
An excellent biopic but not for everyone	" Kinsey " is all about Neeson as Alfred Kinsey , the first scientist to take on the daunting challenge of scientifically investigating human sexuality in the mid-20th century when sex education was still happening in the streets and American society was still corseted with the stays of puritan mores . A very well presented biopic , " Kinsey " manages the provocative aspects of sex well , keeping the subject in a clinical perspective , avoiding sensationalism , while fleshing out a complex character who is driven by scientific fervor while wrestling with his own desires , conflicts , and professional and marital woes . Worth a look by anyone interested in ground breaking psyco / social research or aficionados of psychodramas . However , not for those who may be squeamish about sexuality . (
Great if you get it .	" About Schmidt " sticks Nicholson at the center as a recently retired nondescript midwest WASP widower who , finding himself with too much time with which to reflect on the emptiness of his life and the vacuum left by the absence of spouse and career , takes a road trip . A wonderful blend of off-kilter stereotypes , keen satire , plaintive reflection , and bittersweet humor , " About Schmidt " will drive like a dagger through the hearts of many while soaring over the heads of others . How you react to the film will tell you more about yourself than about " . . . Schmidt " . An excellent wry meditation on the meaningful meaninglessness of one man's life which will resonate most with more mature audiences . (
Time well spent	" The Man From Elysian Fields " tells of a struggling writer ( Garcia ) who pens his soul into the pages of a novel in a last ditch bid for success . A solid three star romanticized drama with a beautiful cast , " . . . Elysian Fields " delivers its " deal with the devil " story with seductive style and an engrossing ebb and flow which will entrance those who can overlook the subtle contrivances required to make the puzzle pieces fit . Good stuff for all but the most cynical drama junkies . (
Professor Plum in the parlour with Miss Peacock	" Gosford Park " examines the clockworks of British class society ( circa 1930's ) through a wry and clever nonstory about a gathering of sundry notables at the manor of an aristocrat for chit-chat and a grouse hunt . Turning the audience into voyeurs , the camera spys on the manor staff as and guests exploring the crusty to the commoner from boudoir to billiard room with endless banter and repartee . A masterpiece of dialogue weaving and filmcrafting , what " Gosford Park " lacks in story it more than makes up for in elegance of execution as it serves up a sumptuous feast for the more sophisticated film going palate .
Good grief	" The Son's Room " is a study in the grieving dynamics of a well off Italian family of four which loses a son in a SCUBA accident . On the up-side , the film is an exceptional one man tour-de-force by Moretti which takes the audience into the heart and soul of the immediate family with its realistic , even , plaintive , and sober examination . On the down-side , the film deals with an unhappy subject which runs counter to why most people watch movies . A nonescapist unsensationalized rational film recommended for realists who enjoy empathizing with people in emotional pain and wrestling with the anguish of the loss of a loved one . (
Nutritious whole brain entertainment for the mind	" Enigma " blends fact with fiction as it tells a carefully crafted story about the unseen and unsung heros of British WWII code-cracking who decrypted the infamous " Enigma " code which Germany used to command it's U-boat armada in the North Atlantic putting allied convoys in peril . With plenty of history and super-secret code cracking to feed the left brain and a dramatic tale of a top code-cracker and his surreptitious affairs of heart and mind for the right brain , " Enigma " has something to offer everyone . The film manages it's intricate plot well , offers solid performances , blends intrigues with lots of WWII crypto-speak , and moves along swiftly while staying real and avoiding the usual excesses of filmdom . A smart flick for smart minds . (
Brit flick goes Hollywood and wins kudos .	The much lauded and nominated film " Billy Elliott " is a slice of life flick about an 11 year old English boy who , to the dismay of his motherless working class coal mining family , chooses ballet over boxing as a pastime . The film is technically excellent , artistically well done , and follows the traditions of Hollywood film-making . The story is a pleasant mix of humor and pathos , not too deep , and palatable enough to make it an audience favorite . In addition to being just plain fun to watch , " BE " makes a few points about accepting people for who they are ; about the undeniability of innate passion by artists ; and about the sublimation of aggression through dance . Not a classic and somewhat over rated , the simple numbers prove " BE " is a box office favorite and an enjoyable watch for most . Kudos to the choreographer and Bell for some fun to watch and never seen before kookie , kid-like mixes of jazz , tap , ballet , and jigs .
Forget the book . Enjoy the movie .	" Persuasion " , another Jane Austen novel knock-off , is a romantic dramady about a twenty something spinster , Anne ( Root ) , in Victorian England whose quiet demeanor leaves her and her secret affections eclipsed by the busy prattling and affectations of her polite society family . At issue is whether the unrequited love of the quiet , true , and intelligent protag will succumb to the rigors of societal manipulation and die in obscurity or win out over all the false pomp and circumstance . The film offers excellent production value , is skewed toward reality and away from melodrama , and provides a sumptuous feast for anyone with a taste for English period flicks . I personally have " Persuasion " right after " Sense and Sensibility " and " Mansfield Park " in my list of favorite Austen adaptations . (
Under hyped , over lauded , and damn good .	" Memento " is a little , minimalistic drama , artistically and technically well done film , which has received accolades from all corners well beyond both budget and hype . A " whodunit " of sorts with a curious premises , the film tells of an insurance investigator ( Pearce ) who suffers midterm memory loss and can't remember anything for more than 15 minutes . Pearce sets about find the killer of his wife , a difficult task for a normal investigator much less one with his " condition " . The film's story is simple , the characters few , and there's no sex and little action or emoting going on . Rather the film focuses on the investigation with a clever one step forward , two steps backward flow and tortuous denouement which camouflages the many holes in the plot making for a compelling watch . Recommended for all adults into whodunits who want something to mentally chew on .
A fresh lil ' romcom with an agenda .	He's a stereotypical laconic mid-50s workaholic " bean counter " for Britain's finance minister and she's young , attractive , and available . They meet in a cafe and in typical romcom fashion one thing leads to another and they're off to Reykjavik , Iceland for the G8 summit where a lack of accommodations planning has them sharing a room and , well , one more thing leads to another . . . etc . Up to Reykjavik , the film is an utterly charming little autumn / spring romance in bloom . However , once the G8 summit begins the film takes on a more serious tone and then begins to manifest it's agenda as the girl seizes the opportunity to assert her passionate opinions about starving African children much to the chagrin of her companion and his entourage . The film's obvious social , political , and economic agenda will doubtless cause much eye rolling , especially among those who , like me , feel entertainment should stick to entertaining while leaving politics to politicians . However , this delightfully seductive little film is so adroit in its blending of tenuous and tentative romance with world hunger preachiness that I'm up for a sequel . . . or maybe even a series . Should be worth a look by most anyone who doesn't take the hidden agenda too seriously . Would probably rate about a PG-13 . (
LAPD Blue	" Boomtown " ( Los Angeles ) is a one-season-wonder TV cop show series which focuses on a pair of detectives , a couple of beat cops , a DDA , a paramedic , and a reporter with the usual sundry side characters ( spouses , lovers , friends , etc . ) as it develops its self contained episodic dramas set in the mean and not-so-mean streets of Los Angeles . The series ' hallmark , a storytelling format which moves each episode forward by flashing back to review the episode's central story from the perspective of each the characters involved , may be interesting for some and annoying for others . Although it hampers coherence , it allows for the development of multiple parallel story threads making it both an asset and a liability for the audience - probably more of the former as audience adjustment becomes easier as the format become more familiar . The series is well cast with an ensemble of competent players with not-too-familiar faces , all of whom seem a tad too young , lean , and attractive for their roles . The writing is good but uneven over the full series giving it a lumpy consistency with some weak and some strong episodes . Character development is adequate but not on par with " NYPD Blue " and the series generally has the glossy Hollywood tinselization of a " CSI " mixed with the look , feel , and smell of Los Angeles . The series is a fearless endeavor , unflinchingly conjuring creativity which sometimes plays out more like brain farts or bad ideas detracting from its " realness " . " Boomtown " fared much better with the public than the network , garnered some awards during its short life , and will probably play best with cop show junkies and younger , less jaded TV audiences . Personally , I found it to be a thoroughly enjoyable DVD watch ranking slightly below L & O : SVU , CSI , Homicide , and NYPD Blue . (
Tennison anyone ?	" Prime Suspect 4 " continues the exploits of the inscrutable and dogged seeker of truth and justice , Detective Superintendent Jane Tennison ; the first of three miniseries ( PS4 , PS5 , & PS6 ) with the notable absence of founding writer Lynda La Plante from the credits . Imbued with the same gritty reality of the first three series , the second three series pit Tennison against the forces of evil while coping with middle age , loneliness , indiscretions , a host of personal and professional problems , and resolutions which are sometimes less than ideal . PS4 conjures two stories while PS5 & PS6 are single stories which find Tennison seeking justice on behalf of the brutally wronged while waging war against institutions which are willing to sacrifice the interests of her victims for those of a greater good . In other words , to prevail , Tennison must overcome both evil and good forces , something which makes the always gray scenarios of the PS series yet grayer and the Tennison wars as much a matter of principle as of finding murderers . Very good stuff which only gets better from series to series . For reasons of continuity , watch in chronological order . (
A sentimental story beautifully told .	" Straight Story " tells the tale of an old man's cross-country odyssey on the back of a lawn mower to visit an ill brother and mend the rift between them before either passes on . More than just a slow moving , wistful , and sentimental drama , Lynch and Farnsworth manage to show us a unique charm and wisdom through the central character's encounters and tribulations along the way . The scenic beauty of middle American at harvest time provides the backdrop for this wonderful film .
A good all around flick . Entertaining . Enjoyable .	" Erin Brockovich " , with Julia Roberts in the title role , is a not-too-serious and entertaining film based on a true story . The film wisely spends much of it's time developing the Brockovich character ; a very human but savvy divorcee with three kids , more brass than brains , more brains than education , and more education than taste in clothing . Laced with humor and avoiding melodrama , " . . . Brockovich " delivers laughs and tears , runs a tad long , and doesn't take itself too seriously . This film does what Hollywood does best . It entertains .
Tennison anyone ?	" Prime Suspect 4 " continues the exploits of the inscrutable and dogged seeker of truth and justice , Detective Superintendent Jane Tennison ; the first of three miniseries ( PS4 , PS5 , & PS6 ) with the notable absence of founding writer Lynda La Plante from the credits . Imbued with the same gritty reality of the first three series , the second three series pit Tennison against the forces of evil while coping with middle age , loneliness , indiscretions , a host of personal and professional problems , and resolutions which are sometimes less than ideal . PS4 conjures two stories while PS5 & PS6 are single episodes each which find Tennison seeking justice on behalf of the brutally wronged while waging war against institutions which are willing to sacrifice the interests of her victims for those of a greater good . In other words , to prevail , Tennison must overcome both evil and good forces , something which makes the always gray scenarios of the PS series yet grayer and the Tennison wars as much a matter of principle as of finding murderers . Very good stuff which only gets better from series to series . (
Masterfully masculine	" Mondays in the Sun " speaks boldly , loudly , and honestly albeit narrowly about the plaintive existence of a group jobless Spanish shipyard workers . What this study of working class men lacks in depth of story it makes up for in depth of character as it moves methodically through bitter , sweet , poignant , and humorous moments with sincerity , honesty , and drenched in masculinity . With high marks from public and critical corners alike , " Mondays in the Sun " will be time well spent for most . (
Reminded me of " Memento "	" The Machinist " is a dark drama all about an unrecognizable Bale as a gaunt machinist who hasn't slept in a year and looks to be a sandwich away from the grave as we observe his daily activities which invariably include some peculiar and irreconcilable events . The film opens with the protagonist dumping a corpse and then flashes back where it spends the rest of the run working it's way back to it beginning in a series of interesting if not compelling and strange if not unsettling happenings . As the film wears on we get the notion it is either a well done work which is trying to get us to empathize with a likable but delusional man or a shoddy film which is trying to delve into the realm of the paranormal . Fortunately , it's the former and a solid watch for drama enthusiasts who like curious plots ( ala " Memento " ) with protagonists who are suffering from them . (
The painting was better than the book	" Girl with a Pearl Earring " tells a fictional tale about how the title painting by 17th century Dutch painter Vermeer might have come to be . Outwardly , the film is a story about the painter and a household maid who becomes the subject of the painting . Inwardly , the film is about the unspoken but palpable feelings between two people of very different stature and station which may or may not be forever cast in the crazed pigments of the masterpiece . Those who can tap into the subtle human emotional undercurrents will find this film far more satisfying than those who cannot . Regardless , all will find " Girl with a Pearl Earring " a masterpiece of filmmaking . (
The last day of 1999 . Someone must live . Someone must die .	" Midnight " is a powerful Brazilian drak drama with a minimal script and a gritty shoot in the slums of Rio which tells a man and a woman on a collision course with destiny . The film does not explain itself and leaves the audience to voyeuristically witness the the plight of the characters while not bothering with the " why " of it all . Artfully done , technically sound , " Midnight " is an intense 70 minute watch which will be most appreciated by foreign film fans .
The less you know about this film , the better .	It would be impossible to say anything substantially meaningful about " Japanese Story " without spoiling the film for those who have not seen it . Suffice it to say , it's set in Australia and works with a an Aussie woman ( Colette ) and a Japanese man ( Hiromitsu ) to build slowly to an emotionally potent situation - a series of moments - and then lingers in the denouement allowing the audience to savor the emotions evoked . For some , those feelings may be nil . For others they may be powerful and overwhelming . Personally , I wept . Objectively , the film , about a woman by women , is well crafted and Colette's performance is outstanding . The film deserves high marks in all aspects from cinematography to music to casting , etc . However , when the closing credits roll , your experience will have been as unique as yourself . And whatever that experience is , it will be less if you know the outcome in advance . (
Needed relief from the excesses of Hollywood .	" Kolya " , an award winning Czech film set in Prague , is a sweet and sentimental story about a boy ( the title character ) and a male cellist who , through circumstance , becomes his guardian . Set against a backdrop of Czech countryside and the architecture of Prague , this well crafted and wistful tale is a worthwhile 100 minute watch for those in need of relief from the numbing excesses of Hollywood blockbusters . Potentially enjoyable by all , " Kolya " will be most appreciated by mature audiences , particularly those who favor European films .
The usual high quality BBC Victorian novel knock-off	" The Way We Live Now " , like most Victorian period satire , looks into the lives of numerous characters sorting through the intrigues and foibles of romance , wickedness , power , and the pursuit of peerage and property . A lightly perfumed costume flick which tilts unabashedly between comedy and drama , this story centers on a crude but rich businessman ( Suchet ) whose powerful performance is the backbone of the film . Side plots include an issue fraught romance , an attempt to marry into a fortune , a scheme to build a railroad from Utah to Mexico , cheating at love and cards , politics , a woman scorned , and much more . A four hour TV miniseries from the BBC , " The Way We Live Now " has plenty of time to sort through its many characters while tidying up at the end making it a busy and enjoyable Victorian period film . A should-see for anyone into BBC TV fare , Victorian period stories , and 19th century pulp fiction . (
A beautifully austere film about character .	As the best of French cinema does so adroitly , " The Window of Saint-Pierre " tells most of it's story laconically with knowing looks and subtle behaviors while the story it tells is a relentlessly plodding drama of unspoken words and the emotions they evoke . " Widow . . . " is more about integrity , honor , love , and other intangibles than it is about its relatively simple storyline and the characters involved . A beautifully crafted somber film , " Widow . . . " is recommended for mature audiences because a measure of maturation is required to appreciate all this austere film has to offer .
A huge little movie . Kudos to L . Kreueger .	" Manny & Lo " tells of two runaway girls and the how they deal with the challenges which arise when one gets pregnant . What this film lacks in big budget blockbuster appurtenances it more than makes up for with it's creative and unpredictable story , depth of character , raw charm , tongue-in-cheek humor , and insightful sensitivity . A wonderful little " sleeper " which necessarily starts slow and builds delivering pound-for-pound much more than films with many times the hype and box office . Most likely to be appreciated by females and more mature males .
If there was an Oscar for " best little comedy " . . .	. . . " Blast " would have likely won . It boasts excellence in all aspects of the film from story to casting to acting to sets to costumes , music , etc . This tight , creative , unpretentious , and lightly romantic comedy romp between a hip " new millennium " chick and an old fashioned stuck - in - a - fallout - shelter - for - 35 - years guy is a breath of fresh Hollywood air deserving of it's critical acclaim .
An ample helping of the warm and fuzzies .	Part of the charm of " Cider House Rules " , a coming-of-age movie with Tobey Maguire at the center , is the finesse with which it presents itself as a " feel good " movie when most of the characters have precious little to feel good about . The film could easily have had a harder edge to it . However , the makers of this carefully crafted film tiptoe so adroitly around such issues as abortion , murder , infidelity , and incest as to leave the audience with an ample helping of the warm and fuzzies . The film deserves high marks for enjoyability and for bringing back the charm of Hollywood's golden years .
The importance of being accurate	" Wilde " is an elegant film with sterling performances by Fry , the title character , and a superb supporting cast . However , " Wilde " is also a shaded and skewed partial portrait of the 19th century playwright , poet , and master of the epigram . The film is not so much a biopic as it is a drama : A drama which spends too much time on the sensational aspects of the writer's life and not enough on his history , early life , idiosyncrasies , works , and last years . Nonetheless , " Wilde " is solid entertainment for anyone interested in Victorian period dramas or the man himself . (
Beautifully depressing	Set in late 1800's Britain , " Jude " traces the life of the title character ( Eccleston ) , a learned but humble stonemason , who courageously struggles with life's disappointments only to be struck with unspeakable tragedy . A beautifully depressing human drama , " Jude " traverses the highs and lows of life through its dreary tale of one man's steadfast conviction to his beliefs and to the woman he loves . Not for everyone , " Jude " is a film for realists into serious drama which many will likely regard as a " downer " . (
The hand is quicker than the eye . But is the mind quicker than a bullet ?	Plenty has been written about Mamet's " The House of Games " ; most of it good . I decided to revisit the flick to see how it held up after 17 years and was surprised at how much I enjoyed viewing it again . The film's success and durability probably has much to do with two principal ingredients which are always fun on film ; a good story and a good scam . Mamet manages to bring his signature moodiness and obvious histrionics to the film while scamming us , the audience , and the mark simultaneously . Then he explains the art of conning only to do it again , etc . all the while building the story . " The House of Games " , now a freebie on cable , is worth a look for first timers and an okay rerun for Mamet fans . (
Fresh , fun , and female .	" Lovely & Amazing " is a slice-of-life dialogue-intensive comedy / drama-lite examination of a mother and her two adult daughters stumbling through life one day at a time . Holofcener paints an insightful portrait of the three women with delicate brushstrokes , sufficiently colorful to be interesting and sufficiently real to engender empathy , as the they face their daily vicissitudes with a the usual mix of insecurity , courage , self-doubt , and certainty . A critically lauded , delightful , easy to watch , and entertaining little chick flick for today's woman . (
A sleeper for the discerning drama enthusiast	" Julie Walking Home " is about a woman coping with a rocky relationship with the father of her children , her son who has cancer and may or may not be healed by a faith healer , and her feelings for a man who believes he has mystical healing powers . Though the film's storyline is nothing new , the sheer reality of the drama , the wonderful performances Holland wrests from some relatively unknown actors , and Otto's tour-de-force makes this film eminently worthy . Not unlike " Behind the Red Door " ( 2002 ) , " Hysterical Blindness " ( 2002 ) , or " Unfaithful " ( 2002 ) this film is a " sleeper " which will be of greatest interest to the discerning drama enthusiast into film's about women in turmoil . (
Mostly Martha but all good .	" Mostly Martha " is a thoroughly delightful tale of a comely , self contained , socially unassured , and occasionally gauche German master chef , Martha ( Gedeck ) , in need of a recipe for living who finds love through tragedy and romance through cooking . In thinking about these comments I concluded that there is nothing I would change about this film except the language ( I don't speak German ) . A perfect little gem , " Mostly Martha " is the kind of flick which makes you feel sorry for those who won't watch foreign films because of subtitles and wonder why audiences dine voraciously on cinematic junk food when such palate pleasers as this are not only delicious but nutritious . (
A slightly flawed gem	" Dirty Pretty Things " tells an obviously fictional tale about an illegal immigrant in the UK ; an African doctor ( Ejiofor ) who discovers a human organ black market operation in the hotel where he works as a night clerk , is blackmailed because of his illegal status , falls in love with a Turkish illegal immigrant ( Tautou ) who also suffers coercion at the hands of her evil employer , and sets about to right all those wrongs in one fell swoop . An engrossing no frills human drama , " DPT " takes hold quickly , builds depth and humanity into its characters , lays out multiple plot lines with continuity and coherence , wrestles with moral issues , doesn't resort to cheap and tawdry thrill tactics , and wraps up neatly in the end . . . an accomplishment which even with the biggest and the best Hollyweird has to offer seldom achieve . This little foreign gem is not without its plot holes but makes for an engaging watch which received numerous critical raves and awards nonetheless . (
A fun Aussie comedy with a message	" Muriel's Wedding " is all about a young Aussie woman who bears the scars of a dysfunctional family as she sets out in life in search of happiness . Very much an Aussie film , rough as a day old beard but with a heart of gold and a visceral sense of humor , " MW " is one of those few movies which can accurately be called a " gem " . Buoyant , coarse , and poignant , " MW " tells a story of personal conquest as we watch a courageous Muriel struggle with low self esteem from patriarchal abuse while looking for love in all the wrong places . A roller coaster ride with a feel good ending for anyone into movies with morals and / or Aussie films . (
Size matters	" The Station Agent " is a slice-of-dwarf-life character study which takes a long , hard look at little person Fin ( Dinklage ) , a train buff who inherits an old , inactive train depot where he takes up residence and then becomes involved with the locals . This poignancy packed flick spends its full 88 minute run with a sometimes cheeky , sometimes plaintive and always human development a handful characters who all have problems of their own . An extraordinary first outing for writer / director McCarthy , this little indie received raves from critical corners and applause from the public at large making it an almost sure thing for potential viewers . A wonderful film which makes the point that size does matter when it's size of character and not stature . (
A French epic masterpiece and " must see " for movie buffs .	" Germinal " , based on a novel by Emile Zola , is an epic film which studies the anatomy of a strike in a 19th century French coal mine . During it's 2 . 5 + hour run time , the film shows the wretchedness of coal miners , their deplorable living conditions , their attempts to organize , negotiations , strike , rioting , police suppression , sabotage , etc . The story is woven around a handful of characters who represent the forces at work ; management , union , profiteers , scabs , etc . About Zola's novel , Havelock Ellis wrote : " It was neither amusing enough nor outrageous enough to attract the multitude " . So it is with the film which emphasizes realism over romanticism and exists more as a study of a timeless social / political issue than pure commercial entertainment . A must see for cinema buffs but not likely have broad commercial appeal .
How far is Istanbul ? Far enough to fall in love .	No one does people movies better than the Europeans and " In July " is no exception . This wonderfully creative flick tells of Juli who is attracted to Daniel after a chance meeting at a street bazaar . However , Daniel is struck by a beautiful Turk , Melek , who is leaving for Istanbul . Deciding to follow her , Daniel sets out alone but bumps into Juli who is also en route to Istanbul . A wonderfully fresh and fun film which is sometimes sassy and sometimes capricious , this warmly romantic road trip pic will keep you guessing from moment to moment as the protags take a journey through Europe and the process of falling in love . An worthwhile watch for anyone into European romantic comedies with great music and great big subtitles . (
A very human tale of redemption	" Monster's Ball " tells of a white man and a black woman in the rural South coming together through desperate human need ; each suffering grief , guilt , remorse , and misery . A slow , plodding drama with rumbling racial undercurrents , the film tells a simple story , though not uneventful , with finely nuanced performances , especially by Berry who earned her keep and kudos . Recommended for mature audiences into serious drama .
Wonderful	" The Forsyte Saga " traces several generations of the monied upper-middle class English Forsyte family from the mid-Victorian period into the 20th century . The 6 hour miniseries immerses itself in all of the usual family affairs from feuds to alliances to romances to marriages to births and deaths , etc . all wrapped in the Victorian social ethos . The backbone of the saga is the bifurcation of lineage from two patriarch brothers Forsyte in general and the enduring obsession of one , Soames Forsyte ( Lewis ) , an intense and inscrutable solicitor , for a beautiful woman in particular . A sort of elegant Victorian soap opera , " The Forsyte Saga " captures the period well and fleshes out interesting and wholly believable characters with depth , color , and passion . Well worth a look by anyone into films about families or Victorian familial dramas such as " The Governess " or " Sense and Sensibility " . ( A )
Peerless	" Brideshead Revisited " is an 11x50 minute ( approx ) TV miniseries which takes the viewer into the lives of the residents of a magnificent English country house and sprawling estate called Brideshead , the ultra-rich Flyte family of Lord and Lady Marchmain , and a much welcomed interloper , Charles Ryder ( Jeremy Irons ) , of a somewhat lesser class . The film follows Ryder for two decades from his early years at Oxford to his return to Brideshead as a soldier during WWII . It opens with Ryder's return , then flashes back for most of the 11 hour run where it explores the relationships , exploits , misfortunes , adventures , and generally the lives of the very rich Flytes while fleshing out some deliciously peculiar side characters and peering deeply into the way of the English upper-crust . There's little to fault between the credits of this leisurely and expansive masterpiece which winds circuitously from Brideshead to Venice , Morocco , Central America , Paris , and New York ever tracing Ryder's footsteps through sumptuously appointed period settings and the stately halls of Brideshead ( Castle Howard ) . A peerless , critically lauded , and award winning series featuring a superb cast including such notables as John Gielgud and Laurence Olivier , " Brideshead Revisited " should play very well with anyone into the many popular Victorian films and similar fare featuring the pomp , pith , vigor , and vanity of the English aristocracy . Note : the DVDs I watched had no CCs , Subtitles . or extra features . (
Intelligent , witty , beguiling .	" Mansfield Park " is a wholly wonderful motion picture in every aspect based - how loosely we cannot know nor should we care - on a Jane Austen novel . The film which delves into the lives of an 18-19th century English gentry family is replete with lush scenic beauty , perfection in costuming , a rich and elegant script , superb casting , faultless acting and direction , and , when taken as an entity unto itself is near sheer perfection in all respects . Given the genre and period , it just doesn't get much better than this .
A mirror of nuances	" Lost in Translation " is by all accounts a huge film . Telling of a 50-something married man ( Murray ) and a 20ish married woman ( Johansson ) - both Americans stuck in a hotel in Tokyo with too much time on their hands - who come together to soothe the yearning they both have for companionship , " Lost . . . . " is a sometimes funny , sometimes poignant , and always sensitive look at the importance of being human . Masterfully struck from little more than nuances with slick art and technicals , this Coppola coup will tell you more about who you are than about the two principals . " Lost in Translation " will speak most loudly to anyone who has ever experienced the love which could never be . ( A )
Exquisitely human	For what it is , " Raising Victor Vargas " is about as close to perfection as a film can get . Either sheer genius from a fledgling auteur or just one of those lucky mixes where everything clicked ( probably some of each ) , this simple little slice-of-urban-life ethnic first love flick fleshes out its young characters with such depth you can almost read their minds . The film begins with a strong flavor of " street " but works its way into a Latino family affair and then focuses on a story which speaks volumes about the uncertainty of youth and the profoundly natural desire to love another . In my experience , never has so much been done with so little ( cast of tyros , novice director , etc . ) . Praised by the critics but not for everyone , " Raising Victor Vargas " is recommended for indie lovers and realists into simple tales rich in humanness . ( A )
A film about what love should be	Take everything you ever knew about Hollywood and filmdom and flush it . Open you mind and your heart and , if you're lucky , " Besieged " will speak to you of love like no other . Make no mistake , this film is not about romance or sex or even closeness . It is about what love should be ; pure , unsolicited , unencumbered giving . It is a sad testament to the shallowness of popular concepts of giving-to-get love that this film received lukewarm reviews , one star from Ebert , and a mere 6 . 5 by IMDB . com users . Sometimes the only way to love someone is to set them free .
The fat man rides again	" Cracker " is all about a behemoth but successful criminal psychologist , Dr . Edward Fitzgerald ( Coltrane ) , who armed only with his wits , Holmesian powers of deduction , superior intellect , knowledge of human behavior , etc . solves police-stumping murder mysteries . However , the biggest mystery for the drinking , smoking , over-eating fat " Fitz " seems to be how to quit gambling so he can pay bus fare and get his wife back . Save the idiosyncratically irascible and charming cop shrink character ( reminiscent of the 1940's radio detective program " The Fat Man " ) there's little new in this TV series out of the UK which spends 60 % of the time solving mysteries and 40 % exploring the ups and downs of Fitz's personal life . Worth a look for those into British TV caper busters . ( B )
The best ever ?	" The West Wing " is quite possibly the best TV series ever . Consider that the series avoids the usual cheap shot ratings boosters such as soapy melodrama , sex , violence , romcom cheese , silly fluff , etc . . Consider the series has been smartened up as opposed to dumbed down , something which would sink most shows which had to play to the average prime time sofa spud . Consider that the series serves up ample helpings of American history , inside the beltway political strategizing , lobbying and wrangling , and much more of those things which were all big turn-offs in high school civics class . Consider that the cast is rock solid but not the most glamorous bunch of megastars to hit the small screen . Consider that the series never loses sight of the importance of high minded principles and delivers family value subliminals as well as a strong sense of ethics in government and morality in life . Consider that the series conjures moments of wit , drama , sentiment , and poignancy in big doses in almost every episode . Consider that because of and in spite of the above , " The West Wing " has been enormously popular with critics and public alike and garnered a substantial brace of awards . No series can be all things to all people . However , " The West Wing " is likely more things to more people than any series to come before it . (
